




Newstex Blogs 
The Cheat Sheet
July 24, 2021 Saturday 2:11 PM EST


Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 743 words
Byline: Amanda Spence
Body


Jul 24, 2021( The Cheat Sheet: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 There are many fan-favorites in the90 Day Fianc[1]franchise, and David Toborowsky[2] and his wife, Annie Suwan Toborowsky[3] are definitely counted among them. They are in their own episode of90 Day: Foody Call, where they answer fan questions. 

 David and Annie Toborowsky in '90 Day Fianc Happily Ever After' | YouTube/TLC UK/ 90 Day Fianc  

Discovery+ has a new '90 Day Fianc' series called '90 Day: Foody Call' 

 The new streaming service discovery+ is filled with a number of new90 Day Fiancshows for fans to stream to their heart's content, including90 Day: Foody Call, which premiered on Saturday, May 29, 2021. The show features fan-favorite couples, including David and Annie. 

According to a press release, 'expect a dash of sass and a lot of fun when favorite couples invite you into their kitchens and dish on recipes for relationship success, all while preparing traditional meals from their home countries.' The couples also answer questions from fans. Cast members will also 'spill the beans on the challenges and triumphs of intercultural relationships and their incredible relationship journeys together.' 

 Do David Toborowsky and Annie Suwan Toborowsky plan on having children together? 

Annie Suwan on '90 Day Fianc' | 90 Day Fianc/TLC/YouTube 

 RELATED: '90 Day Fianc': Annie Suwan Gives Back to Community in Thailand[4] 

In David and Annie[5]'s episode, they go shopping for the ingredients needed to make their dishes, which include fuk soup, pla pao, and jackfruit and sticky rice. They get cooking, and answer a number of fan questions along the way. 

David, who is 53, and his wife, who is 28, are asked by a fan via a video question: 'Hey everyone. I'm Robby,' a man says. 

'And I'm Mary,' a woman says next to him on the video. 

'Mary and I can't wait to have kids when the time is right of course,' Robby reveals. 'Do you guys have any plans to have some little pitter-patters around the corner?' 

But according to Annie, she doesn't yet 'have that answer for' herself. Annie takes the liberty to answer the question. 'I'm still don't have that answer for myself,' she says. 'Yes, first David already have three kid and second, kid and he have vasectomy. This will be very hard and with his age, I don't know after even though we do a vasectomy removal' 

'Reversal,' David corrects her. 

'Reversal,' Annie laughs. 

'Yeah we're not gonna remove anything,' David says, and Annie still laughs. 

'His sperm is gonna work,' she continues. 'Maybe he might ask to borrow your sperm or our best friend's sperm, but let's see.' 

 David Toborowsky shared a picture of himself and Annie Swuan Toborowsky 

 On June 29, 2021, David shared an image onInstagram[6]of himself and his wife in Zanzibar. In the image, they both wear colorful ensembles - Annie in a stunning dress in different colors, including red, blue, and yellow, and her husband in a colorful shirt in different colors as well that include white, red, and yellow along with some dark-colored pants. They stand right next to each other touching as they look at each other with arms by their sides. There is seating around them and greenery with pink flowers as well. 

David captioned the post: 'I am so happy and grateful to have someone who makes each day an amazing day. Thank you my love for just being you. We both wish everyone a happy rest of the week. Love you all so much. ps this pic was taken in Zanzibar.' David tagged his wife in the post and used some hashtags as well. 

We'll have to see what the future holds for these two90 Dayalumni. 
 Read the original article from The Cheat Sheet[7] 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  [ 3]:  [ 4]:  [ 5]:  [ 6]:  [ 7]:  

Load-Date: July 24, 2021


End of Document
