




Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
April 10, 2020 Friday 8:50 PM EST


Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 472 words
Body


Apr 10, 2020( International Business Times News:  Delivered by Newstex)  Although '90 Day Fianc' couple Nicole Nafziger and Azan Tefou have been together for years, David Toborowsky doesn't believe the couple is not meant to be together.In the past, viewers and Nicole's family have questioned whether Azan truly cared about the Florida resident because he was rarely affectionate to her on camera. Even though Nicole has insisted that the two are genuinely in love, David revealed that he isn't convinced.The 51-year-old TLC star told Us Weekly[1] that he believes Azan is using Nicole. 'I'm not a fan of the way she does things. 
I wish her the best of luck. I don't know what his story really is. I mean, I've heard rumors that he might be married with three kids with his cousin,' he told the publication.David went on to slam Nicole for traveling to Morocco to visit Azan amid the increaseof coronavirus diagnoses. Nicole is reportedly stuck in the country after flights were suspended due to the pandemic.'Why she would plan to go there in the middle of a pandemic, and it was hitting at the apex worldwide, especially in Europe?' David asked.'I think Nicole is barking up the wrong tree. Maybe she'll find somebody else while she's there and find true love. That is not true love,' he added.Meanwhile, David feels secure in his relationship with his wife Annie Suwan[2]. The couple recently told Us Weekly[3] that they are happy in their relationship but are not thinking about having children. 'It would be awesome if we have [kids], but right now that's not going to be a serious conversation for us anymore,' Annie revealed.David then laughed off the idea about expanding his family since he is already the father of adult children from a previous relationship. 'If I did [have a child], we'd probably name him Jesus because I can't have children,' the '90 Day Fianc'[4] star said.'I would [need] a vasectomy reversal. Clearly, she's not going out [because of the coronavirus quarantine], so it can't be anyone else's. Probably the guy from the pizza delivery or Amazon Prime while I'm asleep,' he added.Fans can get an up on their favorite couples when '90 Day Fianc: Self Quarantined' begins airing Monday, April 20, at 9 p.m. EDT on Bravo. Nicole and Azan will appear on '90 Day Fianc: Happily Ever After?' Season 4. Photo: TLC [ 1]:  [ 2]:             [ 3]:             [ 4]:             

Load-Date: April 10, 2020


End of Document
