




LNP (Lancaster, PA)
July 3, 2016 Sunday


Copyright 2016 LNP Media Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: E; Pg. 3
Length: 711 words
Byline: Rich Manieri
Dateline: Lancaster, PA 
Body


I've had very few medical procedures in my life. I've had my wisdom teeth out. I've had an endoscopy. And I've had a vasectomy, for which I was wide awake. I don't remember too much about the procedure other than an unexpected puff of smoke at the end which, I assumed, meant either it was over or a new pope had been elected.
There are several medical indignities facing the over-50 population. For men, the always popular prostate exam tops the list. A friend of mine said he almost passed out and believed, while he had his back turned, that his physician had been replaced by Herman Munster.
The other procedure, to which no one looks forward, man or woman, is the colonoscopy. We put it off, we say we'll do it, and we do nothing. Six months pass, a year, another year.
No one wants to talk about cancer, much less colon cancer. Perhaps we should start talking.
Colorectal cancer is the second leading cancer killer in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It's also very preventable and treatable with routine screenings. There will be some 95,000 new colon cancer cases diagnosed in the U.S. by the end of 2016.
Still, many of us will not get screened. Why not? Well, it sounds unpleasant. Anesthesia is scary and, after all, no one wants anyone poking around ... you know ... back there.
My mother and my family doctor had been bugging me to get a colonoscopy since I turned 50. There is a family history, they reminded me. My grandmother died of colon cancer. It's no big deal, they said. Still, I waited, delayed and made excuses.
Finally, after a year or so, because I didn't want to face my family doctor at my next physical, or my mother, I made the appointment.
The preparation, and I'll spare the details, was a few hours of moderate unpleasantness followed by a procedure of which I have absolutely no recollection. If you search the internet, you'll find a cadre of folks who are anti-anesthetic and prefer to endure their colonoscopy au naturel. I am not one of them. I signed up for all-inclusive package and was rewarded with the greatest nap since Lazarus.
Funny, but I really hadn't given much thought to the results of the procedure. I work out everyday. I eat pretty well. I run a few 5Ks. I weigh what I weighed in college. What could possibly go wrong?
The comedian Louis C.K. talks about staying in shape. "I want to look just good enough so that if I die people ask, 'What happened?' "
As Churchill said, "A joke is a very serious thing."
I was still in a bit of a post-procedure haze when my gastroenterologist came in with some photographs. I had told him before the procedure that my mother, in particular, had been on me to get the colonoscopy.
"It's a good thing you listen to your mother," he said. That got my attention.
"If you had waited another year or two, we'd be having a much different conversation."
That got my attention even more. Suddenly, I was wide awake.
"You had four polyps which I removed," the doctor said. "Three were routine but one was likely precancerous."
What? Pre-what? I heard the "C" word in there somewhere.
He went on to say the one polyp, called a tubular adenoma, could very well have developed into cancer.
It turned out the polyps were biopsied, and all were negative. I'll have another colonoscopy in six months to make sure there's nothing else there.
The odds are that many of you out there are either in my demographic or know someone who is, or you know someone who has a family history. Don't wait. Be a pest. My mother and family doctor might very well have saved my life simply by nagging me into calling a doctor.
If you are 50 or older, you should get screened, according to the CDC. If you know someone who needs it, either because of their age or family history, nudge them. Shove them if you have to. Whatever it takes.
Will they think you're a nag? Maybe. Will they get annoyed? Possibly. Consider the alternative for you or a loved one if you fail to act or remain silent.
I certainly have.
No one wants to talk about cancer, much less colon cancer. Perhaps we should start talking. Colorectal cancer is the second leading cancer killer in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control. It's also very preventable and treatable with routine screenings.

Graphic

 
Rich Manieri Deputy Opinion Editor

Load-Date: July 5, 2016


End of Document
