




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
August 16, 2022 Tuesday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2022 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FRONT; Pg. A11
Length: 948 words
Body


Add movie theater to development
The State Journal has reported that a developer wants to tear down the cheap-ticket, community-friendly Market Square Theater building and to replace it with an apartment building in the Odana Road area of Madison.
The newspaper also reported that the project's concept includes commercial space along Yellowstone Drive. Problem solved: Madison's planning commission could require the commercial space to be designed as the new location of a budget movie theater.
That way a community asset would be saved.
Bruce McClellin, Madison
F-35s make new housing impossible
It's clear the individuals involved in the Green Street Development Group from St. Louis, Missouri, who are planning a housing development for the Raemisch Farm site have never been anywhere near Madison's North Side to personally experience the horrifying, skull-crushing noise from the jets as they scream over the neighborhood.
Many of my neighbors have already sold their homes to find peace elsewhere. The area proposed for development is simply unfit for human occupation. Insulation won't stop the buildings from shaking when the jets fly over.
The plan for an outdoor classroom at Lakeview School is delusional.
Diane Walder, Madison
Radicals replace good Republicans
The Republicans have been talking about "replacement" theory. It appears they're correct about being replaced. But unfortunately they have missed what's really going on.
Republicans are being replaced with Trumpists, fascists and authoritarians. Remember when Republicans believed in civic duty? They are being replaced with people who demonize poll workers and elected officials who follow the law. Republicans supported the military but now many are voting against the help our veterans need. Republicans used to be proud of our schools but now don't trust teachers to interact with their children.
Republicans used to recognize Russia and Vladimir Putin as destabilizing forces in the world. But the Republicans have been replaced by people such as U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Oshkosh, who with a straight face repeats disinformation campaigns by the Russian government while others such as Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., want to aid Putin's imperialist desires by blocking the expansion of NATO.
Worst of all, Republicans used to be informed. Listen to them now and it seems they don't know the difference between communism, socialism and fascism. They don't care what they do as long as it keeps them in power. Republicans are being replaced, and we will all suffer for it.
Dean Siewert, Madison
End of Roe isn't good for women
I disagree with the July 31 letter to the editor "Women will benefit from the end of Roe."
The letter suggests there will be fewer unwanted pregnancies because more women will choose contraception. Contraception is not readily available or affordable for all women. And the letter ignores that often women seeking abortions are doing so for many medical reasons, not just to avoid an unwanted pregnancy.
More baby girls will be born, as the letter suggests, but more boys will be born as well, since abortion seekers do not only abort girls. Those babies will be born to mothers who can't afford to support those children emotionally or financially, leading to more children in the foster care system. Approximately 7,000 are in our Wisconsin system. The letter mentions abortion trauma, but ignores the trauma of women and children being split up in that system.
Lastly, if having fewer choices and the loss of bodily autonomy will increase respect for women, let's mandate vasectomies, and fewer choices for men. That will encourage us women to respect men more for their willingness to participate in the contraception process.
Judy Neary, Edgerton
Vote out the GOP climate deniers
I am truly amazed at how off the rails the Republican Party is.
Its denial of climate change, by far the most serious issue we all face, is astonishing. Do Republicans not have children or grandchildren? Don't they want to see them grow up in a planet capable of sustaining them? Do they not see the damage that it causes all over the world?
Their agenda of maintaining power at all costs through voter suppression and gerrymandering is destroying our democracy and may destroy the planet as well. All of this is just to support the oil companies. We must vote them out at all levels of government.
Randy Schramm, Madison
Column on honesty omitted biggest lie
Star Parker's column in the Aug. 7 Wisconsin State Journal, "In Washington, honesty is a lonely word," begins with, "a favorite game of politicians, when reality does not conform to the facts they want, is to simply redefine reality."
I agreed, anticipating the columnist would address the obvious example of this maxim that has dominated our politics for almost two years.
I was mistaken. What followed was a list of Democratic bills and policies that Parker deems deceptively named to conceal or distort their true nature. She may have some valid points but loses credibility by omitting the most glaring example - the aptly named elephant in the room.
When the reality that Joe Biden legitimately won the 2020 presidential election didn't conform to the facts Donald Trump wanted, the former president simply redefined reality as a rigged election he claimed he had actually won. Many Republicans accepted his "big lie," a mass deception leading to the violent insurrection of Jan. 6, 2021, a reality subsequently redefined as a peaceful, patriotic demonstration.
I concur with Parker's call for leaders with the courage to be honest. Republican politicians, dare to speak the truth, and stop enabling Trump to redefine reality and undermine our democracy.
Nancy Sanborn, Madison

Load-Date: August 16, 2022


End of Document
