




Newsweek.com
May 4, 2024 Saturday 3:00 PM EST


Copyright © 2024 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 429 words
Byline: Maria Azzurra Volpe
Highlight: Their mom showed up to the meetings with a bag full of baby clothes that she has been collecting for a while, and they believe she was trying to send a message.
Body


A 28-year-old woman from Tennessee has left the internet in stitches after revealing what her mom did when she visited her and her sister in Nashville where they live.
In a  on  in February, under the username ojtennison, the poster's mom can be seen laying some baby clothes on the table, saying that she's been collecting them for a while, as if to send her daughters a sign.
A caption explains: "My mom visited and brought an entire bag of baby clothes she's been apparently collecting for years and decided she was ready to show us."
She goes on to say: "[My brother-in-law] literally just proposed to my sister a few months ago. Cannot begin to imagine how she's still going."
"Who wants to tell her it's gonna be a few more years for us??" the caption continues.
The poster, Olivia Tennison, told Newsweek that when their mom unexpectedly visited them, she brought along multiple bags of baby clothes which she has secretly been collecting over the last few years.
She said: "It is important to note neither my sister nor I are pregnant! I think she is trying to send us a message... ha! My sister and I couldn't stop laughing!
"I think my husband and my sister's new fiancé were rather surprised but we all got plenty of good laughs over it. If you know my mom at all, this is very on-par behavior haha!"
A survey by Pew Research Center has found that the majority of Americans of childbearing age who haven't had any children yet, do no wish to have any at all.
Results of the survey show that over 44 percent of non-parents ages 18 to 49 say it is not too likely or not at all likely that they will have children someday, while 74 percent of those younger than 50 who do have kids say they are unlikely to have any more.
The video quickly went viral on social media, getting viewers from across TikTok. It has so far received over 196,100 views and 21,300 likes on the platform.
One user, Samantha, commented: "My in laws gave me the onesies they bought for when my husband would have kids...12 years before we had our son. Like he had an Obama era onesie in 2022."
Meg said: "My mom bought two huge bags of gently used baby clothes. Brother just had a vasectomy and I can't have kids. Guess she can dress up the cats."
Jenelle McDuchess added: "My MIL has been crocheting baby blankets for 10 years, just hoping for the day. Due in Aug! Finally."
Do you have funny and adorable videos or pictures of your pet you want to share? Send them to  with some details about your best friend and they could appear in our Pet of the Week lineup.


Graphic

 
mom wants to be a grandma
ojtennison
Her adult kids were embarrassed after she showed up with baby clothes.

Load-Date: May 4, 2024


End of Document
