




National Journal
November 6, 2014


Copyright 2014 The National Journal Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1511 words
Byline: Jason Plautz, Ben Geman and Clare Foran
Body


TOP ENERGY NEWS
By Clare Foran (), Jason Plautz (           ), and Ben Geman (           )
CRITICISM, BUT NO VETO THREAT, FROM WHITE HOUSE ON KEYSTONE BILL. White House spokesman Josh Earnest on Thursday declined to say whether President Obama would veto planned GOP legislation to mandate approval of the Keystone XL oil-sands pipeline. But Earnest also said that a Keystone bill would "contradict" the administration's position that the State Department review process should be allowed to play out. The veto-or-not question suddenly matters because election night likely gave pipeline supporters a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate, and Republicans will be able to bring up a bill when they formally take control of the Senate next year. Pro-Keystone bills pass the House easily.
SO WHAT DID THE WHITE HOUSE SAY ON THE PIPELINE? It's tea-leaves reading season, so here's exactly what Earnest said when asked about whether Obama would veto a Keystone bill. First he said, "We haven't seen what Congress is prepared to do specifically on this," and then added: "The president has been very clear that there is a firmly established precedent for dealing with these kinds of issues, and that is a process that we are committed to, that is a process that currently is winding its way through the State Department and one that right now is at least going to be influenced by the decision from a Nebraska judge about the proper route for that pipeline through that state. So, we will consider any sort of proposals that are passed by Congress including a rider like this that ... does seem to pretty directly contradict the position that has been adopted by this administration, but also the position that has been taken by previous administrations as they have considered pipelines of this sort."
EVEN MORE ON KEYSTONE. In case you missed our piece last night on Obama's comments on the planned GOP bill, .
BOEHNER: WE CAN PASS KEYSTONE.  House Speaker John Boehner appears ready to put the pressure on Obama to approve Keystone XL, telling reporters in a press conference that the House and Senate would be able to pass a pipeline bill with the Senate majority. And in a  with presumed Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Boehner said that previously passed House billsincluding many on energyoffered "an obvious and potentially bipartisan starting point for the new Congress."
EPA BILLS ARE FIRST UP FOR THE LAME-DUCK HOUSE. The House is set to consider three EPA bills during the lame-duck period, according to a schedule from Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. The House will bring up the Secret Science Reform Act, which would block EPA regulations unless data is made public, and the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act, which will deal will the membership and qualifications of the scientific boards that review EPA proposals. The third bill, the Promoting New Manufacturing Act, concerns the air permits required for manufacturing facilities and other energy-intensive projects. All three bills are scheduled for the week of Nov. 17.
SENATE PUTS SPOTLIGHT ON BANKS' OIL HOLDINGS. Senate Democrats will use the lame-duck session to launch a two-day hearing on the effects of Wall Street banks holding commodities and assets including oil and power plants. The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations will meet on Nov. 20-21, a hearing that follows a probe of the topic. "After a two-year bipartisan investigation, the subcommittee will hold a hearing examining the extent to which banks and their holding companies own physical commodities like oil, natural gas, aluminum and other industrial metals, as well as own or control businesses like power plants, oil and gas pipelines, and commodity warehouses," an advisory states.
BP IS STILL ON THE HOOK FOR GULF SPILL. The Associated Press reports: "A federal appeals court panel has reaffirmed its ruling that BP is liable for federal Clean Water Act damages stemming from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the latest loss for the oil giant as it fights court decisions that could ultimately bring $18 billion in penalties." 
TOP SENATE REPUBLICAN TALKS CLIMATE. In an interview with NPR, Sen. Lisa Murkowski, who is poised to take over the chairmanship of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said she thinks global warming needs to be addressed. "I come from a state where we see a warming. We're seeing it with increased water temperatures; we're seeing it with ice that is thinner; we're seeing it with migratory patterns that are changing. So I look at this and I say this is something that we must address." Calling for action on climate change sets Murkowski apart from many of her Republican colleagues in Congress. But the senator does not say she believes climate change is man-made. Murkowski "not so sure what the cause isor whether mankind is to blame," NPR reports. 
MAJOR TECH COMPANY BOLTS ALEC. Multinational software company SAP announced today that it will "immediately disassociate itself" from the American Legislative Exchange Council, in part because of the conservative coalition's position on climate change. SAP America lobbyist Steve Searle had been the chair of ALEC's corporate board since last year. ()
THE NEW CLIMATE STATEMENT: WEBCAST YOUR VASECTOMY. Next Tuesday is Veteran's Day, but tomorrow is World Vasectomy Day, which will be celebrated with a planned 1,500 surgeries in 30 countries, including a webcast marathon of 28 vasectomies in Florida. Organizer Doug Stein said it's in part to make the link between family planning and climate change by showing men steps they can take to reduce their families' climate impact. ()
COAL GIANT FIGHTS BACK. Bloomberg talks to the CEO of coal giant Peabody Energy, who says the debate over his product is missing some key points. "Greg Boyce, who leads the world's biggest publicly traded coal company, wants people to focus on the fuel's virtues, not its warts. His pitch: cheap and abundant coal should be used to drive economic growth and help the world's impoverished improve their lives," they report. ()
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS URGE GOP TO REJECT WIND TAX CREDITS. In a letter to Republicans Congressional leaders, 66 groups led by the American Energy Alliance urge a rejection of legislation to extend the wind production tax credit. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has said he'll bring a tax extenders package to the floor during the lame-duck session, but the groups say the PTC should be nixed, especially so the GOP doesn't lose leverage before taking the Senate majority next year. ()
HEALTH GROUPS TALK OZONE WITH WHITE HOUSE. Public health groups including the American Lung Association met today with the White House Office of Management and Budget to discuss EPA's planned revisions to standards on ground-level smog, or ozone. The ruledue out Dec. 1is sure to be in the middle of a messaging war, with industry groups saying it will be EPA's most expensive regulation.
WEST COAST CLIMATE BLOC UNLIKELY AFTER GOP STATE PICKUPS. The Northeast cap-and-trade program may have been a winner in Tuesday's midterms, but it appears that gains by Republicans in the Washington legislature make a repeat on the West Coast unlikely. Environmentalists had hoped that Washington and Oregon might join with California's carbon market, but were unable to flip a pair of needed seats in Washington state (races that included spending from Tom Steyer). ()
HOW THE 'RAIN TAX' COST DEMOCRATS IN MARYLAND. Vox goes inside one of the factors that fueled Republican Larry Hogan's upset bid in the Maryland gubernatorial race: a "rain tax," or the state's fee on impervious sources to address stormwater runoff. ()
DEMOCRATS PULL AD BUY BACKING MARY LANDRIEU. Bloomberg reports: "The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee is pulling its ad buy in Louisiana, leaving Democratic incumbent Mary Landrieu to fend for herself, at least in the early days of her runoff against Republican Bill Cassidy taking place Dec. 6." 
WHAT INSIDERS ARE SAYING
WHAT WOULD A GOP SENATE MEAN FOR ENERGY POLICY? Republicans took control of the Senate in the midterms and they say they'll use their majority to push energy policies like approval of the Keystone XL pipeline and rolling back regulations. Will energy be a priority and what sort of legislation should be expected?
"It seems doubtful that EPA would promulgate new gas fracturing regulations if both houses of Congress were in Republican hands. If it did, the chances that it would have its hands tied through legislation would seem high." Michael Canes, distinguished fellow, LMI.
.
HAPPENING TOMORROW
WATER AND CLIMATE. The World Affairs Council holds its World Affairs Council of America Conference, November 6-7.

Load-Date: November 6, 2014


End of Document
