




Ebony
May 2010


Copyright 2010 Johnson Publishing Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: PARENTING; Pg. 94; Vol. LXV; No. 7
Length: 474 words
Byline: SHIRLEY HENDERSON
Highlight: Sometimes all you need is a little assist to become a parent
Body


AT 37, THE URGE TO BECOME A MOTHER WAS OVERWHELMING. Each time Gloria James, now 43, saw a baby carriage, she gushed at the thought of the little bundle inside.
With a lucrative career in technology, she delayed marriage until she was 35, the same age at which a woman's fertility level starts to decline. Gloria also had uterine fibroids, which her doctor told her would make getting pregnant even more difficult. In the meantime, she and her husband, Jeffrey, were on round-the-clock baby-making duty.
"We had sex all the time," says Gloria. "We made love in every room, in every position we could think of, whether I was ovulating or not. Because we just didn't know."
One thing they did know was that after months of trying, they were both exhausted. Gloria's doctor suggested a myomectomy to remove her fibroids. Soon after the procedure was performed--jackpot! The couple became pregnant and welcomed son Winston Mitchell James into the world at 6 pounds, 8 ounces.
Many women are putting motherhood on the back burner due to their careers. Others simply don't find Mr. Right until later in life and discover that getting pregnant at 30-something is way trickier than it was at 20-something.
It's a common problem that transcends race, says Sherman Silber, M.D., a renowned infertility specialist and microsurgery pioneer who has helped thousands of couples have babies.
"The big reason for the infertility epidemic is because of the age of the eggs," says Silber, who wrote How to Get Pregnant and operates out of the Infertility Center of Saint Louis. A female child is born with approximately 2 million eggs in her ovaries. Throughout her life, she will lose about 1,000 of them each month.
Silber can perform a procedure called cryopreservation, which is the freezing of sperm, ovarian tissue and eggs for later use. How long can you keep these eggs?
"There is no shelf life," says Silber, who also performs in vitro fertilization (IVF), another form of assisted reproductive technology that allows a fertilized egg to be placed into the uterus. IVF can even work for an older woman who didn't get around to freezing her eggs in her 20s.
Women aren't always the ones with infertility problems. Some males have a low sperm count, which is genetically determined. Others may have decided to medically end their chance for fatherhood.
Marques Davidson, 42, was sure he would never have children after his marriage ended. Scorched by divorce, he had a vasectomy. Eventually, he met and fell in love with a 27-year-old medical internist. Newly married, he's considering undergoing a microsurgical vasectomy reversal in order to become a dad.
"It's late, I know," says Davidson. "But when you are young, you think that [children] will be always be possible. I thought my chance to become a father ended with my first marriage. Now, I have another shot."

Graphic

 
Picture, no caption, LEAD SPREAD: JOSE LUIS PELAEZ, INC./BLEND IMAGES/CORBIS

Load-Date: April 23, 2010


End of Document
