




St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
May 4, 2011 Wednesday
THIRD EDITION


Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EVERYDAY; Pg. U4
Length: 440 words
Byline: Write Dr. Donohue at P.O. Box 536475, Orlando, Fla. 32853-6475.|||
Dateline: 0 
Body


Dear Dr. Donohue - I am a 55-year-old woman, 120 pounds and 5 feet 4 inches tall. I exercise regularly, both with weights and aerobically. I take calcium and vitamin D. Three years ago, my bone density test was -2. Recently, I had another test; it was -2.3. I know that -2.5 is considered osteoporosis. My doctor recommends that I take something to prevent further bone loss. I hear so many negative things about these drugs. Do the benefits of the drugs outweigh their side effects? - R.G.
Answer - People are going to think I'm fixated on this subject. I just answered similar questions a week or so ago.
I believe the benefits of osteoporosis drugs far outweigh their downsides. The bone density test - DEXA, dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry - isn't the only consideration given when prescribing medicines. A history of previous bone breaks, a family history of osteoporosis, early menopause, a history of cigarette smoking and illnesses, like diabetes, that add to the danger of breaking bones are some of the other factors that are taken into account before prescribing medicine.
The most-prescribed osteoporosis medicines are the bisphosphonates: Fosamax, Actonel, Atelvia, Reclast and Boniva. Their worst complication is the death of part of the jawbone - osteonecrosis. It happens infrequently. Osteoporosis fractures, on the other hand, happen frequently. For me, the decision is easy. Take the medicine. Other drugs are worth consideration. Evista acts a bit like estrogen, but without the danger of breast cancer that comes with estrogen. Forteo is similar to parathyroid hormone, the hormone that directs calcium into bones. And the newest drug, Prolia, greatly lessens the breakdown of bones.
Although all these drugs have side effects, their promise of strengthening bones greatly tips the scales in favor of their use.
To Readers - Colon cancer is something no one likes to think of. The booklet on it explains it and its treatments. Readers can order a copy by writing to: Dr. Donohue - No. 505, Box 536475, Orlando, Fla. 32853-6475. Enclose a check or money order (no cash) for $4.75 with the recipient's printed name and address.
Dear Dr. Donohue - After a vasectomy, are you at greater risk of developing prostate cancer? I just had one, and two people have told me about the prostate cancer link. Is this true or false? My wife also wants me to ask you if breast-feeding lowers the chances of breast cancer. - J.L.
Answer - Some time ago, a few, scattered reports suggested that vasectomy might be associated with prostate cancer. This has been proven to be false.
Breastfeeding reduces the risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer.

Load-Date: June 24, 2011


End of Document
