




The New Yorker
August 20, 2018


Copyright 2018 The Conde Nast Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: BOOKS; Pg. 69; Vol. XCIV; No. 24; ISSN: 0028-792X
Length: 519 words
Byline: Rothchild,Julia
Body


Aroused, by Randi Hutter Epstein (Norton). In 1905, the physiologist Ernest Starling presented a new theory: chemical messengers, which he termed "hormones," are crucial actors in the body's self-regulation. From there, the field of endocrinology, as this compelling history shows, has manifested extremes of ingenuity and hubristic error. Researchers such as Harvey Cushing and Rosalyn Yalow, who won a Nobel for her hormone-measuring technique, made lasting advances. But market-driven physicians also touted vasectomies as a means of rejuvenation; peddled estrogen pills that were subsequently linked to uterine cancer; and, by administering injections of contaminated growth hormone, infected hundreds of children with fatal Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Epstein movingly relays the stories of intersex and transgender children, whose well-being has been at the mercy of fluctuating medical approaches.
Two Sisters, by Åsne Seierstad, translated from the Norwegian by Seán Kinsella (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). In 2013, two Somali-Norwegian sisters from the Oslo suburbs e-mailed their parents that they had gone to Syria "to help Muslims." Seierstad's account of the case does not offer any single theory about radicalization's causes, instead sensitively portraying the bewildered, damaged family left behind. The mother frets at having felt smug about raising daughters who rejected liberal Norwegian mores; the father, in a frantic search, goes to Syria, where he is kidnapped and tortured by ISIS. Seierstad draws on chat logs in which the girls and their brother argue, in breezy Internet lingo, about religion and rationalism, filial duty and self-assertion.
Early Work, by Andrew Martin (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). This début novel is narrated by a writer manqué named Peter, who has dropped out of a Yale Ph.D. program and moved to Charlottesville, where his girlfriend attends medical school. He spends his days in a funk-teaching at a women's prison, getting high, bantering knowingly with friends-and falls for a woman who harbors similarly hazy writerly ambitions. Martin captures the moment when ambition either coalesces into concrete goals or curdles into self-pity. Peter's is a cautionary tale, albeit leavened by humor. Watching his lover writing in her journal, he gazes at the sky, "hoping talent was, contrary to available medical evidence, sexually transmittable."
History of Violence, by Édouard Louis, translated from the French by Lorin Stein (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). At the age of twenty, the author of this autobiographical novel was robbed, raped, and nearly killed in his Paris apartment by a man he'd picked up. After moving back to his family's working-class village, in Picardy, he overhears his sister's version of the story, with its scathing judgments of him and his milieu. It is one of many instances where he listens as others-a doctor, the police-project their anxieties and prejudices onto his experience. His attempts to regain control over his narrative produce a sharp, lucid meditation on how violence perpetuates itself in communities-by engendering fear, and then cruelty.

Load-Date: August 23, 2018


End of Document
