




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
August 15, 2000, Tuesday


Copyright 2000, Telegraph-Herald
Section: Pg. a10
Length: 447 words
Byline: Associated Press
Body


LONDON (AP) - For men in France, obtaining a vasectomy has long been all but impossible, thanks to a 200-year-old Napo- leonic law prohibiting self-mutilation.
Now, a cross-channel "vasectomy tourism service" set up by a British sexual health charity aims to cut the complications in obtaining the birth control procedure.
The service, launched Monday by Marie Stopes International, is targeting Frenchmen with the offer of a vasectomy for $ 300 at one of its clinics in London or Ashford - both stops on the Eurostar rail line from Paris - and the suggestion that the operation be incorporated into a day trip to Britain.
"In the spirit of European togetherness, MSI is offering vasectomy to our French neighbors," Marie Stopes marketing manager Julie Douglas said. "We also hope to raise awareness about the archaic penal codes which limit reproductive choice in France."
Although no one has been prosecuted for getting a vasectomy for more than 40 years, the procedure is technically illegal in France under the Napoleonic Code.
Few French doctors will perform the operation and only two hospitals in the country offer vasectomies, Marie Stopes spokeswoman Franca Tranza said. The procedure involves sealing the tubes that carry sperm from the scrotum to the penis.
United Nations statistics list the rate of the procedure in France as "nil or negligible."
In Britain, which has the world's highest vasectomy rate, 16 percent of men of reproductive age have had the operation.
Last year, two of France's leading newspapers - Le Monde and Le Figaro - rejected an advertisement promoting the Marie Stopes service, branding it "disgraceful."
A recent ad designed for the Paris subway featuring a playfully altered version of Napoleon's classic hand-in-jacket pose - his hand wasn't in his jacket - also was turned down.
Bernard Schnakenbourg, 47, a father of one from the Essone region near Paris, was the first to have the operation Monday at Marie Stopes' headquarters in London.
Schnakenbourg said he was satisfied with the five-minute procedure.
"I think it is only fair that couples share the responsibility for contraception within a relationship," he said.
Marie Stopes now plans to promote its vasectomies on the Internet and through an e-mail campaign to French doctors.
According to the United Nations, about 50 million men worldwide have had a vasectomy - roughly 5 percent of all men of reproductive age.
It's not clear whether circumcisions are also prohibited by the Napoleonic Code, but the procedure is not common in French public hospitals because of the legal uncertainties. The procedure is done at private hospitals.
On the Net:
Charity's official site,  

Load-Date: August 16, 2000


End of Document
