




The New York Times
August 18, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company
Distribution: Foreign Desk 
Section: Section A; ; Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk ; Column 5; 
Length: 676 words
Byline: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

By JOHN TAGLIABUE 
Dateline: PARIS, Aug. 17
Body


The French have just banned British pork and are still not letting in British beef. And the talk here now is of a sly reprisal: a campaign to sterilize Frenchmen.
A British group promoting birth control is offering vasectomies to Frenchmen, even promoting a free one to the first who signed up. The campaign invites Frenchmen to go to Britain on the theory that the Napoleonic Code, dating back to the early 19th century, prohibits vasectomy, as a form of self-mutilation.
The British group, known as Marie Stopes International for a pioneering British champion of birth control, tried to place advertisements in French newspapers, which refused them, and in the Paris subway, which also turned them away. The Metro evidently concluded that the ads would offend Catholics, since the church teaches that vasectomies are an improper method of birth control.
So Marie Stopes posted the proposal on its Web site.
Overnight, Bernard Schnakenbourg became a national celebrity. He traveled to London this month from his home near Paris with his companion and their 2-year old daughter for a vasectomy.
Afterward, Mr. Schnakenbourg, 47, who works at a national center for scientific research, announced to astonished French reporters: "I feel great. It's like coming out of the dentist with a local anesthetic."
The reaction in France was a mix of wonder and outrage. "The appeal from London to sterilize the French," read the headline in the leftist daily Liberation. But the paper went on to note that while 6 percent of Frenchwomen of child-bearing age have been sterilized, usually by tubal ligature, fewer than 1 percent of Frenchmen have undergone a vasectomy.
That compares with 16 percent in Britain, the country with the highest incidence, 11 percent in the Netherlands, and 8 percent in Belgium, according to United Nations statistics. Indeed, the United Nations lists the number performed in France as "nil or negligible."
The figure appears remarkable in a country that has been a leader in other respects in contraceptive issues, though mostly regarding women. In January, for instance, France started to distribute morning-after contraceptive pills to schoolgirls as young as 12, though since then the issue has fought its way through the courts. And last year the government allowed pharmacists to start selling ordinary birth control pills over the counter without a prescription, making France the only European country to do so.
But until now sterilization, including vasectomy, has slumbered in a gray zone of dubious legality, one that appears to accommodate the apprehensions of French males.
A spokesman for the French Ministry of Health dismissed the offer by Marie Stopes as "essentially, a commercial undertaking." In London, Julie Douglas, marketing director at Marie Stopes, denied that the offer, which charges the French the equivalent of $300 for the vasectomy, essentially to cover costs, was intended to make money. "We don't expect big numbers," she said.
The organization's Web site () displays the poster rejected by the Metro. Ms. Douglas described it as a "cheeky ad."
Medical experts agree that French law relegates sterilization to a dubious zone. Last year the law, which bans any "assault on the integrity of the human body except in case of therapeutic necessity," was changed to replace the word "therapeutic" with "medical." That was to allow doctors greater leeway in deciding when sterilization is permissible.
Dr. Stephane Dropy, chief urologist at the Bicetre hospital east of Paris, said resistance by French males to vasectomy was "partly cultural," given French reliance on other forms of contraception. Despite the revision in the text of the law, he acknowledged "its interpretation remains subjective."
For his part, Mr. Schnakenbourg, at his news conference, could not refrain from a swipe at his countrymen's contraceptive habits. Frenchmen would accept vasectomy, he said, if the alternative meant going on the pill. "I don't think men would accept swallowing something every day for 30 years," he said.



Load-Date: August 18, 2000


End of Document
