




Newstex Blogs 
JD Supra
September 11, 2024 Wednesday 9:17 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 JD Supra 
Length: 1075 words
Byline: WilmerHaleAli JessaniKirk NahraAmy Olivero
Body


September 11th, 2024 (   - Delivered by   )
August 20, 2024 signaled the end of the California Privacy Protection Agency's (CPPA) Notice of Proposed Regulatory Action (NPRA) comment period for Senate Bill 362, also known as the Delete Act (the 'Act'). The Act,   
In this post, we summarize the most important provisions  
Notable Provisions in the Proposed Regulations to the Delete ACT
In its published  
Clarifying the definition of 'data broker': The Delete Act defines a data broker as 'a business that knowingly collects and sells to third parties the personal information of a consumer with whom the business does not have a direct relationship.' The regulations further define this term by proposing that a 'direct relationship' be defined as meaning 'that a consumer intentionally interacts with a business for the purpose of obtaining information about, accessing, purchasing, using, or requesting the business's products or services within the preceding three years... A business is still a data broker if it has a direct relationship with a consumer but also sells personal information about the consumer that the business did not collect directly from the consumer.' This definition is intended to aid businesses in understanding if they are within scope of the regulations and provide consistency in application of the law.
Specifying the definition of 'minor': The propose regulations add yet another age threshold and requirement for covered businesses to track. During registration, a data broker must state whether it collects the personal information of 'minors,' who is a consumer less than 16 years old. The rules also propose that 'A business that willfully disregards the consumer's age shall be deemed to have had actual knowledge of the consumer's age.'
Broadly defining 'reproductive health care data': During registration, a data broker must state whether it collects consumers' 'reproductive health care data,' which the regulations propose to include:
goods including 'contraception (e.g., condoms, birth-control pills), pre-natal and fertility vitamins and supplements, menstrual-tracking apps, and hormone-replacement therapy;'
services like 'sperm- and egg-freezing, In Vitro Fertilization, abortion care, vasectomies, sexual health counseling; treatment or counseling for sexually transmitted infections, erectile dysfunction, and reproductive tract infections' and-significantly-the precise geolocation information about such treatments; and
'[i]nformation about the consumer's sexual history and family planning, which includes information a consumer inputs into a dating app about their history of sexually transmitted infections or desire to have children' and any associated inferences from this information.
Requiring parent and subsidiary companies to all register as data brokers when applicable: The proposed regulations state that 'A business, regardless of its status as a parent company or subsidiary of another business, which independently meets the definition of 'data broker'must register.' To provide greater transparency and support consumer understanding, a company and each business must register separately if they each process information separately as a data broker.
Requiring more information regarding other governing laws: If a data broker states in its registration that it is regulated by another legal regime, the proposed rules would also require it to disclose the types of personal information that it collects/sells and specific products or services that are subject to the other laws as well as the 'approximate proportion of data collected and sold that is subject to the enumerated laws in comparison with their total annual data collection and sales.'
Limiting the ability to amend data broker registrations: Subject to exceptions, the proposed regulations would prohibit amendment or withdrawal of data broker registration information after the registration period ends every year on January 31st.
Adding more data broker disclosures during registration: In addition to the information required under the Delete Act, the new rules would require covered businesses to disclose a business's alternate name and contact information.
Finally, the CPPA also hosted a public hearing regarding the proposed regulations on the same day that the public comment period ended. Although the Agency has not publicly published the comments yet (they will likely be published on  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: September 11, 2024


End of Document
