




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
January 21, 2018 Sunday
Main Edition


Copyright 2018 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: D; Pg. 002
Length: 537 words
Byline: Washington Post
Body


Carolyn Hax
 Dear Carolyn: You recently made an excellent point that the only one who can decide who someone dates is themselves. However, I am a woman with many male friends I won't "allow" my sisters to date, and I would like to share that someone may have other reasons to step in. One is because my older sister dated a man I was friends with for five years before they met. When she broke up with him, he stopped talking to me.
 The second is because although some are great to hang out with, I know more about these friends than my sisters do. They are NOT dating material.
 Shouldn't I have a right to not want my family to date my friends so I don't get caught in their turmoil? - Anonymous
 No.
 You have a right not to want it, sure. We all have every right not to want things. I have a right not to want people to use apostrophe-S to make something plural. That doesn't mean I get to edit peoples sign's, Christmas card's or mailboxe's.
 Anyway. You have a right to want a certain outcome, but you don't have a right to make decisions for other people to bend an outcome your way.
 What you can do is respect the boundary between actors and audience. For your friends' and sisters' romantic lives, or for any romance you aren't personally in, you are strictly audience.
 Losing that friend over your sister's breakup was hard for you, no doubt. But treating people like your personal marionettes makes you the one controlling, patronizing and ultimately alienating people around you.
 Dear Carolyn: My mom is pressuring me to tell her whether my husband and I plan to have kids. We don't - he had a vasectomy before we met, and I'm fine with that.
 I'm a very private person, and my mom has a long history of sharing my private information, including with my grandmother, who will give me a hard time for not wanting kids. I also object generally to social pressure to hit one milestone after another.
 That said, I think she's genuinely hurt that I've refused to discuss this and part of me thinks I'm making a mountain out of a molehill. - Anonymous
 I think you have good cause not to fill your mother in on your family plans - and I think your not telling her has had the unintended consequence of making this an even bigger nuisance for you.
 So you've made an even bigger mountain, I guess, out of a mountain.
 Please just tell your mother you don't plan to have kids. It's definitive, so you might as well put it behind you.
 Before you tell, though, I hope you'll talk to your mom about your frustration with what you see as the milestoning to death of young ... women? people? in this ... family? culture? And when you're asked these questions, you feel ... diminished? bored? judged? as if your worth is being measured by standards you didn't choose?
 Say you're particularly unhappy when your news is passed along to Grandma and then Grandma comes at you blazing.
 You fill in the blanks yourself, obviously, with specifics on exactly what chaps you and why - but it's an important exercise.
 She might not budge, but you will know you made yourself clear.
 Email Carolyn at , follow her on Facebook at / carolyn.hax or chat with her online at 9 a.m. each Friday at            .

Load-Date: January 21, 2018


End of Document
