




Newstex Blogs 
Mediaite
January 4, 2022 Tuesday 8:20 PM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 463 words
Byline: Mediaite Staff
Body


Jan 04, 2022( Mediaite: / Delivered by Newstex) ; 
   

Despite having a cable show[1] on Comedy Central, radio host Charlamagne tha God[2] said one of his favorite networks to watch is Fox News. 
 'Chadwick Moore was on one of my favorite networks to watch,' Charlamagne said while giving out his first 'Donkey Of The Day[3]' of 2022. 'This may come as a shock to some of y'all, some of y'all it may not. But Fox News. I love Fox News, guys.' 
 Charlamagne proceeded to explain that he loves the network for multiple reasons. 'It is highly entertaining,' he said. 'I'm the type of person I cannot live in an echo chamber. I refuse. I have to hear all sides. I like hearing things that challenge what I believe, that challenge what I think. And you know, I guess sometimes I learn things. And did I mention that Fox News is highly entertaining?' 
 Charlamagne then played a clip of Chadwick Moore claiming that getting a vasectomy makes you, 'Less of a man.' 
 'Are you not entertained?' Charlamagne said in response to the clip. 'Like I said I enjoy Fox News because it's entertaining.' 

Have a tip we should know?  [4]; 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  [ 3]:  [ 4]:   
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 4, 2022


End of Document
