




Journal Record Legislative Report (Oklahoma City, OK)
March 6, 2012 Tuesday


Copyright 2012 Dolan Media Newswires All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS
Length: 626 words
Byline: Marie Price
Body


Several senators criticized Senate Bill 1274 Tuesday as being condescending to women and interfering with their right to choose how to use their bodies, but in the end it passed 34-8.
Click here () for the floor version of the bill, prior to Newberry’s amendment. Here are his amendment (           ) and the amendment to his amendment (           ).
State Sen. Dan Newberry, R-Tulsa, said the amended version of the Heartbeat Informed Consent Act would require health care providers to tell women they have the right to hear the heartbeat of their unborn child prior to an abortion.
It also makes intentional or reckless violation a misdemeanor and gives a woman’s spouse, parent, sibling or guardian a cause of action to file suit for violation. The father of an unborn child aborted in violation of the act would be allowed to bring a lawsuit for actual and punitive damages.
State Sen. Constance Johnson, D-Oklahoma City, saw the measure as one-sided, and offered an amendment that would allow vasectomies only “to avert the death of the man or avert serious risk of substantial and irreversible physical impairment of a major bodily function of the man. ” It would also require that vasectomies could only be performed in hospitals or other facilities licensed by the state Department of Health. They could only be performed by licensed health care providers. Violation would be a felony.
“Why focus only on the woman?” Johnson asked. “We continue to ignore the other half of the equation on this issue. ”
Newberry successfully tabled Johnson’s amendment.
State Sen. Judy Eason McIntyre said the bill intrudes on a woman’s choice of what to do with her body.
Newberry said it contains no such restriction.
“This is a war on women by Republican men and some women,” she said. “This is America, where freedom of choice has always been the rule of law. ”
McIntyre questioned how some who say government should be smaller and less intrusive do not believe women should be free to make choices about their bodies.
“Women are adults; they are not children,” she said. “It’s not for you to throw your moral values on somebody else. ”
State Sen. Jim Wilson, D-Tahlequah, said the bill was intended to shame women.
“This bill is condescending to women,” he added.
Wilson suggested that a better way to lower the number of abortions would be to increase access to birth control.
He said that women in poverty are five times more likely to have an unintended pregnancy.
Such legislation sends a bad message about Oklahoma to people looking for a new place to live, he added.
“If we want to prosper as a state, we’ve got to put this stuff away,” Wilson said. “It makes us look bad. ”
Johnson said the bill places health care providers in harm’s way for subjecting them to possible liability.
“It’s just another cockamamie effort to further limit a woman’s rights,” she said.
Johnson said she found the measure offensive, criticizing the “overwhelmingly male” Senate for backing legislation regarding women’s reproductive rights.
Closing debate, Newberry termed it a lie to say that supporters of the bill think women are sub-class.
“The heartbeat is life,” he said. “Without a heartbeat, you cannot live. ”
Newberry said that unborn children cannot speak for themselves.
“A heartbeat is the only voice that baby has,” he said.
Newberry said his bill provides an opportunity for a woman to recognize her unborn baby as a life “before she makes one of the hardest decisions she’ll ever make. ”
The bill now goes to the House.
© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

Load-Date: April 2, 2013


End of Document
