




Watertown Daily Times (New York)
May 12, 2015 Tuesday


Copyright 2015 Watertown Daily Times
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS
Length: 548 words
Byline: Eli Anderson, Watertown Daily Times, N.Y.
Body


May 12--Legislation that would allow New Yorkers to access free contraception has been proposed by state Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman.
On Monday, Mr. Schneiderman introduced the Comprehensive Contraception Coverage Act of 2015, a bill that seeks to reinforce the Affordable Care Act requirement that contraception be made available to New Yorkers for free.
"Ensuring comprehensive, cost-free access to birth control is critical to fulfilling the goals of the Affordable Care Act and to upholding every woman's right to contraception," Mr. Schneiderman said in a news release. "The Comprehensive Contraception Coverage Act will guarantee these rights and ensure that all New Yorkers have access to the birth control method that will help them stay healthy and effectively plan for the future."
The proposed legislation has four main provisions:
--Require state-governed health insurance policies to cover all FDA-approved methods of birth control, including emergency contraception.
--Prohibit "review processes" used by insurance companies to delay or deny contraceptive coverage.
--Extend insurance coverage for men's contraceptives.
--Allow for the provision of a year's worth of a contraceptive at a time.
The bill's proposal follows reports received by the attorney general of health insurance companies charging women copays for contraception and denying access to certain contraceptive methods such as intrauterine devices, vaginal rings and hormonal patches.
Most insurers are required by law to cover contraceptives for women without copayments. Contraceptives for men -- condoms and vasectomies -- are not included under federal requirements.
If passed, Mr. Schneiderman said, the bill would fill these gaps in contraceptive coverage.
"New Yorkers should not be penalized by their insurance companies for using the birth control method that they and their medical provider agree is most appropriate for them," he said.
Assemblywoman Addie J. Russell, D-Theresa, agreed.
"It really presents a good step forward for the state," she said. "We should not be letting health insurance companies dictate health care decisions that are best left to patients and their physicians."
In Watertown, Theresa S. "Tess" Barker, president and chief executive officer of Planned Parenthood of the North Country New York Inc., voiced her support of the bill.
"Obviously, I am delighted," she said. "A kind of act like this to enable women and their health care providers to decide what is best is just wonderful."
Ms. Barker was pleased to see that access to male contraception was included in the attorney general's bill.
"Any time a male comes to a health center, we always talk about their role in family planning," she said.
A provision that allows patients to be prescribed a year's worth of contraception is particularly important for north country residents, Ms. Barker said.
"This is a rural area; travel and transportation are huge issues," she said.
She said making a year's worth of contraception available at once would require residents to make fewer trips to the pharmacy, and encourage stricter adherence to birth control.
___ (c)2015 Watertown Daily Times (Watertown, N.Y.) Visit Watertown Daily Times (Watertown, N.Y.) at  Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

Load-Date: May 12, 2015


End of Document
