




SheKnows
May 17, 2024


Copyright 2024 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved


Length: 431 words
Byline: Rebecca Rakowitz
Body


Kane Brown is about to be a dad of three! The country music singer spoke with  at the ACM Awards and said his two daughters are in different headspaces about welcoming a baby brother. While his 4-year-old daughter Kingsley is amped up, his 2-year-old Kodi Jane "can't really explain how she feels." Which checks out. She's a toddler. I'm an adult and I can hardly ever explain how I feel.
"But Kingsley is, like, so excited. [She] protects Kate at all times," Brown told the outlet. "When Kodi tries to get rough with her, she's like, 'There's a baby in Mommy's belly, stop.'"
Aww! How sweet is that? We've talked about protective Mama Bear instincts before, but maybe we should be talking about Sister Bear instincts.
This is the last time Kingsley will have to protect mom Katelyn Brown's baby bump. The "Bury Me In Georgia" singer said he and his wife are planning for Baby No. 3 to be their last.
"Oh yeah, we're done," he said. "We were surprised with the third one."
Katelyn Jae Brown, Kane Brown at arrivals for MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs) 2022 - Arrivals 1, Prudential Center, Newark, NJ August 28, 2022. Photo By: Kristin Callahan/Everett Collection
Soon after finding out they were pregnant, Katelyn encouraged her husband to get a vasectomy. "Kate got me neutered already," he joked on .
But not without dragging his feet first. "And every time she would [tell me you gotta go get it] or tell somebody, dude my stomach, I just get sick." 
And sure, any procedure is nerve-wracking, but just popping in here with a quick little reminder that women's stomachs get legitimately sick all the damn time when they carry the burden of contraception. *Steps off soap box*
Brown also admitted that he's "scared" to be a dad of three. "I guess it was God's plan," he conceded.
The couple announced they were pregnant on Christmas with Brown sharing a picture of his family near the tree and Kingsley holding a sonogram. "Last Christmas of 4 ?," he captioned  that got a lot of love from fellow country music singers.
"AHHH congrats!!!!!" Maddie Marlow said.
"," Jessie James Decker commented.
Then, in a sweet and simple sex reveal, the Browns sat down with their daughters on their laps and "cut" into a cake. (Really they scooped some out with champagne glasses.) And even though the Girl Dad was sure a pink cake was in his future, it's Baby Boy Brown who is on the way. And it's Baby Boy Brown who already has a fiercely protective big sis.
More from SheKnows


Load-Date: May 17, 2024


End of Document
