




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
January 10, 2007 Wednesday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FRONT; Pg. A1
Length: 1287 words
Byline: CHRIS MARTELL , ,  608-252-6179
Series: Body Art
Body


With assists from Madonna, Britney Spears and Lenny Kravitz, body piercing made its way into mainstream America during the last decade. It's now common for high school girls from middle-class backgrounds to have pierced navels, metal bars running through the cartilage of their upper ears, and piercings in spots their parents don't care to imagine.
That, among many factors -- aesthetic, spiritual and sexual -- has led devotees of body modification to move on to new extremes such as scarification by cutting or branding, and decorative objects implanted under skin, or even in the whites of eyes.
The growing interest in body modification is also raising questions about which procedures must be performed by medical professionals, as opposed to people who hold only licenses to tattoo and pierce.
As a result, some Americans are traveling to Europe to have some of the more extreme procedures performed. Eyeball implants, for instance, are being legally performed at an ophthalmology clinic in the Netherlands. The 15-minute procedure involves slipping a 1/8-inch piece of platinum alloy (shaped like stars, hearts, four-leaf clovers, or musical notes) under the surface of the eye.
Sub-dermal implants, which are much more common and are worn by a growing number of Madison residents, are usually Teflon, silicone or surgical-grade metal that are slipped into pockets fashioned between layers of skin and sutured in place. One popular motif is called "heart on heart," in which a silicone heart is slipped under the skin above a person's real heart.
Little silicone horns are on either side of the forehead are another popular subdermal implant. "Beading," or inserting rows of small beads beneath the skin, is another trend. So are magnets implanted under the skin of fingertips, making possible party tricks such as attracting beer bottle caps to fingers.
"When someone with magnets in their fingers enters a room they can feel the electrical field, and it's like having a sixth sense," said John Kid, a body modification artist at Blue Lotus Tattoo and Body Piercing Lounge, which is one of Madison's eight licensed tattoo and piercing parlors. Radio frequency identification chips, known as Soviet espionage tools, are also being put into people for reasons other than political intrigue.
Routine in Madison
Scarification, however, is routinely and legally done at licensed Madison piercing parlors. Fraternity members are among the best customers for branding, getting their Greek letters burned into unobtrusive body parts. Fraternity branding has been going on since the 1950s, beginning with black fraternities and moving into frats of all types. Some members of the military also get branding with the names of their units. Modern human branding is usually different from the cattle branding seen in TV westerns, when a red-hot iron goes straight from a fire to sear the animal's skin.
The hot iron of choice for modern body branding is a Hyfrecator, the medical tool used for melanomas and vasectomies that vaporizes tissue with intense heat.
Scarification by cutting begins by drawing a design on the skin, then lightly cutting the epidermis to get a blood line, and gradually deepening the incision.
"I am always concerned about going too deep, because every client's skin is different," said Kid, who has performed many such procedures.
Keloids, the leathery scars that can develop after skin is injured, is one of the variables, and people with dark skin are more likely to develop them. In scarification, some keloid formation is desirable. But occasionally keloid formation gets out of control.
Dr. Eric Berg, a dermatologist at UW Health, said one patient came to him with keloids growing like kudzu across his back.
"A sunburst pattern cut on his back kept growing for a year after his scarification," he said. "Instead of staying beautiful, if you can call a scar beautiful, it became huge, painful and thick. Cutting it off was not an option because it so large," he said, though laser, cortisone, and scar-reducing pads can be helpful in some cases.
The motives
Why do people subject themselves to unnecessary pain and to procedures that would be difficult and expensive to reverse if they have regrets down the road? The reasons are complicated and different for everyone.
"This is how I express myself," explained Jade Lans- downe, a 34-year-old Madison resident and mother of four who has numerous piercings, as well as scarification and branding. "I'm not an artist. I don't paint or anything like that. So I express my creativity with my body."
Dustin King, a jewelry artist and computer geek with facial branding and letters that spell "STAY AWAY" tattooed on his knuckles, says, "I do this to set myself apart. Some people are a little scared of me, so this filters out half the people I wouldn't want to know anyhow. It eliminates people who don't have open minds from my life. Plastic surgery is widely accepted, and that's more hard core than what body modifiers do, so why is there prejudice against us? (Dental) braces are more painful than anything we do, and it's done only for looks. Some people assume that people who look like us are punk degenerate criminals, which is not the case. Or they think we're rock stars."
Kid, who has 14 piercings and numerous tattoos, describes them as "my art collection." His first piercing was done when he was a 15-year-old high school student in Sun Prairie.
"I didn't fit in, and by doing this I set myself aside," he said. "Then I realized that getting pierced and tattooed was good for me."
Many of his tattoos have emotional significance to him, and they include the name of his 9-year-old son, the names or initials of loved ones who passed away, and the image of his personal hero Fakir Musafer, who founded the "Modern Primitive" body modification movement that links flesh and spirit.
"Body modification has been going on for thousands of years, and it's a primal urge," he said.
Kid points out that the necks of women in certain tribes were stretched so they'd look beautiful and sexy only to men of their own group. Members of other tribes believed their bodies looked raw and unfinished without modifications, and certain tribes in Cameroon believed their scars were the only thing that distinguished them from pigs and chimps.
Some Africans modified their bodies to avoid enslavement. "Europeans didn't want slaves with body modifications," Kid said.
The first body piercing Kid performed on a woman was on the one-year anniversary of the date she was raped.
"It was her way of reclaiming her body. For a lot of women, body modification is a form of rebellion and self-transformation in patriarchal cultures," Kid said. The demand for piercings spikes during finals week at UW-Madison, Kid said.
"It's stress relief, fighting fire with fire. Some people like the pain," Kid said. He estimates that on an average day, seven to 10 piercings are done at Blue Lotus, but it jumps to 20 or more some days.
But Kid, 29, is well aware that his passion for body modification has caused problems for him.
"I wanted to ask my girlfriend to marry me, and before I did that I asked her parents for their blessing. They couldn't give it," he said, with sadness in his voice. "I want to do it the right way. I don't want to marry her without their blessing. They think I'm nice and they like me, so I'm sure it was because of the way I look. Sometimes I forget how people react to the way I look. I shouldn't, but I do."
He would also like to go into a medical profession at some point, and knows his appearance could close a lot of doors for him.
"I'm willing to compromise," he said. "But only to a certain point."
Video: See how a branding procedure works. Go to: madison.com/wsj

Graphic

 
Leah L. Jones - State Journal Dustin King drew the original design that was branded on his face in a 45-minute procedure last March. Below: The scarification on Jade Lansdowne's chest and upper abdomen was done by cutting her skin to varying depths with a scalpel. John Kid had a steel barbell implanted beneath the skin on his hand.

Load-Date: January 11, 2007


End of Document
