




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
October 5, 2008 Sunday


Copyright 2008 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: A; Pg. 15
Length: 540 words
Byline: TH staff
Body


GALENA, Ill. - Defense attorney Stephen Richards encountered some confusion Tuesday when cross-examining the man who loaned an alleged hit man his car.
Michael Biggles, of Waterloo, Iowa, took the stand as a prosecution witness to corroborate Bruce Burt's testimony that Burt paid Biggles $300 to borrow a 1998 white Cadillac on Oct. 27, 2006.
Burt last week said he used the car that day to drive 13-year-old Donnisha Hill to Hanover, where he beat her with a hammer before slitting her throat.
David Damm, 60, could face a death sentence if found guilty of hiring Burt to kidnap and kill the girl. The prosecution claims Damm wanted the teen to "disappear" after she gave authorities a paper towel she said contained Damm's semen.
Richards asked a series of questions about when Biggles saw Burt, what they said to each other and when payment was made.
The confusion started when Richards asked Biggles if he found potato chips on the front seat of his car. Biggles said no, that never happened.
Richards appeared surprised and then repeated the question.
"There were no chips there," Biggles said.
The defense then showed a video clip in which Biggles ranted to police about potato chips in his car. Receipts show that Burt bought a can of Pringles during the three-hour trip to Hanover.
Wednesday
On Oct. 12, 2006, Donnisha Hill walked out of her bedroom carrying a Bounty paper towel decorated with orange and blue flowers. The seventh-grader then held out the towel and told her mother what was on it: "Dave's semen."
By providing this evidence, authorities say Donnisha did more than spark a sexual abuse investigation against her neighbor, David Damm. They say she also provided him with a motive for her murder.
On Wednesday, prosecution witnesses made two announcements - the semen on the paper towel came from Damm, and that police told Damm about the paper towel three days before the girl disappeared.
In the afternoon, forensic analyst Kristan Evans from the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigations told the jury that the fluid on the paper towel was Damm's.
During a pre-trial hearing, the defense had said the DNA could not belong to Damm, who had undergone a vasectomy, which removed all sperm. However, Evans said sperm is not required to identify DNA in a semen sample.
Friday
The slight blonde woman who could be the last to speak for the state was the first to evoke emotion from the defendant on trial for his life.
When Kathy Damm was asked Friday to identify her former husband, she turned and pointed to David Damm, 60, of Waterloo, Iowa.
He offered a slight smile, but once his ex-wife looked away, he dropped his expression and for several seconds his face scrunched as he appeared to be trying to contain tears.
Kathy Damm told the court details about her sex life with the man who the prosecution claims sexually abused 13-year-old neighbor Donnisha Hill.
Prosecution attorney Vincenzo Chimera pressed Kathy Damm for particulars about the couple's relationship.
"In the three months prior to Oct. 27, 2006, did you have sex with the defendant?" Chimera asked.
"Maybe once," she said.
Defense attorney Stephen Richards objected, but Jo Daviess County Judge William Kelly overruled and allowed the questioning to continue along that line.

Load-Date: October 5, 2008


End of Document
