




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
March 13, 2024 Wednesday 1:20 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 Axios 
Length: 569 words
Byline: Meira Gebel
Body


March 13th, 2024 (   — Delivered by   )
Nearly two years after the fall of Roe v. Wade, reproductive health providers in Oregon — where   is considered a right under the state   — are still seeing high demand for services as neighboring states crack down on the procedure.
Why it matters: Healthcare providers focused on family planning have expanded the services they offer and hired additional help to fit the needs of both in-state and out-of-state patients, who often need extra assistance with travel, lodging and coordinated care.
Driving the news: Idaho — Oregon's closest neighbor with a near-total abortion ban — lost 22% of its OBGYNs since the top court overturned Roe, leaving half of the state's 44 counties without practicing obstetricians, a  .
What they're saying: Alyssa Colwill, medical director of family care services at Oregon Health & Science University, told Axios that Oregon is seeing patients from a variety of states where abortion access has been curtailed and noted a "definite strain in order to meet the needs of people who do come here."
OHSU has increased its obstetrics recruitment in response, she said, and the department is now serving more of the state's hospital systems.
The big picture:    have moved to ban or restrict abortion since 2022, and   plus Washington, D.C., have measures in place to protect abortion rights.
Data:  , U.S. Census Bureau; Note: Includes abortions provided by clinics, private medical offices, hospitals and virtual-only clinics and excludes telehealth abortions provided under shield laws. 2022 population estimates used. Abortion counts rounded to nearest 10; Chart: Simran Parwani/Axios
By the numbers: The number of abortions performed in Oregon jumped 14% from April 2022 to September 2023 — 840 to 960, respectively — according to a February   the Society of Family Planning.
The Guttmacher Institute, a reproductive research and policy organization,   that 11% of abortions performed in Oregon from January to June last year were patients traveling from out of state.
The intrigue: The rising need for reproductive care in Oregon isn't limited to only abortions.
Jessica Keersemaker, vice president of patient services at  , told Axios that STI testing and treatment and birth control — including   — "have and remain in high demand" for those traveling to Oregon and Washington.
Zoom in: Colwill also cited an increase in the number of complex pregnancies she's seen where there have been fetal anomalies or poor prognoses.
"When people have complicated pregnancies they want to come to a state where all options are discussed."
Of note: Because the number of patients from out of state has risen, staff at OHSU are now responsible for coordinating care, and often connecting patients with community organizations (like the   and the  ) to assist with the logistics of travel, lodging and funding.
The bottom line:      the number of abortions performed in the country has not decreased since the Dobbs decision overturned Roe.
For Colwill that means "people are still seeking and needing abortions and all of these border states will continue to see large increases in their volume."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: March 13, 2024


End of Document
