




ReleaseWire
February 23, 2016 Tuesday 7:01 PM EST


Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 737 words
Body


Feb 23, 2016( ReleaseWire: / Delivered by Newstex)  Laguna Hills, CA -- (SBWIRE[1]) -- 02/23/2016 -- Castle Connolly Medical Ltd. has been a go-to source for patients seeking the best healthcare in America since the organization began its mission in 1991. Providing an easily accessible database of the nation's highest-ranked and most-recommended doctors and medical facilities, it has since gained the confidence of many Americans seeking guidance on where to go for expert medical care in their region. Dr. Aaron Spitz, performing vasectomy reversals in Orange County[2] with his nationally-renown fertility clinic, Vasectomy Reversal USA, has recently had the honor of being selected as a 2016 "Top Doctor" by the organization, for his work within the field of urology.Recognition for excellence in one's field is achieved through the recommendations and nominations of other doctors, along with the thorough review of a nominee's history and achievements by Castle Connolly's physician-led research team. 
The organization ranks only the top 1% of doctors practicing within 65 different medical specialties. Dr. Spitz was lauded both for his practice, in which he specializes in vasovasostomy, vasoepididymostomy, and other forms of microsurgical vasectomy reversals, as well as his authorship of several peer-reviewed journal articles concerning treatment for male fertility. He has also been a leading figure within the field of male reproductive medicine, as well as a media spokesperson, appearing on well-known broadcasts such as Dr. Phil, CBS' The Doctors, and the Real Housewives of Orange County.Dr. Spitz received his medical degree from Cornell University Medical College, completed an internship and residency at L.A. County and University of Southern California Medical Center, and a fellowship in urology at the Baylor College of Medicine. To learn more about Dr. Spitz's recent accolades from Castle Connolly, or to learn more about his background in urology, male reproductive medicine, and acclaimed work within the field of vasectomy reversal[3], please visit Dr. Spitz's website. About Vasectomy Reversal USALed by Dr. Aaron Spitz, with offices in both Laguna Hills and Irvine, California, Vasectomy Reversal USA helps men from all over the United States by providing the most effective microsurgical vasectomy reversal procedures. The success rates are among the highest in the country due to ongoing refinements of the most advanced microsurgical techniques as well as comprehensive male fertility care. Vasectomy Reversal USA provides personalized service, renowned clinical expertise, and a caring team that has helped many men overcome infertility and other urologic conditions, allowing men to confidently achieve their goals of fatherhood again.According to Dr. Spitz's representative, Agent Alan Morell of Creative Management Partners, he is "a recognized and nationally acclaimed expert in the treatment of infertility and sexual dysfunction. His presence on camera is ideal, as he gives viewers a relaxed and professional feeling of confidence. Dr. Spitz's upcoming book, "The Penis Book" will be available for publishers' review in the fall of 2016. In addition, he will meet with networks at Realscreen in June, 2016 about his ensemble show concept, and shopping and retail channels for product distribution in 2017."For more information, please visit /[4].For more information on this press release visit:            [5] Media Relations Contact Gregory Dyson Email: Click to Email Gregory Dyson[6] Web:            /[7] [ 1]:             [ 2]:            / [ 3]:            / [ 4]:            / [ 5]:             [ 6]:             [ 7]:            / 

Load-Date: March 6, 2016


End of Document
