




SheKnows
March 15, 2024


Copyright 2024 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved


Length: 1798 words
Byline: Sydni Ellis
Body


Bringing a new baby home is one of the most incredible, hardest-to-describe feelings in life. There's a whole new person to get to know - not to mention take care of! It's beautiful and emotional and exhausting all at once. Jessie James Decker has now done this four times (!!), and she dished about which baby was the "hardest adjustment" in a new interview with SheKnows.
And the Hardest Was...
EAST RUTHERFORD, NEW JERSEY - NOVEMBER 24: Eric Decker (L) and Jessie James Decker (R) attend the Miami Dolphins vs the New York Jets "Black Friday" game at MetLife Stadium on November 24, 2023 in East Rutherford, New Jersey. (Photo by Al Pereira/Getty Images)
"I would say baby number one was the hardest adjustment," the "If You're Up" singer reveals. She is mom to Vivianne Rose, 9, Eric "Bubby" Thomas Decker II, 8, Forrest Bradley, 5, and Denver Calloway, born on Feb. 9, 2024, with husband Eric Decker.
As a mom of 3, going from no babies to one baby was the hardest adjustment for me too - and things just kept getting easier. "One to two was easier. Two to three was the easiest," Decker continues. But number 4? Well, between the late nights and the age gap, it's been a little more challenging in some ways than the others.
"Three to four, I feel like is an adjustment just because there's been such a long period time in between," she explains. "The older kids have so many activities and things going on that I'm heavily involved with and now have to take a backseat. School projects, to and from sports events, just a lot of different things." It's definitely hard to just lounge around breastfeeding and napping with your baby when your older kids' social lives are so packed!
Like any new mom knows (and experienced moms have hopefully forgotten), the most difficult part of having a new baby is not getting a lot of shut-eye. "The most challenging part is the no sleep. I totally forgot about that part," Decker admits. "I breastfeed, so we're up together all night." Still, she's trying to stay positive. "Those are some of my favorite infant memories with the other three, those quiet nights together breastfeeding just staring at your baby's face," she says. Aww!
In Shock
WEST HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA - NOVEMBER 11: (L-R) Jessie James Decker and Eric Decker attend 2023 Baby2Baby Gala Presented By Paul Mitchell at Pacific Design Center on November 11, 2023 in West Hollywood, California. (Photo by Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for Baby2Baby)
Decker previously revealed that baby Denver was "not planned," and that her and her formal NFL wide receiver husband "were very, very surprised" when she got pregnant in 2023. "As you know, I had been telling Eric it was probably time to get a vasectomy because I felt like we were done," the country singer said on . "I just feel like God always has other plans. So, it was extremely shocking and surprising."
Even though she's been a mom of four for about a month now, she is still in shock about her newest addition. "Life as a mom of four is amazing but I'm still pinching myself!" the Just Eat cookbook author tells us. "He was such a beautiful surprise and every day I stare at him and could cry." She gushes, "He's so amazing and I feel so blessed to be able to do this again." So sweet!
Easy Recipes
Jessie James Decker/Waterloo Sparkling Water
One way Decker keeps it all together? Making simple, yet delicious meals that the whole family enjoys. She developed three recipes inspired by the sparkling water beverage Waterloo and its "fruit-forward flavors." 
"The profiles of Raspberry Nectarine, Summer Berry, and Tropical Fruit allowed me to think creatively with a focus on flavor," Decker tells us. "I love creating recipes that are easy and quick to make at home that the whole family will love."
She makes muffins using the Summer Berry drink, with the carbonation "creating a lighter and fluffier texture in batter." These muffins are now one of her go-to recipes. "They're great for the kids before school or sports practices and can be eaten throughout the week."
Decker also created a salad "inspired by BBQs in our backyard with family and friends," with Waterloo's Tropical Fruit incorporated into the dressing for a "light, delicious effervescence." Finally, she made a fried chicken dish. As a southerner myself, I approve!
"Some of my favorite memories are with my family at the dinner table with a fried chicken meal," she explains. This recipe uses the newest Waterloo flavor, Raspberry Nectarine, in the glaze. "The tartness of the raspberry and the sweet, juicy notes of nectarine really complement the savory and crispy profile of fried chicken," Decker says. (Is anybody else getting hungry?)
Even the Kids Love It
Jessie James Decker/Waterloo Sparkling Water
She decided to partner with the brand because she was reaching for Waterloo's drinks often during pregnancy. "Hydration is a must during pregnancy," she shares, adding that Waterloo is her "go-to sparkling water." "I love that they're all about refreshing, full flavor in a better-for-you, everyday drink," she continues. "All Waterloo flavors are free of calories, sugar, and sweeteners, so I feel good about what I'm drinking without having to sacrifice on taste."
Not to mention, her kids are big fans as well. Decker says Raspberry Nectarine is a favorite for her family because "it's a perfect blend of tartness and sweetness that is super refreshing." She adds, "My kids have been demanding more since first trying it, so I know it's a winner in my house!"
Meeting Baby Denver
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE - SEPTEMBER 28: 2023 PEOPLE'S CHOICE COUNTRY AWARDS - Pictured: Jessie James Decker arrives to the 2023 People's Choice Country Awards held at the Grand Ole Opry House on September 28, 2023 in Nashville, Tennessee. (Photo by Allen Clark/NBC via Getty Images)
Her kids are clearly good judges of character, because the three oldest are also huge fans of their new baby brother. "I was on the edge of my seat waiting for the kids to come in to meet their baby brother after he was born," Decker recalls. "Luckily, we got it on camera so I could watch it forever. It was such a beautiful experience because the anticipation was so high for everyone to meet their baby brother."
The kids were just as in awe as their parents were. "They kept looking at us while holding him in the hospital saying, 'Is this real? This feels like a dream.' It was so sweet," Decker adds.
Now that they're home, Vivi and Eric hold baby Denver the most because "they are both so in love." Forrest, however? He'll "come up to [Denver] while I'm holding him and just kiss him on the head and say, 'Hi, baby Denver' and then races off to go put a costume or dance on." So relatable!
For easy and tasty recipes for your family, keep reading for Jessie James Decker's 3 new Waterloo Sparkling Water Recipes.
Summer Berry Pancake Mini Muffins (Featuring Waterloo Summer Berry Sparkling Water) 
Summer Berry Pancake Mini Muffins/Waterloo Sparkling Water
Prep time: 10 minutes 
Cook time: 10 minutes 
Serves: 22 to 24 mini muffins 
Ingredients: 
1 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 2 tablespoons + 1 teaspoon granulated sugar ¼ teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons butter, melted and cooled 1 large egg, lightly beaten ½ cup Waterloo Summer Berry Sparkling Water ¼ cup milk, 1% or 2% chopped strawberries 
Directions: 
Preheat the oven to 400°F and spritz a mini muffin pan with non-stick cooking spray. To a large bowl add the flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt and whisk to combine. In a separate bowl beat the egg, milk, and melted butter. Add the wet to the dry, pour in the Waterloo, then whisk just until combined. You should have a few lumps. Let the batter rest for 5 minutes. Spoon about 2 to 3 tablespoons of batter into the mini muffin pan, enough to fill each well about ¾ full. Top with a few strawberries or other fruit flavors. Bake for 9-11 minutes or just until set. Serve with maple syrup or dust with powdered sugar.
Razzy Crispy Fried Chicken & Sweet and Sour Glaze (Featuring Waterloo Raspberry Nectarine Sparkling Water) 
Razzy Crispy Fried Chicken & Sweet and Sour Glaze /Waterloo Sparkling Water
Prep time: 10 minutes 
Cook time: 50 minutes 
Serves: 40-45 pcs 
Ingredients:
For the Glaze: 
2 tablespoons Waterloo Raspberry Nectarine Sparkling Water ¼ cup brown sugar ¼ cup rice vinegar 2 tablespoons ketchup 1 teaspoon coconut aminos or soy sauce 1 tsp cornstarch 
For the Crispy Fried Chicken: 
1 ½ lb chicken breast, cut into 1-inch chunks 1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup corn starch 2 teaspoons baking powder 2 teaspoons sugar 1 ? cup Waterloo Raspberry Nectarine Sparkling Water oil to deep fry 
Directions: 
In a medium saucepan combine the brown sugar, rice vinegar, ketchup, coconut aminos, corn starch, and Waterloo. Whisk until the cornstarch is completely dissolved, then turn the heat to medium and bring to a light simmer. Once the sugars are melted and the sauce is smooth, remove from the heat and let cool. In a large bowl combine the flour, cornstarch, baking powder, and sugar and mix well. Pour in the Waterloo and stir until there are no visible lumps. Fill a large pot with enough oil to go halfway up the side and heat to 375?. Working in batches of 4 to 5, dip the pieces of chicken in the batter, then drop them in the oil. Fry on each side for 3 to five minutes or until golden brown and cooked through. Serve drizzled with the sweet and sour glaze. 
Tropical Shrimp Mango Salad (Featuring Waterloo Tropical Fruit Sparkling Water) 
Tropical Shrimp Mango Salad/Waterloo Sparkling Water
Prep time: 15 min 
Cook time: 5 min 
Serves: 4 
Ingredients: 
For the Dressing: 
4-5 tablespoons Waterloo Tropical Fruit Sparkling Water 4 tbsp honey 4 tbsp lime juice 2 tbsp fresh grated ginger 4 tbsp white miso 4 tbsp avocado oil 
For the Salad: 
1 lb raw shrimp, peeled and deveined 1 tablespoon olive oil ¼ teaspoon sea salt ? teaspoon ground black pepper 2 medium avocados, diced 4 cups (½ head) green cabbage, shredded 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro or parsley 1 large mango, chopped ¼ cup chopped peanuts 
Directions: 
Add all the dressing ingredients to a mason jar and shake until smooth. Taste and adjust to your liking, adding a little more Waterloo to thin further, if needed. Sprinkle the shrimp with salt and pepper. Add the olive oil to a skillet over medium heat and cook the shrimp just until pink, about 2 to 3 minutes on each side. Remove from the heat while you make the dressing. In a large bowl combine the shredded cabbage, mango, avocado, cooked shrimp, and cilantro or parsley. Drizzle with the dressing and toss to coat. Top with chopped peanuts to serve. 
Check out all of the celebrities who have !
More from SheKnows


Load-Date: March 15, 2024


End of Document
