




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
February 5, 2001, Monday,
SPOKANE EDITION


Copyright 2001 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: IN LIFE/OUR GENERATION,; COLUMN
Length: 453 words
Byline: Ken Swarner Special to Families
Body


My wife announced the other day that it was time to have another baby. She said she misses having an infant around the house, so it is time to bring one more Swarner into the world.
I found her speech very interesting because I was pretty sure she knew I had had a vasectomy several years ago. After all, she took me to the doctor. She drove me home. She brought me little sips of water while I laid on the couch all weekend wearing an athletic supporter and asking Jesus for mercy.
"These things can be undone," she told me the other day.
"Undone?" I said. "Are we talking about the same thing here? You sound like you're talking about a haircut."
"Lots of guys are having reversals," she announced.
"Is that what it's called?" I said. "You'd think they'd call it a crisis."
"Honey, it's a standard procedure. It's not major surgery."
"I'm not worried about the surgery."
"What then?"
"Gravity mostly. Oh, and walking with a permanent limp."
She smiled reassuringly. "I am sure you'll be doing things like playing tennis before you know it."
"Gosh, you're probably right," I said. "I suppose I may need help putting on my tennis shorts, or I may need someone to hold a tennis racket between my teeth while I work through the pain, but I'm sure plenty of people at the tennis club are familiar with those sorts of things."
She shook her head at me.
I continued. "So, how is this done?"
She explained the procedure. Apparently, the doctor reattaches the tiny Vas (tubing that carries the sperm), which was originally cut apart and cauterized when I had my vasectomy, by sewing the end pieces together with microscopic sutures.
"What if it doesn't work?" I asked her.
"No baby."
"But I have a thousand pieces of thread stitched down there?"
"Basically."
"So," I said, "assuming it works, what happens the next time we are done having kids? Another vasectomy? Then, you change your mind again, and another reversal, followed by a vasectomy? Eventually, won't I be out of vas?"
"I don't know."
"You don't know?" I asked incredulously. "Sweetheart, I've seen you labor for hours making Halloween costumes every year. I've seen you spend days contemplating Easter outfits for the kids. Don't you think you ought to closely consider the pattern here before some seamstress with a medical degree hems my vas?"
My wife smiled. "If you run out, maybe you could get a transplant."
"Is that on organ donor cards now?"
She turned and walked away.
"Where are you going?" I shouted after her.
"To call the doctor and make an appointment for you," she said. "I read somewhere that you should never put off until tomorrow what you can do today."
Funny, but at that moment I was thinking the very same thing - in regards to running away from home, that is.
Stay tuned.

Notes


Ken Swarner lives in the Pacific Northwest with his wife and two children. He can be reached at .  

Load-Date: February 7, 2001


End of Document
