




University Wire
August 13, 2009 Thursday


Copyright 2009 The Stanford Daily via U-Wire
Length: 601 words
Byline: By Joyce Liu, The Stanford Daily; SOURCE: Stanford
Dateline: STANFORD, Calif. 
Body


Following Marty McFly in "Back to the Future" and
Hermione Granger with her time-turner in "Harry Potter," comes Henry
DeTamble (Eric Bana) in "The Time Traveler's Wife." As with any movie
that dabbles in the realms of time and space, "The Time Traveler's
Wife" leaves the audience perplexed by the rationale of time travel,
but proves to be a worthy film in which love truly does surpass all.
The movie starts off with 6-year-old Henry singing
with his mother in their station wagon. During a startling car crash,
Henry's mother dies, leaving him in panic and fear. At this time, an
adult Henry pops up through time-traveling and reassures little Henry
that everything will be okay.
Adult Henry then jumps back to "present-day," in
which he is a librarian in Chicago. One would think that Henry would be
able to change the events in the past, however he is unable to do so.
His condition is caused by a genetic anomaly, and there are several
ground rules to his travel. For one, he doesn't have much control over
when or where he can go; and two, when he travels he ends up at the
location without any clothes. Henry usually travels to "big events" in
his life, which leads him to visit his wife Clare (Rachel McAdams)
numerous times in the past while she is growing up.
The movie first shows the couple meeting for the
first time (in Henry's life) at the library. Clare claims that she's
been waiting for him ever since their first meeting (in Clare's life)
in her backyard when she was six years old. Henry has no clue of what
she's saying, and eventually it is revealed that Henry only begins to
travel back to Clare's childhood after their first meeting at the
library. All of these childhood visits cause Clare to fall madly in
love with Henry, and she determined that she has found the love of her
life.
Confused by the timeline yet? Be forewarned: when
dealing with this time travel business, nothing is linear. For Henry,
the past, present and future all meld into one giant circle.
Besides, this is more of a love story than sci-fi thrill.
After the library meeting, their love begins to
blossom and the story begins to take off. Although Clare and Henry seem
to be perfect for each other, they do have their share of regular
couple issues. Henry's time travels-or disappearances, as they seem to
Clare-cause friction in their relationship when he misses Christmas and
New Year's. Further trouble begins to brew when Clare suffers a series
of miscarriages, leading Henry to get a vasectomy, thinking it will
stop their bickering, without Clare's consent. In addition, Henry needs
to cope with his own travel woes and even gets in a fight with a gang
while trying to find clothes to wear.
Although "The Time Traveler's Wife" can be deemed
most fittingly as a romance, the movie is filled with so much more. It
consists of twists and turns that make the audience speculating about
what's next and surprised until the very last minute. In contrast with
some of the more serious scenes, there's also a fair share of comedic
moments plopped throughout the movie that will make viewers chuckle in
their seats.
All in all, "The Time Traveler's Wife" is a great
movie if you are looking for a heartfelt romance splashed with bits of
comedy, sci-fi and drama. Don't get caught up with the logic of time
travel, and the movie will leave you laughing and perhaps even
crying-if you're the sentimental type.
The message of the movie resonates with the
audience: although we're afraid of losing things and fear for what may
happen in the future, we should always cherish the moment and know that
"everything is going to be okay."
Â 
(C) 2008 The Stanford Daily via UWIRE

Load-Date: August 13, 2009


End of Document
