




PR.com
October 18, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST


Copyright 2013 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com All Rights Reserved
Length: 598 words
Byline: World Vasectomy Day
Body


Tampa, FL,  October 18, 2013 --(PR.com)-- On October 18, led by Bay Area urologist, Douglas Stein, M.D., the first ever World Vasectomy Day (WVD) is set to launch as the sun rises in Australia. For the incredible inaugural event, 1,000 men in 25 countries will, as the event's official slogan reads, put their "balls on the line" for their children, for their partners, and for Mother Earth. Simultaneously, throughout the world, committed vasectomists will be performing the procedures and "dedicating" them to the 10 Reasons for Supporting WVD. Many will be providing services at no charge or at a reduced cost.
World Vasectomy Day's ultimate goal is to raise awareness about the strain the growing population is placing on the planet's resources and to promote vasectomy as a solution for men who are ready to commit.
To kick off the inaugural event, one of the world's most prolific vasectomists, Dr. Douglas Stein, will perform 15 live vasectomies in front of an audience in Adelaide at the Royal Institution of Australia, Australia's unique national science society. The audience will be allowed to ask questions while Dr. Stein, his Australian host doctor, and a panel of population experts openly discuss the benefits of vasectomy. In an environment facilitating understanding while offering patient modesty, the procedures will be streamed live on the internet.
"The long term ambition of this whole international collaboration is to have vasectomies become what men do when they've had as many children as they can support, emotionally and financially," says Dr. Stein.
Vasectomies are frowned upon in certain countries as a loss of manhood, and World Vasectomy Day is an attempt to increase acceptance around the planet. Doctors in more than 25 countries are set to participate, including one doctor who has set himself a goal of performing 50 vasectomies this one day.
Dr. Stein feels lucky to be a part of such a massive event. "It's the culmination of what I've always wanted," he says. "My mission over the past 14 years has been to help prevent the many pregnancies that are unintended."
Multiple Emmy Award-winning and two-time Academy Award nominated documentary filmmaker Jonathan Stack is the mastermind behind World Vasectomy Day. "The Vasectomist" is Stack's latest documentary film and its premier at the Adelaide Film Festival will be a central happening on World Vasectomy Day. The Adelaide screening will be followed by a talk with Dr. Stein, the filmmakers, and a panel of international experts on the impact of family planning on the environment.
As the central character of "The Vasectomist" film, Dr. Stein has been on eight missions in the past three years to promote and perform scalpel-free vasectomy and to train physicians in Haiti, Africa, and Asia in the minimally-invasive technique. In May of 2012, working with No-Scalpel Vasectomy International, Inc., Dr. Stein organized a mission to Busia in Western Kenya and with two other vasectomy doctors performed vasectomies on 53 men who in total had fathered 368 children.
Dr. Stein shares, "The problems that we have are made more complicated by too many people. We need to take better care of the 7.2 billion we already have."
Locations participating include: Argentina, Australia, Barbados, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Germany, Haiti, India, Ireland, Kenya, Malawi, New Zealand, Philippines, Poland, Puerto Rico, Rwanda, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, United Kingdom and the United States.
For more information on World Vasectomy Day or to make a donation, please visit .

Load-Date: October 18, 2013


End of Document
