




USNEWS.com
March 3, 2022 Thursday


Copyright 2022 U.S. News & World Report All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; National News; Vol.; No.
Length: 1107 words
Byline: Kaia Hubbard
Highlight: As the Supreme Court mulls a Mississippi abortion case with national consequences, Florida lawmakers passed their own ban on abortion after 15 weeks. But the stakes may be higher.
Body


A ban on abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy is one step closer to becoming a reality in Florida after the state Senate voted late Thursday to pass the bill implementing the dramatic new restriction despite hours of pushback from Democrats over multiple days that ultimately proved fruitless. 
[]
The controversial measure, which already passed the House, will next head to the desk of Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis, who will almost certainly sign it into law. It only adds momentum to a burgeoning anti-abortion movement in Republican state legislatures set against the backdrop of an imminent Supreme Court decision that could shift power on the issue from the federal government to the states. Florida's bill mimics a Mississippi rule now under review by the Supreme Court, but the implications in a state like Florida are arguably more serious. 
The justices are mulling a case, Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, which takes on a Mississippi law banning abortion after 15 weeks of pregnancy. The Mississippi rule is a direct challenge to Roe v. Wade, the seemingly untouchable behemoth of constitutional law. Long the white whale of conservative activism, the landmark 1973 decision affirmed a right to an abortion before fetal viability -- generally understood by experts to mean 24 weeks of pregnancy. 
Abortion bans in recent years have aimed in part to set up court cases that could overturn or limit the scope of Roe. But after the newly conservative supermajority high court heard Dobbs, recent moves in states, including Florida, instead look to be preparing for the justices to alter the precedent established nearly 50 years ago, likely upholding the Mississippi ban by allowing states to set earlier limits on abortion or by overruling Roe altogether. 
Unlike Mississippi, though, the Sunshine State has been a beacon for abortion access in the region, with relatively accessible abortion services up to fetal viability throughout the state for Floridians and residents of neighboring states that have imposed restrictions and shut down abortion clinics in recent years. But that could all change when the bill is signed into law, effective as soon as July. 
Florida, at present, is much friendlier to abortion than Mississippi, which has only one abortion clinic and offers the procedure up to 18 weeks of pregnancy. Florida, by contrast, has some 65 abortion clinics throughout the state and offers the service up to 24 weeks of pregnancy. 
And Florida isn't alone. Last month, West Virginia and Arizona lawmakers likewise advanced 15-week abortion bans in their states. 
"In all of these states, care will be impacted," Elizabeth Nash, principal policy associate of state issues at the pro-abortion rights Guttmacher Institute says. "And particularly in Florida, where Florida is, among the Southern states, a state that has relatively solid abortion access. It's a state where not only Floridians rely on abortion care but people come from other states as well to access care." 
Nevertheless, Florida and other states appear to be gearing up for a new abortion frontier, brashly introducing restrictions and flouting current precedent as they await the high court ruling expected this summer. According to Nash, states introducing these 15 week abortion bans are likely anticipating that the high court will at the very least uphold a 15-week ban. 
"So for them, this is the floor," Nash says. "This is sort of the bare minimum they are expecting." 
Senate President Wilton Simpson told reporters Thursday that he thinks this bill will be "tolerated in the U.S. Supreme Court," alluding to the opportunity at hand for those who wish to restrict access to abortion. 
"I think 15 weeks is as far as the Supreme Court will let us go," Simpson said. 
But the justices could go even further. If Roe v. Wade were overturned come June, at least 21 states are certain to attempt a ban on abortion based on current laws and constitutional amendments, according to a Guttmacher analysis. Another five states, including Florida, are considered likely to ban abortion, based on "political composition, history and other indicators -- such as recent actions to limit access to abortion," the analysis says. 
Florida Senate Democrats on Wednesday, likely expecting defeat in the Republican-controlled Senate, proposed at least a dozen amendments seemingly intended to lessen the blow of the bill -- from an amendment that would guarantee child support starting at 15 weeks of pregnancy to another that would require men to have two doctors sign off on a vasectomy to an exceptions for victims of rape, incest or human trafficking. None passed, while few Republicans chimed in with questions or debate. 
Democrats, although they appeared to understand that the bill would pass, seemed resolved not to allow Republicans to do so without allowing some concessions. 
"Guys, I get it. You're Republicans, we're Democrats," Sen. Jason Pizzo said during debate over an amendment that would have tried to ease a woman's burden by requiring a doctor to secure an appointment with a second doctor to satisfy the bill's two-doctor requirement to get an abortion beyond 15 weeks in the case of fatal fetal abnormalities. "The governor has a good approval rating. You've got to ride coattails, you can't buck back. I get it. But don't look me in the eye and tell me this isn't reasonable. And this isn't rational." 
Senate minority leader Lauren Book advocated for an amendment that would allow for exceptions to the ban on abortion beyond 15 weeks of pregnancy for women who are victims of rape, incest or human trafficking, sharing a personal testimony of her own assault at a young age. 
"We need to give women options all of the time," Book said. "But since it's clear we're not going to get there today, I am appealing to your basic human dignity in these most horrific of cases." 
Exceptions to abortion restrictions in the case of rape or incest are not uncommon. Still, Democrats seemed to plead with Republicans to grant this one amendment above all others. 
"If this amendment is struck down, it will be a canary in a coal mine for extremism," Book said. 
The amendment failed.
Kaia Hubbard is a general news reporter at U.S. News & World Report. She joined the company in 2020 as an intern, after previously writing for Willamette Week, a paper in her hometown of Portland, Oregon. Kaia is a graduate of the University of San Diego, where she led her college paper as editor-in-chief, winning regional and national awards for her work. You can follow her on  or email her at . 

Graphic

 
Picture, People hold placards as they protest against Florida's 15-week abortion ban in Coral Gables, Florida, on January 21, 2022., (CHANDAN KHANNA/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: March 4, 2022


End of Document
