




The Frederick News-Post (Maryland)
April 26, 2016 Tuesday


Copyright 2016 The Frederick News-Post
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS
Length: 514 words
Byline: Sylvia Carignan, The Frederick News-Post, Md.
Body


April 26--A fertility clinic in Frederick has expanded to include a male fertility expert and more office space.
Shady Grove Fertility Center moved from its office on Thomas Johnson Drive to a larger office on Thomas Johnson Drive.
The center is based in Rockville but has multiple locations in Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Washington, D.C.
Their new office has one more exam room, one more provider office and three more consultation rooms than their previous Frederick office.
"We were really topped out on space in the old office," said Dr. Jason Bromer, the Frederick clinic's full-time physician.
Dr. Paul Shin has joined the Frederick team and will be at the Frederick office once a month. He is a urologist who specializes in male fertility.
Dr. Shin is hoping to change how people think about infertility.
"One of the stereotypes that we're trying to tackle and break down is that fertility is solely the responsibility of the female partner," Dr. Shin said. "What you see, almost invariably, is that the initial person who goes to the doctor to investigate a fertility problem is the female partner."
But, male patients can present with fertility challenges like a low sperm count or a previous vasectomy.
Infertility can also be an indicator of larger problems, like hormonal deficiencies or tumors.
"There are lots of angles and factors that we can take into account," he said.
Dr. Shin started practicing in Washington, D.C. in 2004 and joined the Shady Grove Fertility Center last fall. He has started seeing patients at the Frederick office this month.
Patients at the Frederick office come from as far as Western Maryland, West Virginia and Pennsylvania because fertility clinics and providers are scarce, Dr. Shin and Dr. Bromer said.
Dr. Shin suspects there are about 100 doctors in the U.S. who have the same specialty he does.
"There aren't many like him, and it's one of the things that sets us apart as a practice," Dr. Bromer said.
Angel Petropanagos spoke at Hood College April 19 about emerging biotechnologies and ethics in the fertility industry.
Petropanagos is also co-chair of the Canadian Fertility and Andrology Society's Ethics and Law special interest group.
"For all the attention this industry gets, we're actually looking at a small portion of the population," she said.
Under 2 percent of the U.S. population is born using in-vitro fertilization, according to Petropanagos.
Shady Grove Fertility Center offers newer services, like egg freezing and an egg donor program, in addition to traditional in-vitro fertilization.
Dr. Shin said he's starting to see a change in male patients' attitudes toward infertility.
"More men are stepping up to the plate and taking something more of a responsible role with regard to building families. ... The message is out there and there's this whole concept of men's health and men taking more ownership," he said. "It is a really hot topic right now."
___ (c)2016 The Frederick News-Post (Frederick, Md.) Visit The Frederick News-Post (Frederick, Md.) at  Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

Load-Date: April 26, 2016


End of Document
