




Penton Insight 
May 10, 2010


Copyright 2010 Penton Business Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1355 words
Body


You can find some great information out there on the oldInformation Superhighway. It's a great way to spread knowledgearound. The same can be said for embarrassment, I suppose.   
In a recent discussion with fellow beef producers, one of themasked if any of us had experience with the use of a gomer bull forheat detection. (It's not known whether the animal was named afterGomer Pyle or not.) A gomer bull is a bull that has beenvasectomized. He can still identify cows in heat, but hecan't successfully breed. (See for more details.)
I have used almost every method of heat detection in my A.I.program over the years. This summer will mark my 29th season ofA.I., so I speak from a small degree of experience. I started usingA.I. by watching my cows as they came in heat, writing down theirtag numbers, and then hiring someone else to breed them. Visualheat detection, when done properly, takes a fair amount of timeeach day. Having some kind of aid would be a big plus, but I wasn'tready to invest in the spendy Heat Watch system to putgarage-door-opener-sized transmitters on my cows just yet. Heatmount detectors like the Kamar would be okay, but I had too manytrees that my cows could rub against and knock them off. The BovineBeacon, with its glow-in-the-dark system, was not yet available.What was available not long after my departure from Iowa StateUniversity was the gomer bull technology. I discussed the idea witha couple of people and came to the conclusion that what I neededwas an animal that could be used for several seasons and would eatlike a supermodel, be physically capable of the tasks at hand, andbe a low-risk health project.
Adding all of those things together, I came up with what seemedlike a good solution.  I would create my own gomer bull fromwithin the herd by using A.I. to prevent the introduction of anypathogens from other herds of unknown health status. I decided thatmany of the large-framed exotic breeds originally from Europe wouldnot create the Kate Moss appetite and frame size I was looking forin my gomer bull. He needed to eat cheaply for the other 49 weeksof the year when he was not serving his intended purpose, and hedidn't need to shop at Omar's For The Obese & Gangly Gentleman.His attitude needed to be good, so a Jersey bull was out of thequestion, even though frame size was in the Jersey's favor in a bigway.
All things considered, the total solution seemed obvious to me:Invest in some Texas Longhorn product! I'd have a bull with theagility and stamina to make it from one end of Texas to the otherand still be in good shape. He would never get obscenely obese onme like a normal beef breed would. Based on the steaks I had eatenfrom the southern part of the U.S., he would not waste any energyinput laying down marbling, and he would still be in good shape atage 25 . . . like some of those steaks seemed to be.
So I went out on a limb and ordered two units of Texas Longhornproduct from an A.I. supplier. Those two units were put into cowsand, luck of the Irish being what it is, I ended up with one malecalf to show for it! The agility thing showed up right away,because the calf hit the ground around 10:00 that morning and itwas all I could do by 11:00 to catch him and get a tag in him! 
The best-laid plans are not hatched overnight. Let's do a littlemath here. You decide you want to create your own gomer bull, soyou order the product to do it and then put that product into acow. There's Year 1. Then you get a calf and wait for it to be bornand spend time with its mother. There's Year 2. Then you wait forit to be ready for use. There's Year 3. Then you discover that yourexcellent choice possesses the genetics to get it from its birth inWinnemucca to market at the stockyards in Kansas City via a longcattle drive walk of multiple years without getting too big. Nextthing you know, you're looking at Year 4 before it's go time forTex.
When that year finally rolled around, my favorite vet came outto the farm to give Tex his vasectomy. The procedure ended up beingmuch easier than I expected. We put a halter on Tex, gave him asedative, and waited for him to go into nap mode right there in thebedding before doing the procedure. Surgery and recovery time wentwell. Tex was up and at 'em in no time.
Then came the true test. I got my heifers synchronized and readyfor A.I. Tex was fitted with a chin ball marker. We filled it withyellow ink and turned him in with the heifers. The first heifer tocome in heat was a solid black heifer, so it was easy to see thatthe yellow ink was effective. She basically looked like a bumblebee when Tex was finished.
That's when the first of Tex's problems showed up. The heiferlooked like a bumble bee. All the others looked like lumps of coal.Several of them were in heat, but Tex only had eyes for the firstone. Tex, as it turned out, was not a player. Nope, Tex wanted adeep, meaningful, monogamous, long-term relationship. I wantedWarren Beatty and I got Ward Cleaver.
So I moved Tex to another pen and went back to watching forheats myself with a pen and a notebook. For the next severalmornings in a row, I discovered Tex's other shortcoming. Because ofhis intense loyalty and monogamy, Tex would hop over gates to getback in with that first heifer. Being agile and fleet of foot, Texhad no problem getting himself off the ground to clear a gategazelle-style. Being a bit on the short side, though, his verticalleap was more George Constanza-like than, say, Michael Jordan-like.Tex would get himself halfway over the gate and then lose momentum.It was like he was hitting a brick wall - with Sir IsaacNewton's face on it - midway through his leap. Tex would comecrashing down 58% of the way through his jump. My lovely steel gatethen had a big V pattern in the center and Tex had enough ofhimself over the gate to throw the fulcrum balance in his favor,thereby dragging the rest of himself over the gate. At a littlemore than a hundred bucks per gate, and a different gate each day,his newest maneuver was costing me big money in short order. Texwas promptly retired.
Remember Tex's small frame size and Kate Moss appetite? Theysell bulls by the pound, not by pedigree or personality value. Texdid not generate a lot of salvage value to offset his lifetime ofexpenditures. Lesson learned.
Then it was on to Plan B. You could take a non-pregnant cow andgive her some testosterone injections to turn her into a juiced-upmale full of machismo. She would then wear the chin ball marker andspot all of the cows in heat for you. A suitable candidate wasfound and hopped up on testosterone. Sure enough, Rosie went frommildly dainty to destructive in a matter of days. She developed adefensive lineman's neck like a bull. She pawed the ground like abull. She growled two octaves lower like a bull . . . crossed witha grizzly. She threw her head around and acted tough like a bull.She became difficult to herd with an ATV like a bull. She did NOTdevelop an attraction for cows like a bull, though. No interest inthem whatsoever.
Plan B, another strikeout.
Rosie was promptly loaded up and marketed. She generated a farlarger check than Tex did. She also generated a far larger amountof fear, respect and amazement at the sale barn than Tex did.
A few years later, I tried the Heat Watch system as part of aresearch project with ISU, along with a technological device tomeasure the electroconductivity of the reproductive tract of femalebovine. Then I used the Bovine Beacons (see "We'llleave the light on for you"). Last year, I went with a newsystem to breed the whole herd in a single day without any heatdetection at all. It appears to be the best system so far. 
Even so, a fellow producer summed up my gomer experience fairlywell. "I'm sorry, but a lovesick Longhorn and a lesbian cow. Thatthere's a funny story, I don't care who ya are!"
Duly noted. It's my job to give people what they want. Althoughsometimes it would be nice to have to make it up.
Guy No. 2

Load-Date: May 12, 2010


End of Document
