




The Daily Titan: California State University - Fullerton
March 17, 2005 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2005 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: AE; Pg. 1
Length: 329 words
Byline: Courtney Salas
Body


For those who are looking for fast-pace entertainment and gag humor, a new comedy series joins the Sunday night line-up on the FOX Broadcasting Network.
"Kelsey Grammer Presents: The Sketch Show" is adapted from the award-winning British series with the same title.
During these sketches you experience good old fashioned comedy similar to those talented sitcoms from the '80s. This style of humor gained popularity in Britain which generated the idea of bringing "The Sketch Show" to America.
These sketches act as stepping stones for the careers of these young comedians. The popular British actor, Lee Mack, joins the cast as the only original character from the British sketch show. Grammer also makes an appearance in a few sketches throughout the show. You will always find Grammer in the first and last sketch of the show.
The show is filled with hilarious sketches based on the trials of every day life.
The humor in the sketches is similar to those in the popular television series "Saturday Night Live," "Mad TV" and "Whose Line is it Anyway?" The sketches are quick, silly and hilarious. In fact some of the sketches are one-liners that only last a few seconds. "The Sketch Show" is an energetic series with sharp style of humor.
Most of the sketches are unrelated to each other throughout the show.
You might watch one sketch where a lady is trying to walk on the moon in high heels and 30 seconds later you'll watch a twisted yet humorous sketch about a man coping with his own vasectomy.
You will never find a continuation of one particular sketch which leaves you tuned in and waiting for more.
The cast members also play themselves in most of the sketches in order to show their true characters on screen. The fast pace of the show requires your full attention throughout the entire program.
If you're the type who flips through channels, you might just miss one of the funniest sketches on the show. Grammer proves himself as a brilliant producer in this twisted comedy.

Load-Date: January 17, 2018


End of Document
