




Daily News (New York)
January 13, 2016 Wednesday
METRO EDITION


Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


Section: NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 341 words
Byline: BY SETH WALDER and LEONARD GREENE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Body


IT LOOKS LIKE Antonio Cromartie's defense is slipping off the field, too.
The Jets cornerback's wife says that despite his vasectomy, she is pregnant with twins, which now gives the fertile football player enough children to field a little team of his own - and a kicker.
"I didn't even tell Antonio right away because I didn't think it was possible," Terricka Cromartie told Us Weekly.
"I was going back and forth in my head how it could even happen. In my head we were good to go, we were having free sex! I just really thought that his procedure was the best protection you could have at this point."
Cromartie, who already has 10 children with several different women, including Terricka, was blindsided.
"Originally, he was like, 'Oh, s---! Are you serious? How did this happen?' " Terricka recalled.
"It was shocking news for the both of us. It took me awhile to process it, but Antonio stood firm and was saying, 'It's God's will.' And he's been excited the whole time."
According to WebMD, a vasectomy is an 99.85% effective birth control method. Only one to two women out of 1,000 will have an unplanned pregnancy in the first year after their partner has had a vasectomy, the site said.
Cromartie recently joked on Instagram about his child support issues. He posted a picture last week on the social media site that read, "New 'CHILD SUPPORT CARD' Controls What Mothers Can and CANNOT Buy With Child Support Money . . . And They Are Not Happy About It!"
Cromartie wrote in the caption of the photo, "Sign me up TODAY!!! . . . Nah but foreal though."
In September, he got into a Twitter war with the son of Jets tight ends coach Jimmie Johnson after the coach's son mocked Cromartie and his family. A couple months later, Cromartie's wife sparred with Jets fans on Twitter when they posted insults about her husband and his large brood of children.
Cromartie was featured in an unforgettable scene on HBO's "Hard Knocks" in 2010 in which he appeared to struggle to recall all of his kids' names.
Cromartie, 32, and Terricka, 35, were married in 2010.

Graphic

 
Terricka and Antonio Cromartie (below) are expecting twins (far l.). Cromartie has 10 kids (some r.) with several women. GETTY, WIREIMAGE

Load-Date: January 13, 2016


End of Document
