




adweek.com
June 9, 2022 Thursday


Copyright 2022 Adweek LLC. All Rights Reserved.


Section: NEWS; TAG
Length: 433 words
Byline: Shannon Miller
Body


With Father's Day quickly approaching, marketers can count on one thing: Ryan Reynolds and Aviation Gin will have something to say about it. Last year, the Maximum Effort co-founder and Aviation Gin owner introduced a new gin-based cocktail called The Vasectomy--a flavorful concoction made with tonic water, cranberry juice and a twist of lemon (or the pre-squeezed bottled juice, if you're a particularly busy dad).
This year, Reynolds and the brand are resharing the drink in a new-ish video but with a different, somewhat culturally apt twist: Nick Cannon.
The Masked Singer host and father of eight stepped in for Reynolds to remake last year's tutorial almost shot for shot in a video now titled "Nick Cannon's Vasectomy."
"It's almost Father's Day," Cannon said to open the 90-second spot, "and the one and only Ryan Reynolds asked me to help us all celebrate with the mother of all cocktails, The Vasectomy." He then says rather knowingly, "Lord knows I need one."
Cannon then proceeded to remake Reynolds' 2021 tutorial with painstaking detail, including blooper-like heavy gin pours and all of the coded language of a very stressed dad. Reynolds eventually joins Cannon toward the end of the video to take a sip of the cocktail, which he promptly spits out once he learns that Cannon has eight children. As he offers Cannon a comforting hug, he ends the spot with a classic Reynolds-esque kicker: "No wonder you have eight kids. You smell amazing."
The new Father's Day spot arrives just one day after Cannon confirmed that he will be having more kids this year after welcoming three children in 2021.
While Vasectomy 2.0 is likely another example of Maximum Effort's proclivity for "fastvertising," or the ability to turn around creative at a neck-break pace of 24 to 48 hours, the spot is also another indication of Maximum Effort's ability to tap into the cultural conversation in a timely manner. After all, Cannon's rapidly growing family has been a reccuring social media talking point over the past year.
Other examples of Maximum Effort's quick, culturally astute work include an Aviation Gin spot with LeVar Burton at the height of the public's demand to have him host Jeopardy and a now-pulled Peloton ad with Sex and the City's Chris Noth soon after audiences witnessed his shocking death on HBO Max's And Just Like That (and before allegations surfaced).
This new video also allows Cannon to take part in the conversation by laughing at himself--even if that laughter is somewhat pained.
The new video is available on Reynolds' social media channels as well as the brand's YouTube channel.

Load-Date: August 26, 2024


End of Document
