




College Heights Herald: Western Kentucky University
December 10, 2020 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 315 words
Body


Harry Styles has adopted a "go-with-the-flow attitude" towards his love life.
The 26-year-old singer - who has previously dated the likes of Taylor Swift and Kendall Jenner - is open to finding someone special, but he's remaining laidback about the situation for the time being.
A source said: "He's got some options in the pipeline in terms of who he'd like to date under the right circumstances, but nothing intense or formal.
"He's in no hurry at all. It's a genuine, go-with-the-flow attitude, although it goes without saying he certainly won't be single in the long term."
The chart-topping star's love life has ground to a halt amid the coronavirus crisis.
But he isn't allowing the situation to worry him and is instead focused on remaining safe and healthy during the pandemic.
More from this section
Natalie afraid of her own sexuality
Harry Styles approached to play Boy George in biopic
Ronan Keating thinks 'it's time' for vasectomy
The insider told Us Weekly magazine: "His dating life has been pretty nonexistent during lockdown because he's been so careful to respect quarantining rules and social distancing.
"He and his roommates are quarantining together in Los Angeles, waiting for the world to return to normal like the rest of us, though Harry has made some trips back to London for work and family purposes."
Harry - who first found fame as part of One Direction - previously confessed that dating can be challenging given the interest surrounding his love life.
The singer admitted it can be a tricky balancing act.
He explained: "It's always kind of a balance thing, because you want to date normally but then, you also want to protect it so it can be normal.
"I think a big part of it is like, you want to be able to spend enough time with each other where you can get to know each other before you have to deal with the extra stuff."
This article originally ran on celebretainment.com.

Load-Date: December 11, 2020


End of Document
