




Portland Press Herald (Maine)
October 25, 2009 Sunday
FINAL Edition


Copyright 2009 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DASH OF DIVA; Pg. T28
Length: 359 words
Byline: From staff reports
Body


As soon as she speaks, Karen Morgan stands out in these parts for a couple reasons: Her accent is most definitely not a Mainer's - and she's usually the funniest one in the crowd.
Born in Athens, Ga., Morgan says she's tried to do ''Mainah'' but has failed miserably with all the extra H's and missing R's. So the Cumberland resident just lets her southern side show while she's poking fun at some of the things Mainers do.
She's booked as the headliner for A Dash of Diva: Girls Night Out and is happy to be performing at an event that gives back to great causes like the Maine Women's Fund and Dress for Success Southern Maine.
''I'm so blessed in my life,'' said Morgan. ''What I can do is make people laugh and be happy. If I can combine that with a cause for women that gives them an extra hand up, I'm happy to be part of that.''
Morgan was a trial attorney before she became a full-time mom and comedienne. She was one of seven finalists (out of 1,000 entries) on Nickelodeon's ''Search for the Funniest Mom in America,'' and appeared in two seasons of the show.
She also hosts ''The Mother Lode'' on Coast 93.1 FM and performs in ''Mama's Night Out'' on Sirius satellite radio.
She can do G-rated or be a little more edgy, which should satisfy everyone in the crowd on Diva night.
''I don't talk about vasectomies in a group of 6-year-olds,'' Morgan said. ''Generally, my comedy is pretty clean, but I'm capable of swearing like a sailor.''
Morgan travels an average of two or three times a month and performs about four times a month. Though May is always very busy, she tries not to travel too much in the summer, when her children are on school vacation.
In September she visited Minnesota, Florida and North Carolina to perform, and this month she traveled to Michigan. When she's not booked locally, fans can keep the laughs going with her book, ''You Might Be A Mama'' or 90-minute DVD, ''Mama's Night Out! Live!'' Both can be purchased at Karenmorgan.com.
And, of course, whether she's traveling or at home in Greater Portland, Morgan's always looking for new material - even at the A Dash of Diva event.
''I'm coming to see the belly dance,'' she said.

Load-Date: October 29, 2009


End of Document
