




The Daily Caller
January 1, 2020 Wednesday 05:55 PM EST


Copyright 2020 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; politics
Length: 620 words
Byline: Mary Margaret Olohan, Social Issues Reporter, 
Mary Margaret Olohan is the Daily Caller News Foundation's Social Issues Reporter. Mary Margaret graduated from The Catholic University of America in 2018 with a B.A. in English. She is a Patriots fan, lover of literature, and the proud sister of ten red-headed siblings.

Body



A preliminary report from the Indiana attorney general describes the conditions of an abortion clinic in South Bend, Indiana, where a prolific abortionist operated under 2020 presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg's watch as mayor.
 ran three different Indiana abortion clinics during his lifetime and performed more than 30,000 abortions since he began operating in 1974. Authorities examined each of the clinics and detailed their findings in the AG report, which examines Klopfer's misconduct, the resulting suspension of his medical license, and the subsequent finding of more than 2,000 fetal remains from 2000 to 2002 in his home.
Buttigieg  as mayor of South Bend since 2012, during the years while the late Klopfer provided “general gynecological care, surgical and medical abortions, and vasectomies” out of the Women's Pavilion Clinic, according to the report. It stated that Klopfer closed the Women's Pavilion in 2016 following the suspension of his medical license. The clinic stopped performing abortions in November 2015,             the South Bend Tribune. 
The Indiana Medical Board suspended his license after finding Klopfer guilty of a number of health violations, according to the report: for failing to make sure that qualified staff were present when patients were given or recovering from medications for abortion; for failing to document in records that women had been provided with information and counseling 18 hours prior to their abortion; for knowingly failing to report an abortion performed on at least two 13-year-old girls; and for repeatedly engaging in a “pattern of conduct which demonstrated an inability to exercise reasonable care.”
Police searched the South Bend Women's Pavilion, as well as a vacant lot owned by Klopfer near the clinic, on Sept. 19 following the discovery of more than 2,000 fetal remains in Klopfer's garage, the report stated. At the Women's Pavilion, authorities did not find fetal remains but did find “the building in complete disarray,” covered in unsecured and scattered health records, with “boxes, garbage, and debris stacked from floor to ceiling in each room.”
“Upon entering the clinic, it was apparent that unsecured health records were strewn about the waiting area and throughout the facility,” the report reads.
“Health records were intermingled with boxes upon boxes of miscellaneous items including car parts, rotting food, unsterilized used medical instruments, hundreds of empty soda cans and protein shake bottles, various personal items, and medical supplies  - including loose syringes,” the report added. “Some of the health records were soaking in an unidentified liquid and were covered in mold.”
Buttigieg's campaign did not respond requests for comment from the Daily Caller News Foundation about the conditions of the South Bend clinic. Buttigieg  on the discovery of fetal remains in September. 
“I find that news out of Illinois extremely disturbing and I think it's important that that be fully investigated,” Buttigieg said. “I also hope that it doesn't get caught up in politics at a time when women need access to health care. There's no question that what happened is disturbing. It's unacceptable.”
WATCH:

Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact .

Graphic

 
LAS VEGAS, NEVADA - AUGUST 03: Democratic presidential candidate and South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg speaks during the 2020 Public Service Forum hosted by the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) at UNLV on August 3, 2019 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Nineteen of the 24 candidates running for the Democratic party's 2020 presidential nomination are addressing union members in a state with one of the largest organized labor populations in the United States. (Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images)

Load-Date: February 10, 2020


End of Document
