




Newsweek.com
July 14, 2022 Thursday 9:07 AM EST


Copyright © 2022 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 381 words
Byline: Maria Azzurra Volpe
Highlight: "Well, you know what they call people who rely on the pull-out-method? Parents. Source: am one" one user joked.
Body


The internet has sympathized with a man who got his   by mistake, ruining his own plans for early retirement.
In a  shared on  on Wednesday the man, known as u/throwaway019116, explained that at 47 years old he already has three children in his 20s, who are all independent, one of them also expecting a child, and for the last six months he's been seeing a 29-year-old  he really likes.
"I don't know what the hell I was thinking. I am so f***ed. My fourth child is going to be younger than my grandchild. She's happy, like this isn't going to completely ruin my plans for the second half of my life."
The couple, according to the post, used condoms in the beginning of their relationship but "fell by the wayside pretty quickly", and he postponed his vasectomy for too long.
He wrote: "Dumb. Dumb as hell. Idiot of epic f***ing proportions. Learn from my mistake folks, because I sure as hell didn't learn from the cautionary sex-ed lessons. The pull-out method is bulls**t."
According to a  published by the National Library of Medicine, more than 500,000 vasectomies are performed annually in the United States.
The study found that 11.4 percent of men aged 30–45 reported having a vasectomy, representing approximately 3.6 million American men.
Female surgical sterilization, or tubal ligation, is performed more frequently than vasectomy in the United States. Data suggests that 16 percent of women undergo surgical sterilization.
The post has so far reached Almost 10,000 upvotes and 2,000 comments, and most users sympathized with the man, and some joked about his situation.
One user said: "Well, time to get back to work."
And another said: "Gives a whole new meaning to, Just when I thought I was out, they pull me back in."
A third joked: "Lol of course they pulled him back in, he clearly can't pull himself out as the post shows."
And another added: "If you can't do the time, don't do the crime."
One commenter said: "Yikes, not only is your retirement f**ked but also your kids are going to find out you're fathering a child to someone very close in age to them. You're a brave brave man. Good luck"
And a final comment suggested: "I recommend that vasectomy being booked right now. You wouldn't want accident number 2."


Graphic

 
Man thinking
Getty Images
A stock image shows a man sitting by the edge of the bed while a woman lays down. The internet has sympathized with a man who got his much younger girlfriend pregnant by mistake, ruining his early retirement plans.

Load-Date: July 14, 2022


End of Document
