




The Bismarck Tribune
January 5, 2008 Saturday


Copyright 2008 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 3B
Length: 641 words
Body


Dear Annie: I love my husband dearly. We have one child, who was not planned. My husband seems to enjoy being a father, but when I told him I want another child, he freaked out. He said he doesn't like "responsibility" and doesn't want any more children.
I'm an only child and don't want my child to be one as well. There's nothing wrong with being an only child, but to this day, I have always been envious of the special relationship siblings have. That bond can never be re-created in other relationships.
I told my husband I wasn't going to be taking birth control anymore so he needed to figure out what he was going to do. He told me he would divorce me if I got pregnant. I don't really believe that, but it's a strong stance.
I'd just wait him out, but I have a history of ovarian cysts and tumors, and I have been told by my doctor that I might need an ovariectomy by the time I'm 30. I'm almost 28 now, so I don't have a lot of time. Any insight? - Ticking Clock
Dear Ticking: Whether or not to have children, and how many, is a major deal-breaker for most marriages. If you become pregnant, your husband may come around, as many fathers do, but you can't know for sure. He may decide to withhold sex or get a vasectomy to make sure there is no pregnancy.
We also think it is unfair for him to make a unilateral decision not to have more children knowing how much a larger family means to you. Please find a third party to mediate this - perhaps your clergy or a counselor - and decide if your marriage is as important to you as having another child, because it may come to that.
Invitation list
Dear Annie: Two of my children are getting married next year. My side of the family is quite large. I have more than 60 first cousins, who are married with children. I am not close to all of them, even some in the same family, and my children don't know most of them. I definitely want to invite all of my aunts and uncles, and I would like to invite the cousins we know best.
Is it OK to invite some cousins from a family and not others? I don't want to hurt anyone's feelings, but we cannot afford to invite everyone. Nor will the facility hold so many people. What is the proper thing to do? - Wedding Woes
Dear Wedding Woes: Since your cousins are all grown with their own families and you have individual relationships with each, you may invite those with whom you are close and perhaps put the others on your "B" list. However, if doing this will create a family rift, you might prefer to limit the guest list to your aunts and uncles and have an informal party for the cousins to meet the bride and groom at a later date.
All about reward
Dear Annie: I read the letter from "Pressured Wife," who says men too often focus their relationships on sex. I can totally understand how men could develop that sort of attitude.
I consider myself a giving partner, but I've found that many women have the attitude that men need to "earn" sex. I dated a woman for a long time who was selfish about intimacy. One evening I asked, "Why is it never focused around my satisfaction?" She replied, "I don't think you deserve it."
I have several male friends with similar stories, who feel they only receive attention on their birthdays or special occasions. It creates a vicious cycle when guys believe they can only get sex when they do something nice for their partner, and their partners believe guys only do something nice to get sex. - Patient Partner
Dear Patient: This is why open communication is so important in a relationship.
Intimacy should be an act of love, willingly given by each partner. It shouldn't be about reward and punishment.
(Annie's Mailbox is written by Kathy Mitchell and Marcy Sugar, longtime editors of the Ann Landers column. E-mail questions to anniesmail-box@comcast.net or write to Annie's Mailbox, P.O. Box 118190, Chicago, Ill. 60611.)

Load-Date: January 7, 2008


End of Document
