




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
August 18, 2013 Sunday
TWO STAR EDITION


Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-7
Length: 471 words
Byline: Compiled from news services
Body


HAILEY, Idaho -- Fire crews on Saturday faced another challenging day battling a rapidly growing wildfire burning closer to two posh central Idaho resort communities, while other blazes in the West charred homes and devoured dry grass and brush.
In Idaho, the Beaver Creek Fire grew by 15 square miles by early Saturday, to 144 square miles. Flames moved closer to homes and subdivisions in the mountains west and north of the communities of Hailey and Ketchum and the Sun Valley Resort. Authorities have issued mandatory evacuations for 1,600 residences in the valley, which serves as a vacation getaway for celebrities like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Tom Hanks.
Heavy smoke that grounded firefighting aircraft early Saturday cleared enough to allow helicopters and a huge DC-10 tanker to start making drops in the afternoon.
In northern Utah, about 10 homes were destroyed when a wildfire raced through Willow Springs late Friday, jumping a state highway and fire lines, authorities said. As of midday Saturday, the Patch Springs Fire had burned more than 50 square miles. It was 20 percent contained.
Controlling feral cats
LOS ANGELES -- Sterilizing feral cats without removing their sexual organs would do more to control their population than spaying and neutering, according to a new study.
In urban areas, wild-born cat colonies can create health hazards to humans and other species, and quality of life issues that include foul odors, loud fighting and flea infestations.
In the U.S., the population of wild-born cats exceeds that of cats living with humans, according to the American Veterinary Medical Association, which published the study Thursday in its monthly journal. Truly feral cats are difficult to tame and adopt.
Traditional methods to control feral cat populations involve trapping them and removing the ovaries, uterus and fallopian tubes of females, and removing the testes of the males. But veterinarians from Tufts University's Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine propose performing vasectomies and hysterectomies instead.
Also in the nation
A New York City bus line that stranded 53 passengers at a Virginia truck stop for 24 hours has been closed by federal authorities. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration said it shut Staten Island-based All Nations Coach after discovering it was a reincarnation of Tichy Express, which was shut down a year earlier for safety violations and for failing to pay fines. ... A Colorado advocacy group for the disabled says a federal judge is giving Hollister Co. until Jan. 1, 2017, to modify the entrances of its stores so they are wheelchair accessible. ... Rhode Island state police are working to determine the motive and identity of people who set a fire that damaged equipment on the Sakonnet River Bridge two days before a new 10-cent toll is set to begin.

Load-Date: August 20, 2013


End of Document
