




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
May 21, 2015 Thursday


Copyright 2015 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: D; Pg. 6
Length: 551 words
Byline: The Associated Press
Body


House approves bill allowing students to opt out of exams
SPRINGFIELD - The Illinois House has approved a bill that would protect students and their schools from being "negatively impacted" if they choose not to take state assessment tests.
Lawmakers approved the measure by a 64-47 vote Tuesday. It would allow students to opt out of a test if they have a request in writing from a parent or guardian.
Chicago Public Schools initially refused to implement new standardized tests in schools this year. The Illinois State Board of Education threatened to withhold funding, and CPS ultimately administered the tests. The exams are based on Common Core standards that are under a national debate about their benefit.
Gov. Bruce Rauner's education secretary warns the legislation could cost Illinois $1 billion per year in federal aid.
Court tosses out sex-assault conviction
PEORIA - An Illinois appeals court has thrown out a South Peoria man's 2012 conviction on charges he sexually assaulted a 20-month-old girl.
Judge Mary K. O'Brien said there was a lack of sufficient evidence against 61-year-old Steven Cole. The ruling throws out Cole's conviction and 25-year prison sentence.
The toddler had showed signs of sexual abuse in 2009, after spending time at the Coles' home. The child's mother noticed blood in the infant's diaper the next day and took her to the hospital. Doctors discovered evidence of sexual assault and semen in the diaper.
At trial, a medical expert argued the sperm cell found in the diaper couldn't have been Cole's because he'd previously had a vasectomy more than a decade prior to the event.
Man gets 43 years for killing teacher
WHEATON - A DuPage County judge has sentenced a Naperville man to 43 years in prison for the 2012 fatal stabbing of a suburban Chicago teacher at a bar.
Judge Kathryn Creswell announced the sentence for 31-year-old Daniel J. Olaska on Wednesday morning. He was found guilty in March in the death of 24-year-old Shaun Wild, who was in his first year as a second-grade teacher at Spring Brook Elementary School in Naperville when he died.
The stabbing happened Feb. 4, 2012, at Frankie's Blue Room in downtown Naperville. Prosecutors said Olaska stabbed Wild when Wild tried to grab Olaska after Olaska stabbed a third man.
Defense attorney Ernie Di Benedetto said Olaska feels bad about what happened and is disappointed in the result.
Measures would name state pie, vegetable
SPRINGFIELD - Illinois lawmakers have delivered some sweet news for fans of pumpkin pie and corn.
Measures designating pumpkin as the official state pie and sweet corn as the state vegetable are headed to Gov. Bruce Rauner's desk.
Jurors convict man in stabbing death
ELGIN - Jurors in Kane County have convicted a 36-year-old man of stabbing an Elgin woman to death while burglarizing the townhouse she had just moved into with her husband.
Paul Johnson was found guilty on Tuesday of first-degree murder in the death of 33-year-old artist Lisa Koziol-Ellis in 2013. Prosecutors said he beat her and stabbed her with a screwdriver and a knife when she confronted him burglarizing her home. Prosecutors say Johnson then came back to clean the scene. Koziol-Ellis' husband found her body.
Johnson's defense attorneys argued that his half-brother actually killed Koziol-Ellis.
The Associated Press

Load-Date: May 21, 2015


End of Document
