




 Variety
January 10, 2000 - January 16, 2000


Copyright 2000 Reed Business Information, US, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: FILM REVIEWS; Pg. 109
Length: 566 words
Byline: GUNNAR REHLIN
Body


(SWEDEN-NORWAY-FINLAND)
A Sonet Film release (in Sweden) of a FilmLance Intl. (Sweden)/Yellow Cottage (Norway)/Kinoproduction (Finland) production, in association with Sandrew Metronome, Sonet Film, TV1000 and the Chimney Pot. (International sales: BV Intl. Pictures, Avaldsnes, Norway.) Produced by Borje Hansson, Lars Blomgren. Co-producers, Aage Aaberge, Claes Olsson.
Directed by Kjell Sundvall. Screenplay, Monika Rolfner, Eva Callenbo, Harald Hamrell. Camera (color), John Christian Rosenlund; editor, Thomas Tang; music, Geir Bohren, Bent Aserud; production designer, Lasse Westfelt; costume designer, Ann Sundvall. Reviewed at the Olympia Cinema, Stockholm, Oct. 27, 1999. Running time: 95 MIN.
With: Katarina Ewerlof, Peter Haber, Leif Andree, Jessica Zanden, Dan Ekborg, Nina Gunke, Anders Ekborg, Lena B. Eriksson, Inga Alenius, Carl Kjellgren, Helena af Sandeberg, Alexandra Dahlstrom, Stina Rautelin, Suzanne Reuter, Kajsa Ernst, Per Burell, Lamiene Dieng.
A very funny black comedy about modern family relations, Kjell Sundvall's "In Bed With Santa" has already been a commercial and critical hit in Sweden. Foreign buyers should warm to its offbeat humor and un-p.c. approach to the subject of divorce and its myriad repercussions.
Action is set on Christmas Eve, when Sara (Katarina Ewerlof) has decided to invite her three ex-husbands and their new families. Janne (Peter Haber), her current spouse, opposes the idea but eventually gives in. Suddenly, the house is filled with adults and kids, dreaming of one of those glorious fun-filled Christmases immortalized in "Fanny and Alexander."
When the booze starts flowing, tensions grow: the individual families quarrel among themselves, and Janne grows more and more weary of hearing the other men referring to the fact they've had sex with his wife. When Sara announces during dinner that she's pregnant, no one is more surprised than Janne; he had a vasectomy more than a year ago. As Janne wonders who the father is, events escalate, ending in mayhem and several more surprise announcements.
Helmer Sundvall is mostly known for thrillers ("The Hunters," "The Last Contract") but began his career making black comedies. His telepic "Anyway, the Weather Was Fine" and TV series "Lorry," both from the early '80s, are regarded locally as modern classics.
"Santa" shows that he hasn't lost his touch with the genre. The comedy is well paced and increasingly funny, and makes fun of almost everybody. The only character spared is one of the teenagers, Jeanette (Alexandra Dahlstrom, the blonde in "Fucking Amal," aka "Show Me Love"), who has the task of commenting on the outrageous behavior of the adults.
Pic makes the point that this is how family life can develop in an age of quick and frequent divorces, with kids suddenly finding themselves with two or three different sets of parents and the latter put under increasing strain because of their tangled sexual past.
In a strong cast, the outstanding perf is from Dan Ekborg, a popular legit actor in Sweden, as one of Sara's previous husbands. Thesp is excellent as a man who is conservative and cynical, always ready to knife someone with a vicious comment.
Despite being shot entirely in a studio, with the action set during a single evening, pic does not have a claustrophobic, stage-bound feel, thanks to its brisk pacing. Tech credits are all fine.

Load-Date: January 10, 2000


End of Document
