




Newstex Blogs 
Granite Grok
June 27, 2022 Monday 12:45 PM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 586 words
Byline: Steve MacDonald
Body


Jun 27, 2022( Granite Grok: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 For decades (forever!), abstinence has been the best way to avoid unwanted pregnancy. If you are not having sex, your odds of getting pregnant decline precipitously. It's true. But the Left, in general, and progressive feminists have objected. 
Abstinence education is scorned by the left, its support and funding opposed as misleading and dangerous[1]. So, what is this, then? 

'If you're a man who won't get a vasectomy, even though it's reversible, and you're not out in the streets fighting for my rights, you do not deserve to have sex with me,' Brianna Campbell, a 24-year-old EMT, told The Post.  
'I think it's absolutely valid for us to be withholding the Holy Grail that men seem to think is important,' she told The Post at an abortion protest in Manhattan's Union Square. 

That sounds like abstinence to me. 

Celibacy is about to become popular #sexstrike[2] pic.twitter.com/DhAMRhjC1W[3] 
— VICTORY (@kaur_jeeto) June 26, 2022[4] 

So, the solution to the problem of the 'right' to abortion is eliminating the odds you'll get pregnant. I say go for it but I have doubts about the suggestion that women who stop having sex with legislators will have any effect. 
The married ones are, in a high proportion (with rare exceptions), married to or with people who agree that Roe was a badly written and poorly thought-out decision. They've no objection to the Feds getting out of the bedroom and leaving that up to the several states. 
But, by all means, stop having sex with Democrat legislators until they fix it, whatever 'it' is, and thanks for embracing an idea that the Left has rejected for longer than Roe has been a decision in need of being overturned. 
Abstinence. 

The post Irony Alert: In Wake of Dobbs Decision Feminists Embrace Abstinence[5] appeared first on Granite Grok[6]. 
 [ 1]:  /blog/2013/07/abstinence-misleading-potentally-dangerous [ 2]:  [ 3]:  [ 4]:  [ 5]:  [ 6]:  
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: July 20, 2022


End of Document
