




The Pantagraph (Bloomington, IL)
May 27, 2003, Tuesday


Copyright 2003 The Pantagraph
Section: NEWS; Pg. A3
Length: 450 words
Byline: Kelly Josephsen
Body


BLOOMINGTON - Knowing enough Spanish to order dinner is one thing. Knowing enough to answer a detailed medical question is another.
Unfortunately, a doctor's office is a dangerous place to hit a language barrier.
That's why Illinois Wesleyan University Spanish professor Carolyn Nadeau is debuting a class called "Medical Spanish and Cultural Competency for Health Care" during IWU's May Term.
"In basic language classes, you might have one chapter on medical Spanish. But it's really, really basic - saying arm or foot or 'I have a stomach ache' or 'I have a fever,' " she said. "There's a great need for more of that kind of knowledge in the community."
Nadeau's course gives students classroom and real-life experience with Spanish medical terms.
During daily three-hour class sessions, 16 students learn vocabulary for vaccines, allergies, blood work, organs, drugs, facilities and more. One unit, for example, had students role play everything from an eye exam to a patient asking about a vasectomy.
Then, students volunteer at the Community Health Care Clinic, which works with many in the Twin City's growing Spanish-speaking population. Valerie Lambrecht, a sophomore from Winfield, has helped patients over the phone and during clinic visits. "Before taking this course, I would never have been confident enough to have that kind of conversation," the pre-med student said.
Nadeau noted it's nothing new for future health care professionals to seek improved language skills.  "At Illinois Wesleyan we have a lot of nursing majors who minor in Spanish, or students who combine it with pre-med," she said, but she wants her students to understand more than vocabulary.
Students learn about Hispanic attitudes on health care, which future health care providers need to be sensitive to. They find out what limits Hispanics face in access to care; by discovering the barriers, Nadeau hopes students can one day remove them.
Those discussions open up some of the course's most interesting revelations, she said.
For example, the class devoted the first couple of days to filling out forms. Nadeau said many people from Spanish-speaking countries have two last names, so filing errors and confusion are a problem.
The class also learned about illnesses that are prevalent in the Hispanic population.
"Type II diabetes is very high; obesity is a problem," Nadeau said.  "We talk about child care - more Hispanic mothers choose not to breast feed, so we're asking why that is."
Nadeau hopes students keep learning about those issues and practicing vocabulary by volunteering at the Community Health Care Clinic or Western Avenue Community Center after May Term.
Contact Kelly Josephsen at   

Load-Date: May 29, 2003


End of Document
