




USA Today Online
March 8, 2024


Copyright 2024 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST, ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST & CONSUMER: WOMENS NEWS
Length: 338 words
Byline: Naledi Ushe, USA TODAY
Body


's  experience was full of laughter.
The "Thank God" singer shared on "" on Thursday that he got "neutered" right after learning about his wife Katelyn's surprise pregnancy.
Brown said he and his wife had been talking about him getting the procedure many times before but it would always make his "stomach turn." When the couple found out they were expecting a third child, the country singer finally got the vasectomy.
"They gave me gas, but I'm laying on my back and I have a nurse over me and a doctor and they're just talking about their day. I'm not out of it at all, just sky high," he recalled. "And you're just on the table, spread eagle. It was wild."

Brown added that the doctor then told a joke about a man with three testicles, which sent him into a laughing fit. "I was like, 'You can't tell me this while I'm high right now,'" the singer said.
Prior to sharing his vasectomy experience, the country singer shared the shocking story of how he found out Katelyn was pregnant. The couple announced the news on  on Christmas.
Brown recalled boarding a private jet to go play a game of golf when Katelyn called him and said, "I think I'm pregnant." The call dropped shortly after and the singer said he spent the plane ride hoping his wife was "wrong," because they weren't planning on having a third child. 
'Love is Blind' season finale:  
"But then we found out it was a boy and it was God's plan," he added.
Brown and Katelyn are already parents to two daughters: Kingsley Rose, 4, and Kodi Jane, 1.
The "Be Like That" singer also shared that on a separate occasion, he received a call while boarding a private jet that his house caught on fire on his way to play golf. It turned out to be a false alarm, but Brown joked, "I'm never flying private again."
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: March 8, 2024


End of Document
