




The Salt Lake Tribune
December 29, 2021 Wednesday


Copyright 2021 The Salt Lake Tribune All Rights Reserved
Length: 298 words
Byline: Bryan Schott
Body


Former television news personality Keith Olbermann attacked Utah Sen. Mitt Romney on Wednesday, starting with his family, then resurrecting a beef he had with Romney more than a year ago.
Olbermann started with Romney's Twitter post from Christmas showing his large extended family, to which Olbermann said "Somebody gift these people some vasectomies."
Replies to Olbermann's post ran the gamut from users criticizing the crassness of his commentary to shows of virtual applause.
A few hours later, Olbermann resurfaced a statement from Romney in October of 2020 where he criticized harmful rhetoric coming from then-President Donald Trump, then used Olbermann calling Trump a "terrorist" as an example of similar comments coming from the left side of the political spectrum.
In reply to a critical response, Olbermann posted the infamous 2016 picture of Romney having supper with President-elect Trump when he was thought to be under consideration for a cabinet position in the new administration.
"What's the technical term within Mitt's religion for THIS...is it 'treating' with the devil or do I have the verb wrong?" Olbermann responded. It's not clear to what Olbermann was referring.
Former Trump White House staffer Stephanie Grisham wrote in her book that the dinner was set up by Trump to humiliate Romney. It was meant as revenge for Romney calling Trump a "fraud" during a speech at the University of Utah during the 2016 campaign.
Olbermann's posts drew criticism from a number of conservative users.
"Stop insulting large families," Mercedes Schlapp, who worked in the Trump White House, responded.
Ben Domenech, the co-founder of The Federalist, mocked Olbermann for being without a family. Domenech is married to Meghan McCain.
Romney's office did not respond to a request for comment.

Load-Date: December 31, 2021


End of Document
