




Chicago Daily Herald
March 15, 2001, Thursday, Cook/DuPage/Fox Valley/Lake/McHenry


Copyright 2001 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: News;
Length: 1064 words
Byline: Teresa Mask Daily Herald Staff Writer
Body


A Hispanic man walked into a urologist's office at a West suburban hospital and almost underwent a vasectomy because he didn't quite understand the questions he was being asked.
It sounds like one of those urban legends, but it's a true horror story told to researcher Rob Paral at a workshop last fall focusing on the growing immigrant population.
"You hear stories like that all the time," said Paral, a research consultant who works for the National Center on Poverty Law and also authored a report on immigrants in the suburbs.
Paral said a tape recorder in hospital emergency rooms would show that many immigrants are faced daily with the frustrating task of trying to explain health concerns to doctors and nurses who don't speak their language. In some cases, immigrant patients must wait for service until a bilingual worker is called or a volunteer is summoned from home.
These concerns for immigrants aren't limited to health care. It's also a critical issue when it comes to communicating with fire and police departments during crisis situations.
Hospitals, police and fire stations throughout the suburbs are slowly hiring more bilingual employees and translators, but they are finding it difficult to keep pace with demand. Fewer than 1 percent of people entering medical school are Hispanic, said Lucy Robles-Aquino, chief executive officer of Hispanocare Inc., an agency that provides culturally sensitive health care to Hispanics. "It is so bad that some hospitals are now recruiting in Puerto Rico," she said.
Police and fire departments say they, too, are recruiting heavily for bilingual staff.
The need is most crucial to hire people who speak Spanish as Hispanics become our region's fastest growing minority group.
Census figures released Wednesday indicate that since 1990 the number of Hispanics in Illinois has grown by almost 70 percent . The group comprises 12.3 of the state's population, compared with 7.9 from a decade ago. Nearly 1.5 million Hispanics live in the six-county metropolitan region of Chicago, with most settling in Kane and Cook counties in moderate- or low-income areas. In the suburbs, Hispanics make up a large percentage of residents in Elgin, Carpentersville, Grayslake and Mundelein.
"Even as the numbers continue to increase, things have really not changed," said Robles-Aquino.
She said some hospitals are using subpar interpreters and some are bilingual, yet don't understand the "culture" of Hispanics and often appear insensitive to Hispanic families.
Some say the lack of bilingual health care employees could be hitting crisis levels and is a major public safety issue.
People have died because of health problems they weren't able to communicate, said Lisa Simeone, a regional manager for the office of civil rights in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. "It is a serious issue."
To address that problem, the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council, a trade association for Chicago and suburban hospitals, occasionally conducts mock crisis drills with bilingual patients at hospitals.
Other times people are put in jeopardy by their own relatives who are used as interpreters, and who omit pertinent information thinking it will save their loved one pain.
Esther Corpuz, manager of people relations and interpreter services at MacNeal Hospital in Berwyn recalls hearing about a case at another hospital where a Hispanic man's teenage daughter was asked to tell her father he had cancer. Her mother suggested the girl tell him the problem was less serious. So, the man went six weeks not realizing he should have been receiving chemotherapy.
The man died, but it is unclear if his life would have been extended with treatment.
"That really broke my heart," Corpuz said. "The girl was torn between obeying her mother and telling her father the truth. She knew in her heart she wasn't doing the right thing."
For confidentiality and cultural reasons, children should never be used as translators, said Corpuz, who has given presentations on the importance of providing qualified interpreters.
Andrea Guerrero, a Spanish-speaking resident of Des Plaines, prefers to go to Genesis Center for Health and Empowerment in Des Plaines for medical care because she knows she'll be understood.
There, she can explain the problem in Spanish directly to the doctor who also speaks Spanish. All the employees at the center, affiliated with Park Ridge's Lutheran General Hospital, are bilingual. And while the center has limited office hours, residents have 24-hour access to the clinic for emergencies.
Other suburban hospitals, such as GlenOaks Hospital in Glendale Heights and Sherman Hospital in Elgin, also provide interpreters for emergency room patients.
Police departments are stepping up efforts by sending officers to basic Spanish classes. Rolling Meadows, Glendale Heights, Elgin and Libertyville are among those who send their officers to classes. In West Chicago, there is a Spanish-speaking officer on each shift. The Addison and Lisle police departments also have bilingual officers.
Most departments also contract with a universal language line that has workers ready to take non-English 911 emergency calls coming into the station or from police officers on a cell phone at the scene.
Even so, on a regular basis, volunteers, certified counselors and social workers are called upon to assist in emergency situations.
Ramon Sanchez, coordinator of community programs at the Genesis Center in Des Plaines, gets three or four calls a week from suburban hospitals seeking bilingual volunteers to help bridge the communication gap between doctors and their patients.
And at least once a month Sanchez is called by someone claiming they were refused medical service because they weren't able to convey their problem in English.
Part of the problem is there is a shortage of applicants in the medical field who speak a second language. It appears some professionals also are not aware that denying service is illegal.
"Even at our hospital, doctors used to tell patients 'You're going to need to bring someone with you (to translate),' " Corpuz said.
Some say the problem of attracting enough translators might only get worse with more people moving to this country.
"I don't know how the problem is going to be solved," said Christine Spuhler, a case worker for Hispanic residents in Rolling Meadows. "We get more immigrants coming in every day."

Graphic

 
hispservices-1ne0309dplbz Dr. Leon Campos examines Adriana Guerrero - under the watchful eye of her mother, Andrea - at the Genesis Center for Health and Empowerment in Des Plaines. The center's staff is bilingual to help combat a growing language barrier between Hispanics and health care providers in the suburbs. Daily Herald Photo/Bill Zars One-year-old Adriana Guerrero sits on a scale while nurse Irazema Lopez records her weight at the Genesis Center for Health and Empowerment in Des Plaines. Daily Herald Photo/Bill Zars GRAPHIC: Booming growth in population, Hispanics

Load-Date: March 17, 2001


End of Document
