




Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)
February 24, 2010 Wednesday


Copyright 2010 Lincoln Journal Star All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. B5
Length: 474 words
Body


ARENA A MOVE FORWARD
Lincoln needs the Haymarket Arena, and I feel now is the perfect time to move forward with this project.
I have lived in and supported Lincoln for the past 24 years, and I want to continue to see our city grow and prosper.
The Lincoln Haymarket Arena will bring many positive opportunities to Lincoln, not just in the form of entertainment, but it will also create jobs, increase shopping traffic, as well as increased sales tax revenue from those who attend Haymarket Arena events.
If we wait on this project, the cost to Lincoln will only increase.
Some say that we should wait on this project because of current economic times. I think we need to move forward because of the current economic times. If you want to get out of a rut, you need to make a decision to move forward. To wait and watch the future unfold is not progress. Progress is keeping your eye on the future while making wise economic changes in the process.
This Haymarket Arena will provide Lincoln with a much needed entertainment venue that will keep those entertainment dollars here in Lincoln rather than spending them 55 miles northeast on I-80.
Mark Schilmoeller, Lincoln
DRIVERS, SLOW DOWN
A number of years ago when the 55 mile per hour speed limit was raised, the majority of drivers wanted it raised because they could be responsible and could handle it.
Now we begin to wonder about that. Three accident responders were injured and a person walking for help was killed. And a woman driving on the median to avoid an accident blocking the road was rear-ended by a semi truck and killed.
All of these accidents and piles of wrecked cars and the toll of property damage, injuries and death tell us that driving too fast for weather and road conditions has become the rule, not an exception in Nebraska. We add too many to the national total of more than 40,000 annual highway deaths in the United States.
Enforced responsibility may be required. Tickets for driving too fast for conditions are in order for many of these drivers.
I advocate a lower speed limit that is enforced and much quicker closure of the interstate and other highways in severe driving conditions.
If responsible citizens show they are not responsible, other responsible citizens need to take action to protect Nebraska's portion of the 40,000-plus who die on the nation's roads each year.
Roland Snuttjer, Lincoln
HAITIANS NEED THE PILL
Let's get our priorities straight. Yes, I sympathize with the Haitians. The death toll, lack of food, water, medicine, etc. But, let's realize where all these people come from. Lack of birth control. There are nine million people there and almost half are children. Let's send them birth control pills and lessons on vasectomies. Instead of giving the Red Cross $10, I will buy $100 worth of birth control pills to help that problem.
Galen Rutt, Blue Hill

Load-Date: February 24, 2010


End of Document
