




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
January 20, 2023 Friday


Copyright 2023 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 360 words
Body


(PRWeb) - Board-certified urologist, Dr. Justin Houman, is one of the top mens health specialists and leading urological surgeons in the Los Angeles area. His impressive ratings and reviews have earned him this distinguished award from Find Local Doctors. Find Local Doctors is a user-friendly online directory, that helps consumers locate skilled physicians in their area. Dr. Justin Houman is passionate about making a difference in his patients health with state-of-the-art technology and compassionate, personalized care. Dr. Houmans cutting-edge practice is centered on enhancing his patients quality of life through comprehensive male urology to improve sexual function and achieve reproductive goals. He specializes in male fertility, erectile dysfunction, sexual performance, testosterone management and Peyronies disease. Also, as a top minimally-invasive microscopic surgeon, Dr. Houman provides skill and expertise in microsurgical varicocelectomies, vasectomy reversals, sperm retrievals, penile implants and male incontinence. He offers exceptional male urological care, with a true commitment to patient satisfaction and successful results.
I am so honored to receive this recognition. I strive to improve my patients quality of life by improving their sexual, reproductive, and hormonal health, says Dr. Justin Houman.
More about Dr. Justin Houman:
Dr. Justin Houman earned his medical doctorate degree at the University of Rochester School of Medicine. He completed his general surgery internship and urology residency at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in LA. Dr. Houman continued his training at UCLA Medical Center, having completed a fellowship in the highly specialized field of male reproductive medicine and surgery. He is a member of the American Urological Association, Sexual Medicine Society of North America, International Society of Sexual Medicine and Los Angeles Urologic Society. He is fluent in English, Spanish and Farsi. Dr. Justin Houmans clinic is located at 8635 W 3rd St, Suite 1W in Los Angeles, CA.
To find out more information or schedule an appointment with Dr. Houman, please visit  or call 310-854-9898.

Load-Date: February 13, 2023


End of Document
