




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
January 17, 2024 Wednesday 3:35 PM EST


Copyright 2024 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 185 words
Byline: Dan Primack
Body


January 17th, 2024 (   — Delivered by   )
Next Life Sciences has raised $2.5 million to develop a male contraceptive product called Plan A, which could become a nonsurgical alternative to vasectomies.
Why it matters: This could help balance family-planning responsibilities that fall disproportionately on women.
Zoom in: Plan A is being pitched as a medical device instead of as a drug, which Next Life Sciences CEO L.R. Fox says should reduce the time and expense of clinical trials that begin later this year.
It's a non-hormonal and reversible contraceptive, which utilizes a common hydrogel to essentially "filter" out sperm for around 10 years.
Fox adds that patients would receive Plan A via injection — an outpatient procedure that should just last a few minutes — and that he's in talks with "foundations who want to help distribute it broadly."
Details: The $2.5 million is a seed funding round led by The Family, an accelerator founded by Ryan Breslow, with Transform VC also participating.
California-based NLS also is in the midst of raising a larger Series A round.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 17, 2024


End of Document
