




University Wire
September 26, 2008 Friday


Copyright 2008 Massachusetts Daily Collegian via U-Wire
Length: 774 words
Byline: By Matt Bechtold, Massachusetts Daily Collegian; SOURCE: U. Massachusetts
Dateline: AMHERST, Mass. 
Body


Â 
Lawrence, KS. - Right here at the University of Kansas, researchers are working to provide another option when it comes to contraceptives.
In the 1960s, a revolutionary new pill came onto the market and changed the way the world - and especially women - thought about sex. It has liberated millions of women over the years, putting the power to decide when, or if, they would have children squarely in their hands. The same option could soon be a possibility for men.
Joseph Tash, Gustavo Blanco, William H. Kinsey and Leslie Heckert make up the core unit currently working on this project at KU Medical Center. The project's original leader at the University of Kansas, Gunda Georg, has since become head of the department of medicinal chemistry at the University of Minnesota, where her new position has brought extensive new resources to the project.
Tash is quick to point out that this is not a typical birth control pill. While chemical birth control options for women use hormones to trick the body into ceasing ovulation or make it more difficult for sperm to reach the egg, the male pill takes a completely different approach.
This chemical compound directly targets the creation of sperm cells, and this targeted approach greatly reduces the chance of side effects.
By effectively reducing the sperm count to zero, the drug reduces the chance of conception to zero. Rather than making it difficult for sperm to reach the egg, it takes sperm out of the equation.
Everything else functions normally, Tash says. Semen is still produced, but without the sperm cells necessary to fertilize an egg. Tash also says there was also no discernible change in the sex drive of the test animals.
If this drug continues to proceed through tests without showing side effects or failures, it could be available for purchase in five to seven years. Tash warns, however, that the timeline for any drug's development is very unpredictable.
Are we ready?
Apart from abstinence, condoms and surgical sterilization are currently the only ways a man can prevent pregnancy on his own.
A male contraceptive pill would be welcomed by many men who find condoms an uncomfortable, inconvenient or even risky solution. They're still essential in preventing sexually transmitted diseases, but using condoms can get old pretty quickly in a monogamous, committed relationship known to be free of sexually transmitted infections.
And because this pill would allow fertility to return in a short amount of time by ceasing to take it, it's a great alternative to vasectomies - something most men don't like to think about, and very few men seriously consider until after they've fathered all the children they want.
With a male contraceptive pill possibly becoming available in as few as five years, the question of whether men, women and society as a whole will be ready to embrace it is coming to the forefront.
Shirley Hill, professor of sociology, says she thinks most men won't be ready to use something like this within the next five to seven years.
Hill says because women would still carry the bulk of the responsibility of pregnancy, childbirth and raising children, a woman would need to be in a relationship in which she could trust that her partner was responsible enough to remember to take the pill.
Uncharted territory
First reactions to this new concept are typically cautious.
"I think that would be a possibility, something I may want to take," says Matt Hainje, Leawood freshman. "But there are many other things to consider. If there were bad side effects, condoms are always an easy way without side effects."
Other men, however, found it to be an appealing proposition.
"It would be something that would probably help everyone sleep better at night," says Jordan Smith, Wichita freshman. "It would be another precaution to take, and if it's safe and works, then it would be a great thing."
So what would it take for most men to be convinced that taking control of their own fertility is a good thing, and not just something for women to manage?
"It would be a really big project, because it's at the societal level of rethinking how we define manhood and masculinity," Hill says. "I think there's a masculinity crisis already with men being displaced from the bread-winner role and something like this could even add to that. We're in the process of reassigning gender stereotypes, but that's something that will take a long time."
Austin Nye, McKinley, Ill., freshman, says she thinks a male contraceptive pill would be a step in the right direction. "I don't think it's just a girl's responsibility to be safe," she says.
(C) 2008 Massachusetts Daily Collegian via UWIRE

Load-Date: September 27, 2008


End of Document
