




The University Star: Texas State University - San Marcos
June 26, 2015 Friday


University Wire
Copyright 2015 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINIONS; Pg. 1
Length: 490 words
Byline: Jenna Coleman
Body


Male birth control should be considered by all because of the long-term protection and non-hormonal alternative it offers from female forms such as the pill.
A male birth control injection called Vasalgel is expected to be released by 2017. The injection would virtually block sperm from being transmitted altogether. According to a Sept. 18 Huffington Post Live interview, currently 19,000 men are waitlisted for the trial of this injection, showing how open men are to the idea of a new form of birth control.
Many men face the problem of being an 'in-betweener,' so to speak. These men are in a committed relationship where condoms are not favored but do not want kids for years to come, so vasectomy is out of the question. Condoms and vasectomy are currently the only two forms of male birth control on the market.
The Vasalgel injection will change this and solve the 'in-betweener' problem. Vasalgel is fully reversible but also intended to be a long-term contraceptive method. A second injection reverses the blockage of sperm. This dose can be administered whenever the man requests, but this method of birth control can last up to 10 years if the man desires.
Vasalgel is also non-hormonal. It is simply an injection of a gel-like substance, which in turn avoids the negative side effects, such as aggression, caused by hormone-derived methods. Women can sympathize with this. Most female birth control methods are hormonal, causing weight gain, mood change, soreness and other unpleasant side effects.
With one injection, men could save their significant other the unhappiness that the pill often causes women. Other methods for women, such as IUDs, are invasive and painful when inserted and can cause horrible pain and discomfort for months after insertion. Again, Vasalgel is the solution to this problem. For decades, women have been the ones who were expected to worry about and maintain birth control. It is time that men help carry that burden.
The largest concern coming from the male birth control discussion is the spread of STDs that may occur if men no longer feel compelled to wear condoms. Men and women should understand that condoms are the only way to prevent the spread of STDs during intercourse. Responsibility can only be engrained in people's minds by sex education. Vasalgel may have some concerned about STDs, which is absolutely legitimate, but the overall benefits are too compelling for this method to be completely overlooked. Male birth control should not be held to a different standard than female forms, which also do not protect against STDs.
All men should consider Vasalgel because it is reversible, non-invasive, non-hormonal and will prevent their significant others from having to deal with the very unpleasant side effects that female methods cause, all while preventing unwanted pregnancies. Overall, male birth control injections would be beneficial to both men and women.
View the discussion thread.

Load-Date: June 26, 2015


End of Document
