




The New York Times
September 16, 2015 Wednesday
The New York Times on the Web


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
Section: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 
Length: 883 words
Byline: By BRUCE WEBER
Body


Melvin Bernhardt, who directed two Pulitzer Prize-winning dramas and won a Tony himself for Hugh Leonard's Tony-winning play ''Da,'' died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 84.
His husband, Jeff Woodman, said Mr. Bernhardt had been in declining health and had stopped taking nourishment after breaking his arm in a recent fall. 
  Mr. Bernhardt, who was known for his astute casting and skillful work with actors, directed many leading stage performers on Broadway, including Ron Leibman and Linda Lavin in ''Cop-Out'' (1969), an early satirical one-act by John Guare involving a police officer, a femme fatale, a murdered cat, a vasectomy and a dead body in the aisle of the theater forcing exiting theatergoers to step over it; Julie Harris and Estelle Parsons as sisters living with the emotional wreckage left by a domineering mother in Paul Zindel's ''And Miss Reardon Drinks a Little'' (1971); and Elizabeth Ashley in ''Hide and Seek'' (1980), a haunted-house thriller.
  Off Broadway and in regional theater, his productions starred the likes of Swoosie Kurtz, Nancy Marchand, Ralph Waite, Sam Waterston, Olympia Dukakis, Paul Giamatti and George Grizzard.
  In 1970, Mr. Bernhardt directed Sada Thompson as a harshly embittered single mother of two young girls in Mr. Zindel's critically praised melodrama ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds,'' an Off Broadway production that earned Mr. Zindel a Pulitzer Prize.
  His 1978 production of ''Da,'' about a young Irishman who is visited by memories of his family, most notably his father, on the occasion of his father's burial, won four Tony Awards -- best play, best director, best actor (for Barnard Hughes as the title character) and best featured actor (for Lester Rawlins, who played a curmudgeonly character named Drumm).
  The play, which ran nearly 700 performances, was directed ''with artful and canny patience,'' Richard Eder wrote in The New York Times. ''Mr. Bernhardt, as if he were the best of Irish storytellers, lets the play stop, start, ramble and gather its direction.''
  In 1980, Mr. Bernhardt directed ''Crimes of the Heart,'' the first full-length play by a young Mississippi writer, Beth Henley, at the Manhattan Theater Club Off Broadway. A dark comedy in the Flannery O'Connor mode and yet somehow warmhearted, the play is about the MaGrath sisters, three young adults with problem-riddled lives, one of whom is out on bail after shooting her husband ''because,'' she says, ''I didn't like his looks.''
  ''Crimes of the Heart'' opened in December, won the Pulitzer Prize in the spring and opened in the fall of 1981 on Broadway, where it ran for more than 500 performances. Both the play and Mr. Bernhardt were nominated for Tonys. (The winners were ''The Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby'' and its directors, Trevor Nunn and John Caird.)
  ''He was intense,'' Ms. Henley said of Mr. Bernhardt in an interview on Tuesday, adding that he was ''more than I quite knew how to deal with'' as a young playwright.
  ''But he understood the play,'' she said, ''understood it was about young women, and that it didn't need big names.''
  Among those Mr. Bernhardt cast were Mary Beth Hurt, Mia Dillon, Lizbeth Mackay, Peter MacNicol and later, as a replacement for Ms. Hurt, Holly Hunter.
  ''I think the actors adored him,'' Ms. Henley said.
  Melvin Bernhard -- he added the t to his surname when he entered the theater as a homage to Sarah -- was born in Buffalo on Feb. 26, 1931. He was the son of Max Bernhard, who, with his brothers, owned a large grocery, and the former Katie Benatovich. He may well have had a middle name, but he never used it, and, his husband said, in 25 years of their partnership he refused to disclose it.
  ''He had one, but he loathed it,'' Mr. Woodman said.
  Mr. Bernhardt's family was expecting him to become a lawyer, but he rebelled during his college years at what is now the University at Buffalo -- ''I was a mouse; it was the first time I spoke up,'' he told Mr. Woodman -- and he eventually graduated from Yale's drama school.
  He began his career in the theater as a stage manager. His first play as a director, staged in 1965 at the Cherry Lane Theater in Greenwich Village, was ''Conerico Was Here to Stay,'' a vaguely absurdist urban nightmare by Frank Gagliano about an amnesiac in a New York City subway station who loses his hat.
  In addition to his stage work, Mr. Bernhardt worked in television, most notably on the daytime soap operas ''Another World'' and ''One Life to Live.'' He directed a 1984 television movie adaptation of the Thomas Heggen novel ''Mister Roberts'' (it also inspired a stage play and a Hollywood film), about life on a Navy ship during World War II, with Charles Durning, Kevin Bacon and Robert Hays.
  Mr. Bernhardt survived a 1987 automobile accident that killed his previous partner, Steve Durham. He married Mr. Woodman in 2011. They lived in Manhattan and Cragsmoor, N.Y. Mr. Bernhardt is also survived by a brother, Richard.
  Ms. Henley recalled in the interview that Mr. Bernhardt chose ''Crimes of the Heart'' from several plays that the Manhattan Theater Club had selected as possibilities for production.
  ''Without him it might never have gotten to New York,'' she said, adding: ''I'm really grateful to him. He changed my life.''



Load-Date: September 16, 2015


End of Document
