




Newsweek.com
January 7, 2025 Tuesday 12:56 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 438 words
Byline: Maria Morava
Highlight: "We share the responsibility for our family. It only makes sense that we share our reproductive responsibility," Erin Monroe said.
Body


One woman has gone viral after highlighting the importance of sharing "reproductive responsibility" in couples.
In an , Erin Monroe, a mother of three, discussed stepping back from using birth control after years of managing her family's reproductive health and the conversation she had with her husband about her decision.
The clip has resonated with viewers, receiving more than 126,000 likes on . Monroe spoke with Newsweek about what prompted the conversation and how her relationship has benefited from her honesty.
"We had [the] discussion after the birth of our third child when we knew we didn't want to have any more children," she said. "I was feeling like my body needed a break from the constant cycle of birth control and pregnancy that so many women go through. I expressed to my husband that I was giving my body a break, and he could decide what option he wanted to use going forward."
Monroe said her husband didn't hesitate to take action. Recognizing the shared responsibility in their partnership, he agreed it was "his turn" to take on the reproductive responsibility and made an appointment for a vasectomy.
Reframing Reproductive Responsibility
For Monroe, this decision was practical and empowering.
"As a partnership, we share the responsibility for our family," she said. "It only makes sense that we share our reproductive responsibility."
Contraceptive responsibility often falls disproportionately on women, and Monroe hopes her video and advocacy will nudge couples toward more discussions about reproductive fairness.
"I hope that this can empower couples to have conversations about reproductive responsibility and make decisions together about that," she said. "I also hope this helps more males to think about reproductive responsibility differently."
Far from creating conflict, the conversation brought Monroe and her husband closer.
"He saw all that I had brought to our relationship as far as our reproductive health as a couple, and I saw my man ready to step up for us, too," she said.
While Monroe's video received an outpouring of support from both women and men, it wasn't without criticism. "Whenever a woman talks powerfully about her body on the internet, there will be men who are upset with that," Monroe said.
Despite the backlash, she remained unfazed.
"I knew there would be people who found this message empowering, and there would be some who were triggered by it," she said.
Based on viewers' responses, it seems many walked away feeling validated after making similar decisions or with ideas about how to navigate the next chapter in their partnerships.


Graphic

 
Erin Monroe
@erin.monroe_/Instagram
Erin Monroe in her Instagram reel. The reel has gone viral after Monroe shared a conversation she had with her husband about "reproductive responsibility."

Load-Date: January 7, 2025


End of Document
