




University Wire
January 24, 2007 Wednesday


Copyright 2007 Arkansas Traveler via U-Wire
Section: COLUMN
Length: 575 words
Byline: By Elizabeth St. John, Arkansas Traveler; SOURCE: U. Arkansas
Dateline: FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. 
Body


My parents drink. Perhaps this is why they thought one of Friday's "Today Show" features was so funny. Or maybe it's simply because it is, well, funny.
My mom called me Friday evening, laughing hysterically. She and my father had seen a story on the morning news about an old chimpanzee getting pregnant in a chimpanzee retirement home. They had found it humorous then, but later that evening, after a few beers, it was downright hilarious. They told me to watch a rerun of the spot on the Internet, and it was then when I, too, discovered the real absurdity of the story.
My first question about the chimp pregnancy was, "How did this make national news?" Then it hit me. This is one important story.
Chimp Haven is the place where all of the chimpanzees who were subject to lab testing and breeding go when they get old. It's sort of like a zoo and sort of like a nature preserve. One of the chimpanzees who lives there, Theresa, became pregnant, gave birth to a baby ape, and was carrying it around before anyone even noticed. And then the zookeepers started freaking out.
For one thing, Theresa is nearing 50 years old. That's pretty old for a human to have kids, even more so for a chimpanzee. I mean, I think I'd be pretty surprised if a 50-year-old human woman gave birth to a baby chimp. Wouldn't you?
But the real mystery here is who fathered the baby. You see all of the male chimps at the farm had vasectomies long before this pregnancy happened. In order to find out who was not quite sterile enough, the zookeepers began to ask the baby chimp, "Who's yo' daddy?" After no response, they proceeded to narrow down their list of suspects through a very scientific approach: guessing. After much guessing, they came up with three main suspects. DNA testing is going to reveal the truth.
That's right. The zookeepers are going to spend a large sum of money trying to find out who fathered the ape. Why is this so important? Daddy's not going to owe child support and he isn't going through a custody battle.
Anyway, one of the workers described Theresa as a "social butterfly." I think I have a better word for her, that promiscuous hominoid!
The first male suspect is named Conan. He was described as athletic and popular. Well, surprise! Did we think Theresa was going for a slovenly loser? I don't think so.
Suspect No. 2 is Magnum, who is the youngest ape at the farm. He also drives a sporty Dodge station wagon with a roomy backseat perfect for, uh...
Finally, Jimoh, a wild-born chimpanzee is the third suspect, and, like a true nature's child, was born to rock out to Steppenwolf, seducing girly apes with his dance moves.
When the DNA test comes back from the lab, one of these unfortunate simians is going to be re-vasectomized. Unless, of course, the baby was not fathered by any of the three suspects. That is, if Theresa had Immaculate Conception.
My parents (after a few beers) and I decided that the baby is in fact the Monkey Jesus. This is why the story ran on the "Today Show." And this is why the reporter on the "Today Show" kept referring to the birth as a "miracle."
There is only going to be one Monkey Jesus ever born, and it happened just a few days ago, in our lifetimes. I feel so lucky. So any time I am going through hard times and my actions or thoughts are questionable, I'm going to stop and ask myself a very deep question. What Would Monkey Jesus Do? And then I'm going to have a beer.
(C) 2007 Arkansas Traveler via U-WIRE

Load-Date: January 24, 2007


End of Document
