




The Bismarck Tribune
June 6, 2013 Thursday


Copyright 2013 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises All Rights Reserved
Section: WIRE; Pg. 6A
Length: 300 words
Body


It's a Mira(cle)
An aspiring half-marathon runner in Minnesota attributed her unbearable back pain to a two-hour training session. A day later, she was cradling a newborn.
Trish Staine, 33, said she had no idea she was pregnant before Monday's surprise birth. The Duluth mother of three said she hadn't gained any weight or felt fetal movement in the months before. And besides, her husband had a vasectomy.
"I said 'no, no, that's impossible,'" Staine said Wednesday from her Duluth hospital room.
"I definitely thought I was done having kids," she joked. Staine and her husband, John, have a daughter, 7, and a son, 11. She's also stepmother to John's three boys, ages 17, 19 and 20.
Staine said she ran for about two hours Sunday in preparation for the Garry Bjorklund half-marathon on June 22.
"I had a sore back Sunday evening. I had taken a hot shower and was dealing with it," Staine said. "Monday morning, I woke up and had more back pain, and as the day went on it got worse. I thought I should go to the ER. I thought I ruptured a disc or pulled a muscle."
She soldiered on, but eventually the pain became unbearable. Her husband called an ambulance.
During the emergency room examination, Staine and her husband were stunned to learn medical staff had detected a fetal heartbeat.
Their daughter was born at 3:25 p.m. Monday. She weighed 6 pounds, 6 ounces, and was 18.9 inches long.
They have named her Mira - short for Miracle.
90-year-old is soaring
A 90-year-old pilot completed his birthday quest to fly 90 passes across the U.S.-Canadian border in his Cessna 172 Tuesday, even tallying a few extras a day after high winds got in the way of his plans.
"I'll be back in 10 years for my 100th," John Lawton of Seville, Ohio, said a few hours after parking his 1964 airplane at a Niagara Falls airport.

Load-Date: June 6, 2013


End of Document
