




University Wire
February 10, 2005 Thursday


Copyright 2005 Massachusetts Daily Collegian via U-Wire
Length: 911 words
Byline: By Matt Belliveau, Massachusetts Daily Collegian; SOURCE: U. Massachusetts-Amherst
Dateline: AMHERST, Mass. 
Body


"Don't worry, I'm on the pill."
One day, that could be a man speaking.
And with the new agreement between the Norwegian-based company Spermatech AS, and the University of Massachusetts Medical School, that day may come sooner than you think.
Spermatech researchers are in the planning stages of creating a drug that could possibly block sperm's ability to swim as well as its ability to fertilize an egg.
This would not be the first attempt in creating birth control for men, but it would be the first to avoid tinkering with male hormones.
Previously, researchers have found that it is extremely difficult to suppress sperm production while maintaining normal male hormone levels. A drop in a man's hormone levels would likely cause a lowered muscle mass, a loss of sexual drive, and other testosterone-related effects.
This new drug would instead affect a specific protein in the production of sperm that would inhibit their movement while forgoing the hormonal side effects that women currently experience in taking the pill.
Male students at UMass seemed to be split in their first reactions to the idea of a male birth control pill.
"I think it's great that we'll be given a chance to contribute in the act of birth control," said Dirk Barron, a junior at UMass. "A birth control pill could act as a back-up to condoms, which might break during sex."
However, Barron admitted he thinks the new pill might not be 100 percent safe.
"I love the idea of having another option, but I just have a hard time believing that there won't be any harmful side effects, physically as well as sexually," said Barron.
Today, American men are left with only two realistic methods of birth control: condoms and vasectomies. Both however, have drawbacks.
"For one thing, condoms aren't cheap, and a lot of guys dislike them because they decrease sensation and can spoil the mood," said Barron. "Vasectomies, on the other hand, would guarantee infertility, but I'm way to young for a vasectomy."
While the majority of the public may see this future development as a gift to American men, the creation of a male birth control pill may act as an even larger reward to women and the women's movement.
"The women's movement is all about the freedom to choose, and I see the male birth control pill as one more option for everyone," said Breitta Jones, a UMass student.
For nearly 40 years, women who wanted to take birth control have been forced to deal with the side effects that come with taking the pill.
"Many people, men specifically, do not realize the medical risks and side effects that may occur in taking birth control. They are low in occurrence, but it is still a drug, and as such should be treated with the same respect," said Jones. "Women who take it are not just taking reproductive responsibility, they are also taking on all the medical risks associated with the drug such as nausea, blood clots, and high blood pressure."
There is also some concern of how a male birth control pill would be received in today's political climate. As of today, the Federal Drug Association has legislation pending that would give pharmacists the ability to refuse filling a woman birth control prescriptions if it violates his or her moral standards.
Amanda Collings, Community Health and Patient Educator in University Health Services at UMass, feels that a form of male birth control is long overdue.
"We can put a man on the moon, and yet we have such a limited amount of options when it comes to controlling our fertility. It's amazing to me that we don't have better methods of contraception available when you consider how much money is poured into the pharmaceutical industry."
Arlene Avakian, director of the Women's Studies program at UMass, is uncertain just how much success a male birth control pill will have in the American public and whether or not men can be trusted to take the pill habitually.
"I think it's terrific, that men would have to take responsibility for birth control. And also, taking some burden of the risk, because all of this is risky," said Avakian. "But on the other hand, I wonder whether women can trust that men will really take the pill. Men aren't the ones who will become pregnant. They are not the ones, necessarily, who will have to suffer the consequences, or the joys of pregnancy."
"Until you have more of a egalitarian relationship between women and men structurally, that will always be the question," said Avakian. "But I think in a long term relationship, where there was a lot of trust and egalitarianism you could trust this, but if it were me, I'm not sure that I would trust it."
Alicia Desjardians, a UMass student, agrees that while some men may forget to take the pill, it isn't going to effect her opinion on male birth control.
"If the guy is really serious about the pill, then he should take the responsibility to remember to take it," said Desjardians. "Even girls forget once in a while, and it is expected that guys will too, but I still support this."
In between the entire debate, Breitta Jones is still able to give her ultimate summary of what she feels is the reward of this new development, the reward of another choice.
"Birth control is all about choice, and the more choices the better. With the addition of a male counterpart to female birth control there will be a level playing field, and whether men or their partners choose to take advantage of it, at least they will have the option."
(C) 2005 Massachusetts Daily Collegian via U-WIRE

Load-Date: February 10, 2005


End of Document
