





Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
November 18, 2002 Monday CITY EDITION


Copyright 2002 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: MEDICINE; Pg. C3
Length: 903 words
Byline: Patricia Guthrie Cox News Service
Body


Decades after the pill and legalized abortion created a seismic shift in family planning, a quieter jolt is under way. This month, the FDA approved its fifth birth-control product in two years. A noninvasive alternative to tubal ligation, the springlike device called Essure, which blocks the fallopian tubes, joins these recently introduced products:
 Mirena: A hormone-releasing intrauterine device (IUD) that can stay in place for five years.
* Lunelle: A hormone shot administered monthly.
NuvaRing: A hormonal vaginal ring changed every three weeks.
 Ortho Evra: A hormone patch changed weekly.
Except for Essure, all the new methods are a repackaging of the science that delivered the first hormonal birth-control pill 40 years ago.
'I've been in family planning for 20 years, and it used to be 75 or 80 percent of women used oral contraceptives,' said Kay Scott, president and CEO of Planned Parenthood of Georgia. 'Now there's about 10 to 15 different methods to choose from.'
Tubal ligation, or sterilization, remains the top contraceptive choice of American women - a fact that troubles some doctors and health experts.
Of women who practice birth control, about 28 percent report undergoing tubal sterilization; another 27 percent of women take birth control pills; 20 percent rely on male condoms; and 11 percent cite vasectomies of their partners, according to the Alan Guttmacher Institute. (The rest use other techniques.)
Experts say it's too early to tell if Essure will change the balance of birth-control methods.
Women who would have undergone the traditional surgical tying of the tubes might opt for Essure, along with those who couldn't or didn't want to risk tubal ligation, which requires general anesthesia.
'The only option has been abdominal incisions, subjection to general anesthesia and a week of recovery,' said Dr. David Levine, director of the Women's Outpatient Diagnostic Center for St. Luke's Hospital in St. Louis.
So far, Essure has been 100 percent effective in preventing pregnancy. Of more than 600 women in clinical trials tracked for one year, none became pregnant.
The insertion of Essure takes 30 minutes, about one-quarter the time of traditional sterilization. It works by threading a tiny springlike device through the cervix and into each fallopian tube.
After three months, mounting scar tissue plugs the tubes, preventing eggs and sperm from entering the uterus. It does not affect menstruation or menopause.
One drawback is that women must use another form of birth control for about three months, while scar tissue forms.
The new method will cost about the same as traditional tubal ligation - $2,500 to $4,000, a company spokeswoman said. Health-insurance plans will most likely give it full coverage, as they do standard sterilization, insurance specialists predicted.
In the 1970s, voluntary tubal ligation overtook the pill in popularity; in the '60s the pill had itself overtaken the condom, popular in the 1950s.
But as less invasive and reversible methods have become available, the number of tubal ligations has dropped. About 700,000 American women a year undergo the procedure, and about 10 million women of child-bearing age (defined as 15 to 44) have relied on the method since 1970. In the same period, 4.1 million men underwent vasectomies.
Most health-insurance plans cover surgical sterilization of both men and women, and about two-thirds pay for oral contraceptives, reports the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. But coverage is less for other reversible methods and their required physician visits.
Twenty-one states have mandated that birth control be part of employer health-insurance plans that include prescription-drug benefits. However, some businesses have gotten around that law by dropping prescription coverage altogether. Some doctors said women have been slow to try the other reversible methods available the past two years.
'While I'm excited about this Essure, I'm still concerned these other methods are underused, and they're all reversible,' said Dr. Carrie Cwiak, an Emory University School of Medicine family-planning research fellow who works at Atlanta's Grady Memorial Hospital. 'There's many more . . . methods out there that women don't know about or that aren't being presented to them.'
A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study found that 25 percent of women who'd undergone the procedure expressed a desire to reverse it.
Surgeons can reconstruct the fallopian tubes, but the operation is difficult, not guaranteed, costs $10,000 to $15,000 and is often not covered by insurance.
Even though the Essure method of sterilization is easier to deliver, it's harder to undo. 'It is absolutely irreversible,' Levine said. 'It's meant to be a permanent product and not meant to be reversible.'
Family-planning experts say that more women could benefit from the two so-called 'morning after' pills, considered backup when a condom breaks or another type of contraception fails. Known as Preven and Plan B, the emergency contraception is hormonal pills that must be taken within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse.
Health experts note that, while these new procedures, pills, patches, shots, rings and other newer techniques provide many more alternatives to condoms, none protect against HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases.
Providing double-duty protection against pregnancy and AIDS might be the next real revolution in birth control.

Graphic

 
PHOTO, ESSURE, A SPRINGLIKE DEVICE that blocks the fallopian tubes, is a noninvasive alternative to tubal ligation. It was approved by the FDA this month.,PHOTO, NUVARING, a flexible vaginal ring, releases a continuous low dose of progestin and estrogen to prevent pregnancy.,CREDIT: KRT,PHOTO, ORTHO EVRA , a hormone patch, is changed weekly.,CREDIT: KRT

Load-Date: November 20, 2002


End of Document
