




Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
May 19, 2022 Thursday 3:45 AM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 635 words
Body


May 19, 2022( International Business Times News:  Delivered by Newstex)  
 Nick Cannon seems to be done with having kids for a while.The actor recently spoke withE! News[1]'"Daily Pop"about his future family plans and revealed that he had a vasectomy consultation. 
"I don't know if I would've designed it this way, but it's one of those things when you're blessed with the gifts of children — and as we all know, I've been through so much, I find solace, I find peace in my children and I find purpose. So, I'm not out here looking,"Cannon explained. 
Cannon, whois looking forward to the birth of his eighth child, with model Bre Tiesi, isalso father to 10-year-old twins Monroe and Moroccan with ex-wife Mariah Carey, 5-year-old Golden "Sagon"and 1-year-old Powerful Queen with Brittany Belland 9-month-old twins Zion Mixolydian and Zillion Heir with Abby De La Rosa. 
He lost his 5-month-old sonZen, whom he shared with Alyssa Scott, last December. The infant died of a brain tumor[2]on Dec. 5. 
And for now, it seems like he is happy with the children he has around him.Instead of making more kids, Cannon[3] wants to spend more time with his kids. 
"I already went and got my vasectomy consultation. I ain't looking to populate the Earth completely, but I'm definitely looking forward to taking care and loving all the children that I currently have," he shared. 
 Nick Cannon, who attended the NBA All-Star Celebrity Game 2018 on Feb. 16, 2018 in Los Angeles, is not looking to join the political sphere. Photo: Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty Images  
"I do have the guilt of not having enough time to spend with all of my children, as we all do because we're working and constantly going. Especially right now when they're younger. We were doing little league with my 5-year-old [Golden Cannon] this weekend. We got swim practice this week. I take my kids to school every morning. I FaceTime. Two weeks ago, [twins Moroccan and Monroe Cannon, 11] had their birthday party. We shut down Six Flags,"he shared. 
Cannon says it is a possibility that his children will followin his footsteps. 
"You definitely gonna see some Cannons on the screen and hear their music. I'm going to have to recoup some of this. So they gonna be some talented babies,"he joked. 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  [ 3]:  
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: May 19, 2022


End of Document
