




Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
March 29, 2023 Wednesday 1:50 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2023 International Business Times News 
Length: 426 words
Byline: Catherine Armecin
Body


KEY POINTS
Nick Cannon doesn't give himself a guideline on providing for his children's needs
He admitted not giving his baby mamas monthly allowances, but they get what they need
Cannon has 12 kids from six different women, including his ex-wife, Mariah Carey
For more breaking global news visit  IBTimes.com
 Nick Cannon got candid about his financial arrangement with his six baby mamas.
 Cannon, who has 12 kids with different women, opened up about his financial support to his children. In an   Monday, he considered himself a "provider" but clarified that he doesn't give the kids' moms monthly allowances.
"I don't give myself that [guideline]," the "Masked Singer" host said, per  . "What they need, they get it."
 He added, "There's never been something that one of the mothers of my children has asked for, and they didn't receive."
 Cannon has two kids with Mariah Carey, three with Brittany Bell, three with Abby De La Rosa, two with Alyssa Scott and one each with Bre Tiesi and LaNisha Cole.
 The "Wild 'N Out" host gushed over his baby mamas and said he would never say anything against the six women.
"Everybody has their challenges - but when you really understand this woman has given the greatest sacrifice and sacrificed her body to bring a child into [this world], that's the best gift any man could ask for," he told the listeners. "Regardless of what goes on in any scenario ... I'll never say anything disrespectful or bad about any of the mothers of my children."
 Cannon previously got candid about the challenges of having many kids. According to him, he has "guilt" over it because it was difficult for him to balance his work and time with his children.
"Being a father of multiple kids, it's always the biggest guilt on me is that I don't get to spend enough time with all my children, one 'cause I'm constantly working and two because I'm just spread thin," Cannon   on the Paramount+ show "The Checkup: With Dr. David Agus."
 Cannon welcomed his 12th and youngest child with Scott on Dec. 14. When Andy Cohen asked him about his plan during  ," he said he didn't have any.
"Honestly man, it's just so much joy and elation that I have, the family that I have, and I embrace it. I love it, and I don't have a plan. That should have been clear from the jump," he  .
 Anderson Cooper also asked Cannon if he was open to vasectomy. The singer asked Cooper back, "Is that what you want me to get?" before adding, "It's my body, my choice."


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: May 11, 2023


End of Document
