




Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
June 8, 2022 Wednesday 11:50 AM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 626 words
Body


Jun 08, 2022( International Business Times News:  Delivered by Newstex)  
 Nick Cannon is just not done with being a father. On Tuesday's episode of the "Lip Service" podcast, the 41-year-old radio host revealed that he is expecting more children this year. 
Cannon, who first responded to speculation thathe has "three babies on the way," said, "When you say 'on the way... ' What count are you at? Let's just put it this way ... the stork is on the way." 
Then, when he wasasked if he's currently expecting three children, he said, "I don't know, it could be..." 
The actor, who welcomed three children in 2021, also suggested that he has plans on breaking his record, stating, "If you thought it was a lot of kids last year..." 
In June last year,Cannon[1] had twinsZion Mixolydian and Zillion Heirwith Abby De La Rosa. A month later, the comedian welcomed his sonZen with Alyssa Scott. Unfortunately, the little onedied on Dec. 5 after beingdiagnosed with brain cancer, per People[2]. 
Along with Zion andZillion, Cannon is a father to 11-year-old twinsMonroe and Moroccanwith ex-wifeMariah Carey, and 5-year-oldGolden "Sagon"and 1-year-oldPowerful Queenwith Brittany Bell. 
In January, he announced that he is expecting hiseighth childlater this year with modelBre Tiesi. 
 nick cannon screen grab from the nick cannon show Photo: The Nick Cannon Show  
During the podcast, Cannon also opened up about how he was suggested to try celibacy by his therapist.He recalled his therapist telling him that he "needed to chill out." 
"So I was like, 'Yo, let's try celibacy.' And that was like October ... I didn't even make it to [January]. I was supposed to make it to the top of the year. Then obviously I started going through some stuff ... I got depressed with the loss of my son." 
"I fell victim to it 'cause I was in a weak state. So December, especially right before Christmas, I started f------ like crazy ... So I broke the celibacy. But I was probably celibate for a month and a half strong ... I was trying to do it. I had a new show, new energy, I was dealing with a lot," added Cannon. 
Podcast co-hosts Angela Yee and Gigi Maguire thenaskedCannon if he will be welcominghischildren in the months of September and October. Cannon laughed and answered, "Y'all are pretty good at math." 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: June 8, 2022


End of Document
