




SheKnows
May 25, 2022


Copyright 2022 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved


Length: 496 words
Body


 has made quite a few  since his 2016 divorce from former wife . And while a number of longtime fans are aware of what the 41-year-old TV presenter and actor has been up to in regards to his private life, there's still a lot that Cannon is fairly reticent to publicly discuss. But recently, he opened up about how his divorce from Carey left an indelible impact on him, and how it's changed his outlook on marriage all together.
Cannon was  and Grammy winner from 2008-2016. During that time, the couple welcomed , 11. But after Cannon and Carey divorced, the Drumline actor felt as if he had "failed" in his marriage. "Divorce is a sense of, 'You failed,' and when you have that level of failure with everyone seeing it, it was a lot on me for a long time," he shared during his interview on .
In a recent interview, Nick Cannon got candid about his vasectomy consultation, experiences with guilt, and his insecurities as the parent of multiple children.  
- SheKnows (@SheKnows) 
"I didn't really know . I had to go find myself. I had to go within," Cannon continued. Despite his very public split from Carey, Cannon referred to the singer as one of his "best friends," and someone for whom he has "so much respect." But since the couple's divorce, Cannon admitted he's "probably still going through it," and has yet to fully process the impact of the divorce.
Roughly six years following their split, though, Cannon's attitude toward marriage and monogamy has definitely changed. "That to me was one of the greatest experiences of my life and  as well, why would I go back if I couldn't make that work out right?" Cannon said, referencing his 8-year marriage to Carey. "I did my best in this space, and now I feel like there's a new journey in my life. I'm not going to backtrack and put myself in that situation again because it doesn't get better than that," he continued.
Later on in the interview, Cannon admitted he's not "built for" marriage right now. "I've tried it, I've tried it, even without infidelity or any of those things. And I have to admit, clearly, I have issues with being selfish." Instead, Cannon is  without putting it "onto someone else." To endure the end of a marriage is one thing, but going through that in the public eye and all the projected perception that comes with has to be overwhelming. Hopefully, Cannon can continue his journey of introspection and stay present for his family.
Before you go, click  to learn more about celebrities who've opened up about dating after divorce.
Launch Gallery: 
More from SheKnows


Load-Date: May 25, 2022


End of Document
