




Newsweek.com
December 3, 2024 Tuesday 1:56 PM EST


Copyright © 2024 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 350 words
Byline: Michelle McGahan
Highlight: Nick Cannon is known for being candid about his 12 children — and he recently made a joke about the wealth that goes along with it.
Body


Nick Cannon has been candid about his life as a father of 12 — a role he is now calling "a rich man's game."
The 44-year-old Masked Singer host, who recently opened up about , got real when , during TMZ's Merry Elfin' Christmas special, if having 12 kids is "cheaper by the dozen."
"It's definitely not," Cannon quipped. "It's a rich man's sport, I'll tell ya that."
As for any plans to expand his brood, the Wild 'N Out alum — who doesn't "know" if he'd ever get a vasectomy — explained the possibility for more kids in the future is not off the table just yet.
"Why not?" he asked, adding that he loves "the dozen [I have] right now."
Cannon is father to twins Moroccan and Monroe, 13, with ex-wife Mariah Carey; son Golden Sagon, 7, daughter Powerful Queen, 3, and son Rise, 2, with Brittany Bell; twins Zion and Zillion, 3, and daughter Beautiful Zeppelin, 2, with Abby De La Rosa; son Legendary Love, 2, with Bre Tiesi; and daughter Onyx Ice Cole, 2, with LaNisha Cole. He will soon have a fifth 2-year-old to add to the bunch when daughter Halo — whom he shares with Alyssa Scott — turns another year older in a few weeks. (Scott and Cannon also welcomed son Zen, who died in December 2021 from brain cancer. He was 5 months old.)
The All That alum recently spoke out about his mental health and how his NPD diagnosis has impacted being a father.
"I'm just trying to be the best father I can be," Cannon shared on the Counsel Culture podcast last month. "I'm just trying to make the best out of the situation that I did create, but I'm still trying to step up."
He also spoke to People about "embracing" the personality disorder — and acknowledging and recognizing that .
"I feel like there's so many labels out there, but it's like, to be able to embrace it and say, 'Look, I'm healing. I need help. Show me,'" Cannon shared. "I just embrace mental health and therapy in such a strong way," he explained. "To be able to say I'm an example for others, but also be healing during the self-process works too."


Graphic

 
Nick Cannon
Bruce Glikas//WireImage
Nick Cannon poses at the opening night of the new play "Thoughts of a Colored Man" on Broadway at The Golden Theatre on October 13, 2021 in New York City. In December 2024, Cannon made headlines when referring to having 12 children as "a rich man's sport."

Load-Date: December 3, 2024


End of Document
