




Daily Collegian: Pennsylvania State University
February 27, 2019 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2019 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 319 words
Body


Nikki Sixx opted against having his vasectomy reversed in order to conceive his fifth child.
The Motley Crue rocker's wife Courtney Bingham is expecting a baby girl and he explained how he opted to undergo an uncomfortable sperm-retrieval procedure and then his spouse had artificial insemination in order to get pregnant.
He said: "They just had to take it out of me - that's no party getting your [testicles] cut open.
"Getting your [testicles] cut open is like being in Motley Crue in 1987 [when we partied too hard]. It's the same feeling. But now she's pregnant, and we're super excited."
The 60-year-old musician - who already has Gunner, 27, Storm, 24, and Decker, 23, with first wife Brandi Brandt and Frankie-Jean, 17, with second spouse Donna D'Errico - admitted he and Courtney felt the vasectomy reversal would involve them taking "shots in the dark, hoping she gets pregnant."
And as Nikki was also busy touring and working on a stage production, he felt timing was vital.
He told USA Today newspaper: "I was like, 'It really needs to be more planned out because I want to be here for my wife, and I want to be here for everything."
The 'Girls Girls Girls' hitmaker opted to have the vasectomy after divorcing Donna in 2007.
He said: "I was once married to someone named Satan, and I said, 'I'm not going to live the rest of my life in court fighting over child support, so I don't ever want to do this again.' "
However, Nikki had a change of heart after meeting 33-year-old Courtney, who he wed in 2014.
He said: "I remember thinking, 'I miss those days, I miss being a dad.'
"I didn't have a father, and I always loved being a father. It's an itch I can't scratch. My kids are older, and I have a great relationship with them."
Submit a Letter to the Editor
If you're interested in submitting a Letter to the Editor, click here. Submit
Send Letter to the Editor
This article originally ran on celebretainment.com.

Load-Date: February 27, 2019


End of Document
