




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
March 26, 2020 Thursday
Main Edition


Copyright 2020 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: C; Pg. 004
Length: 611 words
Body


Letters
Dangerous misinformation
 Two days in a row, letters from older rural citizens  were printed questioning and ridiculing our country's overreaction to this virus. These are valid concerns shared by many, but toward the end of both the writers reveal their true spots by stipulating that the reaction and measures taken are a Democratic campaign "against our president and country." Joe Machala "has a gut feeling there is something more behind this."
 Evidently, as the letters go, in their blind hatred of our country the Democrats have conspired with the CDC, the WHO, the Italians, the Chinese and hell, most world governments to undermine Trump. Evidently Democrats have no jobs, health or life savings to worry about.
 And where would anyone possibly get an idea this ridiculous? Fox News maybe? For sure, but wait. After weeks of undermining and directly contradicting the nation's top health experts, Fox is now taking this seriously and recommending social distancing/public closures. In less than 48 hours Sean Hannity has spun 180 degrees and just praised the president's initiative against the virus.
 But what virus? Remember the changes you see around you are just Democrat-caused hysteria. You know what this means. The president and Fox News must also be in on the plot to destroy our president, economy and country. Like the Democrats, they must also hate our country now.
 You might find this tongue in-cheek a little ridiculous but perhaps instead you should be horrified by the unending, damaging ignorance spawned by our right-wing media outlets in a time of crisis and otherwise.
 Brian Lehman
 Spokane Valley
COVID-19 impact on seniors
  COVID-19 has greatly impacted Eastern Washington University. The university has recently closed down all of the buildings on campus and has also moved all EWU coursework to an online format for the remainder of the academic year. This means that there will be no in-person classes for spring quarter.
 The COVID-19 virus has taken away many seniors' last quarter of college while also bringing the likelihood of the seniors' graduation commencement being canceled. According to cdc.gov, universities must plan for digital and distance learning (which has already come into play). All of this is happening because of the pandemic that has been established because of this horrible virus.
 I am one of these seniors that has been affected. I do not believe there is one solution to all of this. I do believe that social distancing and online learning will help this, but it will take a vaccine to make it all go away. I believe practicing these things will lead to less cases of the virus along with life going back to normal quicker. This could also lead to people missing out on events and also missing work.
 Brandon M. McClure
 Cheney
Avoiding abortion
 I realize this is a sensitive subject but feel the need to add my two cents. It seems that Church of Planned Parenthood feels the need to "pray" and disrupt health care for women. A noble cause in some people's hearts.
 Could we perhaps look at how men could start helping? Not by yelling at women getting birth control. How about you gents get vasectomies? Or the church folk stand outside gyms and hand out condoms? Hand out condoms everywhere. Or guys, keep it in your pants.
 Why is it that women are targeted, held responsible and harassed for something that takes a man and a women to create? How about you guys help us out to avoid abortions in the first place?
 I'm pretty sure no woman wants to pursue abortion. How many do you suppose pursue this because they know the father won't be there for the child? Guys, step up or quiet down.
 Beverly Gibb
 Spokane

Load-Date: March 26, 2020


End of Document
