




The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)
November 19, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 The Columbian Publishing Co. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. Ax
Length: 640 words
Highlight: Women need pregnancy options
A recent letter said it was up to women to not get pregnant, and that once pregnant they should have to continue with the pregnancy.
Nowhere in the letter does Mr. Hartley say men should step up and take control of their own birth control, so they don't get women pregnant accidentally. Nowhere does he say men shouldn't rape women or sexually molest children or otherwise cause women to get pregnant against their will. Nowhere does he seem to understand that birth control is not 100 percent effective.
Body


Women need pregnancy options
A recent letter said it was up to women to not get pregnant, and that once pregnant they should have to continue with the pregnancy.
Nowhere in the letter does Mr. Hartley say men should step up and take control of their own birth control, so they don't get women pregnant accidentally. Nowhere does he say men shouldn't rape women or sexually molest children or otherwise cause women to get pregnant against their will. Nowhere does he seem to understand that birth control is not 100 percent effective.
He does not call for free medical care for pregnant women or other services that could help them carry a pregnancy to term. He doesn't indicate that he realizes that pregnancy can be very risky or that some fetuses will not survive birth no matter what. I hope he supports universal access to all forms of birth control at no charge, but he doesn't say that either.
It is obvious he has no understanding of the issue. I'm glad he is not in charge. Women need to control their own bodies and decide for themselves if they should continue their pregnancy or have an abortion. Women need to have all their options available to them, and not be forced to have a child because Mr. Hartley thinks they should.
Anne Brock
Brush Prairie
Support for Ukraine is justified
Chris Matthews is misguided in suggesting that we cease providing support to Ukraine in its defense against the murderous invasion by Putin's Russia. The fact that the Ukrainian army has liberated Kherson from the Russian occupiers disproves his claim that the support is going into a black hole.
In 2020, Russians voted to effectively make Putin president for life. So Russia is now ruled by a deranged dictator. Last June, Putin made a speech in St. Petersburg in which he claimed to be a modern-day Peter the Great and vowed to reannex all the territories that Peter had annexed during his reign. These territories are today parts of Estonia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland.
Putin is not bluffing. If he wins his illegal war in Ukraine he will attempt these annexations. The territories are now part of NATO which, under Article 5, would obligate the U.S. to come to their defense. Providing the support that is helping Ukraine to defeat Putin, at great cost to Ukraine in lives and wealth, is helping to prevent us from being forced into a war with Russia. This justifies our continued support for Ukraine.
Linda Schrom
vANCOUVER
Hold men accountable
Those who place the burden on women alone to "take measures to prevent pregnancy" and to "rise up and take responsibility for their actions" are in no position to admonish them for making choices about their bodies. What about the responsibility of men? The last I knew both the Bible and science say it takes a male and a female to procreate. Why aren't those who oppose abortion holding men accountable?
Phil Hays
Vancouver
Women should rise up
Mr. Hartley's opinions about women are insensitive at best ("Women should take responsibility," Our Readers' Views, Nov. 13). No allowances for rape, incest, or age of the female. Are these the rare cases he referenced, and if so, who gets to decide? A woman does have the right to choose what happens to her body. Men have choices too; condom, vasectomy, or self-discipline. Yes, women rise up. Take action to rid the world of female genital mutilation, and guarantee that women never again wear a chastity belt or the scarlet letter.
Maureen Lang
Vancouver
Kent's childishness grows stale
Joe Kent needs to grow up. He lost to Marie Gluesenkamp Perez fair and square.
This wailing and gnashing of teeth about how it can only be the product of fraud is just the kind of behavior that caused the Republicans to wash out across the country. Our system works and Kent failed to understand what was important to voters.
I'm sick of this childishness.
Patrick Borunda
Yacolt

Load-Date: November 19, 2022


End of Document
