




Chicago Daily Herald
July 14, 2003, Monday All


Copyright 2003 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: HEALTH & FITNESS;; Your Health;
Length: 432 words
Body


Why snip when you can clip:  
Men now have a less invasive alternative to traditional vasectomies - and the cutting, stitching and cauterizing they entail.  
The Food and Drug Administration recently approved Vasclip, a tiny device about the size of a grain of rice that locks around the vas deferens, stopping the flow of sperm through the vessel. Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago is the first in Illinois to offer the procedure.  
In a clinical study, Vasclip reduced the incidence of painful and costly complications when compared to published vasectomy studies. The manufacturer is looking into whether Vasclip might be easier to reverse than vasectomies - a potential selling point for those indecisive guys out there.  
Don't bring the outdoors in:  
If you have hay fever, the Berkeley Wellness Letter recommends taking a shower after spending time outside. That's because pollen can collect on your skin and hair. This can pose a problem when you go to sleep and the pollen in your hair gets on your pillow.  
If possible, minimize outdoor activity in the morning when most pollen is released.  
Under cover first-aid:  
Instead of exposing cuts and scrapes to the air (so a scab forms), Prevention magazine cites new first-aid research that says keeping those boo-boos sealed and moist might be your best bet.  
"Drying out wounds slows healing," said Dr. Adam Singer of the American College of Emergency Physicians. "A scab is like putting a big rock on the lawn. It doesn't allow new cells underneath it to grow very well."  
You'll have no problem finding liquid skin bandages and moisture-enhancing dressings in the first-aid aisle.  
Here are a few things to keep in mind when treating that skinned knee or scraped elbow: Clean the wound, but don't apply ointment if you're using a liquid bandage. And never apply moist dressings over bites, punctures and other injuries highly susceptible to infections.  
Help for adoptive parents:  
People in the Chicago area who are adopting children from other countries can get expert advice from pediatric specialists at the new International Adoption Clinic at the University of Chicago Children's Hospital.  
The clinic helps parents interpret limited medical and developmental information before they adopt a child from abroad - a practice that has more than tripled in the past 25 years. Established by two pediatricians with overseas experience, the clinic also provides comprehensive medical evaluations to the children as soon as they arrive in the United States.  
Call (773) 702-6169 or e-mail .    
- Lorilyn Rackl

Load-Date: July 16, 2003


End of Document
