




The Chronicle of Higher Education
November 23, 2001


Copyright 2001 The Chronicle of Higher Education
Section: RESEARCH & PUBLISHING; Pg. 17
Length: 408 words
Byline: NINA C. AYOUB
Body


When remembering Synanon, it's hard to get past the snake. That's the four-foot rattler two Synanon members placed in the mailbox of Paul Morantz, a lawyer doing battle with the commune, cult, church, what have you.
Just what to call Synanon is part of the problem. By 1978, when the lawyer was bitten, Synanon's synonym was "paranoid cult." But if infamous in the '70s, it had been simply famous in the '60s, and often acclaimed for rehabilitating drug addicts.
In The Rise and Fall of Synanon: A California Utopia(Johns Hopkins University Press), Rod Janzen is determined to recall the good with the bad. His account begins in 1958 in Santa Monica with Chuck Dederich, an alcoholic who was the group's charismatic founder. Dederich used his experience with Alcoholics Anonymous to create a new group to treat addicts, or "dopefiends" and "character disorders," as he called them. He was an "amateur semanticist" who saw new words as a key part of change, says Mr. Janzen, a professor of history and social sciences at Fresno Pacific University.
Rough in language and in tactics, Synanon became a commune where addicts were grilled at the door then "sent to the couch" to go cold turkey. "Sitting or lying in public areas, newcomers writhed in painful agony on the 'kicking couch' where they were given food and water, back rubs, a bucket to vomit in, and round-the-clock emotional support."
After withdrawal, they were put to work. Later they experienced "the game," Dederich's version of an encounter group based, Mr. Janzen says, on Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay "Self-Reliance." Synanites were encouraged to be brutally honest, spouting "indictments" to attack hypocrisy and fraud as their fellow communards "ran their stories."
The game and most other aspects of Synanon life were transformed as nonaddicts or "squares," and their children, were permitted to join. The group sought status as a church in 1974.
Synanon tended to lose members each time Dederich introduced new rules. Some were healthy but intrusive. A ban on smoking in a group that had depended on coffee and cigarettes alienated the "dopefiends" who felt they "deserved this one last addiction." On the bizarre side were forced vasectomies and forced changing of spouses and lovers.
In total, Synanon gained and lost some 25,000 members over 33 years. Noting the high turnover, Mr. Janzen observes, "when Synanon people engaged in mind control, they were evidently not very good at it."

Load-Date: January 2, 2002


End of Document
