




College Heights Herald: Western Kentucky University
May 18, 2019 Saturday


University Wire
Copyright 2019 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 777 words
Body


class="asset-contentsubscriber-premium">
VINTON - Nurses are vital links in the care needed by every patient seeking to recover from ill health. They are passionate about their profession and proud of the impact they can have in the lives of people.
In the course of providing that care, nurses often develop relationships - sometimes for life.
"I think the importance of nursing will never go away or diminish, said Lisa Staab, Windsor Manors executive director. "Nurses are needed and utilized in every capacity -from a hospital to a clinic to a nursing home to assisted living. Companies utilize nurses."
A need for nurses and the care they provide will always exist, said Staab. The populations' illness is never going to cease.
"Nurses are that first-sight assessment of a patient," said Staab. "They are usually the first person you see when you go into a clinic and sometimes even the hospital. They are the ones doing the 24 hour monitoring of people and then updating the physicians.
"Nurses are that first line of care," said Staab.
While monitoring for changes in a patient's medical condition, they also give comfort, answer questions and educate patients and family members, she said.
"There is constantly education going on and we are just one of tools that we use for that," said Staab.
Staab always like caring for people and being a problem solver. She has a nurturing side to her personality.
As a result, she always wanted to be a nurse. Mindy Van Ree, in charge of home health at the Vinton Lutheran Home, worked at Clingman Pharmacy while growing up. Jon Clingman and his staff encouraged Van Ree to join the pharmacy industry.
Instead, she chose to become a nurse.
"I came to realize that it was my passion, what I needed to do," said Van Ree.
While learning to be a nurse, Van Ree encountered some live experiences that taught her she could handle being a nurse. Her mother became ill; someone suffered an injury. Van Ree knew she could step in and assist in the situation.
"That role felt natural, and it felt great," said Van Ree. "That was sort of a confirmation as I was going through nursing school that I was where I needed to be."
Nursing school was difficult, but Van Ree said it should be that way so a person is prepared once they are in the field.
Van Ree attended Allen College in Waterloo through what she called a very good program. It provided hands on training which provided experience in almost every area of nursing before graduation. Oncology, maternity and everywhere in between.
By graduation, Van Ree understood what she liked about the profession and what she did not. She did not enjoy working in the emergency.
Oncology was emotionally tough because there were many seriously ill patients. Some were dealing with emotional issues as well as the illness.
Van Ree likes home health because she can visit patients in their homes. People choose to have the nurses visit their homes so that the patient can still live in their own home.
"It is nice because I can give back to the community," said Van Ree. "I grew up in Vinton so coming here and getting to be a nurse, I can see people I have known throughout my childhood ... and be able to help them as they are getting older.
More from this section
Third-hand smoke emerging as a new threat, particularly to children
As the opioid crisis peaks, meth and cocaine deaths explode
I'm getting a vasectomy
"It is a wonderful feeling."
During her 11 years as a nurse, there have been cases that still hold a special place in her heart. Her first home health initiative will hold such a spot.
There was a nice couple in town which whom she was very close and remained so even after they left home health services.
"They kind of became my second set of grandparents," said Van Ree. "I can think of hundreds that we have touched or changed their lives in some way."
There have been many instances where they see patients at a later day out in the community doing the things which they enjoy. Van Ree said she knows that in many instances that would never have happened without their services. The impact can last for years.
Van Ree's best advice for those contemplated a nursing career is to learn everything possible while in school. Every piece of knowledge will be important at some point.
"You are going to be able to pull that little bit of knowledge out and it is going to help you.
A second piece of advice is to wear their heart on their sleeve.
"You are going to become attached,"said Van Ree. "You are going to be able to help some of them. Some of them you are not going to be able to help.
"It is an emotional ride, but it is good ride."
This article originally ran on communitynewspapergroup.com.

Load-Date: May 19, 2019


End of Document
