




The Observer (La Grande, Oregon)
August 25, 2011 Thursday


Copyright 2011 The Observer
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News
Section: COMMENTARY
Length: 448 words
Byline: Jeff Petersen, The Observer, La Grande, Ore.
Body


Aug. 25--You've heard of the man cave, that workshop, garage or basement sanctuary where a man goes to think deep thoughts about important issues affecting the future of the world, like beer.
But you probably haven't heard about the man bouquet.
When a man gives a woman flowers, it's either romantic ... or he is trying to claw his way out of the doghouse.
All her friends and co-workers gather around, ooh and ah and become extremely jealous. All the other men threaten him for setting a dangerous precedent and wish he'd go back to standing around with three other equally romantic guys staring at spark plugs.
When a woman gives a man flowers, he may never hear the end of the needling.
So now there is a new concept: man bouquets.
They come in four sizes: small, medium, large and extra large. And like flowers, they can be delivered about anywhere.
Note to women: If you really want to reach your fellow's heart, buy him an extra large man bouquet.
The other day, Wonder, my fiance and the terrific woman I will be married to in less than three weeks, surprised me at the office with a man bouquet.
The box it came in -- yes, man bouquets don't come in vases -- had a heart with an arrow drawn through it by the Cupid delivery guy, as instructed by Wonder.
When Wonder talks, delivery guys listen. She sounds tall.
My co-workers were overjoyed.
Unlike the man bouquet, you can't share a flower bouquet. Besides, many parts of a flower taste like yesterday's socks.
Cornflowers do not taste like Corn Flakes.
Poppies don't snap, crackle or pop.
And rose stems are hard on the palate.
But you can hand out pieces of pizza to an enthusiastic crowd.
The ultimate man bouquet would be extra large. It would include a colorful array of ham, beef and barbecue sauce, chicken, cheddar cheese, provolone cheese, bacon and black olives, pineapple and pepperoni, diced tomatoes, mushrooms, onions, roasted red peppers, green peppers, jalapeno peppers, banana peppers, spinach, salami and shredded pamesan.
The aroma of such a bouquet would be outstanding.
The best part about a man bouquet, though, is that it can bloom at any time of the year.
The only difficulty in winter is delivery on icy roads.
Man bouquets are good for all occasions -- birthdays, anniversaries, even vasectomies.
Man bouquets are also good for sympathy if your man is facing a difficult challenge -- like a pinky splinter.
And if you're after love and romance, nothing says it better than a man bouquet, especially one featuring lots of pepperoni.
Reach the author at 
___ (c)2011 The Observer (La Grande, Ore.) Visit The Observer (La Grande, Ore.) at  Distributed by MCT Information Services

Load-Date: August 26, 2011


End of Document
