




The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)
March 31, 2012 Saturday


Copyright 2012 The Columbian Publishing Co. All Rights Reserved
Section: LETTERS TO EDITOR; Pg. A6
Length: 921 words
Body


Probst shows rational approach
I support the sentiments expressed by Rep. Tim Probst, D-Vancouver, in his March 25 op-ed column, "State's budget choices require head and heart." Unlike people who believe the state should be run like a business, where a budget is sacrosanct and any shortage in income must result in a cutting of expenditures, no matter how draconian, Probst thinks the state should run like a family, which would not think of dumping one of the kids because the rent is up, or cutting off a life-maintaining respirator because the electric bill increased.
Too many Washingtonians are falling for the Libertarian/Randian philosophy of every person for him/herself, rather than pulling together to solve problems. When my budget is tight, I look at all options: where can I skimp, what can I renegotiate, and how can I increase income. If I looked only at one of these, I would be a poor steward of my family's resources.
It's easy for my neighbor to tell me to feed the kids less, but not so easy for me as the responsible party. Our representatives are being responsible when they demand, as does Probst, a rational mix of options to maintain our budget and our responsibilities.
Jo'an Sterr
Vancouver
Amending pension plans is setback
The Columbian editorial board's support of the legislative plan to cut public employee pensions is off-base. As a member of the State Investment Board, I can tell you this plan hurts all taxpayers for decades to come and jeopardizes long-term funding. The Senate striking amendment to the state budget and the pension bill will, in the long term, reduce the investment returns to the pension trust fund.
Capping retirement "Plan 2s" and/or withholding the $130 million payment to the "Plan 1s" or withholding contributions from any of the plans will have a direct impact on investment earnings on the funds. The kind of legislative changes proposed will force the State Investment Board to change its strategy from long-term investments to more short-term liquid investments. This will lower the investment returns to the pension trust fund.
Washington pension plans are among the top three public pension plans in the nation as reported by the Legislature's own actuary. The investment returns were the best for public funds for the 10-year period ending June 2010.
Employers and employees should work together to identify ways to make the contributions necessary to fund all plans over the long term. Withholding employer contributions and changing benefits results in higher costs and lawsuits. Such actions are not reform.
George Masten
Olympia
Allow independence in politicians
It's a disheartening situation when our elected officials try their best to do what is best for their community, or what their constituents want, and then are penalized for casting their votes with that intention.
I've known county Commissioner Marc Boldt for many years, and you will find him at all kinds of community meetings and events, not that he has to be there, but he's there trying to meet people and find out what they want. I could say the same for U.S. Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler, R-Camas. They are both trying to do what their constituents want -- not necessarily what the Republican Party wants.
We have three good county commissioners, and I would like to believe that county government is not dictated to by either the Republican or Democratic parties. For the Republican Party to reprimand Boldt for his outstanding work and logical thinking is shameful.
If the Republican and Democratic parties would take the money they spend fighting each other, they could finance the building of our Columbia River Crossing and have lots of money left over.
We urgently need a strong, Independent Party or a People Party that uses its assets to listen to the public and make logical decisions, not those bought by big business.
Joe and Gayle Beaudoin
Vancouver
Facts working against Leavitt
In his State of the City address, Vancouver's current mayor anxiously wants everyone to believe the Columbia River Crossing project is beyond any reasonable criticism, and its critics are, well, unreasonable. Really?
Mayor Tim Leavitt might be more convincing if his own remarks were less overwrought. He likens our current I-5 Bridge to a "hemorrhaging   heart" which "must be operated on." Those swayed by Leavitt's bloody imagery are supposed to believe the $1.2 billion in federal funds expended for Vancouver light rail (unspecified in Leavitt's speech, but reported in a Feb. 29 Columbian story) is "free" money.
This ignores the fact that spending those monies on light rail rather than on a vehicles-only CRC project boosts its currently estimated total cost by 52 percent (to $3.5 billion, from the $2.3 billion it might cost without light rail). This also ignores the fact that CRC project downtown parking garages will hold only 2,890 cars "taken off the roads" by light rail -- merely 2.3 percent of the current (smaller) I-5 Bridge's average weekday vehicle traffic for 2010. Incurring a 52 percent cost increase for a 2.3 percent benefit is but one reason for Leavitt's desperate CRC rhetoric. The facts are against him.
John Burke
Vancouver
Another approach to health care
Since so many people, especially government officials in Texas, are trying to eradicate clinics catering to women's health, including the legal right to abortion, perhaps the federal government should ban vasectomy procedures and prohibit the production of Viagra. (The TV commercials for Viagra are appalling anyway.)
Norma Lahti
VANCOUVER

Load-Date: October 22, 2021


End of Document
