




The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)
January 29, 2009 Thursday


Copyright 2009 The Columbian Publishing Co. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. C4
Length: 1063 words
Body


Bailout sustains stable banks
Eric Jenks, in his Jan. 23 letter, "BOCC will be missed," commented that Bank of Clark County was a "quality institution," and Umpqua is "a bailed-out bank," (Umpqua received $214 million in TARP funds). There are two things he should keep in mind:
First, the federal government created a system by which only stable banks qualified for TARP funds, leading some to the impression that if a bank declines to take the money, they are in serious trouble. The reason Umpqua officials were asked to take $214 million was because they are a conservative lender and the government would like to see them free up credit. In other words, they got money because they are solid.
Second, BOCC was shut down by the FDIC because the bank had no liquidity, no capital, and was on the verge of not being able to cover its customer deposits. BOCC failed because it didn't properly account for future economic trouble. Umpqua did.
Paul A. Bate
Vancouver
Farewell means good riddance
Where have Sharon Gallagher and Floyd McCreary been for the last eight years? They are very generous in their thanks to George Bush in the Jan. 21 letter, "Thank you, President Bush," and list a handful of reasons to support their thesis. Bush leaves the White House as one of the least popular and most divisive presidents in American history. He presided over the most catastrophic collapse in America's reputation since World War II, which forced him to quiver as enormous and unpopular bailouts tried to salvage the banking industry and the automobile manufacturers.
As for me, instead of saying "Thanks," I will say "Good riddance."
John R. Silliman
Vancouver
New administration stand is weak
Can someone explain to me how our new Obama administration is going to "restore our moral standing" by refusing to harshly interrogate known terrorists and murderers for the purpose of saving innocent lives while simultaneously exporting the murder of innocent unborn babies through abortion? What a sick, twisted reality we have created.
Tom Doucette
Vancouver
Light rail should be reliable
I have traveled across bridges from coast to coast, on the other side of both ponds and large islands we call continents. Wherever my feet are on the ground and I have no reason to use personal transportation, I use public transportation. I believe planning for a new six-lane bridge - even with additional lanes using clever words like add/drop, pedestrian, light rail, etc. - to replace an existing bridge is ludicrous.
Looking at the Boise Cascade property development , it's obvious the builders need light rail as part of the carrot. To bring light rail across the river at taxpayer expense is border-line criminal. It should be criminal to tax citizens for a system that doesn't operate when climatic conditions should be keeping people from using personal transportation, such as during snowstorms. If I can't use public transportation when road conditions are less than sunshine and roses, why should I use it at all?
Jerry A. Lund
Vancouver
Replace only damaged license plates
If the state of Washington is truly interested in conserving material, I have a suggestion. Years ago, the Legislature was pressured to pass a law requiring auto license plates to be replaced at intervals on the theory that plates become defaced by weather. This law has cost many dollars needlessly as few plates are damaged excessively.
I have proof of this in my garage where I have several plates that were required to be replaced due to age, not damage. Think of the tons of metal that would be saved if this law was removed from the books. Think of the dollars that taxpayers would save if only damaged plates were required to be replaced.
Glen Calvin
Vancouver
Free choice must remain intact
Roe v. Wade gave women a free choice in the life process. It was about time. The opposers of Roe v. Wade are the ultra-hypocrites in the debate.
Conception of life begins at the moment two cells come together to form an egg. The Bible glorifies the creation of children and parenting. If opposers were confronted with the question, "Why did you deprive your future children from being conceived and born?" the same answer would ring loud and clear as in Roe v. Wade, "I or we don't want them." Conception is a personal choice, either beginning it or ending it.
If free choice is ended, criminalize all forms of interfering in the life process - abortions, vasectomies, tubal legations and contraceptives. As Jesus said, "Let those that are without sin cast the first stone."
Reno Hightower
Vancouver
Salmon habitat must be protected
Research suggests that up to one-fourth of the body weight of juvenile coho salmon comes from their stay in small permanent and intermittent streams. Up to one-third of the total coho population that even make it to the Pacific Ocean depend on these same areas, often being nothing more than mere ditches.
We're conceivably talking about areas that would be lost forever if overlooked as salmon habitat to inappropriately used wetland "credit purchases," especially if wetland banks were only seen as a way around inconvenient on-site mitigations. Think about one-third of the total population of one salmon species. This counts for cutthroat trout and many steelhead, too. Since 95 percent of the original stocks prior to Bonneville and Grand Coulee dams being built are gone forever, would it not make sense to consider these facts about salmon and trout as somewhat significant?
Jim Comrada
Vancouver
Bullies wound the world
People with personalities like George W. Bush's, Dick Cheney's, Rush Limbaugh's, Bill O'Reilly's, and some of the angry right who write venomous letters to editors have one thing in common: they are bullies. They boast and shove their way around. They behave like bullies for several reasons: One, their massive wounded egos; two, they realize their entire neo-con agenda is a dismal failure; three, they lack wisdom; and four, profits. They wound the world.
Hoping President Barrack Obama fails doesn't sound very patriotic to me. Nor does inciting fear, hate, and panic. Is this Christian? They blow smoke around everything so no one can make informed decisions.
Climate change is real. We live here. We waste and pollute. We contribute to the problem. I'm pleased to say that America just might have a chance to pull out of this death spiral. Let's boycott bullies.
Rich Stever
Vancouver

Load-Date: January 30, 2009


End of Document
