




The San Diego Union Tribune
October 15, 2016 Saturday
Final Edition


Copyright 2016 The San Diego Union-Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; A; Pg. 2
Length: 528 words
Body


'Undecided voter'
 gets lesson in fame
Ken Bone is learning the hard way what it's like to be famous. 
The 34-year-old undecided voter from Illinois became an overnight sensation following his appearance in a bright red sweater at the second presidential debate last weekend. He answered questions from Reddit users late Thursday and early Friday. 
Bone included his Reddit username in a Twitter post announcing the session. Those who looked up the name found Bone has shared his thoughts on such topics as images of a pregnant woman in a bikini and the increased "sexual satisfaction" he found after undergoing a vasectomy. 
In another post, he said the 2012 fatal shooting of Florida teen Trayvon Martin was justified but also expressed contempt for the shooter, George Zimmerman. 
The comments surprised some on social media, with one Twitter user joking: "example 1,345,702 that you should never meet your heroes because they're probably a weirdy." Another said that the undecided voter was "no longer undecided on the whole `twitter comes for everyone eventually."' 
Bone conceded that using his actual Reddit username in announcing the chat was "a bad call," but he also said: "I'm not running for president. I can say whatever I want." 
He also elaborated on his experience going from an unknown to a topic of conversation across the country in a matter of hours. 
"It's been unreal, both the good and the bad. Everybody has responded to the positive message with the exception of a few nuts," he wrote on Reddit. "For instance, I've had almost a quarter million new Twitter followers, and only 3 death threats. Great ratio!" 
Jimmy Kimmel has tapped Bone to serve as a special correspondent reporting from Las Vegas for his special post-debate program Wednesday. 
Jackson latest star
 to leave 'Hamilton'
Christopher Jackson, who earned a Tony Award nomination for originating the role of George Washington in "Hamilton," is leaving the Broadway show on Nov. 13. 
Jackson, who has a role in the CBS drama "Bull," joins fellow lead actors out the door, including Lin-Manuel Miranda, Tony winners Leslie Odom Jr., Daveed Diggs and Renee Elise Goldsberry, and fellow nominee Phillipa Soo. 
Jackson has played Simba in "The Lion King," Benny in "In the Heights," and Delray in "Memphis." Jackson was in "After Midnight," "Bronx Bombers" as Derek Jeter and "Holler If Ya Hear Me," the musical that used Tupac Shakur songs. 
Grace signs off after 
12 years on HLN
Nancy Grace has said goodnight for the final time after 12 years of discussing true crime stories from a prosecutor's point of view on TV. 
Grace ended her HLN program Thursday night. She signed off by highlighting some of her most popular moments on the program, including her coverage of the Casey Anthony trial, before thanking her fans and saying , "it's not goodbye, it's just good night friend." 
The former Atlanta prosecutor's interest in law was sparked in college when her fiancee was murdered. 
Grace hasn't offered any specifics on her future plans. She began her television career on Court TV before moving to HLN in 2005. 
Grace's program will be replaced by one hosted by CNN's Ashleigh Banfield. 
U-T News Services

Load-Date: October 15, 2016


End of Document
