




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
September 3, 2015 Thursday


Distributed by Newsbank, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2015 Cox Ohio Publishing. 
Section: SOUTHERN MONTGOMERY COUNTY/WARREN COUNTY; Pg. OZSR2
Length: 331 words
Byline: Pamela Dillon Contributing Writer
Body


Centerville High School graduate Danielle Rastetter opened Pets in Stitches, in Miamisburg, in 2011. Since then, she has performed more than 25,000 alternative surgical sterilization procedures on dogs and cats.
“Our new service ensures that dogs do not reproduce, yet still benefit from sex hormones throughout their lives,” Rastetter said. “This lessens the risk for certain cancers, behavioral issues and orthopedic problems that may increase with traditional spay or neuter, especially in specific breeds such as Labrador retrievers, Rottweilers, golden retrievers and vizslas.” 
Paulette Day of Trot-wood, who has a Rottweiler named Tatyana, found out about the clinic through her breeder. Tatyana was Rastetter’s first female patient. 
“My gosh, I can’t say enough about it. It was 5 stars plus,” Day said. “Dr. Rastetter addressed all of my concerns, allowed me to stay in the waiting room, and she and her staff stayed in contact before, during and after the procedure.” 
“There are several surgeries we now offer in this regard that can be compared to a human vasectomy or a hysterectomy procedure that leaves one or both ovaries intact,” said Rastetter, a Miamisburg resident. “Costs are reasonable and vary based on the size of the dog.” 
Fees start at $60 for cats, $95 for dogs and $165 for rabbits. Although special breeds can benefit from this alternative surgical sterilization, the veterinarian stresses this advancement is not necessarily the best choice for all breeds and owners. The clinic provides only sterilization services. 
Pets in Stitches is at 8265 Springboro Pike. 
Rastetter is a graduate of the Ohio State University College of Veterinary Medicine. 
Prior to starting her own sterilization clinic, Rastetter has worked at various veterinary facilities, as well as the Society for the Improvement and Conditions of Animals. 
Pets in Stitches is also a clinical training facility for Sinclair Community College. 
Contact this contributing 
writer at PamDillon@woh. 
rr.com.

Graphic

 
CONTRIBUTED" >Dr. Danielle Rastetter hugs Tatyana, her first female patient having the surgical sterilization procedure at Pets in Stitches.

Load-Date: November 30, 2023


End of Document
