




Indiana Statesman: Indiana State University
October 11, 2016 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2016 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 599 words
Byline: Rachel Baumgartner
Body


A common misconception revolving around Planned Parenthood is that they only offer abortions at their clinics. However, Planned Parenthood is one of the nation's leading providers of affordable health care for men and women. They are also the nation's largest providers of sex education in America. Services provided at locations other than abortions include contraceptives, cancer screenings, pregnancy help, sexually transmitted disease testing and more. Planned Parenthood exists for the sole purpose to provide men and women with needed services that they otherwise may not have access too elsewhere.
Just recently, the Terre Haute Planned Parenthood was forced to close its doors. This was because of a lack of funding to this Planned Parenthood. I know friends who have been without health services such as birth control since its closing two months ago. Planned Parenthood was an important part of the Terre Haute community, as it offered affordable health care to many of Terre Haute's female college students. After its closing, many were directed to the Bloomington location. For most, this is a far trip to make, and not easy to schedule in between classes and work. Many have now turned to the Crisis Pregnancy Center.
In 2012, Planned Parenthood Federation of America performed nearly five million sexually transmitted disease services. These include STI tests, genital wart treatments, HIV tests and other STD treatment plans. These services are crucial to men and women who do not have access to health insurance. PPFA also provided services close to four million contraceptive services. These services include long-term reversible contraception, emergency contraception, and female sterilization and vasectomy patients. One million cancer services were provided. Not only does Planned Parenthood screen for breast cancer, but they also screen for cervical and testicular cancer. They also provide Pap tests, HPV vaccinations, colposcopy procedures and cryotherapy procedures. These screens save thousands of lives every year. Other women's health services such as pregnancy tests and prenatal services are provided daily by Planned Parenthood. Abortion services were at just over 300,000. Other services such as adoption referrals, family practice services and urinary tract infection treatments were also provided.
Another service Planned Parenthood provides is sexual education. These services are provided at a wide range of locations, such as universities, prisons and social service programs. They focused on more than 28 different areas, such as HIV and family planning - including family life education, puberty education, sexual orientation/homophobia, sexually transmitted diseases and teen pregnancy education. In addition, 43,000 professionals such as teachers, addiction counselors and nurses who work with children, teens and young adults were provided with training programs.
Planned Parenthood has provided health care for millions of Americans. They have not only provided abortions services, but countless others that have saved lives, or improved the quality of life for numerous Americans. Nearly 11 million services were provided at Planned Parenthood Federation of America in 2012. Planned Parenthood has been providing affordable health care for 100 years, and will hopefully continue to do so for years to come.
If you would like to contact the Bloomington Planned Parenthood, you can reach them at 812-336-0219, or make an appointment on their website, plannedparenhood.org.
If you would like to contact Crisis Pregnancy Center, you can reach them at 812-234-8059.

Load-Date: October 12, 2016


End of Document
