




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
August 13, 2009 Thursday


Copyright 2009 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: A; Pg. 4
Length: 753 words
Byline: Ann Niday Straley 2458 Birchwood Drive
Body


Planned Parenthood employs a health education professional who is more than willing to speak with classes or groups and who is eager to help develop a comprehensive sex education curriculum for Dubuque public schools if she is given the chance to meet with school personnel.
Planned Parenthood = abortion, right? Wrong. Very wrong. There would be more abortions performed if Planned Parenthood did not exist.
We are not, as suggested in a letter to the editor (Pasnik, July 23), driven by dollar signs for providing abortions. Take away Planned Parenthood, add in the costs to see a health-care provider and to pay for contraceptives, and imagine how many more women would become pregnant and would be in the difficult position of considering termination of pregnancy.
Abortion services are a small percentage of what Planned Parenthood does. Yet a radical fringe wants people to believe that abortion is what Planned Parenthood is all about. They call us "baby killers" and imply that we encourage sex in adolescents.
The radicals skip over the numerous services that Planned Parenthood provides: reproductive health services, gynecologic evaluations, breast exams, pap smears (and management and follow up), HPV vaccine, STI testing including HIV, emergency contraception, vasectomies, patient education - the list goes on.
These services are performed in a non-judgmental environment where the calm and informed discussion of sexual health is a normal, nonthreatening occurrence.
Planned Parenthood health center staffers experience harassment of all kinds, need multiple security measures to do their jobs - and yet they do them with cheerfulness and compassion. They do more to support women and protect children in one day than all the anti-choice protesters, who wave signs and attempt to intimidate clients, do in their lifetimes.
Planned Parenthood is able to offer these services free or at reduced fees to the overwhelming majority of its clients. Many clients are without health care altogether and have no reproductive health-care option. This affordable reproductive health care comes to women through the generosity of donors, through state and federal programs and through non-profit pricing from vendors.
Just as the activist right-to-lifers distort what Planned Parenthood does, they also try to portray women who have had abortions as emotional wrecks consumed with guilt. Not all women who have had abortions have fits of depression, just as not all women who surrender babies for adoption have depression issues.
I have spoken to women who have had to make these tough decisions and who have gone on to lead happy and productive lives, including motherhood. I have also met young, single pregnant or recently delivered women who graduated from high school here and who now realize how inadequately their school experience in Dubuque prepared them for the sexual decisions they faced.
Unfortunately, Dubuque Community School District has failed to provide comprehensive sex education (other than abstinence only). Because of this, we have even more reason to celebrate the arrival of a Planned Parenthood health center. It employs a health education professional who is more than willing to speak with classes or groups and who is eager to help develop a comprehensive sex education curriculum for our schools if she is given the chance to meet with school personnel.
August marks a year of Planned Parenthood in Dubuque. May it continue to serve our community and to thrive as it carries out its important and vital mission. And may the non-vocal, non-protesting majority who support Planned Parenthood become more visible and more vocal and more involved in being sure that Planned Parenthood is here to stay and that our school system revise the sex education curriculum without further delay.
Planned Parenthood equals abortion. Think about how faulty that equation is and how you can be a part of ending abortion, not by protesting but by joining with us in providing services, education and family planning.
Put the fear of what others will think behind you and step up to what you believe and practice in your own personal life. Be a part of making a difference in the lives of the less fortunate. You will be proud for living your truth openly.
Straley, a resident of Dubuque for 35 years, is a retired librarian and a member of the board of Planned Parenthood of East Central Iowa. Straley holds a leadership position in her church, is married and has adopted children. E-mail Straley at 

Load-Date: August 13, 2009


End of Document
