




Chicago Daily Herald
September 3, 2014 Wednesday


Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: SPECIAL SECTIONS; Pg. 3
Length: 2752 words
Byline: By Janice Youngwith
Body


Like many men, Siegfried Kalessa, 65, believes a great offense is the best defense, especially when it comes to preventing prostate cancer. His doctor concurred.
The retired Arlington Heights cabinetmaker says it was his commitment to an annual physical and his doctor's diligence in testing for and noticing a sudden and rapid rise in his prostate-specific antigen (PSA) score which raised a red flag. A subsequent urology visit and springtime biopsy left the father of two grown children and active grandfather who helps care for two grandchildren with an early-stage prostate cancer diagnosis.
In conjunction with his medical advisers, Kalessa opted for treatment including two months of daily intensity-modulated radiation treatments (IMRT) at nearby Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove Village. Three tiny tattoos helped radiation specialists target treatments, which concluded this past June.
"I'm told this was caught very early and have no doubts we were able to prevent something much worse," he says.
Phil Loveall, 73, retired Maine South English department chairman, says it was during an annual physical and rectal exam in 2009 that his doctor first felt something "not quite right."
A subsequent biopsy led to the fateful diagnosis — prostate cancer. With a Gleason score of 7.5, the father of three and grandfather of four says he was told his risk was "borderline" or "marginal." Yet he remained concerned.
Loveall immediately began the quest to learn all he could about prostate cancer and treatment options. His search for answers led to the discovery of a colleague's son-in-law, Dr. Steven Campbell, who was a urologist at the Cleveland Clinic. Together with his wife, Mary Ann, he eventually opted to travel to Cleveland for robotic surgery to remove the prostate. Loveall says he had a great deal of confidence in his decision and his surgical team, which included Dr. Michael Gong, who already had performed more than 400 robotic procedures. Both Drs. Campbell and Gong, he later learned, are Elk Grove High School graduates.
"After surgical removal and biopsy, we discovered that this was, indeed, an aggressive form of prostate cancer," says Loveall, noting his quest for information and decision-making process was the "right thing to do."
Last year, doctors again became concerned as they documented Loveall's rising PSA level.
"We agreed that radiation treatment, to target any remaining random cells in the prostate bed, was the way to go," recalls Loveall, who is exceptionally grateful to Dr. Martin Boyer at Alexian Brothers for "taking so much time to explain the need for the 34 radiation treatments and develop a tremendous personal relationship."
To screen or not … to treat or not?
With leading advocacy and research organizations beginning to unite on recommendations for screening and best practices for treating prostate cancer, Durado Brooks, M.D., M.P.H., director of the American Cancer Society's national prostate and colorectal cancers program in Atlanta, says the decision to screen and even treat has become a hot topic for men and their doctors.
"Prostate cancer is often a very survivable disease," Dr. Brooks says. "Most leading research organizations now recommend men become educated about the benefits and limitations of screening, then with their doctors, make an informed decision regarding both screening and treatment. Prostate cancer is a common malignancy affecting so many men, but there are a number of gray areas when it comes to screening and treating."
Although prostate cancer is very common, research shows that in many cases, the cancer grows so slowly that it isn't likely to cause health problems during a man's lifetime.
Dr. Brooks' observations are on target, according to American Cancer Society statistics which indicate close to 100 percent of men are still alive five years after diagnosis, and nearly 2.8 million prostate cancer survivors are alive today. When looking at all stages of prostate cancer, the 10-year survival rate is 99 percent and 15-year relative survival rate, 94 percent.
"But the disease can be an adamant foe when it progresses to an advanced stage," cautions Dr. Brooks, who notes that African American men are 63 percent more likely to be diagnosed with prostate cancer compared to white men. They're also more than twice as likely to die from the disease.
"Screening for some cancers can indeed save lives and there's broad agreement when it comes to screening for breast cancer or colorectal cancers," Dr. Brooks says. "The same doesn't hold true for prostate cancer and the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening exam."
The simple blood test, which has been commonly used to screen for prostate cancers, looks for PSA, a substance that may be found in high amounts in men with prostate cancer.
However, according to Dr. Brooks, a high PSA level does not always mean that a man has prostate cancer. PSA levels may be high in men with other types of prostate problems, and many PSA readings show a gradual assent for many years.
Leading national organizations unite on recommendations
In May 2012, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended against routine PSA screening for prostate cancer, citing only a small potential benefit and significant potential harms. In 2013 the
American Urological Association modified its long-standing recommendation for routine screening, cautioning in guidelines that screening may not always be the best approach and recommending that decisions regarding screening and treatment be individualized.
"The American Cancer Society encourages clinicians to not screen patients with a PSA test unless the individual being screened understands what is known about PSA screening and makes the personal decision that even a small possibility of benefit outweighs the known risk of harms," says Dr. Brooks, who notes that both the American Urological Association and the American Cancer Society strongly recommend shared decision-making for men age 55 to 69 years who are considering PSA screening, and proceeding based on a man's values and preferences.
"From their perspective, it's a discussion which, ideally, should start with men and their doctors at age 50, or sooner if there is a family history or other significant reason," he states.
Dr. Brooks notes that the recommendations of all of these organizations by their consistency indicate that there are legitimate questions about the efficacy of prostate cancer screening using PSA.
Over the past several years, a number of clinical studies have been published addressing prostate cancer screening.
According to Dr. Brooks, some of these studies suggest screening is beneficial, some suggest screening is not beneficial. All demonstrate screening leads to treatment which is associated with some harm. None of these studies can be considered decisive other than in proving that there are some harms associated with treatment.
Informed-decision making
In addition to the issues around screening, there also are questions and uncertainties regarding the treatment of localized prostate cancer. There often is no clearly identifiable "best" treatment and in many instances it appears that not treating the disease may be the best option.
"It's a complex issue," admits Dr. Brooks, who says in many cases the recommendations might seem counterintuitive. "If you have cancer, why wouldn't you want to treat it? Most men likely want to take an immediate and proactive approach to get rid of the cancer."
But, he cautions, in most instances, prostate cancer isn't likely to lead to death and many patients have other health issues which are of greater concern.
Once cancer is diagnosed, Dr. Brooks says analyzing findings, seeking additional testing, and determining which cancers require immediate treatment and which are best managed through active surveillance, is critical.
"The life-altering complications of treatment, including urinary retention issues, impotence, infections and even death associated with treatment, cannot be ignored," says Dr. Brooks, who reiterates the need for men to educate themselves and ask questions. "Distinguishing cancers which truly are significant and require immediate treatment is essential, especially when so many are extremely slow growing."
Selecting individual treatment options and ultimately finding answers is critical as the baby boom population ages, prostate cancer diagnoses rise and health care costs soar.
According to Dr. Brooks, that is the challenge facing physicians and patients alike as they peruse today's treatment options including surgical intervention, therapies such as radiation, brachytherapy, protons, cryotherapy and hormones, or active surveillance and watchful waiting.
Help in the decision-making process
"We do have tools which can help us make the best individual decisions regarding treatment," says Dr. Brooks, who points to Gleason scores which can indicate if a cancer is likely to grow and spread rapidly, and genetic marker tests, new in the last two to three years, which can help profile the tumor.
He also points to a number of special resources which can help spur the conversation with health care providers about screening and treatment options.
The Informed Medical Decisions Foundation offers decision aids to present the various treatment options in an unbiased, balanced way to help patients make an informed choice. Tools are designed to complement, rather than replace, counseling from a health care provider, and can be used to facilitate a shared decision-making conversation between patient and provider.
The American Cancer Society offers an online informed decision making video and matrix designed to help patients better understand treatment options
"The American Cancer Society has long advocated in behalf of individual physician-doctor conversations surrounding prostate cancer screening and early detection," Dr. Brooks says. "That conversation should be ongoing as physicians work to stratify treatment decisions on the basis of individual need and using multiple tools such as PSA testing, physical exam, biopsy samples, Gleason scores and individual risk."
The American Cancer Society's goal, he says, is to increase awareness of prostate cancer as an important health concern among American men. Other than skin cancer, prostate cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in men, and incidence rates are significantly higher in African American men. The American Cancer Society is funding 82 studies totaling nearly $28 million for prostate cancer research.
According to Dr. Brooks, "Many survivors are staunch, but not unbiased, advocates for screening and convinced, despite evidence to the contrary, that in nearly all situations, screening and aggressive treatment save lives. For men who have fast-growing forms of the disease, treatment may be lifesaving. But for many other men, the harms associated with treatment cause more challenges than cancer ever would."
Additional information
For additional information about prostate cancer, treatment options and support groups, call the American Cancer Society at (800) 227-2345 or visit cancer.org.
SIDEBARS:
Prostate cancer by the numbers
Other than skin cancer, prostate cancer is the most common cancer in American men. The American Cancer Society's estimates for prostate cancer in the United States for 2014 are:
* About 233,000 new cases of prostate cancer will be diagnosed
* About 29,480 men will die of prostate cancer
* About one man in seven will be diagnosed with prostate cancer during his lifetime.
* Prostate cancer occurs mainly in older men. About six cases in 10 are diagnosed in men aged 65 or older, and it is rare before age 40. The average age at the time of diagnosis is about 66.
* Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in American men, behind only lung cancer. About one man in 36 will die of prostate cancer.
* Prostate cancer can be a serious disease, but most men diagnosed with prostate cancer do not die from it. In fact, more than 2.5 million men in the United States who have been diagnosed with prostate cancer at some point are still alive today.
Source: American Cancer Society
American Cancer Society recommendations for prostate cancer screening
The American Cancer Society recommends men talk with their health care provider about being tested for prostate cancer so they can make an informed decision. The decision should be made after a man has gotten information about the uncertainties and possible risks and benefits of prostate cancer testing. Men should not be tested until they have received this information.
Men at average risk for prostate cancer who are expected to live at least another 10 years or more should have this discussion beginning at age 50.
African American men and men with a family history of prostate cancer (e.g., father, brother, or son who had prostate cancer before age 65) are at increased risk, and should have this talk beginning at age 45.
Men at even higher risk of getting prostate cancer (e.g., those with more than one family member who had prostate cancer before age 65) should have this discussion starting at age 40.
If, after this talk, a man decides to be tested, a blood test for prostate-specific antigen (PSA) should be done. A digital rectal examination (DRE) is optional. The conversation about testing should be repeated periodically, as men's circumstances and preferences can change over time.
For additional information about prostate cancer, call (800) 227-2345 or visit cancer.org.
Prostate cancer risks
While scientists don't yet completely understand the causes of prostate cancer, researchers have found several factors that might change the risk of getting it. They include:
* Age: Prostate cancer is very rare in men younger than 40, but the chance of having prostate cancer rises rapidly after age 50. About 6 in 10 cases of prostate cancer are found in men over the age of 65.
* Race/ethnicity: Prostate cancer occurs more often in African-American men and Caribbean men of African ancestry than in men of other races. African-American men are more likely to be diagnosed at an advanced stage, and are more than twice as likely to die of prostate cancer as white men.
* Nationality: Prostate cancer is most common in North America, northwestern Europe, Australia, and on Caribbean islands. It is less common in Asia, Africa, Central America and South America.
* Family history: Prostate cancer seems to run in some families, which suggests that in some cases there may be an inherited or genetic factor. Having a father or brother with prostate cancer more than doubles a man's risk of developing this disease.
* Genes: Scientists have found several inherited gene changes that seem to raise prostate cancer risk, but they probably account for only a small number of cases overall.
* Diet: Men who eat a lot of red meat or high-fat dairy products appear to have a slightly higher chance of getting prostate cancer. These men also tend to eat fewer fruits and vegetables. Some studies also suggest that men who consume a lot of calcium (through food or supplements) may have a higher risk of developing prostate cancer.
* Obesity: Most studies have not found that being obese (very overweight) is linked with a higher risk of getting prostate cancer overall.
* Smoking: Most studies have not found a link between smoking and the risk of developing prostate cancer.
* Workplace exposures: There is some evidence that firefighters are exposed to substances (toxic combustion products) that may increase risk.
* Inflammation of the prostate: Some studies have suggested that prostatitis (inflammation of the prostate gland) may be linked to an increased risk, but other studies have not found such a link. Inflammation is often seen in samples of prostate tissue that also contain cancer. The link between the two is not yet clear, but this is an active area of research.
* Sexually transmitted infections: Researchers have looked to see if sexually transmitted infections (like gonorrhea or chlamydia) might increase risk, possibly because they may lead to inflammation of the prostate. So far, studies have not agreed, and no firm conclusions have been reached.
* Vasectomy: Some earlier studies suggested that men who have had a vasectomy (minor surgery to make men infertile) — especially those younger than 35 at the time of the procedure — may have a slightly increased risk. But most recent studies have not found any increased risk among men who have had this operation.
Source: American Cancer Society

Graphic

 
Phil Loveall, pictured with wife Mary Ann, opted to travel to Cleveland for robotic surgery to remove the prostate. Loveall says he had a great deal of confidence in his decision and his surgical team.Dr. Durado Brooks

Load-Date: September 3, 2014


End of Document
