




The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
April 18, 2007 Wednesday
Main Edition


Copyright 2007 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. 16A
Length: 880 words
Byline: DAVID ROBINSON, C.D. MONROE, JOYCE KACHERGIS, KATHY WINTERS, HERBERT SHAFER, LYNN CORDNER, LAURA E. TAYLOR, HAYDEN KEPNER

For the Journal-Constitution
Body


PeachCare: Responses to "PeachCare aid also humbling," @issue, April 17
Try better birth control, not more children
Until now, I did not find it necessary to enter into the heated discussion over PeachCare. I am proud to have my tax dollars support this worthy program. Humanitarian issues aside, there are myriad socio-economic reasons to insure the physical and mental health of our future Georgians.
What I do object to is Michael Post's appalling sense of entitlement. Referring to his as yet unborn child, ". . . our autistic child will have another sibling to help provide care to her." When are we going to stop burdening future generations with the consequences of our own actions?
I would suggest to Post that like him, his children may find themselves financially unable to care for their sister. Who then will Post designate as his own personally appointed caregiver?
There are methods of birth control that are 100 percent effective, and Post and his wife should schedule a visit with a physician who can enlighten them on these methods.
LYNN CORDNER, Peachtree City
Family planning needs a bigger role
While I understand the Rev. Michael Post's decision to follow his calling and raise a family while doing so, being a man of the cloth does not require abdication of all responsibility. He and his wife have an autistic child, something over which they had no control, and they are doing what all good parents do --- attempt to provide what that child needs to survive. However, they did have some control over the birth of subsequent children they could not afford, especially in light of the fact that they knew their autistic daughter would need very expensive special care for the rest of her life.
Telling the public paying for his children's health care due largely to the selection of a profession he chose that there was a "surprise" pregnancy after 2 1/2 years of no pregnancies is cold comfort to taxpayers who know that a $400 vasectomy (virtually permanent birth control) would most likely have allowed him to provide adequate health care coverage for the children he and his wife already had.
Reverend, my prayers are with you and your family, but please don't insult the public's intelligence by attempting to justify utilizing the state welfare system to pay for your lack of adequate family planning.
LAURA E. TAYLOR, Buford
Pulitzer Prize: Responses to "AJC's Tucker, Klibanoff, Atlanta poet win Pulitzers," Page One, April 17
It's great to win --- and give back
Just wanted to say how happy I am that Cynthia Tucker has won the Pulitzer Prize for commentary, as hers has been a forceful voice for change since the 1980s. I think she has given class and insight to shows such as "The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour" --- now known as "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer" --- and has represented your paper and women of color very well.
I hope her first act is to acknowledge all those who went before and made it possible for her to stand on their shoulders. More important, I hope she does the same for every little girl out there, so that they don't take no "[Don] Imus."
C.D. MONROE, Washington
Thought-provoking
Congratulations to Cynthia Tucker. So deserving for her thought-provoking writing. I've agreed with her most of the time, but when I didn't agree, rather than disagreeing, I learned. I like that.
KATHY WINTERS, Sandy Springs
Cynthia Tucker deserves tribute
It is wonderful that Cynthia Tucker won a Pulitzer Prize. I wrote to her in the mid-1990s thanking her for being a needed clear voice. I can't think of anyone as good as Tucker when it comes to the kind of original, perceptive thinking that is so badly needed in this country.
She is so very good, and this prize is so deserving. It is also a tribute to the ability to think. Would that more of our correspondents and talking heads had Tucker's abilities. 
JOYCE KACHERGIS, Pittsboro, N.C.
A presidential voice
Cynthia Tucker's Pulitzer, while long overdue, was inevitable. Her voice --- always reasoned, always presidential, always incisive and never strident --- is one reason why the Journal-Constitution is a world-class newspaper.
HERBERT SHAFER, Atlanta
Deadly to ignore global warming
In the April 17 letter headlined "Unscientific scare tactics are real danger," the writer says: "Many scientists do not agree with the dangers of global warming as preached by [Al] Gore and his comrades" as well as, "This is nothing more than an attempt to bring us down to the level of third-class nations. It plays into the hands of those who want to harm America."
This is the same type of fallacious logic that places nonscientific nonsense such as intelligent design over the scientifically proven theory of evolution.
What will continue to harm America is believing mythology and conservative rhetoric over the facts right in front of one's face.
DAVID ROBINSON, Augusta
Wrong seniors hit
Let's see, Gov. Sonny Perdue wants to eliminate the state income tax on rich seniors who have retirement incomes of more than $100,000 per year. But he wants to keep the state income tax on poor seniors who need to work as greeters at Wal-Mart to make ends meet.
Gee, it sure sounds like he's got his priorities straight.
HAYDEN KEPNER, Marietta
* MORE LETTERS: For reader comments on the Virginia Tech shootings, see the previous page, A15

Graphic

 
Photo: JOEY IVANSCO / StaffMichael Post, and his wife, have come under criticism for their use of PeachCare. AJC readers say that they are taking advantage of taxpayers with selfish life choices. The Posts say it's OK to receive some aid in caring for their children./ImageData* ImageData*
Photo: The Pulitzer Prize medal/ImageData*

Load-Date: April 18, 2007


End of Document
