




BenefitsPro
July 2014


Copyright 2014 The National Underwriter Company All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS
Length: 808 words
Byline: By Denis Storey
Body


And here I thought I was done writing about . Last one, I promise. If you're still reading...
It finally - and belatedly - caught up to me this morning why this case has generated so much outrage. On both sides.
It's one of those cases of religion and politics - those two taboo dinner table dates - that are becoming increasingly more commonplace.
While I'm certainly among a minority when I admit big religion scares me just as much as big government, this is clearly a case of the two colluding to dictate public policy.
My argument, beneath the admittedly over-the-top literary flourishes, was two-fold. One, that business owners should not be able to dictate public policy, or impose moral (religious) standards on its employees. And, two, that Hobby Lobby's stance was not only inherently sexist given their coverage of vasectomies and Viagra, but also hypocritical given their 401(k) investments.
It goes without saying that the ruling in this case does not force women to have babies. Nor does it force them to wear burqas or hijabs.
I was employing a literary, and legal, device know as "reductio ad absurdum" in which I took Hobby Lobby's argument to its logical, however absurd, extreme. My belief - I still have those, too, right? - is that this ruling (not unlike the Citizens United decision that laid the groundwork for this) is just the beginning.
This clearly opens the floodgates (slippery slope, whatever) to other corporations (who are people now, too) to further dictate the lives of their employees. We've already seen the results. As Forbes , Eden Foods founder Michael Potter wants to refuse paying for any kind of birth control for his employees.
The conservative Thomas More Law Center released a statement arguing Potter's case, which reads, in part, "For years, Michael Potter, a Roman Catholic, President and sole shareholder of Eden Foods Corporation, for religious reasons, had arranged for the Blue Cross/Blue Shield insurance coverage he designed for his employees to specifically exclude coverage for contraception and abortifacients.
"In accordance with his Catholic faith, Potter believes that any action which either before, at the moment of, or after sexual intercourse, is specifically intended to prevent procreation, whether as an end or means - including abortifacients and contraception - is wrong."
This will only continue. And God help us (pun intended) if corporations want to start exercising their Second Amendment rights as well. We'll all be packing sidearms in every conference room and Christmas party, after we say our proper benedictions, of course. It's like a cleaner version of the Old West.
And, to steal from John Oliver, if corporations are people afforded freedoms of expression and religion, then why aren't they equally responsible for, say taking the lives of 16 people (and counting) as GM has because of faulty ignition switches? Shouldn't they be executed for mass murder? Any person would. You can't have it both ways.
I did make the mistake, however, of falling into the trap set by Hobby Lobby and its supporters when they argue, by implication, that birth control is used solely for the purposes of contraception. Because it's not. Many women require this for health reasons. We can't allow this debate to be framed this way, or there's no point.
Finally, let's not forget that this decision was handed down by five Catholic men. Whether it means anything is debatable, but for the sake of appearances, it certainly looks like a case of religion and government conspiring to dictate health care for women in this country. If that doesn't sound like an Islamic state, I don't know what does.
Again, you can't tell me that if the Green family believed so strongly in this cause - which is certainly their right - that they couldn't filter their investments likewise. I'm sorry, but telling me they didn't have any choice is a cop out.
And I can't help but wonder how the pious founders of Hobby Lobby feel about our Pope Francis, who said, "Human rights are not only violated by terrorism, repression or assassination, but also by unfair economic structures that creates huge inequalities."
(Yes, I'm Catholic, as well, but that's none of your business. It's between God and me. And I impose that on no one, not even my children.)
"Christianity neither is, nor ever was a part of the common law," Thomas Jefferson once wrote.
"Under God," wasn't written into the Pledge of Allegiance until more than a decade after its adoption.
This nation was founded (by immigrants, but that's another blog altogether) by pioneers fleeing religious persecution. History has a funny, and tragic, way of repeating itself.
And before you pull out the religious freedom card, keep in mind that there's a fine line between exercising one's freedom of and infringing on another's freedom from.

Load-Date: July 8, 2014


End of Document
