




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
June 25, 2002 Tuesday
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: HEALTH,; RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Length: 525 words
Body


A pilot project to test newborns for cystic fibrosis revealed potentially life-threatening lung infections six months to a year before they would have caused symptoms and been detected through usual means, a study by Wisconsin researchers found.
 But the project also exposed many children to germs sooner.
 Researchers also found drawbacks to some antibiotic treatments for cystic fibrosis-related infections.
The results show how complex it is to sort out whether screening and early treatment are beneficial.
 "One of the things our study is doing is drawing more attention to the risks of screening" and ways to reduce them, said Philip Farrell, dean of the University of Wisconsin Medical School in Madison, who led the work with UW microbiologist Linda West.
 The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health, and results were published last week in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
 Cystic fibrosis is the most common serious genetic disease among whites, occurring in one in 3,500 births. About 30,000 Americans have the disease, and about 15 to 20 babies are born with it in Wisconsin each year.
 CF causes production of thick, sticky mucus that clogs lungs and the pancreas, blocking enzymes that help digest food. The mucus makes people with the disease especially susceptible to lung infections, and one germ -- Pseudomonas aeruginosa -- is especially common. Once the bacteria become fully entrenched in the lungs, they can be impossible to eliminate, leading to progressive, permanent lung damage and death.
 Newborn screening projects, which are under way in eight states, are aimed at learning whether early diagnosis of the disease improves survival.
 Researchers studied 68 patients diagnosed with cystic fibrosis through newborn screening from April 1985 to April 2000. They took blood samples at 6 months of age and every six months after that, looking for antibodies indicating that the children had been infected with the bacteria.
 Such signs were found in most patients six months to a year before they showed signs of illness.
 But the study also found signs that continuous or heavy use of oral antibiotics may kill weak germs, making it easier for hardier bacteria to flourish.
 Vasectomy & cancer risk
 Contrary to some earlier evidence, a new study finds that men who have a vasectomy don't have an increased risk of developing prostate cancer, even 25 years later.
 "There was no association between prostate cancer and vasectomy, nor with time since vasectomy," said Brian Cox, a researcher at New Zealand's University of Otago and lead author of the study, published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.
 Prostate cancer is a leading cancer concern for American men, second in incidence only to skin cancer.
 Vasectomy is the surgical blocking of tubes that deliver sperm from the testes,.
 While there is no biological explanation for why vasectomy might increase the risk of cancer in the prostate gland, a few studies done in the early 1990s suggested there was a moderately increased chance, particularly in men who had the surgery in their 20s or 30s. Other researchers found no increased risk.

Load-Date: June 25, 2002


End of Document
