




Sequim Gazette (Washington)
June 8, 2022


Copyright 2022 Black Press Inc. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1670 words
Body


Low semen volume is a common issue facing most men today. New supplements like Semenax claim to help boost your semen volume so that you can have more immersive orgasms. Read on below to find out whether the new Semenax supplement, reviewed in the AP News here, can help give you more enjoyable orgasms so that you can have a more fulfilling sexual experience.Causes of Low Semen in Men
Here are some of the main reasons why your semen volume might be low:Low testosterone levels: A massive drop in testosterone as you grow older will cause lower ejaculate volume.Weak pelvic floor muscles: These muscles help support your bowels and bladder and significantly affect your sexual performance.Psychological issues: Various things like anxiety around intimacy, depression, and other psychological problems can affect your semen volume.Retrograde ejaculation: This is where the semen travels back to the bladder rather than being ejaculated outside.
There are multiple reasons why men may want more exceptional seminal fluid during ejaculation. Some men are keen on impressing their partners by increasing their semen volume, while others are looking to experience more intensive or longer-lasting orgasms. You can surely correct all these issues by taking semen volume-boosting supplements.Introducing Semenax
Semenax is an innovative semen volume-boosting supplement that was designed to enable men to get better orgasms. The supplement uses a customized mixture of natural plants, amino acids, herbs, and other vital nutrients to promote higher seminal fluid production in the body. Some ingredients like L-arginine and pine bark used in this product have already been shown to boost ejaculate volume significantly. In addition, other natural ingredients in Semenax also support high testosterone levels, which can improve your sexual performance and stamina.
The best thing about Semenax is that it works even if you have undergone a vasectomy. It is worth noting that a vasectomy only prevents the sperm from mixing with your seminal fluid, and it doesn't prevent ejaculations. Hence, you can safely use Semenax to restore your semen volume after getting a vasectomy.Semenax Dosage Instructions
Semenax comes in easy-to-use tablets, with each bottle containing 120 pills that are to be used for one month. The manufacturer recommends taking four pills of Semenax every single day with food. You can take two pills with your breakfast and the other two with dinner.How Soon Will You Get Results With Semenax?
Most men who use Semenax have reported seeing improvements and noticeable results within a month. Nevertheless, it would help if you gave the supplement sufficient time to work since it uses natural ingredients that may require some time to boost your ejaculate volume. Most optimal outcomes will be evident in at least two or three months of daily usage.Does Semenax Have Side Effects?
Semenax is generally considered safe for consumption as there haven't been any adverse reactions reported after using this product. That is mainly because it contains purely natural ingredients. Nevertheless, it is still advisable to talk to your healthcare provider if you want to take Semenax and have specific allergies or take other medicines that may react to this supplement.
Key ingredients in Semenax
Here is a breakdown of the natural ingredients in Semenax and how they contribute to semen volume:Vitamin E: This vitamin improves testosterone production, which contributes to better libido and stamina. In addition, vitamin E also contains powerful antioxidants that fight free radicals.Zinc aspartate: Zinc supplementation has been proven to boost semen volume significantly. This mineral also increases both testosterone and sperm production in the body.Sarsaparilla: The saponins found in Sarsaparilla increase the absorption of all the ingredients used in Semenax.Maca root: This cruciferous vegetable is closely related to kale and broccoli, and it works by boosting energy and libido in the body. Furthermore, maca root has a high amount of fatty acids, which contribute to better mental health.Swedish flower pollen: This unique pollen helps men to maintain healthy prostate function.L-carnitine: The L-carnitine amino acid works by improving sexual health and sperm count. Some studies also show that it may improve heart health and contribute to stronger muscles.L-lysine: This ingredient stimulates testosterone and sperm production while improving semen volume and quality.L-arginine: Several studies show L-arginine can boost blood flow and general ejaculate volume in men.Pine bark: During a recent study, men given pine bark extract experienced greater sperm volume, motility, and concentration. That is why it is typically recommended for men that are attempting to get their partners pregnant.Catuaba extract: This powerful aphrodisiac can improve your sexual performance by enhancing your arousal and libido during intercourse.Hawthorn berry: This extract improves cardiovascular function and blood circulation in the body.Cranberry extract: Cranberry has been traditionally used to treat urinary tract health issues because it has anti-inflammatory effects. In addition, cranberry extract may also help in reducing prostate swelling.Oat straw extract: This plant has potent anti-inflammatory effects and may also contribute to higher free testosterone levels in your body.Pumpkin seed: Semenax also contains pumpkin seeds, known for improving testosterone levels and sperm count. Pumpkin also boasts high amounts of omega-3 compounds.Epimedium sagittatum: This natural herb supports better erections by ensuring optimal artery dilation inside the penis.Muira puama: This bark is commonly used in Asian herbal medicine due to its potent healing effects. This ingredient was added to Semenax due to its ability to improve stimulation receptiveness during intercourse.Butea Superba: This Asian shrub is considered to have potent aphrodisiac effects. It contains various strong flavonoids that have beneficial anti-inflammatory properties.Tribulus Terrestris: This ingredient enhances sperm production and overall sexual performance in men.
All the ingredients listed above are found in Semenax, and they all combine to enhance your semen volume significantly.
Purchasing Semenax
Semenax is available on the official site at different discounts based on the number of bottles you buy at one go. Customers have the choice of twelve, six, three, or one-month packages. However, it is worth noting that you will not get free shipping with your order if you opt to buy a single bottle of Semenax. The only way to benefit from free shipping, including free global shipping, is to get any of their bulk multiple-month packages. If you want to try it out, you can get the formula in 3 different priced packages or as a single bottle purchase:One-month $59.95 / Plus small shipping costThree-month package at only $154.95 / Free worldwide shippingSix-month supply $289.95 / Free worldwide shippingTwelve-month supply $399.95 / Free worldwide shipping
If you want to avoid missing your Semenax dosage and have more reliable outcomes, then you can purchase the full-year supply of this supplement for only $399.95.
The best advantage of buying the multiple-month packages of Semenax is that you can save on the costs per bottle. For instance, the yearly package has a tremendous discount of less than $30 per bottle as compared to the price of buying a single bottle on its own. Nevertheless, all orders are covered with extensive money-back protection. Read on below for more details about the Semenax refund policy.Does Semenax Have a Money-back Guarantee?
Semenax offers all clients a solid refund policy where unsatisfied customers can return containers of this product and get their funds back in full. The returns should be made within the first 60 days of getting the supplement. However, keep in mind that the manufacturer will only refund you the total costs of every bottle and not the shipping costs.
The manufacturer has also noted that all returns need to reach them within 67 days to avoid issues. That means clients should do their best to send the returns within 60 days to allow sufficient time for shipping and handling. If you miss out on this deadline period, then Semenax won't be able to finalize your refund. It is also worth noting that refunds are restricted to one order for each client.North America Toll-Free: 1-866-621-6886International: 1-604-677-5365Hours: 6 am - 10 pm Pacific Time, seven days a week excluding holidays.Semenax Final verdict
The numerous varieties available for semen volume-boosting supplements can make it challenging to choose the best one. Nevertheless, Semenax has emerged as an excellent choice based on multiple positive customer reviews. Their proprietary natural formula contains superior ingredients that have been shown to improve semen volume significantly. Overall, Semenax is undoubtedly worth a look if you want to boost your semen volume.
RELATED: Best Male Enhancement Pills – Top 11 Recommended Supplements
Affiliate Disclosure:
The links contained in this product review may result in a small commission if you opt to purchase the product recommended at no additional cost to you. This goes towards supporting our research and editorial team and please know we only recommend high quality products.
Disclaimer:
Please understand that any advice or guidelines revealed here are not even remotely a substitute for sound medical advice from a licensed healthcare provider. Make sure to consult with a professional physician before making any purchasing decision if you use medications or have concerns following the review details shared above. Individual results may vary as the statements made regarding these products have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. The efficacy of these products has not been confirmed by FDA-approved research. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
Copyright 2022 Sequim Gazette

Load-Date: June 8, 2022


End of Document
