




Crain's New York Business 
Print Version
March 9, 2015


Copyright 2015 Crain Communications All Rights Reserved


Section: Pg. 11; Vol. 31
Length: 340 words
Body


Jeanne Pinder, 60 Founder and CEO, ClearHealthCosts.com
IT STARTED WHEN JEANNE PINDER SPENT A YEAR dickering with her provider over a $1,419 hospital bill for an anti-nausea drug she found online for $2.49. As she recounted the ordeal in an entrepreneurial journalism course at CUNY, she found that hers was a universal problem in need of a solution. "You could see how my experience duplicated across the country could be the basis of a business," said Ms. Pinder.
In 2011, with more than $50,000 in grants from the Knight Foundation, the Ford Foundation and the McCormick Foundation's New Women Media Entrepreneurs Project, the former New York Times editor founded ClearHealthCosts.com to decode the murky world of consumer health care pricing. She hopes her company's searchable database of costs-culled from providers, Medicare and consumers around the country-for procedures from mammograms to vasectomies fosters smarter personal choices and helps those who might want to challenge dubious billing. 
While Ms. Pinder earns money consulting and licensing a version of her interactive health care pricing tool to public radio stations, she plans her next step: collecting data on health care quality and value, two underquantified factors. "You don't want the cheapest MRI necessarily; you want the best value," she said. "Once price disparities are out in the open, providers will have to start explaining."
When Ms. Pinder founded the company at 57, people thought she had some explaining to do. They asked if she was going to be able to learn to develop software and why she couldn't find an easier problem to fix. In the end, of course, her age mattered not at all, even as she came to grips with how hard it would be to build a business.
"Everything was new," she said. "Whether to create a C corp, an S corp or an LLC. How to approach the health care marketplace, finding a developer, choosing a platform." 
Still, her advice to other graying entrepreneurs is unequivocal: "Don't take no for an answer-if people say it's hard, do it anyway."

Load-Date: March 12, 2015


End of Document
