




The San Diego Union-Tribune
April 21, 2009 Tuesday


Copyright 2009 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: SPECIAL: SD HEALTH | SPRING 2009; Pg. 44
Length: 1681 words
Byline: Keith Darc, STAFF WRITER
Body


After an eight-year sexual drought, Sally had practically given up hope of reigniting a love life with her husband.
Her lack of interest had become an accepted, albeit painful, part of the couple's relationship.
She mentioned the problem from time to time to her regular doctors, but always heard the same patronizing response.
"They pat you on the head and ask, `How old are you dear?,' " said the 52-year-old San Diegan who asked that her full name not be used to maintain her privacy.
Had Sally been a man, her doctors probably would have prescribed Viagra or a similar drug.
A decade after the government approved the "little blue pill" that revolutionized the treatment of male sexual dysfunction, women are still waiting for their own miracle sex drug.
Their wish might finally come true.
A number of treatments are undergoing large-scale clinical trials, and at least one being developed by German drug maker Boehringer Ingelheim could be submitted to the Food and Drug Administration for approval later this year.
Meanwhile, a number of doctors across the country are prescribing Viagra, testosterone and other treatments on an "off label" basis to women to boost sexual desire, improve the satisfaction of orgasms and reduce pain during sex.
Sally's outlook was transformed when she walked into the office of Dr. Irwin Goldstein, an internationally known sexual medicine expert who re-established his practice in San Diego in 2007 after leaving Boston University.
"He uses science to say, `OK, you don't really need to feel like this,' " she said. "When I walked out of his office, I had an arsenal of five different medications."
One of the treatments was Wellbutrin, an antidepressant medication that has shown promise for stimulating women's libido and intensifying orgasms.
Since starting to take the drug, Sally and her husband have begun having sex again.
"I just call it my happy pill," said Sally, who works in health care research. "I didn't become the whore of Babylon, but it's only been a couple of months. It's definitely improved things. And I haven't given up hope that there are some other things we are going to try."
Other women haven't been as fortunate.
Most general practitioners and gynecologists aren't up on the latest treatments for sexual problems, and many of them subscribe to the traditional notion that a declining libido is an inevitable part of aging and life after menopause.
But that doesn't have to be the case, said Goldstein, who is director of sexual medicine at Alvarado Hospital in San Diego's College Area.
"It's so silly that the only gender that was allowed to go to doctors, get drugs and complain of sexual problems was (men)" he said. "This is a couple's condition, yet it has evolved as a male treated, managed and diagnosed condition."
Part of the problem has been outdated social taboos that blocked open discussions of women's sexual lives. But even as those barriers have fallen in recent years, little money has been spent studying the biomechanics of female sexuality.
To understand why researchers and drug companies have steered away from the topic, look no further than the halls of Congress.
In 2003 conservative lawmakers launched a caustic assault on a series of National Institutes of Health grants to study a variety of sexual behavior issues, including sexual dysfunction in older men, HIV-AIDS and the health of transgender American Indians. The research became a part of the cultural war that had been launched in the 1990s and peaked in the early years of the Bush Administration.
The message was clear to scientists and their institutes: Those who study sexuality run the risk being labeled prurient wasters of taxpayer money and having their reputations smeared on a national stage.
"I think the chilling effect was more on the female side" of sexual medicine research, said Elain Lissner, director of the Male Contraception Information Project in San Francisco. "Our society has always had more of a problem with females enjoying sex."
Even so, work continued in the field, and a variety of promising treatments has begun to emerge.
While early attempts to treat women with Viagra yielded mixed results, more recent efforts have been more promising.
Researchers writing in the July 23, 2008, edition of the Journal of the American Medical Association reported that women with sexual problems related to taking antidepressant medication had significantly better sex after taking Viagra than those who took a placebo.
The study was funded by Pfizer, which makes Viagra. The company isn't seeking approval from the FDA to market the drug to women, but doctors are free to prescribe the medication to female patients on an off-label basis.
Meanwhile, German drug maker Boehringer Ingelheim appears to have the best chance of introducing a little pink pill for women in the near future.
The company is nearing completion of phase III clinical trials of Flibanserin, a non-hormonal pill that is taken daily to boost sexual desire.
The drug was originally designed to treat depression, but it didn't work as expected. While early clinical trials testing Flibanserin's effect on sexual desire in women were encouraging, scientists still don't understand how it stimulates areas of the brain tied to libido.
Men have a different agenda when it comes to sexual medicine.
With Viagra and its sidekicks offering relief from many erection problems, the focus on the other side of the sex divide has been on creating better male birth control -- something that works more reliably than condoms and offers more flexibility than a vasectomy.
Much of the work has centered on developing a hormonal treatment that essentially would mirror the pill for women.
Numerous studies have confirmed that elevated levels of testosterone in the bloodstream trigger a halt to sperm production, but the approach faces several significant pitfalls.
High doses of testosterone can cause unwanted side effects, such as aggression and impotence. Since pill forms of the hormone aren't absorbed well by the body, treatments must be given by injection. And the method doesn't work on up to 20 percent of men who try it.
In India, scientists have had better results taking another route. They've developed a plastic resin compound, known as Risug, that can be injected into the tubes that carry semen from the testicles. The compound blocks most of the sperm and damages those that squeeze through, leaving them unable to penetrate a woman's egg.
But there is little chance the treatment will be tested in the United States, something that would have to happen before regulators here would clear Risug for use in this country.
Pharmaceutical companies, which fund most drug development activity, are more interested in pursuing high-priced treatments for serious diseases like cancer, said Lissner with the Male Contraception Information Project. Those drug discoveries are more likely to yield bigger profits, and they face a lower risk of litigation resulting from side effects.
The same dynamics are holding back research on other possible male contraception methods, she said.
"There are two choices," Lissner said. "We put serious focus ... on a scale of investment that gets things to market instead of just in the lab, and then we're five to 10 years away (from new treatments becoming available to men in the United States).
"Or we continue to go with a study here and a study there, and it's going to be five to 10 years forever."
BED ROLE
Some of the most promising areas of research in sexual medicine.
FOR WOMEN:
Testosterone
* Recent studies showed that women receiving high doses of testosterone through a patch or gel rubbed on the upper arm experienced meaningful improvements in sexual desire. But concerns remain over whether large amounts of the hormone are related to higher incidences of breast cancer and heart problems.
* LibiGel, a testosterone gel developed by BioSante Pharmaceuticals, is undergoing phase III clinical trials and could be on the market by 2011 if approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
Viagra
* A recent study found that the little blue pill for men improved orgasms and vaginal lubrication in women suffering from sexual problems as a side effect of taking antidepressant medication.
* Viagra doesn't work in all women, but some researchers blame the problem on low testosterone levels and say it can be fixed with treatments of the hormone.
* Viagra hasn't been approved by the FDA for marketing to women, but some doctors prescribe it to them anyway off label.
Flibanserin
* This could be the first FDA-approved Viagra for women. German drug maker Boehringer Ingelheim is nearing completion of phase III clinical trials of the drug that aims to improve sex drive by stimulating the brain.
FOR MEN:
Hormone treatments
* Clinical trials largely conducted outside the United States have yielded promising results for temporarily halting sperm production with injections of testosterone and progestin, the synthetic version of the female hormone progesterone, which also suppresses sperm production. However, the treatments don't work in some men, and worries about potential side effects will persist until studies are conducted on large populations over long periods of time.
* Hormonal treatments in women have been tied to higher risks of stroke, heart attacks and cancers.
Risug
* A compound made of a plastic resin and a solvent that is injected into the tubes that carry semen from the testicles. The compound partially blocks the flow of sperm and damages those that make it through so that they can't result in pregnancy. One treatment lasts for up to 10 years.
* Risug was developed in the 1990s in India, where the compound is currently undergoing phase III clinical trials. There are no plans to seek FDA approval for use in the United States.
Ultrasound
* Studies conducted on animals have shown that 10 minutes of ultrasound treatment on testes provides six months of contraception. It's believed the heat generated by the ultrasound kills sperm and temporarily disrupts sperm production. A new study of the technique is currently under way in rats.

Graphic

 
1 ILLUSTRATION; 1 CHART; CAPTIONS: 2. BED ROLE -- Some of the most promising areas of research in sexual medicine.; PHOTOBY: 1. ANITA L. ARAMBULA

Load-Date: April 23, 2009


End of Document
