




St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
August 27, 2000, Sunday


Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
Section: NORTH OF TAMPA; GUEST COLUMN; Pg. 2
Length: 1361 words
Byline: AUTAR KAW
Body


"Honey, I am here at the post office and my car broke down. It is making this weird noise; no, not that kind of weird noise." A woman presumably was calling her husband.
"I will be right there to rescue you, my sweet princess! I just cannot remember where I put my toolbox. Call AAA, just in case. And honey, do you remember where I put my golf clubs?" I imagine he replies.
She hangs up and calls AAA.
GUESCOL27
She now calls another number. "Mr. Grinch, I am here at the post office and I express-mailed your package. However, my car broke down. I think I will not be able to make it to our lunch meeting."
She hangs up again and now speed dials her fourth call. "Sugar, I am sorry we cannot get together for our afternoon rendezvous at the motel. My car broke down, and I am sure my husband will get suspicious if I ask him to give me a ride to our secret place."
Okay, I made up that last conversation.
This scene in the post office was a bigger hint than anyone could give me that our family needs cell phone(s). I have these recurrent thoughts: What if my spouse breaks down on Bruce B. Downs? What if my daughter gets sick at school (or sick of school)? Maybe my spouse wants me to buy shredded cheese for the scalloped potatoes. I can take that call in the car, connect to priceline.com on my cell phone, and get the shredded cheese at half price. That itself would pay for my cell phone.
That same day, I made my weekend stop at Blockbuster. A happily married man (I presume any one calling his wife "Honey" or by any other food name to be happily married) is on the cell phone and is reciting movie titles, synopses and actors to his wife, one after another.
"Honey, you do not like that movie either. Please, tell me what you want to see!"
"Honey, Blair Witch Project 2 is not even out yet in theaters. And remember, you got sick seeing the first one."
Having gone up and down the aisles, he has gotten his daily exercise and reached his limit of patience. As he makes one last attempt to choose the movie of her choice, he shouts in a whisper into his phone, "Frankly, my dear, I do not give a damn! As God be my witness, I am not coming to Blockbuster with my cell phone again." He picks the Gone with the Wind video and stands in a long line to rent it.
This episode at Blockbuster negated the effect of the post-office incident. It brought me back to reality, and I am now weighing the pros and cons like a true scientist. Do I really want a cell phone, so I can become less of a worrier but also a potential cell mate of this device?
 I am thinking about the dangers of using the cell phone in cars. Mark Burris of the Center for Urban Transportation Research at the University of South Florida, a guru in the area of driving hazards, cites studies that show the risk of collision can rise by more than 300 percent just from talking on the phone.
I have always driven a car with an automatic transmission because when I tried to learn to drive, using a friend's stick-shift, he said, "You must be one of those one-dimensional guys; they can do only one thing at a time." He was right. So using a cell phone in the car while driving will make it two, and I had better listen to the friend who was brave enough to teach me how to drive.
What if I have a fender-bender while using the cell phone? I will have an inanimate witness. Maybe I will call my own cell phone as a hostile witness. Maybe I should pull over if the phone starts ringing and make myself a target for rear-end collisions, as if we do not have enough of these on Bruce B Downs. I could put a bumper sticker on my car: "This vehicle makes frequent stops and I do not work for USPS."
In the current year alone, an estimated 10,000 serious accidents will take place due to cell phones and 100 people will die because of these accidents. A researcher at the American Enterprise Institute suggests these accidents and deaths outweigh the benefits to the economy. You could argue that it is the economy, stupid! If we can pardon transgressions of a philandering president in a hot economy, what's 10,000 serious accidents and 100 deaths if I can put caviar on my table and a luxury SUV in my garage?
Cell phones are no longer a status symbol. There are more than 85-million cell phones in America, almost one per three Americans. The conversation on the cell phone could be ego boosting. "Buy me 10,000 shares of Amazon.com," you could say while trying to impress the beautiful woman standing behind you in line. Then again, she may wonder why you did not send your butler to the grocery shop or buy those shares of Amazon.com through the Internet option on your cell phone.
Libraries, churches, movie theaters and restaurants are agonizing over cell phones. Do I want to be a source of annoyance to other people in such places?
I took my 11-year-old daughter to see Mission Impossible 2. Near the end of the movie, where the action is fast, a cell phone rings up. "What was director John Woo thinking in getting a cell phone ringing in the middle of an intense fight? He always has new tricks up his sleeve!" I mutter under my breath.
But two seats down, it is my neighbor picking up his cell phone. "I am watching MI2. Tom Cruise is beating the %+$ # out of this guy!" he says.
Here I am feeling guilty about taking my 11-year old to a PG-13 movie as my neighbor gives an R-rated commentary to his friend.
Cell phone users are quite candid in their conversations. They may talk about their vasectomy or the toe fungus they are trying so hard to get rid of. Is no place or conversation private any more?
It seems that people do not mind or are not aware of talking about their personal matters on the cell phone. Sociologists have three main reasons for that.
1. People are accustomed to talking louder on phones and hence their conversations are more audible than private person-to-person ones.
2. Since bystanders hear only one side of conversation, cell phone users feel more secure in talking about the most private matters.
3. Thanks to Oprah and talk shows like it, people are more comfortable talking about their private lives in public.
What did people do before cell phones? They save valuable time and makes communication easy and efficient. And because everybody is using them for business, they are a necessary evil. Friends who travel for a living are getting sick of cell phones. Disruptions of private lives and business meetings are commonplace. People want instant answers and nobody has time to reflect any more.
Still, I need to meet the 21st century head-on. A friend tells me, "You can live in a parallel universe for only so long." And I do get concerned about my wife when she is running late and cannot get to the phone so easily.
Yes, I also have an afterthought when she goes to the grocery shop and I get a craving for a pint of Haagen-Dazs ice cream, plain vanilla. Or when she is at Blockbuster, what if I yearn to see Grease, Stand and Deliver or Chariots of Fire for the umpteenth time? This does not sound right; what is in it for her? Well, she can always call me and tell me how much she misses and loves me. Or to pick the shredded cheese for the scalloped potatoes.
By the time you read this, I may have joined the cell phone world. If you see me pull over on Bruce B. Downs, it must because my cell phone is ringing. If you hear me bragging on the phone, it is all true. The persons on the other side of my conversations always keep me honest.
I also promise to follow cell phone etiquette as per the article on 100 ways to act and look like a gentleman in the July 2000 issue of GQ. No. 8 is "to keep the cell phone on vibrate mode" and No. 11 is "not to keep a vibrating cell phone in the front pocket." You may wonder what the No. 1 way is: Wear a pinstriped suit and accessories worth more than $ 3,000, and those accessories should not include a cell phone.
But that's a story for another time.
- Autar K. Kaw of Pebble Creek is a professor of mechanical engineering at the University of South Florida. He teaches and conducts research in modeling space-age composite materials, but approaches new technology with caution and reflection. He can be reached at .  

Load-Date: August 30, 2000


End of Document
