




The Wrap
March 13, 2018 Tuesday 3:40 PM EST


Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1158 words
Byline: Tony Maglio
Body


Mar 13, 2018( The Wrap: / Delivered by Newstex)  Smithsonian Channel has ordered two spinoffs of its popular series 'Aerial America,' TheWrap[1] has learned exclusively. 'Aerial Cities' and 'Aerial Africa' are both set to launch on Sunday, April 8. 'Cities' will flyover Las Vegas, Chicago, Miami, San Francisco and Los Angeles, capturing a bird's-eye perspective all in 4K. Watch our sneak peek above. 'Aerial Africa' will explore the continent from Cape Town to Zambia, per Smithsonian. From the air, the series will showcase the places, wildlife and personalities that have left a permanent imprint on Africa, including a young Xhosa boy who grew up to be Nelson Mandela, and the Scottish explorer Dr. David Livingstone, whose adventures in Africa became world-famous. 
Also Read: Vanilla Ice's 'Ice Ice Baby' Honored by the Smithsonian (for Some Reason)[2] Below are the official descriptions for each 'Aerial Cities' episode, all in Smithsonian's own words. 'Las Vegas 24':PremieresSunday, April 8 at 8 p.m. ET/PTThe 24/7 entertainment capital of America requires some truly unique jobs - seen best from the air. Every day, specially trained scuba-diving engineers fine-tune the dancing fountains of the Bellagio, as window washers risk their lives rappelling down the glass pyramid of the Luxor. The colorful casinos, zip lines and shows might draw most of the attention, but just outside town are 200,000 acres of protected wilderness and a colossal pile of stone called Red Rock, a mecca for climbers.  'Chicago 24':PremieresSunday, April 15 at 8 p.m. ET/PTA day in the skies over the Windy City is filled with surprises. Just after dawn, the 'Legends of the Lake' - twin sisters Jennie and Julia Papilli - follow a ritual they began in 1946, swimming two miles in chilly Lake Michigan. Chicago is a city of skyscrapers, and while some visitors test the heights in glass observation boxes jutting out from the Willis Tower, others head to the 94thfloor of the John Hancock Center for a ride that tilts an entire window and floor out over the sidewalk 1,000 feet below. One rooftop serves as a training ground for Chicago's firefighters, while another is an exercise yard for inmates. Connecting it all is the city's rusty iron heart, its iconic 'L' train. Also Read: How AMC's Charlie Collier Got a 'Breaking Bad' Meth Lab in the Smithsonian (Video)[3] 'Seattle 24':PremieresSunday, April 22 at 8 p.m. ET/PTFilmed over Chief Seattle Days, which honor the Native American chief that gave the city its name, this episode connects past and present in one of the country's most dynamic metropolitan areas. A tugboat towing timber to a lumberyard at the Port of Everett is a reminder of the industry that built Seattle, but there's no missing the $4 billion urban campus of Amazon, which now occupies 19% of all prime office space in the city. From the air, viewers can also trace the journey of coffee giant Starbucks from its first store in Pike Place Market to its massive world headquarters at the Port of Seattle. 'Miami 24':PremieresSunday, April 29 at 8 p.m. ET/PTFrom the bustling port that drives Florida's economy and the neon-lit clubs of Miami Beach to the fascinating story of how Miami was founded, this episode reveals a city that's about much more than sun and surf.From the air, viewers can trace the growth of Little Havana, built by Cuban exiles who still gather in Domino Park to meet old friends, and explore lesser-known corners of town like Liberty Square, which inspired the Academy Award-winning film 'Moonlight.' Miami offers a rich mix of manmade and natural wonders, from the celebrity hideaways of Star Island to the pink flamingo haven of Hialeah Park, whose flamingo residents today are descendants of a single flock brought from Cuba in 1934. Also Read: TLC's Body-Cam Dating Show: See Woman Ask Stranger to Reverse a Vasectomy (Exclusive Video)[4] 'San Francisco 24':PremieresSunday, May 6 at 8 p.m. ET/PTWith its famous hills, bridges and Bay, people could spend a day in San Francisco just admiring the views, but this aerial adventure explores the bustling heart of one of America's busiest cities. Gridlocked morning commutes have inspired innovative solutions, from a rebirth of the ferry business to a network of wifi-enabled buses that transports armies of tech workers to Silicon Valley every day allowing them work while they ride. The tech boom is also reshaping the city's famous skyline, which now boasts the second tallest building west of the Mississippi. As night falls, lighting engineers climbing the Bay Bridge show how technology meets art in the 25,000-LED-bulb spectacle Bay Lights, which started out as a temporary work and is now yet another iconic feature of San Francisco. 'Los Angeles 24':PremieresSunday, May 13 at 8 p.m. ET/PTTaking wing over the City of Angels reveals much more than the secrets of Hollywood's famous back lots. Three days a week, stardom seekers line up early in a nondescript Burbank warehouse district - home to Central Casting, which helps aspiring actors land background roles. L.A. might be best known as a TV and film capital, but it's also home to the birth of surfing and skateboarding, which started in a Santa Monica neighborhood known as Dogtown. By air, viewers also can discover the hiding-in-plain-sight history of the city's first big industry: oil. One working oil derrick is tucked into Cardiff Tower, and another is covered under a colorful wooden structure right next door to Beverly Hills High School. Also Read: Amal Uses Her Pee to Catch Fish on 'Naked and Afraid' - You Read That Right (Exclusive Video)[5] 'Aerial Cities' is produced by Tusker Television for Smithsonian Channel. Tusker Television's executive producer is Toby Beach. Executive producers for Smithsonian Channel are David Royle and Charles Poe. Watch our exclusive preview video above. 'Aerial Cities' and 'Aerial Africa' both debut Sunday, April 8 on Smithsonian Channel. Related stories from TheWrap: Discovery Closes Deal to Acquire Scripps, Tweaks Name of Newly Combined Company[6]Rich Ross Out at Discovery: Company Unveils Post-Scripps Senior Executive Team[7]New 'Fast N' Loud' Season to Premiere Next Month on Discovery (Exclusive)[8] [ 1]:  [ 2]:            / [ 3]:            / [ 4]:            / [ 5]:            / [ 6]:            / [ 7]:            / [ 8]:            / 

Load-Date: March 13, 2018


End of Document
