




Newstex Blogs 
Granite Grok
February 14, 2020 Friday 3:45 PM EST


Copyright 2020 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 601 words
Byline: Skip
Body


Feb 14, 2020( Granite Grok: / Delivered by Newstex)  Or when a guy has just had their third child? Only a Democrat would believe that Government has this kind of Power even if her bill is a purposeful political stunt (reformatted, emphasis mine): Alabama Dem Introduces Legislation Mandating Vasectomies for Men at Age 50 or After Third Child The bill, filed by State Rep. Rolanda Hollis (D) on Thursday, is viewed by some a response to the 2019 passage by the state legislature of the Human Life Protection Act, a law that is currently making its way through the federal courts that ban abortion with very few exceptions.HB238, the two-page bill proposed by Hollis, notes that there are no restrictions on the reproductive rights of men and states: 'A man, at his own expense, shall undergo a vasectomy within one month of his 50th birthday or the birth of his third biological child, whichever comes first.' 
Hollis has a reputation for these antics. During the 2019 Alabama abortion bill debate, sheread the poem'If My Vagina was a Gun,' attempting to inject the gun rights issue into the pro-life discussion. Can you say 'Misandry with a sharp edge'? She certainly may well be a pro-kill-unborn-babies person and thought that this would be a perfect opportunity to make fun of those that wish to protect those new lives. I get that she wants some kind of payback but who goes around thinking, even for a stunt, that Government has the ability to do this? To mandate that a man MUST mutilate himself AND pay the bill in doing so (hey, what if he's on a Govt plan???). I'm not going to read through the Alabama Constitution to see if there is such a Power enumerated but it's probably not there. EVERYONE should have a problem, not so much with the bill, but with this mind set to even THINK that the Proper Role of Government would encompass this sort of ability of Govt to mandate. While this is an extreme example, it's a great example of how we've gotten to this point - a post Constitutional era where once people get elected, they believe that anything they can get Govt to do is fine and dandy. There are no thoughts of moderation, there are no thoughts of 'Higher Power', there is no modesty of 'I'm just an ordinary citizen with just one more vote than the other guy', there is no belief in 'I'm just representing'. No, it seems way too many elected officials believe they can do anything that they can think of because they've turned into He-Man: Play Video[1]Well, if they want to aspire to be a cartoon caricature, be my guest but do so at home and not in a Legislature. Oh, just for giggles (or is that shivers), I went ahead and looked at the HB238[2] to see if there is a penalty for a 'I will not Comply' attitude - like an even larger and external Big Snip for retribution (which, of, this bill really is all about retribution)? No such thing. In fact, no penalty at all so we know this is a stunt. (H/T: Brietbart[3]) The post So, the Proper Role of Government also includes a mandatory of the Big Snip for men over 50?[4] appeared first on Granite Grok[5]. [ 1]:  [ 2]:             [ 3]:             [ 4]:             [ 5]:             

Load-Date: February 14, 2020


End of Document
