




The Santa Fe New Mexican
August 11, 2024 Sunday


Copyright 2024 The Santa Fe New Mexican All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 1
Length: 834 words
Body


The Santa Fe New Mexican really stepped in it this time. ("Dogs, dogs, everywhere dogs in Santa Fe. Why?" Our View, Aug. 6) Believe me, I would like nothing better than to be able to leave my dog at home for a few hours. However, due to a severe case of separation anxiety that was not disclosed at the time of adoption, my dog cannot be left alone.So yes, that's my dog you see at the hardware store, the outdoor patio, the art gallery, the concert in the Plaza and anywhere else dogs are permitted. She is trained to be a good canine citizen and is calm, friendly and nonconfrontational. I wonder if the editors have ever traveled to England or Europe, where dogs are welcomed at pubs and many dining establishments. Two paws down for this editorial.
Bonnie Kopp
Santa Fe
Why just cats?
Thank you for your excellent editorial on JD Vance ("Cat ladies are angry - and they will vote," Our View, Aug. 1). I have a few more questions relating to this and other inanities Vance has proposed:
What about childless dog ladies? Should men who have vasectomies be taxed more, since they, too, "don't really have a direct stake in the future"? What about childless parakeet ladies? Should men who don't pay court-ordered child support lose the right to vote? Since federal law now limits women's control over their own bodies, shouldn't it also limit men's access to Viagra? Do women who give a child up for adoption and then get a cat count as "childless cat ladies"?
And last, why are Republicans, including JD Vance, so scared of female autonomy? Answers, please, JD - before Nov. 5. Childless cat ladies of the USA, unite. And vote.
N.M. Pyne
Santa Fe
Ever hotter
The headline ("Research: Waters hottest in 400 years," Aug. 8) is misleading. As noted in the article, the researchers have only been able to measure temperatures at the Great Barrier Reef going back 400 years. A more accurate headline might be "Research: Waters hottest in the history of Planet Earth."
Brad Bealmear
Santa Fe
Healthy - for now
The story enthusing about the "glowing health" of Los Alamos residents did not include references to the many other people living in the county, especially the pueblo immediately below the labs, whose water source has been threatened for years by the descending toxic plume from the still unresolved nuclear waste issues ("Los Alamos County residents glowing, health rankings say," Aug. 6).
The people in the pueblo, some of whom work in lower-paying jobs at the labs, as well as the people living in the villages beneath the mesa, will be the first to suffer the consequences of a nuclear mishap. That seems likely, given the poor safety record of the bomb makers, and the always looming threat of wild fire. "Glowing health," the ability to pay for health insurance and to enjoy the leisure to take hikes, nearly always comes at the expense of others too often ignored. As Bob Dylan sang in the old song, "When will we ever learn?"
Sallie Bingham
Santa Fe
Come together
My heart aches as our community mourns the tragic loss of Gordon Peter Wilson due to yet another senseless act of gun violence. My deepest condolences and prayers go out to his family and friends in this time of grief. Our city government has a responsibility to address the criminal violence, and the many other actions of crime plaguing our community right now. This must include holding those accountable the people who are committing the crimes. I am committed to taking immediate action to make our community a safer place for everyone and will be holding a town hall Aug. 22 to discuss the critical issues our city is facing.
This will help to determine what changes and actions need be taken to create a safer Santa Fe. I have requested that the mayor, city manager, and police chief brief the City Council on strategies and actions being taken to address the crime and drug epidemic in our community. The residents of Santa Fe and those visiting our beautiful community have the right to feel safe in our city. For more information on the upcoming town hall, please email me at 
Michael J. Garcia
Santa Fe City Councilor, District 2
Santa Fe
Pierce the lies
For my own amusement, I tune into sources like Faux (Fox) and Noisemax (Newsmax) every morning to see what is passing for sapient conversation. Today it's Tim Walz, the Democratic governor of Minnesota selected by Vice President Kamala Harris as her running mate. Today Walz is being portrayed as a coward and traitor for resigning from the National Guard before his unit's deployment to Iraq. Newscasters rely heavily on the fact, not disputed, that the unit got warning as early as May 2005 it was slated for deployment. Sin verguenza, no shame.
Spoiler: Walz had filed with the Federal Election Commission papers declaring his intent to run for Congress in February 2005, meaning his retirement was in the works before the unit knew of deployment. It takes so little effort to pierce the veil of this cascade of lies.
James Applegate
Santa Fe
 Letters to the Editor

Load-Date: August 11, 2024


End of Document
