




The New York Times
August 21, 2005 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
Section: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4
Length: 1226 words
Byline: By NORIMITSU ONISHI
Dateline: WANDO, South Korea 
Body


After Park Pil Soo's second child was born nine years ago, he followed national family planning entreaties to limit families to two children by undergoing a free, government-sponsored vasectomy.
  Then, in April, Mr. Park took advantage of a new policy, and had the vasectomy reversed, also at the state's expense. He and his wife, Yang Eun Hwa, 36, are now trying to have a third child.
 After decades of promoting smaller families, South Korea -- like several other Asian countries facing plummeting birthrates -- is desperately seeking ways to get people to have more babies. 
  In South Korea, the decline has been so precipitous that it caught the government off guard. Policies devised to discourage more than two children, like vasectomies and tubal ligations, were covered under the national health plan until last year. This year, the plan began covering reverse procedures for those two operations, as well as care for a couple's third or fourth child.
  ''I'd been thinking about getting the operation for a while, but was concerned about the cost,'' said Mr. Park, 37, who runs the Samsung Electronics store in this seaside town on the southern shore of the Korean Peninsula. 
  In South Korea, as in Japan, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong, quick economic growth and social changes have produced disturbingly low birthrates that are transforming their societies and threatening their economic strength. In this ethnically homogenous nation, as in Japan, there is no support for the kind of immigration that has increased birthrates in some Western nations, including the United States. 
  ''In the next two or three years, we won't be able to increase the birthrate,'' said Park Ha Jeong, a director general in the Health Ministry. ''But we have to stop the decline, or it will be too late.''
  Young couples in Seoul and other cities are choosing to have few babies, but the low birthrate has hit rural places like Wando County hardest. Within less than a decade, it has transformed South Korea's rural landscape, shuttering schools, shrinking class sizes, setting off villagewide celebrations for the rare birth of a baby.
  Growing up here, Park Pil Soo has watched family sizes shrink to fewer than two children from as many as eight, and Wando's population decreases year by year. People have grown richer here. At his Samsung store, residents began buying air-conditioners four years ago, and they expect television sets in each room and a refrigerator just for kimchi.
  ''People now want a higher living standard instead of children,'' he said, as he and his wife attended to customers on a recent Saturday.
  Wando's was the first local government to supplement the national health insurance to make reverse vasectomies and tubal ligations entirely free. So far, five men and two women have had the surgeries, said Hwang Dae Rae, the county official who came up with the idea and regularly calls the couples to inquire about possible ''good news.'' (None has been reported so far.) 
  Ms. Hwang acknowledged that the new policy would not solve the low birthrate problem, which, here and in the rest of Asia, is rooted in women's rising social and economic standing. ''In the past, women thought it was their obligation to have children, but not anymore,'' she said.
  Still, she said, the new policy is symbolic of the change in the national government's approach, whose longtime, single-minded focus on small families had put social pressure on South Koreans.
  Choi Hyung Soon, 40, one of the two women to undergo a reverse tubal ligation, now wants a third child. After she had had two sons in her 20's, she underwent a tubal ligation because it seemed the right thing to do.
  ''The campaign at the time was to have only two children,'' she said, at a barbecue restaurant she runs here. ''So one day a lot of my friends in the neighborhood decided to go have the operation, and I went along. I felt it was a foolish decision.''
  South Korea began aggressively promoting family planning in the 1960's, fearing that overpopulation would impede its economic growth. Slogans at the time warned South Koreans, who averaged six children per family, that they would become ''beggars without family planning.'' Even in the 1980's, slogans declared that ''even two are a lot.''
  Successful family planning, coupled with changing mores, led the birthrate to drop below the ideal population replacement level of 2.1 in the 1980's and then more precipitously in the mid-1990's. Now on average a South Korean woman will have 1.19 child in her lifetime -- a rate lower than Japan's birthrate of 1.28, comparable to Taiwan's 1.22, and higher than Hong Kong's 0.94. Mr. Park, of the Health Ministry, said the government committed itself to raising the birthrate only last year. ''We should have started these policies in the late 1990's, but we had been focused on decreasing the birthrate for 40 years and it was hard to change directions,'' he said.
  But some of the measures aimed at reversing the trend have done little more than suggest the government is still out of step with the times. A campaign earlier this year urged women to have at least two children by joining the ''1-2-3'' movement: have one child in the first year of marriage and a second before turning 30. It ended after many young women and men, who have been delaying marriage until their late 20's or later, said the campaign's expectations were unrealistic in this age.
  Mr. Park said the government was considering new measures to tackle some of the biggest reasons cited by couples for not having children, including the high costs of after-school education and the lack of day care. The government also wants to give tax breaks to couples with several children and encourage paid maternity leaves.
  Local governments are not waiting, though. In April, Seocheon, a west coast county whose population has declined from 150,000 in the 1960's to 65,000, began giving out bonuses for babies: $300 for the first or second child, $800 for the third.
  ''Some villages haven't heard babies crying in 18 years,'' said Lee Kwon Hee, the county deputy chief. At the Masan Elementary School, the population of 56 students is less than a tenth of what it was in the 1970's. Back then, pupils were packed together so that schools had what were called ''bean sprout classrooms,'' said Kim Deok Sang, the principal. Nowadays, Masan's students have to join those at the two nearest schools for sporting and other events. There was some good news, though, in at least one corner of Seocheon County. Last winter, the village of Seokdong celebrated its first newborn in four years -- twins, in fact, born to Lee Ji Yun, 28, and her husband, Park Dae Soo, 32. Their 4-year-old daughter had been the last child born there.
  The young couple own 10 cows and farm potatoes, rice, garlic and chilies. Although the county gave them a total of $1,100 for the twins, they emphasized that the cash incentive played no role in their decision. Mr. Park said he doubted that the bonus would bolster the birthrate.
  His wife, a nurse who stopped working when the twins were born, nodded. ''If I hadn't had twins, I would have kept working,'' she said, citing inadequate medical and day care. ''The government should look at this society's fundamental problems,'' her husband said, ''instead of just handing out money.''




Graphic

 
Photo: Park Dae Soo with his family, including the new twins and his wife's mother and grandmother. The twins resulted in a cash bonus from the county. (Photo by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)Map of South Korea highlighting Wando County: In Wando County these days, the cry of a baby is seldom heard.

Load-Date: August 21, 2005


End of Document
