






 The Philadelphia Inquirer
JANUARY 5, 2005 Wednesday CITY-D EDITIONCorrection Appended


Copyright 2005 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC  All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES MAGAZINE; Pg. D01
Length: 967 words
Byline: Steven Rea INQUIRER MOVIE CRITIC
Body


Bloggers are boo-hooing, cineastes are crestfallen, dead Actors Studio alums are twisting in their graves:
Travis Bickle has sold out.
"My life happens here," intones the familiar, throaty voice on the new TV ads. "My card is American Express."
Yes, that's Robert De Niro, reciting a personal paean to New York, the city where he was born and lives ("My oldest friend/ My first love . . . "), and shilling for the charge card with the distinctive blue logo and the headquarters downtown.
What has the world of Serious Thespianism come to when the man of Mean Streets, The Godfather: Part II, Taxi Driver, Raging Bull - great American movies, all - is hawking plastic for a global financial concern?
The commercial, directed by De Niro's old bud and fellow New Yorker Martin Scorsese (with a cool, classy undertow of a score by Philip Glass), offers a 30-second montage of Big Apple bustle: Chinatown, Little Italy, a hook-and-ladder company, a reference to the twin towers disaster ("My heartbreak") - shots, even, of the actor and amateur painter's own spooky artwork.
But there's another image that explains why - besides the paycheck - De Niro made himself available to AmEx. It's a quick cut of a Manhattan theater marquee heralding the Tribeca Film Festival, De Niro's pet project and one that has been funded in large part, since its inception in 2002, by American Express.
So, De Niro can be excused for the ad - which is at least more diverting than, say, Kirstie Alley's Pier 1 pitches. And less weird than Bob Dylan croaking for Victoria's Secret. The spot represents, in some way, a gentlemanly payback for getting his film fete bankrolled.
What the paunchy pugilist Jake La Motta and enterprising young gangster Vito Corleone cannot be forgiven for so easily, however, is the No. 1 box-office movie of the moment: Meet the Fockers.
Sure, it's grossed more than $162 million, and yes, it's the sequel to an amusing sadomasochistic farce, 2000's Meet the Parents, in which son-in-law candidate Ben Stiller gets terrorized by De Niro's barking CIA retiree and nightmare father-of-the-would-be-bride. But Meet the Fockers is really nothing more than a feature-length potty-mouth marathon, an excuse for its stars to bang around bug-eyed and collect big wads of cash.
And it's not only De Niro who's taking the money and running. There's Dustin Hoffman - Ratso Rizzo! Rainman! - pants down, enthroned on a toilet. The notoriously picky actor slurps whipped cream off Barbra Streisand's breasts.
And Streisand - Fanny Brice! The Princess of Tides! - emerges from a self-imposed eight-year acting exile to play . . . a sex therapist for geriatric Floridians. Together, they are Bernie and Roz Focker, randy New Age Jews, parents of nurse-y boy Gaylord (Stiller).
A collective De Niro/Hoffman/Streisand Academy Award count: six.
A collective De Niro/Hoffman/Streisand Fockers salary estimate: upward of $50 million, with points.
A collective Fockers urine/ feces / vasectomies / foreskins/breast-feeding / horny dog / flushed feline joke count: Who can keep up?
Hoffman also can be seen clowning around, ad-libbing existential yippety-yap opposite Lily Tomlin in last year's high-brow screwballer I (heart) Huckabees. This is a movie, by Flirting With Disaster's David O. Russell, that's either a (heart)-it or hate-it thing. This critic found it excruciating, despite the fact that it costarred Isabelle Huppert, sexily smoking cigarettes and forecasting doom.
The Graduate, Kramer vs. Kramer, and Tootsie luminary can be sighted, too (albeit fleetingly), doing shameless Hoffmanesque shtick in Finding Neverland (as a theater producer) and Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events (theater critic) - a couple of quick turns that suggest either a remarkable fondness for children's literature or a knowledge of impending stock-market crisis and the need to stow millions beforehand.
To be fair (and why not? it's still early in the new year), De Niro and Hoffman are doing only what equally, if not more, daunting talents have done before. Orson Welles, the genius behind what many deem the GREATEST MOVIE EVER MADE, Citizen Kane (not to mention The Magnificent Ambersons, or Touch of Evil, even), spent his latter days working with the Muppets and spokesmanning for Gallo. ("We will sell no wine before its time.")
Woody Allen, Sean Connery, Marlon Brando, and Sir Laurence Olivier have plugged products, usually in foreign territories - Japan, Italy - where their core audiences are unlikely to see them. Bill Murray's character in Sofia Coppola's Lost in Translation was doing just that: an American celeb popping over to Tokyo for a few days to film a Suntory whiskey spot. Murray's Bob Harris somewhat ashamedly informs fellow hotel guest Scarlett Johansson that he's getting paid $2 million to endorse booze "when I could be doing a play somewhere."
Most actors, even the ones earning $25 million a pop, started off scrounging and scraping, facing months or years of summary rejection, low-paying summer stock, and no-paying humiliation. Way back when, Hoffman shared cheap, ratty quarters, and tales of fruitless casting calls, with hungry young nobodies Gene Hackman and Robert Duvall. De Niro did dinner theater.
The number of Screen Actors Guild members with waitstaff experience? Well, what is the membership of the Screen Actors Guild these days?
Established stars, Us Weekly cover couples, and old pros with book-length filmographies and Oscars on the mantle still talk about the anxiety and dread, the depression and fear, that sets in if they go too long without a job. The instinct is there to say "Yes."
So if American Express calls, or the Fockers, can you blame 'em?
Contact movie critic Steven Rea at 215-854-5629 or .  
Read his recent work at . 

Notes

Critic's Notebook

Graphic

 
PHOTO;
TRACY BENNETT, Universal Pictures
Dustin Hoffman (left) plays Bernie Focker and Robert De Niro plays Jack Byrnes in the sequel to 2000's "Meet the Parents."
TRACY BENNETT, Universal Pictures
Some of the biggest lights in the Hollywood firmament - Dustin Hoffman, Barbra Streisand and Robert De Niro - are pulling in more than $50 million among them from the crude but mega-successful "Meet the Fockers." Not that they're the first luminaries to go for the gold (that doesn't mean an Oscar).

Load-Date: September 6, 2005


End of Document
