





St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
November 14, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition


Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
Section: NEWS ; Pg. A1
Length: 978 words
Byline: Jodi Genshaft Of The Post-Dispatch
Body


Women in St. Louis will be among the first in the United States to undergo a new nonsurgical method of birth control that could change the way many couples stop having babies.
Under the procedure, a gynecologist implants a tiny device called Essure in a patient's fallopian tubes. The procedure is done using a local anesthetic, takes only 30 minutes and recovery time is minimal.
Advocates consider it a vast improvement over tubal ligation, the most popular form of sterilization among women. That procedure requires a general anesthetic, an incision and a recovery time of as long as a week.
The chief drawbacks to Essure: The procedure is irreversible, unlike tubal ligation, and it has no long-term track record.
The device won government approval last week. It was pioneered here by Dr. David Levine of St. Luke's Hospital in Chesterfield, who led clinical trials for the new device. On Friday, Levine will perform his first two commercial procedures on women here. On Saturday, he'll show 16 other area doctors how to do it.
"I think it's a revolution in permanent contraception for women," Levine said.
But some physicians caution that the procedure may carry risks that can't be known without long-term study. "I'd like to see a 10-year follow-up on 10,000 patients in carefully controlled studies," said Dr. Sherman Silber, director of the Infertility Center of St. Louis. "I don't think they've got enough cases to say it's safer."
No one disputes that the procedure is less invasive and the recovery time is quicker. And there may be a vast market for it. Each year, 700,000 American women undergo tubal ligation.
The procedure with the Essure device can be done in a gynecologist's office under a local anesthetic, Levine said. Doctors use a catheter to thread the Essure device into each fallopian tube. The device looks like a tiny spring and measures about 4 centimeters long. Flexible coils made of nickel and titanium cling to the walls of the fallopian tubes, which are as wide as a piece of thin spaghetti. Dacron-like mesh inside the coils irritates the lining of the tubes and causes scar tissue to eventually form permanent plugs.
Levine said women "need to know that there is a really safe and uncomplicated alternative. Tons of patients have been sitting on the sidelines for years taking birth control pills because they didn't want to go to sleep and they didn't want to get cut."
Tia Mayer, 33, of St. Louis was looking for a permanent birth control solution when she heard about clinical trials for the implant on the radio. The mother of two daughters had been popping birth control pills every day because she didn't want the pain associated with surgical tubal ligation. And her husband didn't want a vasectomy.
Mayer said she "didn't feel a thing" during her procedure - she could watch the procedure on a television monitor as it took place. "It was like watching The Learning Channel," she said.
Afterward, she was free to resume a normal day. "We went to lunch," Mayer said. "We went grocery shopping. I cooked dinner that night."
Women must use another type of birth control for three months while the scar tissue grows.
Each Essure device costs about $980, said a spokeswoman for the maker, California-based Conceptus Inc.
The company is confident that health insurers will cover the device because many have covered tubal ligations and the new procedure should prove to be safer and cheaper. Officials from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Missouri said the insurance company covers tubal ligation and Essure procedures.
Cautions and concerns
As with many new devices, reactions from physicians range from cautious to concerned.
"It's nice to be able to offer women as many options as we can for family planning," said Dr. Sandra Ann Carson, president of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine and a reproductive endocrinologist at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. "This looks like a very promising device in terms of what seems to be permanent sterilization. Once the body of literature and clinical experience is gathered, it would be nice to see such a device be reversible."
Silber of the Infertility Center had additional concerns. The procedure, he said, will "completely destroy the whole junction of the (fallopian) tube and the uterus. This procedure is not reversible. Even in vitro fertilization may not work because the uterus itself will have this little thread hanging through, which could act as an IUD (intrauterine device that prevents fertilization of the egg)."
Tubal ligation usually can be reversed with microsurgery, Silber said. He said Essure could be a legitimate option for women in their late 30s but a mistake for women younger than 30 because they tend to change their minds about having children.
The Food and Drug Administration approved Essure on Nov. 4 but required Conceptus Inc. to continue studying the women involved in the studies for five years to monitor long-term health effects.
"You always worry about the risk of infection," Silber said. "I wouldn't be comfortable having something put in my body that had an intense scar reaction."
The device currently is available in Australia, Europe, Singapore and Canada.
"I think the FDA is getting more premature on everything," Silber said.
Levine said the FDA put the device on fast-track because the data from the clinical trials were so credible. In studies of more than 600 women followed for about 18 months, no pregnancies have resulted in patients whose devices were implanted properly.
========
Where to go
Patients interested in the Essure porcedure are advised to consult their physicians.
More information can be obtained by called the makers of the Essure implant at 1-877-377-8731 or visiting the Essure Web site at . Information on Dr. David Levine and his work at St. Luke's Hospital in Chesterfield can be found at  

Notes

Reporter Jodi Genshaft:; E-mail: ; Phone: 314-340-8172  

Graphic

 
GRAPHIC GRAPHIC Post-Dispatch Graphic , Illustration , Chart - Newnonsurgical method of birth control - Advocates say a new implantprocedure, called Essure, offers a safer, less invasive method ofpermanent birth control.
1 - Doctors use a catheter to thread the Essure device into eachfallopian tube.
2 - Flexible coils made of nickel and titanium cling to the walls offallopian tubes, which are as wide as a piece of thin spaghetti
3 - Dacron-like mesh inside the coils irritates the lining of thetubes and causes scar tissue to eventually form permanent plugs.

Load-Date: November 15, 2002


End of Document
