




Newstex Blogs 
The Nation Blogs
January 31, 2025 Friday 3:58 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2025 The Nation Blogs 
Length: 1261 words
Byline: Larada Lee-Wallace
Body


January 31st, 2025 (   - Delivered by   )

If the Democrats are truly serious about protecting reproductive freedom, they must rise above reactive politics.
A DC community organizer holds a sign for the Light Brigade for Reproductive Justice: Your Vote is Your Voice outside of the U.S. Supreme Court on October 17, 2024.
(Photo by Paul Morigi / Getty Images for SPACEs In Action)
On January 20, Mississippi state Sen. Bradford Blackmon introduced ' 
Under the proposed legislation, men would face financial penalties of between $1,000 and $10,000 for violations, except in cases of sperm donation and contraception use to prevent fertilization. 'All across the country, especially here in Mississippi, the vast majority of bills relating to contraception and/or abortion focus on the woman's role when men are fifty percent of the equation,'  
Unlikely to advance in the Republican-held legislature, the Contraception Begins at Erection Act is a symbolic gesture not unlike proposals introduced in other states that aim to illuminate perceived gender disparities in sexual and reproductive rights. For example, in 2020, Alabama state Representative Rolanda Hollis, a Democrat representing the 58th district,   
While Republicans were strategically advancing and enacting legislation to curtail reproductive rights, this was the type of political maneuvering that the Democrats were and still are engaging in. Rather than writing bold, forward-thinking policies that would actually confront the increasing restrictions to bodily autonomy, Democratic legislators, particularly those in states with Republican majorities, resort to reactive bills in an attempt to galvanize their base of constituents, showing them that 'look, we are doing something.' Except these bills only serve to perpetuate the very systems of bodily regulation the sponsors seek to critique. When people are being left to die due to inhumane abortion bans, as healthcare systems crumble in the wake of a police state that holds not only patients but healthcare workers captive, is this really the best that the Democrats can do?
Current Issue
Even if it's just a reaction to harmful legislation, the Democrats who support sexual and reproductive rights should not be introducing legislation that regulates sexual behaviors. Doing so only affirms the notion that it's acceptable for governments to control what individuals do with their bodies.
What makes measures like Blackmon's especially harmful is that they normalize state surveillance and the expansion of government control over deeply personal aspects of individuals' lives. Proposals like these invite further overreach, essentially creating new avenues for the state to monitor and regulate private behaviors under the guise of moral or social oversight.
When the government becomes empowered to further regulate personal choices, more groups will inevitably find themselves subject to invasive surveillance. Historically, marginalized communities, including Black and brown individuals, queer and trans people, and low-income populations,  
This tendency for Democrats to react rather than be proactive reflects a broader political issue. Rather than championing inclusive, visionary solutions, such as a Mississippi version of the federal   
The political landscape has undergone a profound shift, not only in the aftermath of Dobbs, but also in the context of the Trump 2.0 era. This period demands a strategic departure from the traditional political back-and-forth that has long defined the Democratic response to attacks on abortion access. Republicans have already made clear their intentions and outlined their plans for the Trump era, advancing measures that systematically erode sexual and reproductive rights. In fact, one of the first moves Trump made since taking office was  
If the Democrats are truly serious about protecting reproductive rights and advancing access like they say they are during critical election cycles, they must rise above reactive politics.
The 'Contraception Begins at Erection Act' may have generated discourse, but it won't bring us closer to comprehensive reproductive justice. We are already facing the worst political climate for achieving reproductive freedom and bodily autonomy, and addressing the moment we are in requires bolder, transformative policy proposals and solutions. This includes being more proactive in ensuring previous precedent, like the  
We deserve more than symbolic gestures; we deserve meaningful action that ensures reproductive freedom for all.

Larada Lee-Wallace is the state campaign manager for abortion access at Advocates for Youth; serves on the board of directors for ACCESS Reproductive Justice, California's only statewide abortion fund; and is an abortion storyteller with We Testify.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 31, 2025


End of Document
