




The Capital (Annapolis, MD)
February 28, 2008 Thursday


Copyright 2008 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FAMILY LIVING; Pg. C1
Length: 301 words
Byline: THERESA WINSLOW

Staff Writer
Body


Planned Parenthood of Maryland is about a lot more than, well, planned parenthood.
Its Annapolis health center on West Street, for example, is the second-busiest center of eight in the state, providing gynecological exams, breast exams, colposcopy screenings and screenings for prostate and testicular cancer, as well as vasectomies, emergency contraception and abortion care.
"We have a growing group of people in Anne Arundel County who really want to get the message across that Planned Parenthood is doing good things for women and families," said spokesman Keiren Havens.
Officials are trying to drive home that point home and emphasize the organization's Annapolis presence with a unique event this weekend.
Author and humorist Judith Viorst will give a talk titled "For Peace of Mind Resign as General Manager of the Universe" at 3 p.m. Sunday in the "N" Room at Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium in Annapolis.
Ms. Viorst, who lives in Washington, D.C., said she'll touch on all aspects of control people encounter in their lives. She said there will be some "quite serious points," but they'll be made with humor.
She'll also tie it into her latest book, "Alexander and the Wonderful, Marvelous, Excellent, Terrific Ninety Days," which chronicles the stay of her son, his wife and their three young children with her and her husband.
A book signing will follow the talk, and a separate VIP reception with Ms. Viorst is also scheduled.
Tickets are $50 for the lecture and $100 for the lecture and VIP reception, and are available by calling 410-576-2150 or by visiting the Web site at . Tickets also will be available at the door. Parking will be available in the blue lot at the stadium. Proceeds go to fund a full-time family life educator for teens at the Annapolis health center.

Load-Date: February 29, 2008


End of Document
