




Tampa Bay Times
October 21, 2016 Friday


Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


Section: TBT; Pg. 16; EMAILS TO THE EDITOR
Length: 306 words
Body


Re: Amy Schumer's 'open letter' to Tampa addresses Trump supporters who walked out on her (Oct. 20); we posted this story to the tbt* Facebook page. Among the comments:
Jeff Allen: Anyone with such thin skin should not go see comics live. Comics have been bashing politicians for centuries. I guess they're ok with anal sex humor but bashing Trump...now that's crossing a line!
- - -
Izzy Petie Sanders: She's not a political comedian. She's not a Maher, or Colbert or Stewart, no one paid to hear her political view. They paid to hear her raunchy locker room jokes.
- - -
David Howe: They walked out. And the people booing were probably disrupting. And foolish - who goes to see a comedy show without a sense of humor? Of course she's going to comment on current events, that's her job.
- - -
Patricia Murphy: Seriously, anyone that has ever seen Amy Schumer should know she was going to bash Trump. If you were offended by her comedic edge you may need to go back to nursery school and hang with the rest of the babies.
* * *
Consider Young's record
Re: Truth takes monumental beating in election ads (tbt*, Oct. 20)
Thanks to columnist Sue Carlton for enlightening us on the Bob Buesing/Dana Young race for Senate. Along with false claims against Buesing, let's not forget Young's own mailers, falsely claiming to have voted against fracking. She was also part of the Republican vote to pass legislation mandating women seeking a termination of pregnancy would have to get, at their own expense, another ultrasound and review it with their physician before being able to have the procedure. She also voted to defund Planned Parenthood, which had a trickle-down effect of curtailing many of the free vasectomies done throughout the state by Dr. Douglas Stein, and she was also part of the voting block against expanding Medicaid.
David Lubin, Tampa

Load-Date: October 25, 2016


End of Document
