




The Bakersfield Californian
March 20, 2015 Friday


Copyright 2015 The Bakersfield Californian
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS
Length: 552 words
Byline: Richard Beene, The Bakersfield Californian
Body


March 20--MARCH MADNESS
It turns out that our obsession with the NCAA Tournament has to do with a lot more than simply college basketball. According to researchers, doctors report up to a 50 percent rise in the number of vasectomies during the NCAA &dcFour;Tournament, presumably so the men can spend their recovery in front of the big-screen TV.
Further, 27 percent of respondents to a 2014 survey say they watch games at work, and 12 percent would upgrade to HDTV if their favorite team made it to the Sweet 16.
MORE MADNESS
And speaking of March Madness, few households are more excited about the tournament than the home of Grimmway Farms counsel Jeff Green and his wife, District Attorney Lisa Green.
Consider this: their son Matthew Green graduated from UC Irvine, brother Andrew graduated from UCLA and sister Rebecca from Indiana University. Jeff, meanwhile, is an alum of San Diego State.
All four schools -- San Diego State, UC Irvine, Indiana and UCLA -- are represented in the tournament. Only Fresno State, Lisa's alma mater, failed to make the Big Dance.
EVENTS
Three big events are on a collision course competing for our attention (and dollars) in late May. It is all starting on May 23, when George Martin's huge rock and country show will feature more than 30 acts at the Kern County Museum, all for a price tag of $130 a ticket.
On the same day, the Bakersfield Craft Beer Festival will be at the Cal State Bakersfield Amphitheatre, hosted by Imbibe Wine and Moo Creamery.
And then, just a few days later, the Eagles will be appearing at Rabobank Arena, and you can bet tickets won't be cheap for that.
Those are three popular events that will make a serious dent in your wallet, and how effectively they cannibalize each other will determine how successful they are.
SPOTTED
A young mother holding the hands of her two very young daughters jaywalking across a busy south Chester Avenue, forcing two cars to veer into oncoming traffic to avoid running over them.
STARBUCKS
So what do you think of the Starbucks campaign to spark a conversation about race by writing provocative messages on our coffee cups?
As a friend told me: "Can I just have a cup of coffee, please? I don't need a morning conversation on race with my local barista."
GOOD FORM
Don't you love it when people surprise and delight you? From Sheila Blackburn: "I read your column regularly and know that you often pass on a thank you to good Samaritans in our community.
"I would like to publicly thank the kind gentleman who came to my elderly mother's aid following a mishap on Manor Street on Saturday morning, making sure she was OK, getting her car to the side of the road, and delivering her safely to my home.
"We didn't get his name, but we wanted to publicly thank him for his kindness. My mother couldn't stop talking about that 'nice man.' We are very grateful to him. The world needs more people like this thoughtful, caring gentleman."
Email Richard Beene, Californian president and CEO, at  His column appears here on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays; the views expressed are his own. Read more on his blog at BakersfieldObserved.com.
___ (c)2015 The Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) Visit The Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) at  Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC

Load-Date: March 20, 2015


End of Document
