




The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)
September 12, 2010 Sunday


Copyright 2010 The Leader-Telegram
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News
Section: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS
Length: 464 words
Byline: Rob Hanson, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.
Body


Sept. 12--If Steve Barbario of the Minneapolis production company The Directors knows one thing about comedy, its that audiences like to laugh at themselves.
With that in mind, The Directors newest play, "The Love Knot," puts the drama of everyday life -- marriage, specifically -- center stage.
"The best comedies deal with serious issues," Barbario said. "While we laugh, we're laughing because we see the humourous side of our own life dramas."
"The Love Knot" is slated for a performance at 7:30 p.m. Friday, Sept. 17 at The State Theatre, 316 Eau Claire St.
The story centers around a man in his 40s who hastily marries a much younger women.
In their whirlwind romance, the couple fails to communicate on the issue of having children. While visiting friends, who are in the process of sending their last daughter to college, the couple becomes aware of another phase of life.
That's when the lack of communication starts to cause problems, and the main characters realize where they are at as a couple.
"Right there it deals with generational issues and issues of love and communication," Barbario said. "It creates a really fun set of farcical situations."
"The Love Knot" got its start with a relatively simple premise: "I wanted a comedy about a vasectomy," Barbario said. "I figured if a musical can sell about menopause, and a play called 'The Vagina Monologues' can sell, then I can sell a play about a vasectomy."
Nationally-renowned playwright Allison Moore wrote the play for The Directors, and director Barbario assembled the cast of young but experienced actors from around Minneapolis.
Barbario, who has been in theater for 27 years, said working on a show has never been as enjoyable as his experiences with "The Love Knot."
"I would say every rehearsal would come to a standstill at one point because everyone was laughing," Barbario said. "We just fell apart, I've never had anything like this happen before."
"The Love Knot" is one of the few locally produced shows to come to The State Theatre.
Executive Director Ben Richgruber said the show will be The Directors first production at The State.
"Generally it's more national tours, but we are kind of excited about this one because its done by a regional writer," he said. "I think people like to support local things, and this is a great way to do it."
To see more of The Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to . Copyright (c) 2010, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit            , e-mail , or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

Load-Date: September 12, 2010


End of Document
