




Esquire
June 1, 2010


Copyright 2010 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: Pg. 116; Vol. 153
Length: 6143 words
Body


Brain
By A.J. JACOBS
WHEN I WAS TWELVE, I became irrationally obsessed with my brain. I somehow came to believe that each of my neurons1 was sacred, and they were in endless danger from outside forces. I avoided riding in cars for fear of evil carbon monoxide that could damage my gray matter. I wouldn't allow anyone to touch my head-no banging, no tapping, no contact whatsoever-so as not to jostle the Fabergé egg in my skull. When my grandmother came in for a kiss on my cheek, I'd dodge her like I was Sugar Ray Leonard.
Later, my obsession took a different form. I wanted my mind to be a supercrunching computer, and supercrunching computers need tons of raw data, which is why I spent my free time reading thousands of random facts in the Encyclopedia Britannica. Did you know opossums have thirteen nipples? And René Descartes had a fetish for cross-eyed women? I do, and now these things are stuck in the folds of my frontal lobe.2
Recently I've been reading a stack of books on mental health for a book I'm writing, and I've adopted a new metaphor: The brain is a muscle, and like a muscle, you have to exercise, stretch, and feed it properly. It's a popular metaphor right now, partly because it's empowering-we can strengthen a muscle, shape it and change it; we can take action!-and partly because it plays into the fears of our aging population. As a man in his forties, I know my lobes are going as soft as my belly, and with millions of fierce twenty-something brains ready to replace me and my old-timey circuits, I need to get my hindbrain3 in gear.
First, the books say to give your brain exercise-logic games, memorization, like that. I've started doing the New York Times crossword puzzle regularly (one study shows that doing crossword puzzles four days a week instead of just once a week cuts your risk of developing dementia by almost half), and I've become addicted. Now I have a good excuse for wasting fifteen minutes a day on dorky word games.
I tried the genre's most popular book, Train Your Brain, by Dr. Ryuta Kawashima. It involves a nightly routine of solving simple math equations as quickly as possible. The promise is that the "delivery of oxygen, blood and various amino acids to the prefrontal cortex"4 will result in "more neurons and neural connections, which are characteristics of a healthy brain." The equations were so simple-even for a math moron like me-I couldn't help but feel a sense of accomplishment, especially when my time dropped by fifteen seconds in six weeks. Plus, I liked to exhale loudly while doing the exercises, like I was actually doing some lat pull-downs. That made me feel manly.
I've sampled all different regimens: I spent a few moments every day distinguishing coins in my pocket by touch. I felt the bumps next to elevator buttons to try to learn braille. I memorized poems. In his excellent book The Brain That Changes Itself, Dr. Norman Doidge argues that the rote memorization employed in nineteenth-century schools actually had benefits. When students used to memorize poems, it helped them with the ability to reason and speak fluently. (Compare Lincoln's rhetoric to Mark Sanford's mea culpa.) I spent a few days memorizing the poem "You are Old, Father William." (I'm a sucker for any poem that rhymes "suet" with "do it.") I find myself reciting it a lot, often with an aggressive rap rhythm.
The science of brain exercise is still in its infancy, and we need more rigorous studies to see whether doing the crossword puzzle or memorizing poems makes us smarter-or whether it just makes us better at doing crossword puzzles and memorizing poems. But at least for me, it's working. Perhaps it's the placebo effect, but I've got to say, these exercises have made my brain feel less flabby and more alert. I played the card game hearts last weekend. Generally, I'm happy to play on hunches and vague approximations. But this time, my well-toned brain felt up to counting cards. I still lost the game, but I felt more precise doing it.
Exercise alone won't do it, though. I had to learn to stretch my brain. One of the dangers that neuroplasticians warn against is creating ruts in your brain. To switch metaphors for a second, the brain is like a snowy mountain-the more you ski a certain path, the deeper the ruts. Same with thinking. By doing the same routine, we can get caught. The brain cells stop creating new connections, making us less creative and less able to solve problems.
I got a book called Keep Your Brain Alive: 83 Neurobic Exercises, which has dozens of ways to stretch your brain. I brushed my teeth with my left hand (wacky!). I took a different route home from work (superwacky!). I ate dessert first, then my entrée. (Get me to a psych ward!) I can't say that it's made me smarter or spawned new dendrites,5 but at least it's made me less robotic and more aware of my daily routines-more "mindful," to use a trendy word.
That includes what I feed my brain. I'm not talking about literal food-though I'm told fish is good for neural performance. I'm talking about what information I allow my brain to ingest. I'm much more careful about what I read and watch. For example: I'm an overprotective father, so over the years I've developed an unhealthy fixation on stories of children having horrible accidents. If I see a headline about a kid whose foot is caught in a wood chipper, I'll spend several minutes reading it, Googling for updates, visualizing it, dwelling on it. But this just strengthens the neural pathways, and instead of making me feel better, it only makes me more obsessed with how unsafe the world is. You experience what Doidge calls "brain lock." The saner method is to avoid these articles. Let those pathways wither and die.
Exercising, stretching, proper feeding: It's a full-time job taking care of the brain, but I've come to love it, just like gym rats come to love hitting the free weights. Not just because it might sharpen my thinking, but also because, paradoxically, it makes me more aware of the limitations of human brains. It makes me realize how my brain, like every other part of my body, is susceptible to bad habits, fatigue, and a junky diet. I'll never perfect that reeflike hunk in my head, just as I'll never get perfectly shredded triceps, but it's worth trying. Or so my brain tells me.
The brain, also known as the noggin, the noodle, and the "reeflike hunk" in the author's head. For a closer look at what's what, see page 119.
1. The nerve cells that constitute the nervous system, including the brain and spinal cord. The average brain consists of one hundred billion neurons.
2. The forward-most area of the brain, which, in addition to processing long-term memories, plays a key role in behavior and personality.
3. The rearmost area of the brain, which includes the cerebellum, the pons, and the medulla oblongata. It controls, among other things, breathing, heart rate, equilibrium, and motor skills.
4. Number 3, opposite.
5. One end of a nerve cell and the means by which electrical impulses pass between adjacent cells.
THEY SAY THE BRAIN IS A MUSCLE, AND LIKE A MUSCLE, YOU HAVE TO EXERCISE, STRETCH, AND FEED IT PROPERLY. IT'S EMPOWERING- WE CAN STRENGTHEN A MUSCLE, SHAPE IT AND CHANGE IT; WE CAN TAKE ACTION!
FOUR STEPS TO A HEALTHIER BRAIN
By DAVID PERLMUTTER, M.D.
> EAT MORE FISH. Or increase your intake of DHA, a type of omega-3 fatty acid that's found in fish and is also available in capsule form as a vegetarian supplement. Studies show that 900 to 1,200 mg of DHA a day could lead to improved memory and a better ability to multitask.
> CHECK YOUR FOOD LABELS. When you eat bad fats (i.e., trans and saturated fats), you're building brain cells from the lowest bidder, and it'll slow down the brain's ability to process information quickly. Conversely, monounsaturated fats (from olive oil, canola oil, and nuts) and polyunsaturated fats (from cold-water fish and deep-green vegetables) help improve brain function.
> LEARN A NEW LANGUAGE. Or memorize a poem, or do crossword puzzles. Challenging yourself through mental exercise builds a better brain by reinforcing brain-cell connections.
> MEDITATE. In a book called How God Changes Your Brain, Andrew Newberg, M.D., shows how twenty minutes of daily meditation can alter the brain structurally and therefore functionally. Changes in key areas allow us to be more compassionate and empathetic, and they allow us to handle stress a little better.
Dr. David Perlmutter is a board-certified neurologist in Naples, Florida, and the founder of the Perlmutter Health Center and the Perlmutter Brain Foundation. He is the coauthor of The Better Brain Book.
THE MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST
The next time your doctor takes blood, ask him to test for the following indicators of brain health:
. HOMOCYSTEINE LEVELS. Homocysteine is to the brain what cholesterol is to the heart, and an elevated level compromises brain function and dramatically increases a person's risk for Alzheimer's.
. C-REACTIVE PROTEIN, which is a marker for inflammation in the body. Its presence in your blood shows you're at risk for brain degeneration.
. SLP, OR SERUM LIPID PEROXIDE, which is a measurement of how well your antioxidants are working. Antioxidants protect the brain, and the less functional they are, the more at risk you are for brain degeneration.
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
And what Dr. Perlmutter likes most about it
1 HIPPOCAMPUS
It's shaped like a sea horse-hippocampus is actually derived from the Greek word for sea horse, and that's where the term came from back in the sixteenth century-and it's kind of like a memory way station. Memories aren't stored there, but the hippocampus determines where memories will be stored and how we can retrieve them. But the really cool thing about it is that it's now been demonstrated that the neurons in the hippocampus regenerate throughout our lifetimes. When I was in medical school, the idea of growing new brain cells was totally nonscience, but now we know that in the hippocampus, what we call neurogenesis is real, and it can help preserve and maybe even enhance brain function.
2 AMYGDALA
It looks like an almond, which is exactly what amygdala means in Greek, and it motivates our impulses to feed, fornicate, flee, and fight. These four f's are ingrained, preprogrammed responses in our amygdala, and what our sophisticated brain tries to do is rather than act impulsively on them-in other words, somebody pisses you off, you hit him-we are able to redirect that thought away from our initial reflex response and refer it to what's called the prefrontal cortex, which allows us to analyze the situation.
3 PREFRONTAL CORTEX
This area of the brain allows for planning complex activities based upon what we perceive their outcomes will be. Electrical impulses are received from the amygdala, and then the prefrontal cortex measures them and determines whether or not those impulses should be acted upon. It's the crowning achievement of being human, and it's one of the big reasons why most of us don't get into more fistfights.
4 ANTERIOR CINGULATE GYRUS
This is the pathway that connects the amygdala with the prefrontal cortex, and what's really interesting is that you can increase its activity through meditation and thereby strengthen your ability to monitor and control your behavior.
5 HYPOTHALAMUS
It's the portion of the brain that controls most of our glandular activity. By sending information through the pituitary gland to other glands around the body, the hypothalamus tells us when we feel hungry, thirsty, tired, stressed, hot, and cold.
6 PITUITARY GLAND
We call it the master gland, and it's the recipient of virtually all of the output of the hypothalamus. It directly controls things like the thyroid, gonads, and adrenal glands by secreting chemicals that are transmitted through the blood to the organs. It also looks like an elongated pea.
7 CEREBELLUM
It means "little brain," and it allows us to carry out very complex, purposeful motor activities. Say you want to move your finger: The thought probably originates in the prefrontal cortex. It then spreads through the neural networks to the back part of the frontal lobe, which then coordinates the activity through the cerebellum and the basal ganglia. All this eventually leads down through the spinal cord and results in the movement of your finger. And it happens instantaneously.
Heart
By ROSS MCCAMMON
I DIDN'T EVEN know something was wrong a few months ago in my doctor's office. One minute I was getting a physical and the next the doctor was ordering an on-the-spot electrocardiogram (EKG). The minute after that I was flat on a table while electrodes were being applied to my torso. I was staring upside down at a picture of a wood duck and wondering if I was finally becoming a man.
I'd been preparing myself for this moment ever since my father had a heart attack a few years back. Because I'd assumed that I'd inherited the same cardiovascular system that parked a truck on his chest and left his fifty-four-year-old, 150-pound frame prone in front of his living-room sofa seven years ago. Now my doctor was telling me my heart was racing, asking me if I was nervous, and having a woman in turquoise pajamas hook me up to a machine. The results of the EKG, which measures the heart's electrical activity, didn't reassure the doctor. So he immediately scheduled three other routine tests-the same tests that most of you will face sooner or later.
The first was a cardiac ultrasound, a sonogram for the heart. It measures the heart's pumping ability and blood blockage through the arteries.1 The sonographer asks you to lie very still on your side as she stands behind you with her arm draped over your bare torso, moving a cold wand around your neck. The amplification of the blood pumping through your carotid artery2 sounds like a didgeridoo.
The second test was a twenty-four-hour EKG, which requires you to wear a Holter monitor, a portable unit connected to electrodes taped to your chest that measure your heartbeat over the course of a day. You can wear it outside your clothes-clipped to your belt or hanging from a lanyard around your neck-if you want people to ask you about it. You can wear it underneath a sweater if you don't. You have to move the wires out of the way when you take a leak. You have to sleep on your back. The Holter monitor blows.
The third test was a CT scan for calcium scoring. It's not covered by insurance (it costs about $125) and is mostly recommended for people who have a medium risk of heart disease. Which, considering my family history and the palpitations my doctor had heard through his stethoscope, included me. The scan measures the amount of calcified plaque3  in the coronary arteries, the blood vessels that supply blood directly to the heart. Thus it can help indicate the presence of coronary artery disease (CAD) and, thus, your propensity for a heart attack. The test results are expressed as a "calcium score," a number that reflects the degree and extent of plaque on the walls of your coronary arteries. You want a very low score. A score of zero means there is "no evidence" of CAD; 1 to 10: "minimal evidence"; 11 to 100: "mild evidence"; 101 to 400: "moderate evidence"; over 400: "extensive evidence."
I got the results of the first two tests back at my doctor's office. Turns out my blood flows normally to and from the heart. My carotid is beautiful. The left side of my heart is communicating with the right side appropriately. No leaks. No abnormal pulses.
Later, the CT scan told me that I almost certainly did not have any plaque buildup and that I probably have not inherited my father's propensity for coronary-artery disease (or that of my grandfather, who was killed by his fourth heart attack at sixty-one). My father's calcium score has been as high as 1,500. Mine is 5.54.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING I thought consciously at the time, but I think a part of me was disappointed when I found out my heart was okay, that after three weeks and a battery of tests, I was found to have no significant plaque buildup in my coronary arteries and minimal evidence of heart disease. It's the stupidest thing I've ever felt, to want to start fighting off death at thirty-four like my father does, with drugs and daily runs and a strict diet (he has utterly turned his life around), to want to have inherited the same system that grabbed his heart from the inside and squeezed it like a vise.
It's a shameful thing to admit, but I think I was ready to have a kind of manhood conferred upon me in this terrible way. Maybe because part of being a man means knowing exactly what you have to fight-and then setting out to fight it. In the end, the enemy had never existed at all. But I was wrong to think nothing had changed.
There are three phases of heart awareness. The first: no awareness at all, really. The second: the heart as a metaphor, as a "ticker." (Probably because someone you love has a heart attack.) The third: an acknowledgment of the heart as a muscle that will someday stop working. (Because you are sick, or think you might be.) The heart scare shoves you from the second phase into the third phase. It makes you listen to your heart. During the scare, in meetings, I would place two fingers to my neck to feel my heartbeat. I would listen to it in my chest at night when everything was perfectly quiet. I would imagine it not surrounded by my flesh and bones, suspended in midair, making sucking sounds.
I still think of my heart as a muscle in a cavity. After a scare, you can't go back to thinking it's anything less. The scare is a ratchet winch. The scare makes you exercise and eat quinoa. (And once you've eaten quinoa, you are a quinoa eater.) It assigns you a place on the timeline between birth and death. After the heart scare, you're no longer young. You're not old, either. Because it forces you to start living and dying at the same time-like a man.
1. The vessels that carry blood away from the heart. Not to be confused with veins, which carry blood toward the heart.
2. The artery that supplies oxygenated blood to the head and neck.
3. The fatty deposits, made up of calcium, fat, cholesterol, and other substances, that build up inside the arteries, potentially reducing or even blocking the flow of oxygenated blood to your heart.
IN MEETINGS, I WOULD PLACE TWO FINGERS TO MY NECK TO FEEL MY HEARTBEAT. I WOULD LISTEN TO IT IN MY CHEST AT NIGHT WHEN EVERYTHING WAS PERFECTLY QUIET.
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
And what Dr. Oz likes most about it
1 AORTA 
This huge blood vessel is the superhighway from the heart to the rest of your organs. It measures almost 1.5 inches across and receives all of the blood pumped from the left ventricle. Blood blasts out of the heart at high pressure and travels through this vessel at around one meter per second. If this vessel is severed, blood will squirt several feet straight up in the air.
2 LEFT VENTRICLE 
Imagine lifting a heavy weight with the same muscle every second for the rest of your life. That's what this incredible muscle-walled space does. It's the main engine of the heart, and with each beat it collects blood from the lungs and pumps it to the rest of your organs. It processes an amazing 695,000 gallons of blood each year-that's more than three thousand tons of fluid, more than enough to fill an Olympic-sized swimming pool.
3 FOSSA OVALIS 
This tiny structure is a hidden remnant of your embryonic past. As a fetus, your lungs aren't functional yet, so you mix blood from the two sides of the heart through a tiny hole called the foramen ovale. In an adult, this hole usually closes, forming the fossa ovalis. In up to a third of adults, however, a small part of it stays open, which can contribute to migraines and even strokes.
4 SINOATRIAL NODE 
Your heart beats more than a hundred thousand times per day, rhythmically and endlessly twisting to pump the body full of blood. The key to this process is the sinoatrial node, a tiny bundle of cells that spontaneously generates the electrical impulses triggering each beat. The electric fibers from this hot spot pass through a fragile area called the membranous interventricular septum. If this area gets disrupted and the wires get cut, it's lights-out for your heart.
5 MITRAL VALVE 
Each time the heart beats, two sets of valves slam shut in sequence, producing that familiar "lub-dub" sound. These valves open and close billions of times over the course of your life, stopping blood from flowing in the wrong direction. The mitral valve is my favorite of the four. It separates the left atrium, which collects oxygen-enriched blood from the lungs, from the left ventricle, which pumps that blood out. It's named after the miter, that two-leafed hat worn by the pope.
6 LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING CORONARY ARTERY 
This crucial artery supplies the left ventricle and other major structures with the oxygen-rich blood they need in order to perform.
FOUR STEPS TO A HEALTHIER HEART
By MEHMET OZ, M.D.
> PUSH YOURSELF. As long as you don't have any existing problems with your heart, you can and should regularly push its limits. Several times a week, sprint at full speed until your heart is pounding. Over time, your heart will slow down at rest and its pumping will become more efficient.
> GET SOME SUN. Or at least vitamin D: Your risk of hypertension skyrockets if you're deficient in vitamin D, and hypertension makes it harder for your heart to pump blood. In the summer, getting the vitamin is easy, because it comes from the sun. But during the winter-especially in northern states-you need a boost. I live in New York, and I take 1,000 IU daily supplements. Floridians, act accordingly.
> UP YOUR OMEGA-3 FATS. Three reasons to take these in supplement form every morning, as I do (seriously, come over any morning and I'll show you): They clean out the arteries that supply your heart with the oxygen it needs. They lower your blood pressure, making it easier for your heart to pump blood. And they may prevent arrhythmias, which are misfires of the heart's electrical system.
> HAVE MORE SEX. The next time you meet any resistance at hornytime-she's tired, she has a headache-tell your partner this: Having sex twice or more per week will cut your risk of a heart attack in half. She will literally be saving your life.
THE MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST
. ONCE A MONTH: RESTING PULSE Take your heart rate when you first wake up or after five minutes of lying down. If it's over 75 beats per minute, you can cut your risk of having a fatal heart attack in half by slowing it down to under 60 beats per minute. To do that, aim to regularly speed it up with exercise.
. ALSO ONCE A MONTH: PULSE RECOVERY Measure your pulse while doing any exercise that gets your heart thumping at its maximum rate. Then rest for one minute and measure again. If the difference isn't 12 beats per minute or greater, your risk of death-death!-in the next six years is twice as high as it should be.
. ONCE A YEAR: BLOOD PRESSURE This is easy to check at either your regular doctor's appointment or using the little machine in the local pharmacy. If the top number is 120 or less, you're in good shape. If it's over 140, you have hypertension and probably won't make it to the end of this article. If it's between 120 and 140, you have pre-hypertension-doesn't sound horrible, but in fact it means your risk of a heart attack is still three and a half times higher than it should be. Get that number down by exercising, cutting your salt intake, and taking vitamin D and omega-3 pills.
. ONCE EVERY FIVE YEARS: CHOLESTEROL  Cholesterol isn't a problem for only old men who eat a lot of eggs. High levels in your twenties or thirties double your risk of a fatal heart attack later.
. ONCE: GET AN EKG Most doctors don't routinely perform EKGs on healthy men, but once you hit middle age-forty, say-it's worth asking for one. Minor abnormalities in your heart's electrical circuits may not cause any symptoms, but they can signal an increased risk of heart disease.
Dr. Mehmet Oz is a heart surgeon, author, and host of the nationally syndicated Dr. Oz Show.
Balls
By CHRIS JONES
THE MEN IN MY FAMILY are of average height and weight, average attractiveness, average athleticism, average shoe size. With regard to nearly every biological measure, the Joneses are 42 regulars, struck straight down the middle. Except, for reasons genetic or divine, we have big balls.1 Not in the metaphorical sense. In the sense that I routinely sit on them, which, until relatively recently, I thought everybody did. Growing up, I had paid as much attention to my balls as women had. Then, a few years ago, a new doctor asked me what had happened to my balls, because clearly there was something very wrong with them.2  I told her that's how they had looked since I was ten years old.
Not long after, some friends saw the outline of my balls through my pants, and they pointed and laughed and asked why I'd brought my own lemons to the bar. I told them that my dad's balls had once fallen out the bottom of his shorts at a family gathering, and his sack is the color and size of a Crown Royal bag. Next to him, I look like a eunuch. How was I to know?
Suddenly I found myself walking differently than other men, knowing for the first time the pride of outliers. So when my wife and I began talking about my getting a vasectomy,3  I blanched. It was like asking a very tall man to get his legs amputated, cutting him down to size. That was the pull. The push was condom sex with my wife, who had decided to stay off the Pill after the birth of our second son. I hate condom sex. My friend Troy likes having condom sex with his wife-"It's great," he says, "you can pretend she's a hooker"-but Troy's a pervert.
In the end, the sex won out, and off I went to see Dr. Ronald Weiss. He's the man here in Ottawa, having performed more than twenty-eight thousand "no scalpel, no needle" vasectomies, all in the comfort of his own home, a mansion on a treelined street. I'd heard that two elderly women sit on their porch next door and heckle the condemned, cracking wise like those two old guys on The Muppet Show, but they weren't there when I showed up for my consultation, which consisted of the greatest educational video of all time. In it, a conspicuously multicultural group of men-two black guys, an Indian, and a mealy white dude-pepper a doctor with questions about their postsurgery erectile function and seminal viscosity.4 That was pretty weird, but the weirder thing was, three of them had magnificent mustaches. The unsubtle message was that having a vasectomy won't make you less of a man. It might, however, make you look like Billy Dee Williams.
Dr. Weiss then appeared and asked if I had any questions. I felt we needed to get to know each other a little, and yet I also wanted to maintain some kind of professional distance. We talked like porn stars do, I imagine, before they shoot a scene. I asked him what it was like having seen more than a mile and a half of dick-I'd done the math in the waiting room-and he shrugged. I also asked him if it would hurt, and he used the word uncomfortable to describe the procedure: I would be shot with something called a jet injector, which would numb my balls by spitting bullets of compressed air at them and injecting anesthetic into them, slapping them into submission. Then Dr. Weiss would poke a small hole in my scrotum near the base of my penis, snip my vas deferens in two, cauterize it closed, and plug my bag shut with wound glue. It would take less than five minutes to transform me from a virile, big-balled stallion into a man with the reproductive capacity of a driveway. Maybe a week without carrying luggage, and off I'd walk into a spermless sunset.
I booked my appointment, bought my "vasectomy kit" (a surgical razor, a jockstrap, and some gauze), filled my prescription for a single, precious Valium, and went home to count the days, excited for my infertile future. But as my surgery approached, I began giving it more serious thought. It's such a strange thing: Boys spend their entire lives worried they're going to get a girl pregnant, and then when they become old men and it comes time to end the fear, a new scare pops up. Were we really through with having kids? My wife and I talked about it, went in circles for a while, and finally decided Charley and Sam were the children we were meant to have. We knew what our Sears portraits would look like for the rest of our lives.
The morning of my vasectomy, I spent forty, maybe forty-five minutes shaving my balls until they looked like an uncooked turkey. I took my Valium, felt my balls relax and my hands go numb, and then waited for my mom to show up.
That's right. My mom took me to my vasectomy.
I went into the office and dropped my jockstrap. I jumped onto the bed and pulled up my T-shirt. Dr. Weiss painted my balls with iodine and then tied a noose around my dick, hitching it up toward my face. (Shaved and stretched, I looked, for the first time in my life, something like hung; my penis has been a lifelong victim of scale.) Then out came the stun gun. Uncomfortable is about right. Slap, snip, sizzle. Smoke rose from my balls, and Dr. Weiss said, "Well, it's been a slice."
I slipped to the floor gingerly, just in case, but I felt fine. Back in the waiting room, I was given a can of Coke and told to hang out for a few minutes, just to make sure I was really okay. My mom and I made small talk-"So, what's new with you?"-and then I went home, jockstrapped and glued. My boys-Charley and Sam, I mean-were waiting for me at the door. I gave them a hug and went to look at my new scar in the mirror. It was microscopic. Three months later, I was in my basement, down in the dark with the furnace, where I tried to find a little privacy so that I might rub one out into a wet-suit-thick, doctor-issued, unlubricated condom. After the least-pleasurable orgasm of my life, I squeezed the pitiful contents into a plastic cup, dropped the cup in the mail, and a week after that, I clicked my mouse a couple of times and sure enough: NO MOTILE SPERM. Such a fast, simple fix, a tiny hole in a single wrinkle on my great hairless nutsack. My balls were exactly what they had been, and the rest of me and my life fell in line behind them. And yet everything had changed. No more children, no more condoms. That's how tender the machine is. All it takes is a quick poke, one way or another.
1. The average testicle at its widest point across is four centimeters, or the length of three fingertips across, and unlike the size of your penis, the size of your testicles matters. Testicles are composed of sperm-making and testosterone-producing cells, and the larger your balls, the greater your chances for getting a woman pregnant.
2.  The good doctor could've been referring to any number of conditions, including a hydrocele, in which fluid collects around the testicle, or a varicocele, an engorgement of the veins around the scrotum. If you've recently experienced a noticeable increase in the size of your scrotum, either one could be the culprit.
3.  Sperm is made in the testicles and travels through a series of tubes-the epididymis and the vas deferens-before combining with the other components of semen. A vasectomy prevents the movement of sperm through the vas deferens, resulting in spermless semen.
4. Once the recovery period is over, erectile function should return to normal. Seminal viscosity may or may not be affected, but because there is no motile sperm in the semen, it will appear less cloudy.
IT WOULD TAKE LESS THAN FIVE MINUTES TO TRANSFORM ME FROM A VIRILE, BIG-BALLED STALLION INTO A MAN WITH THE REPRODUCTIVE CAPACITY OF A DRIVEWAY.
FOUR STEPS TO HEALTHIER BALLS
By HARRY FISCH, M.D.
> LOSE THE BELLY. If you decrease the size of the pubic fat pad-that's the fat that sits right above the penis-it will make your penis look longer (which you probably don't care about) and will boost your sex drive (which you probably do). Testosterone is normally broken down in the body's fat cells, and abdominal fat breaks down testosterone extra quickly and leads to testosterone deficiency. By losing that belly fat, you'll increase the amount of testosterone in your system and feel the difference in the bedroom.
>  DO MORE SQUATS. By doing exercises concentrated below the waist, you can increase the blood flow in your pelvic region, and that, in turn, can increase the width of the penis. Not a lot, but still.
> EAT MORE WALNUTS. Or almonds. Or anything that contains an amino acid called arginine, which is also found in beans, cold-water fish (tuna, salmon), soy products, and oats. Arginine promotes a process called nitric-oxide release, which relaxes blood vessels and increases the blood flow to the penis. You can also find arginine in dietary supplements like L-argi-nine-though don't exceed more than 2,800 mg in a day.
> GET SERIOUS ABOUT LOWERING YOUR CHOLESTEROL. Among the myriad other reasons for doing this: It will facilitate blood flow to your penis and impact your sex drive, the girth of your penis, and the firmness of your erection.
THE MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST
. EVERY DAY: PAY ATTENTION Does it burn when you pee? Are you seeing blood? Is there any discomfort when you adjust yourself? If the answer is yes and the problem lasts for more than a few days, see a doctor.
. EVERY SIX MONTHS: CHECK YOUR BALLS Feel around your testicles for hardness and discomfort, and if you sense anything that feels like a knuckle, see your doctor. There's a chance it could be testicular cancer.
. ONCE A YEAR: GET A PHYSICAL And ask your doctor about your blood pressure, cholesterol, and testosterone levels. If you're having problems with any of those things, it'll eventually influence your sex life. Good heart, good penis. Good penis, good heart.
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
And what Dr. Fisch likes most about it
1 EPIDIDYMIS
The lowest part of your scrotum isn't your testicle-it's the tail of a coiled tube called the epididymis that sits on the back of each testicle, and it's where most of the sperm is stored after it's created by the testicles. For sperm to stay healthy, it needs to be stored at cooler temperatures, and because the tail of the epididymis is that much farther away from the rest of the body, it's just a little bit cooler.
2 VAS DEFERENS
The tubes that transport sperm from the epididymis to the ejaculatory duct.
3 BLADDER NECK
Where the bladder ends and the prostate begins. When you urinate, it opens up to let the urine move from the bladder to the urethra. When you're having sex, it closes like a sphincter so you don't have to worry about urinating and ejaculating at the same time.
4 PERIURETHRAL GLANDS
You know how, before you ejaculate, you sometimes see clear fluid? These are what makes that fluid, which is necessary because it lubricates the urethra so that semen can make its way out of your penis. Even though we tell people that women can get pregnant just from this fluid, there's actually very little sperm in it.
5 SEMINAL VESICLES
Sixty-five percent of your ejaculate comes from fluid made in these glands. (The rest comes from prostatic fluid and sperm from the testicles.) This stuff has fructose in it, which is the sugar that the sperm needs while in transit to the egg. If you haven't had sex for a long time, all the fluid that's stored up in the seminal vesicles will make for a whole lot of ejaculate. But if you have a ton of sex in a short amount of time, you deplete your seminal vesicles and you won't see much ejaculate. Give it a day or so to fill up again.
6 EJACULATORY DUCTS
How does semen actually get into the urethra? These little tubes. During ejaculation, sperm passes through the vas deferens and arrives at these little tubes, where the sperm then mixes with fluids from the seminal vesicles and prostate to form the semen that then passes through the urethra.
7 PROSTATE
What does this gland do when it's not keeping men up at night worrying about cancer? It supplies important fluid for the ejaculate. Compared with the sugary fluid of the seminal vesicles, prostatic fluid is more acidic, and if anyone tells you that your ejaculate tastes more salty than sweet, it could mean you've got an enlarged prostate. This is usually not a good thing.
8 CORPUS CAVERNOSUM
Think of your penis as being made up of three cylinders, and two of those three go by the name of corpus cavernosum. They're kind of like the inner tubes of a bicycle tire; when you get an erection, that's the corpus cavernosa filling up with blood; after you ejaculate, the blood drains out of them and your penis becomes soft again.
Dr. Harry Fisch is a urologist in New York City and a professor of clinical urology at Weill Cornell Medical College/New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He is the coauthor of Size Matters and The Male Biological Clock. For more information, visit . 

Load-Date: September 15, 2010


End of Document
