




The Seahawk: University of North Carolina Wilmington
November 8, 2015 Sunday


University Wire
Copyright 2015 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 643 words
Body


When most people think of Planned Parenthood, they have pretty strong dispositions. Whether they view it as a tax- stealing nuisance or as an institution that stands up for the rights of women, Planned Parenthood is a highly discussed topic in America right now.
For instance, Ohio's Republican-controlled Senate passed Senate Bill 214 in a 23- 10 vote this past October. The bill, which still needs to be passed in the House, plans to redirect $1.3 million in funding from Planned Parenthood of Greater Ohio to other health centers, departments and clinics that do not promote or perform abortions.
The reason that this is problematic is because although Planned Parenthood does perform abortions, that is not all that the organization does.
The services provided by Planned Parenthood include birth control and other forms of contraception; screening and prevention for breast, cervical and testicular cancer; pregnancy testing and counseling; testing and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases; sex education programs; treatments for menopause; vasectomies; community outreach; LGBTQIA services; and abortions.
The organization provides people with more than just abortions and caters to men as well as women.
In the case of Planned Parenthood of Greater Ohio, the organization offers birth control, cancer screenings, tests for sexually transmitted diseases and exams at its 28 centers across the state, and only three of those centers perform abortions.
With recent attempts by legislatures across the country to completely defund the organization, it is important to look at what Planned Parenthood actually does for American citizens. A lot of coverage of the organization focuses on its reproductive services, but the organization offers more than that, and defunding it could mean a loss in health services for those who desperately need them.
In a recent editorial written by Staff Writer Hannah Weatherman about this very topic, Weatherman discussed how defunding Planned Parenthood could take away 400,000 pap tests and 500,000 breast exams as well as the 4.5 million tests and treatments for sexually transmitted diseases.
"These efforts make up 97% percent of the program," wrote Weatherman, "therefore, to try and defund Planned Parenthood due to the 3% of abortion services it provides... undermines the policies that encourage sexual reproduction health and responsibility for millions of people."
As well as tests and screenings, the Guttmacher Institute, which is a non-profit that advocates for reproductive rights, said that in 2010 2.4 million girls got contraceptives from Planned Parenthood. The report also stated that one in three women that got contraception from a publicly funded clinic got it from Planned Parenthood.
So to completely defund Planned Parenthood would mean jeopardizing the health of Americans and could cut off access to contraceptives to a third of women in this nation.
Planned Parenthood also does a lot to help the poor with attaining these health services. For example, impoverished individuals who do not have insurance can be charged at a lower rate for Planned Parenthood's services based on their income. This organization provides people of all economic and social standing the opportunity to responsibly plan out a family.
Defunding Planned Parenthood would affect more than the irresponsible college student or homeless person that conservative agendas present in the media. Defunding Planned Parenthood would affect anyone who has every needed contraception, STD screenings, or has ever had a family member with reproductive cancers.
This organizations stands to promote health amongst our nation, and attempts to defund it is a blatant disregard for public health on the part of government officials.
For more information on Planned Parenthood, please visit their website: /

Load-Date: November 8, 2015


End of Document
