




 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
October 1, 2003 Wednesday
Home Edition


Copyright 2003 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Metro News;
Length: 488 words
Body


I love Georgia in the fall. When I look out my window, it's like watching high-definition television.
I don't know about the rest of you, but it is OK with me if the "no call" list is expanded to include charities.
For the Journal-Constitution
As more of us spend more time at our computers, I wonder, will we soon become robots?
So you want "a home where the giant rodents roam and the skies are volcanic all day?" Move to Detroit.
Fact: Houses near downtown Atlanta are very expensive. Those who cannot afford them are not entitled. Get over it.
I have a friend who is a telemarketer, and she is really annoyed at the judge who ruled against the "no call" list because she signed up for it.
You don't have to give your phone number or ZIP code to buy a pair of pants. The response "That's none of your business" works quite well. So does telling them your ZIP code is 90210.
One pair of hip-hugging belly-button-showing girls' jeans: $50. A 14-year-old daughter with too much respect for herself to put them on: priceless.
I'm a clean-cut, conservative bachelor who's having a difficult time finding a nice single girl who hasn't scarred her body with tattoos.
Life is indeed strange. I too stayed out of Vietnam by attending college. I graduated with a 4.0 in engineering and later designed military equipment.
Based upon the way they drove, I once thought the numbers I saw on people's cars were their IQ scores. Now I realize it's a NASCAR thing.
When the auction of Martin Luther King's papers at Sotheby's is completed, it appears that his writings will no longer be free at last.
I didn't know that walking across the street should be a criminal offense until Jim Wooten showed me the light.
My high school senior son brought home his grades this week. He told me not to worry about the classes he was failing, because they're mainly high Fs.
Thorough White House investigation: Press secretary Scott McClellan: "Karl, did you leak the secret information?" Karl Rove: "No." McClellan: "Okey-dokey."
It's a sad statement on our society to have to go through metal detectors and have your bag searched to go to a high school football game.
The only bad part about getting a vasectomy from a vet is explaining the funnel collar that you have to wear to keep you from chewing on your stitches.
Jessica Lynch was an American soldier fighting in Iraq. She is an American hero.
I have reached the pinnacle of my career. I was at a party and the host had my vent on their refrigerator.
People who idolize the Ten Commandments and want them in courthouses are violating Commandment No. 2.
If you find out that your husband is having a yearlong affair with a stripper, don't you think that rates a phone call to your family and not just an e-mail?
I love filling up my SUV with gas. It gives me time to read a book or two.
Perhaps the only person more annoying than a reformed smoker is a former carboholic.
Need to Vent? Call 404-222-8338; e-  

Load-Date: October 2, 2003


End of Document
