






Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
August 24, 2003, Sunday, Metro Edition


Copyright 2003 Star Tribune
Section: VARIETY; Pg. 1E
Length: 2061 words
Byline: Gail Rosenblum; Staff Writer
Body


CATCHING UP
Staff photographer Judy Griesedieck and staff writer Gail Rosenblum have been following the University of Minnesota Medical School Class of 2004 for 2 1/2 years. To read previous stories (Nov. 11, 2001, April 14, 2002, Aug. 3, 2002, and Dec. 8, 2002), go to  
     In the world of small-town medicine, everyone is treated like family, and Buddy the cat is no exception.
     It's Tuesday, 9:01 a.m., and Buddy is the first to arrive at the medical clinic in Watkins, about 25 miles west of St. Cloud, Minn. The clinic is sandwiched between Shorty and Lia's bar and the Wat-Kim-Valley VFW Post.
     "Here you go, Buddy. Come here, come here," coaxes Kyla Rice, 27, a third-year medical student at the University of Minnesota. Rice has been Buddy's caregiver since the previous Friday. That's when Buddy's owner, a divorced Vietnam veteran with chronic hepatitis, passed out in his kitchen. When he woke up, he drove to the clinic and then was taken by ambulance to Minneapolis Veterans Medical Center. Before leaving, he told Rice where to find Buddy's food.
   "I'll get ya some tuna, too," Rice coos to Buddy, setting down a bowl. "It's tuna and salmon. Isn't he spoiled?"
     Rice has no plans to become a veterinarian. In fact, her first paying patient has also arrived _ a local man with a nasty tick bite acquired while hunting mushrooms. But she fully understands rule No. 1 of primary care medicine in Watkins, population 880:
     Expect everything.
     Tick bites, hungry cats, end-of-life issues, Rice has dealt with all of it. Unlike three-quarters of her peers in the University of Minnesota Medical School Class of 2004, she gave up the academic swirl of the Twin Cities this year to spend nine months with the university's Rural Physician Associate Program (RPAP).
     RPAP began in 1971, when the state was struggling to find enough primary care doctors for rural areas. It's been in more than 100 Minnesota communities since; today, the program is thriving in about 40 small towns, such as Paynesville, population 2,267, and smaller towns, such as Bigfork, population 469. It is, according to RPAP director Wally Swentko, "the 88,000-square-mile classroom."
     Most heartening to Swentko: About 65 percent of RPAP students go on to practice medicine in Minnesota. Of that number, about 20 percent choose to live and work in the town where they originally served with RPAP.
      Serving with RPAP means giving up plenty _ the big-city social scene, coaching from medical residents, daily lectures (Rice gets hers over the internet) and popular rotations in cardiology, ophthalmology and emergency medicine. Instead, Rice meets and treats her patients in one long stretch. Her days are about removing toenails ("gross"), performing scalpel-free vasectomies, freezing warts, consoling grieving widows, birthing babies and working up a diet plan for a diabetic patient nicknamed Big Darryl who would rather chew the fat with her over a dozen doughnuts.
      Rice also serves in a Paynesville clinic and hospital about 18 miles from Watkins, and at the nearby Hilltop Care Center for the elderly.
     "That's the neat thing about RPAP," she said. "You treat everybody of every age, little old ladies who have depression after their husbands die, teen moms. . . . You get to be with them for long portions of their life. Sometimes they get better, sometimes they die, but at least you get to be part of that story."
Skills, responsibility grow
     She is, of course, not operating alone. Throughout the program, Rice has been under the tutelage of family practitioner Larry Strate, who has given her more responsibilities as she gains skills and confidence.
     "At the beginning, she would have trouble when somebody had a cold," said Dr. Strate, in his second year with RPAP. "At the end, she ran the ER for an entire week. I try to give them a sense of what it's like to be the only ones in charge."
     Still, Rice remains cautious, "erring on the side of thoroughness. There are always those times when you think, 'I wish there were someone else who could make this decision.' "
     Once, in the Paynesville hospital, she was charged with intubating (placing a tube down the throat of) a woman with an abdominal aortic aneurism. The woman's blood pressure was dropping, her skin was turning clammy. She was in deep trouble. With Strate at her side, Rice tried, unsuccessfully, to get the tube in. "I chickened out. I probably could have gotten it in, but I let Dr. Strate. If I had to do it again, I would have tried." Strate did the procedure, but the woman later died at Hennepin County Medical Center.
No typical day
     Most of Rice's days are less dramatic. She sees from 13 to 20 patients daily. On this day, a 31-year-old comes in with a tight cough, and a frantic 7-year-old needs warts removed. Between patients, she grabs lunch (crackers, cheese, grapes) at Stein's Thriftway Foods across the street.
     Fifty-nine-year-old Ted Anderson, of Watkins, sits in one of the clinic's modest examining rooms. Last night he had chills, felt weak, thought he might be dying. Today his elbow is bloated with pus. As usual, Rice goes in first to ask him questions and then discusses her findings and recommendations with Strate.
     "Have you ever had gout?" she asks Anderson.
     "Nope. I don't have time to get sick."
     "Ohhh. What are you busy doin'?"
     "I drive a truck."
     "Good for you. OK. OK."
     Rice peppers him with more questions, checks his throat, eyes, ears. Then she steps outside.
     "What do you think is going on?" Strate asks her. "What do you want to do?"
     She wants to lessen the swelling in his elbow.
     "Do I get the learner's discount?" Anderson asks as she returns to the room. Rice laughs, then inserts an enormous needle into his elbow. Two teaspoonsful of mocha-colored pus ooze out.
     Once a month, she visits the 60-bed Hilltop nursing home, which draws residents from Watkins, Eden Valley and Kimball. There's Rose ("Your bowels movin' OK?"); redheaded Clara ("I'm Kyla. Do you remember me? I put the staples in your head when you had the fall."); and George, 74, who's sobbing because health problems have robbed him of his independence. "Nobody wants to get better worse than I do," he tells Rice. "I don't want to run a marathon. I just want to be able to walk to get a cup of coffee." More sobs. Rice pats his shoulder, says she'll be back real soon.
     Sometimes small-town life gets awkward. Watkins has just one restaurant and three bars, where locals tend to gather. "Hey, Doc!" patients will say to her when she's out and about. "Can I buy you a beer?"
     Rice lives in a two-bedroom cabin on Lake Koronis and takes long runs in Sibley State Park. (She has run two marathons.) She keeps in close touch with her boyfriend, Ben Bursell, 29, who's doing an RPAP in Willmar, and visits friends in the Twin Cities about once a month.
A perfect match
     Rice said she is surprised by how much she loves this experience, how the joys of rural medicine may change the course of her life. But, really, she should have seen it coming.
     Rice was born in Honduras while her parents served in the Peace Corps. She was raised in St. Paul, where she attended the Spanish immersion program at Webster Magnet. After graduating from Central High School, she headed to the University of California, Berkeley. Between her sophomore and junior years, she spent one year in El Salvador working on a water-purification project. She's pursuing a joint degree in medicine and public health. Serving the underserved is clearly in her blood.
     "I expected to be happy, but I'm happier than I've ever imagined," she said. "It's such a perfect match for me."
     RPAP director Swentko agrees. He praises Rice's listening skills as one of her greatest gifts. "She has excellent rapport [with patients]. She's really advanced for a student at her level. Sometimes, students are a little bit lacking in these things."
Trusting her with his life     
     That rapport is witnessed with almost heartbreaking clarity when Daniel Plescott, Buddy's owner, arrives for his followup visit. Plescott, 52, is big and bald, with wire-framed glasses, a graying beard and mustache and tattoos snaking up his arms. He served in Vietnam in 1969, suffered post-traumatic stress syndrome and is fully disabled. Today he feels dizzy, his liver hurts, every bone in his body aches.
     He woke up the previous Friday on the kitchen floor with no clue as to how he got there.
     "Must have had the munchies," he says.
     In the examining room, he hands Rice a thank-you card for taking care of Buddy. Inside is $20.
     "Thank you so much," she tells him, "but I can't take this. But you can buy lunch next time, OK?"
     She hands him back the money and her gentle examination begins.
     "Have you been having any fevers? Do you feel more dizzy or weak? Ringing in your ears? Do you have a cough at all?"
     "A little bit at night," he tells her.
     Rice, Strate and Plescott are silent for a moment. The doctor and the medical student know that Plescott is not going to get better. Finally, Rice speaks, almost in a whisper: "I think . . . hospice."
     Strate nods, picks up on her lead. He explains to Plescott as delicately as he can that he is worried about him. If Plescott gets confused he could forget to take his medicine, he could fall again. And his liver, well, his liver just isn't working very well and it's unlikely that that's going to change.
     So they talk about hospice, about how it would provide Plescott with a nurse to help him with his medicine and other daily needs.
     Plescott taps his foot, clutches his keys, wipes away a tear.
     "That sounds good," he says.
     Rice leans on the examining table, holding the thank-you card, nodding.
     Strate breaks through the silence. "Got someone down the hall for ya."
     Plescott brightens. They talk about how spoiled Buddy is, how he slept on Rice's pillow during Plescott's stay in the hospital, licked her face, woke her up one night five times. Plescott loves to hear it, but his laughter is tempered. The pain is intense.
     A few minutes later, Rice helps Plescott out to his car, carrying Buddy in a carrier.
     "You'll make a good doctor," he tells her.
     Back inside, she talks about Plescott less as a patient, more like family. "He wakes up every morning for that cat," she says.
     He could have a liver transplant, Rice adds, but he doesn't want one. "He has that right. He's lived a rough life. He's had two friends commit suicide. One blew his brains out one month ago. When that's his life, his reality, it's a question of, 'Do I take my life today, or wait for life to take me?' "
     This, she knows, is the harsh reality some of her patients will face.
     She moves down the hall. Another patient waits, then another.
     At the end of the day she will find the $20 bill that Plescott has quietly left for her on the counter of the clinic's lab.
Gail Rosenblum is at .  
To see more of this story online, go to . 
AT A GLANCE
Nine months in RPAP
Students who participate in the Rural Physician Associate Program (RPAP) give up traditional rotations in big-city hospitals. But they get plenty of hands-on experience in return. During Kyla Rice's 9-month stint in Watkins and Paynesville, she performed many kinds of services, including:
- Visit patients in the clinics, emergency room, hospital, nursing home and homes.
- Delivery of six babies (all healthy; five girls, one boy, one circumcision).
- Dilation and curettage.
- Toenail removals.
- Wart removals.
- Skin tag removals.
- Skin biopsies for cancer.
- Intubations (". . . like on 'ER,' when you put a tube down someone's throat to help them breathe.").
- Spinals (to insert anesthesia into the spinal cord).
- Spinal tap (looking for meningitis).
- Drawing blood from arm.
- Injection of hydrocortisone into knees, hips, shoulders.
- Insertion of male and female urinary catheters.
- Drainage of "a bunch" of abscesses.
- Insertion of central-line catheter for chemotherapy.
- No-scalpel vasectomy (with needle instead).
- PAP smears.
- Cervical biopsy.
- Sutures/stitching.
- Setting fractures in cast or splint.
- Surgical assistance during hernia repair, gall bladder removal and appendectomies.

Graphic

 
PHOTO

Load-Date: August 26, 2003


End of Document
