




Washingtonian
February 2017


Copyright 2017 Washington Magazine, Inc.
Section: FIRST PERSON; Pg. 192
Length: 577 words
Byline: By Kristina Tatusko Henry
Highlight: I always assumed I'd have kids. I didn't. Here's my answer.
Body


By Kristina Tatusko Henry
"Do you have children?" When I was newly married, I winced at the question. Not at its audacity but at my failure. As I saw it, I'd flopped at something basic and human. 
Married at 27 to my 23-years-older husband, Mike, who'd undergone a vasectomy years before, I was convinced we'd have kids someday. The vasectomy reversal after we got married was supposed to be an easy fix (unfix?)-but not in our case. For various reasons, we chose not to do in vitro or adoption. Marriage has hiccups. We soldiered on.
What-ifs are among my favorite pastimes. Not so with Mike. Twenty-five years later, here we are, a dreamer and a realist. My dreams are now of the more doable variety: foreign vacations, new restaurants in nearby cities. Mike's realism remains, but he does indulge my fanciful notions and has some dreams of his own, including post-retirement Italian and cooking lessons. 
Our imaginary children, while not so set in my mind as they once were, remain amazing. Both are boys in their late teens-maybe one is 20. They share a slight goofiness. One is just a little more clever. Both are smart but not genius smart. They're athletic. I hope one might become a pilot like their dad. 
My fantasies don't involve the everyday trials of parenting. There are no parent/teacher conferences, no drinking-related incidents. No talking back, no tuition worries. My imagined life includes a house on R Street near Dumbarton Oaks and a vaguely diplomatic part-time job related to a European country. I'm not particular about which country. By part-time, I mean we spend our summers in a small Swiss town. 
I've often reverted to my imagination as I've observed my family's and friends' child-rearing. "How hard is it to say no?" I'll ask Mike. "I mean, seriously-what a brat."
"We'd eat dinner together as a family."
"If she were ours, she'd never leave the house in that dress."
Mike, who's more old-school, agrees, though I have the feeling he does so more for marital peace. 
Now past childbearing age, I like to think I've mellowed. I still judge, but silently. Most of the "brats" in our small solar system turned out well. They're kind, ambitious, polite. More important, they're thriving and happy. I take pleasure in their company and want to hear about their plans, what they think of the world. It's nice to enjoy them in increments. I get the best of them, while their parents get all of them: the good, the bad, and the moody. When I find myself passing judgment on someone's parenting or delivering another sermon to my husband, he mentions our dog. Ebb tugs on his leash and growls unprovoked at better-behaved dogs. I'm sure I'm sometimes seen as a poor pet owner. 
I don't have that Georgetown house or a conveniently part-time job in the diplomatic corps, but I've got a nice life in Easton on a tree-lined street with neighbors I refer to as my Eastern Shore family, volunteer work with nonprofits involving afterschool programs and swim lessons for kids, and visits from Washington-area family and friends. 
Mine is a small sorrow, but as far as my marriage goes, I'd gladly do it all again-except I wouldn't waste so much time thinking about what-could-bes. I wouldn't expect Mike to undergo a costly medical procedure that in the end didn't work. I would remind myself that all we have is the present. 
These days when people ask if I have kids, there's no cringing or feeling of failure. I say, sincerely curious, "No, how about you?"

Load-Date: January 27, 2017


End of Document
