




Newstex Blogs 
Conservative Daily News
June 28, 2022 Tuesday 5:05 AM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1505 words
Byline: cotobuzz
Body


Jun 27, 2022( Conservative Daily News:  Delivered by Newstex)  
 The Mother of All Decisions, the Great Tsunami, The Decision Heard Around The World, The Hyperbole of Hyperbolas, all can be applied to the recent United States Supreme Court Decision to ban abortion. The assertion that journalists abdicated the 4th estate and now are more vested in the narrative than in reporting the truth also applies. ConsiderNPR reports:[1]'In a historic and far-reaching decision, the U.S. Supreme Court (SCOTUS) officially reversed Roe v. Wade on Friday, declaring that the constitutional right to abortion, upheld for nearly a half century, no longer exists.The decision, most of which was leaked in early May, means that abortion rights will be rolled back in nearly half of the states immediately, with more restrictions likely to follow.' 
Breaking it down, 'upheld for half a century' and the 'abortion rights' reference immediately gives away Nina Totenberg's narrative. The NY Times questions the legitimacy of the court andABC News[2]quotes Elizabeth Warren as making an argument to pack the Court 'The Supreme Court has 'burned whatever legitimacy they may still have had' with their ruling last week overturning Roe v. Wade, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren said on Sunday.' Not the mention the rioting and looting, which look more like an insurrection than peaceful protests, not unlike the ones we saw for two years led by ANTIFA and BLM. The Abortion is safer than Pregnancy Fallacy But now one of the arguments being used to vilify the Court's decision is the 'Abortion is safer than Pregnancy Fallacy.' In a Linkedin Post, Cindy Gallop writes that 'Pregnancy is more than thirty times more dangerous than abortion. One study estimates that a nationwide ban would lead to a twenty-one-percent rise in pregnancy related deaths. Some of the woman who will die from abortion bans are pregnant right now. Their deaths will come not from back-alley procedures but from a silent denial of care: Interventions delayed, desires disregarded. They will die of infections, of preeclampsia, of hemorrhage, as they are forced to submit their bodies to pregnancies that they never wanted to carry and will not be hard for the anti-abortion movement to accept these deaths as a tragic, even noble consequence of womanhood itself.' The conclusion is that to take a life is 30 times safer than giving life for women who did no want the pregnancy to start out with. For the latter, perhaps vasectomy is an answer, after all,according toNIH:[3] Vasectomy is not associated with an increase in overall mortality or mortality from cardiovascular disease. Our study also found no increase in overall mortality from cancer after vasectomy, but there was an apparent increase in the risk of cancer 20 or more years after vasectomy that requires further study. TheNIH[4]has multiple studies comparing safety of abortion to pregnancy. During the early 1980s, the mortality rate associated with general anesthesia was unacceptable and theanesthesia patient safety movement[5]was born. There was an increase awareness of anesthetic-related injuries to patients and a growing malpractice insurance crisis, but the patient safety movement during this period generated highly successful and innovative patient safety initiatives that led to a dramatic reduction in patient harm associated with anesthesia. In the early 2000s, Dr. Atul Gawande urged the medical profession to use systems engineering principles to 'fix medicine.' He writes : 'Our great struggle in medicine these days is not just with ignorance and uncertainty. It's also with complexity: how much you have to make sure you have in your head and think about. There are a thousand ways things can go wrong.' His solution: Prepare checklists. His recommendation when implemented were so successful Gawande admits that even he was skeptical that using a checklist in everyday practice would help to save the lives of his patients. 'I didn't expect it, It's massively improved the kind of results that I'm getting. When we implemented this checklist in eight other hospitals, I started using it because I didn't want to be a hypocrite. But hey, I'm at Harvard, did I need a checklist? No.' [embedded content] If after 80 billion babies have been delivered and pregnancy is still as dangerous as Zachary Coon says it is: ' Pregnancy is dangerous, medically invasive, body and life changing. Even when it is intended and smartly engage (it) can go wrong and have dire consequences' He goes on to say that Abortion is Vital Healthcare. Period. any woman should have unhindered healthcare at any time. Period. Nothing else matters. The fetus is not alive, in any sense we consider important to humans, It has no awareness, personality, hopes and dreams. It does not even begin to develop brain structure,' then Pre-natal Cares is in the medieval age. Apparently pro-abortionists are willingly to buy the Pfizer Doubling of the Curve science, but ignore the rest. In 2017 the American College of Pediatricians[6]determined that 'the predominance of human biological research confirms that human life begins at conception—fertilization. At fertilization, the human being emerges as a whole, genetically distinct, individuated zygotic living human organism, a member of the species Homo sapiens, needing only the proper environment in order to grow and develop. The difference between the individual in its adult stage and in its zygotic stage is one of form, not nature. This statement focuses on the scientific evidence of when an individual human life begins.' While it is true that international human rights instruments lack a universal inclusion of the fetus as a person for the purposes of human rights, the fetus is granted various rights in the constitutions and civil codes of several countries. Abortion is safer than pregnancy is a fallacy. Its not either or. Those who think the COVID Vaccine is too dangerous, refuse to be vaccinated. Those who think pregnancy is too dangerous, should not get pregnant. And it is unintended, they must be help responsible and not the unborn, The overwhelming majority of pregnancies are wanted. Where about 95%[7]of unintended pregnancies occur in women who do not use contraception or women who use it inconsistently or incorrectly. America's Healthcare Rankings[8]has suggested strategies to reduce the number of unintended pregnancies. In additrion, perhaps we need a national movement such as the one used to increase the safety of general anesthesia, or Dr. Awalde's checklist for general surgery to decrease pregnancy mortality rate so as to make it easier to choose life and not death. Agree/Disagree with the author(s)? Let them know in the comments below and be heard by 10's of thousands of CDN readers each day! Support Conservative Daily News with a small donation via Paypal or credit card[9] that will go towards supporting the news and commentary you've come to appreciate. 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  [ 3]: / [ 4]: / [ 5]:  [ 6]:  [ 7]:  [ 8]: . [ 9]: / 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: July 20, 2022


End of Document
