




Newstex Blogs 
24/7 Wall St.
May 30, 2024 Thursday 1:30 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 24/7 Wall St. 
Length: 898 words
Byline: Javier Simon
Body


May 30th, 2024 (   - Delivered by   )
Income
erdikocak / iStock via Getty Images
Health savings accounts (HSA) can help you sock away money for various medical expenses, while benefiting from distinct tax breaks.
In fact, you can withdraw money from an HSA to cover any qualified medical expense tax-free. The IRS defines qualified medical expenses.
What are HSA-eligible expenses?
Source: Nudphon Phuengsuwan / Shutterstock.com
HSA qualified medical expenses cover a wide range of services.
HSA qualified medical expenses currently cover a wide range of medical, dental, vision, and prescription costs.
Here are some examples.
Medical
Acupuncture
Acid controllers
Alcoholism treatment
Allergy and sinus medicine
Ambulance
Anti-diarrheals
Anti-gas products
Anti-itch and insect bite
Anti-parasitic treatments
Baby rash ointments/creams
Birth control
Body scans
Braille books and magazines
Breast pumps and lactation supplies
Chiropractor
Co-insurance (medical, dental or vision)
Co-payments
Cold sore remedies
Cough, cold and flu
Crutches or canes
Deductibles
Diabetic supplies
Diagnostic services
Digestive aids
Drug addiction treatment
Feminine anti-fungal/anti-itch
Fertility enhancements
Flu shots
Guide dogs or other service animals
Hearing aids and batteries
Hemorrhoidal preps
Hospital services
Insulin
Laboratory fees
Lamaze classes
Laxatives
Learning disability treatments
Menstrual care products
Mastectomy-related special bras
Medical equipment and repairs
Medical monitoring and testing devices
Medical supplies
Motion sickness
Nursing services
OB/GYN
Office visits
Oxygen
Pain relievers (for example, aspirin)
Physical exams
Physical therapy
Pregnancy tests (over-the-counter)
Prescription drugs
Prosthesis
Psychiatric care
Reconstructive surgery following
Respiratory treatments
Mastectomy
Sleep aids and sedatives
Smoking cessation (programs/drugs)
Speech therapy
Sterilization
Stomach remedies
Surgery
Transportation, parking and related
Travel expenses
(essential to receive medical care; subject to IRS limits)
Vaccinations
Vasectomy
Weight loss program and/or drugs
(if prescribed by a physician to treat a specific medical condition)
Wheelchair
X-ray fees
Dental
Braces
Dentures
Exams
Extractions
Fillings
Teeth cleaning
X-rays
Vision
Contact lenses
Examinations and glasses
Laser eye surgery
Reading glasses (over-the-counter)
It's important to note that the IRS can change its list of qualified medical expenses at any time. You can find the latest details by reviewing the latest IRS Publication 502.
Some HSA-eligible expenses also require a doctor's diagnosis. So be sure to contact your HSA provider for the latest information as well.
What aren't HSA-eligible expenses?
Source: fizkes / Shutterstock.com
Not all medical expenses are qualified for HSA tax-free withdraws.
While qualified medical expenses as defined by the IRS cover a wide range of services, it doesn't include all treatments you may need.
Here are some examples.
Cosmetic procedures, unless they correct a deformity or treat an underlying medical condition
Employment-related physical exams
Funeral expenses
Health insurance premiums, unless you have COBRA continuation coverage or receive unemployment benefits
Imported medications that aren't FDA-approved
Infant formula, even when the mother can't breastfeed
Late payment charges and missed appointment fees
Life insurance premiums
Long-term disability premiums
Marijuana, even if it's prescribed by a doctor
Also, keep in mind that withdraws for non-qualified medical expenses would trigger ordinary income tax on the distribution and a 20% penalty.
How does an HSA work?
Source: zimmytws / Shutterstock.com
An HSA offers distinct tax benefits.
To be eligible for an HSA, you need to be covered by a high-deductible health plan (HDHP).
You may be able to open an HSA through your employer. But you can also open an account through a financial institution like Schwab or Fidelity.
Many financial institutions allow you to invest in an HSA much like you'd invest in an individual retirement account (IRA.) This means you could invest your HSA dollars in mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) designed for long-term growth.
Why this matters
Source: Juanmonino / E+ via Getty Images
HSAs come with some rules you need to follow to avoid penalties.
If you're eligible for an HSA, it can help you cover unexpected medical expenses and get some tax breaks. But in order to make the most out of HSA tax benefits, you need to use your HSA funds on qualified medical expenses, as defined by the IRS. So we compiled this guide for you. But be aware that the IRS can change its list of qualified medical expenses at any time. So make sure you review the latest version of Publication 502.
Smart Investors Are Quietly Loading Up on These 'Dividend Legends'
If you want your portfolio to pay you cash like clockwork, it's time to stop blindly following conventional wisdom like relying on Dividend Aristocrats.  , and we want to show you. We're offering a brand-new report on 2 stocks we believe offer the rare combination of a high dividend yield and significant stock appreciation upside. If you're tired of feeling one step behind in this market, this free report is a must-read for you.
  to download your FREE copy of '2 Dividend Legends to Hold Forever' and start improving your portfolio today.
Thank you for reading! Have some feedback for us?
 .


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: May 30, 2024


End of Document
