




Newstex Blogs 
Conservative Daily News
August 20, 2024 Tuesday 11:44 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 Conservative Daily News 
Length: 609 words
Byline: Ray Cardello
Body


August 20th, 2024 (   - Delivered by   )
The opening night of a Presidential convention is reserved for the least important people in government. In a final blow to Joe Biden, the DNC has slotted him at 10:50 PM on Monday night. The East Coast will already be sleeping, as will Joe. This disrespect is Kamala saying good night, Joe, and I won't be needing you on the campaign trail. The slighting of Biden puts a spotlight on the hypocrisy.
Can there be any better example of Democrat hypocrisy than 84-year-old Nancy Pelosi telling 81-year-old Joe Biden that he needs to step aside and then say to the nation that President Joe Biden deserves a spot on Mount Rushmore. She said that with as straight a face as she can muster. The Democrats claim that their message is of hope for the future. They make this claim in the same breath that Planned Parenthood will offer free abortions and vasectomies at the Chicago convention. Nothing says joyous future than killing the unborn and reproductive abilities.
Joe Biden became the first President since LBJ in 1968 not to seek reelection and, appropriately, the first Democrat since Jimmy Carter to be a one-term administrator. Many say these two administrations produced similar results with an economy that is nothing but disastrous for the middle class. Joe Biden can claim till the end of time that Bidenomics is working, but the fact that Kamala Harris is distancing herself from the policy and calling for a new start proves that Democrats don't buy the gaslighting.
Kamala Harris can separate herself from Biden's policies, but she cannot erase three-plus years of support for every Biden policy and often the deciding vote in the Senate to turn the policies into law. The Dems and media are trying to convince Americans that they are better off today than in 2020. Americans trying to balance their checkbooks know that this is not true. People like Juan Williams are adamant that real wages are up which everyone who is working for a check knows this is not true, and inflation has destroyed any gains in wages. They try to cite the low unemployment numbers, but you can also point to the employment numbers to tell the entire story. The stock markets may be up, but nothing else in the economy is favorable.
Biden may be passing the torch to Kamala tonight, but you will not see the Biden family celebrating. The Dems will give Joe a huge ovation tonight, but that will be because of the applause signs flashing in the arena. They will also start having regrets about putting their future in the hands of Harris. The blunders so far are damaging. Picking Walz over Shapiro, making public her socialist economic platform, and denouncing Bidenomics will force the Party to bury her until the election. They are probably plotting to keep her and Walz off the debate stages.
The Dems will get through this choreographed week and will continue to downplay the protesters who forced Chicago businesses to board their windows and shut their storefronts. Kamala will address the crowd on Thursday. She will cackle as the balloons and confetti fall from the rafters, and we will not see her until November. And Joe, he left for vacation after the torch left his hand. We may not see him again.
Content syndicated from  
Agree/Disagree with the author(s)? Let them know in the comments below and be heard by 10's of thousands of CDN readers each day!
Support Conservative Daily News with a small donation via  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: August 20, 2024


End of Document
