




ReleaseWire
October 20, 2014 Monday 8:55 PM EST


Copyright 2014 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 825 words
Body


Oct 20, 2014 (ReleaseWire:/ Delivered by Newstex)
 Laguna Hills, CA -- (ReleaseWire[1]) -- 10/20/2014 -- Dr. Aaron Spitz is the board-certified fertility specialist and urologist leading Vasectomy Reversal USA[2]. He is also a physician for Orange County Urology Associates. He has been offering his expertise recently to dispel myths and misconceptions about male fertility treatments and reduce the fear and anxiety attached to them.

Vasectomy reversal surgery is an outpatient surgery performed with general anesthesia. Patients leave for home right after surgery. Local anesthesia is also used so that patients can remain comfortable when they wake up. With plenty of ice most patients report similar to less pain than during their vasectomy recovery. There are some differences. Patients undergoing vasectomy reversals must avoid exercise for 4 weeks following surgery. Additionally, they should abstain from sex after the procedure for four weeks; one of the more challenging aspects of the recovery.

The procedure is done with micro-sutures about the width of an eyelash, in order to ensure that the vas deferens is precisely reconnected. The team at Vasectomy Reversal USA strives to provide as safe and comfortable a procedure as possible. Post operative scarring is minimal and often invisible. 

There are limited options for men seeking vasectomy reversal in San Diego[3], Orange County or Los Angeles. Dr. Spitz provides this expertise, and additionally provides expertise in the treatment of other causes of male infertility. Sometimes male infertility may occur after a vasectomy, and it is important that it is recognized and treated to maximize the chances of a successful vasectomy reversal. 

Dr. Spitz has been featured on Dr. Phil where he was selected as a top expert to provide a vasectomy reversal for one of their guest couples. That couple now has a beautiful, healthy baby. He also frequents the talk show 'The Doctors', where he provides medical advice to improve fertility, sexual health and other urological health matters. In one segment, he performs a minimally invasive vasectomy live on the show and in another segment he discusses a vasectomy reversal live from the operating room. He was recently featured for having performed a sperm extraction for Slade Smiley and Gretchen Rossi of 'Real Housewives of Orange County'.

Dr. Spitz informs prospective patients that a pregnancy can happen immediately, but it can also take up to a year or more. Even so, this procedure strengthens marriages and brings zest back to a sex life with the exciting promise of pregnancy and starting a family. 

Individuals in or around Los Angeles, Orange County or San Diego seeking vasectomy reversal[4] can contact Vasectomy Reversal USA at (800) 352-2956, or visit them at their website. They also have a channel on YouTube.com entitled 'Vasectomy Reversal USA', where prospective patients can view more about Dr. Spitz and the vasectomy reversal procedure.

About Vasectomy Reversal USA
Led by Dr. Aaron Spitz, with offices in both Laguna Hills, and Irvine, California, Vasectomy Reversal USA helps men from all over the United States by providing the most effective microsurgical vasectomy reversal procedures. The success rates are among the highest in the country due to ongoing refinements of the most advanced microsurgical techniques as well as comprehensive male fertility care. Vasectomy Reversal USA provides personalized service, renowned clinical expertise, and a caring team that has helped many men overcome infertility and other urologic conditions, allowing men to confidently achieve their goals of fatherhood again.

For more information, please visit /[5]
For more information on this press release visit:            [6] Media Relations Contact Timothy A. Zenno Email: Click to Email Timothy A. Zenno[7] Web:            /[8]
 [1]:             [2]:            / [3]:             [4]:             [5]:            / [6]:             [7]:             [8]:            / 

Load-Date: October 21, 2014


End of Document
