




The Conversation - United States
September 30, 2024 Monday 12:28 PM EST


Copyright 2024 The Conversation Media Group Ltd All Rights Reserved


Length: 901 words
Byline: Jennifer Watling Neal, Professor of Psychology, Michigan State University
Highlight: Compared with voters who are trying to have kids or haven't decided yet, those who definitely don't want to have kids - known as the 'child-free' - have a different set of political priorities.
Body


In the 2024 election cycle, voters without children are under the microscope. 
Republican vice presidential candidate JD Vance has said that  are "sociopaths" who "don't have a direct stake in this country."
So it was notable that when pop star Taylor Swift , she didn't simply express her support and leave it at that. She also called herself a "." 
Politicians and others often use the word "childless" as an umbrella term for people who do not have children. But as   who , we know that this doesn't capture some important nuances.
Using large-scale demographic data, we've found that there are many types of nonparents - and each has its own set of political priorities.
The range of nonparents
Only about , or what the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention calls "involuntarily childless." Most Americans who do not have children are not childless. They are some . Social scientists often distinguish several types of nonparents:
Childless people want children but cannot have them due to circumstances such as infertility.
Not yet parents are people who do not have children yet, but plan to in the future. They tend to be younger.
Undecided individuals aren't sure whether they want to have children.
Child-free people have decided they do not want children now or in the future.
These distinctions matter. When nonparents are combined into a single group, they seem demographically and politically .
But each type of nonparent is affected by political issues differently. And some issues are especially consequential for child-free people.
The ramifications of Dobbs
Take abortion rights. The U.S. Supreme Court's  ended a constitutional right to an abortion. The ruling limited access to reproductive health care in several states and created uncertainty in others. 
Some politicians have expressed concerns about the . They've pointed to the inability for some not-yet-parents to access reproductive care if . They've also raised the alarm that Dobbs will lead to limits on access to  for childless couples.
But these concerns are relevant only for people who want to have children. There is usually little talk among politicians and pundits about the importance of reproductive rights for child-free people who do not want to have children. 
The share of Michigan adults identifying as child-free rose from  immediately afterward. This increase occurred during a time when there was significant confusion about access to abortion in Michigan because state laws were .
Since Dobbs, there has also been  and  nationwide. Some of this increase is the result of child-free people now .
Child-free people are overlooked in other areas, too, such as tax policy and in the workplace. 
Child-free people pay federal income taxes alongside parents. But both Republican and Democratic presidential platforms have placed a heavy emphasis on , which directly benefits only people who have or will have children. Child-free people work alongside parents. But parental status isn't a protected category, which could be why child-free people tend to .
Will a new bloc emerge?
Nonetheless, child-free people are primed to play an important role in American politics for several reasons. 
First, there are a lot of them. 
How many Americans are child-free depends on how you ask them. Data from  suggest that around 10% of Americans are child-free. But data from anonymous surveys   peg it at closer to 20% to 25%. If that's the case, it could mean as many as .  
Second, their numbers are growing.    suggest that every year, more Americans are reporting that they simply never want to have children.
Third, politicians' derogatory comments about "childless" people have gotten the attention of child-free people. And they're starting to organize. For example, Shannon Coulter, the influential activist behind the nonprofit group , is bringing them together through the nonpartisan . 
It's too soon to know whether child-free people can be thought of as a distinct voting bloc. But in our research, we found that child-free people in the swing state of Michigan . While there are similar numbers of liberal and conservative parents in the state, child-free people who identify as liberal outnumber conservatives 2 to 1. 
Given their size, growth, organization and liberal leanings, it may be time for American politicians to think more carefully about how child-free people fit in.
Jennifer Watling Neal receives funding from the National Institutes of Health, Institute of Education Sciences, Templeton World Charity Foundation, and the Wallace Foundation.
Zachary P. Neal receives funding from the National Science Foundation.

Load-Date: September 30, 2024


End of Document
