




Newstex Blogs 
Gates of Vienna
October 4, 2022 Tuesday 4:35 AM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1309 words
Byline: Baron Bodissey
Body


Oct 04, 2022( Gates of Vienna: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 The Great Replacement in Europe obviously requires the importation of millions of third-world immigrants to supplant the natives. However, another crucial aspect of the program is the relentless propaganda discouraging Europeans from having children, as well as the incentives offered to people who remain childless. 
Many thanks to Hellequin GB for translating this article[1] from Boris Reitschuster's website. The translator's comments are in square brackets: 
ARD and ZDF propagate sterilization in one's early twenties 
'Not everyone is made for having children' 
What one has to co-finance with one's compulsory fees for public broadcasting. 'Funk' is a youth channel from ARD and ZDF for young people aged 14 and over with an annual budget of around €45 million. Critics see it as a joint project between the two stations for the red-green re-education of young viewers. Among other things, Funk is known for having a post celebrating old people dying[2] and awarding points for crushing children in a video game[3]. Now Funk has published a post entitled 'Sterilization at 22: The Dream of Childless Life'.  
[Video link[4]] 
It was created by 'Y-Kollektiv' — a so-called content network from Funk, which is also a content network. The operator of Y-Kollektiv is 'Sendefhig GmbH' on behalf of Radio Bremen for Funk. 
You are not only wondering about the content, but also about the form? Which is more reminiscent of corporate nesting by oligarchs than of public law institutions? It's amazing what you have to co-finance with your fees. Y-Kollektiv, which also propagates sex orgies with anal sex and hard drugs, writes about itself on the Funk website: 'That's what it's all about: The reporters from Y-Kollektiv show the world as they see it and experience it — anywhere and at any time. Once a week, journalists cast their very own view of the world in web documentaries and reports on YouTube and Facebook. Real, close, human and subjective. The Y-Kollektiv accompanies a radical animal rights activist into the pigsty in his work against factory farming, learns how Pakistan's first female rickshaw driver is broadsided by her male colleagues every day and experiences the dramatic rescue of refugees on the Mediterranean. 
The political direction is already set: hard red-green. The series of awards mentioned on the site also clearly shows where the journey is headed. An excerpt: 
Data journalist Marvin Milatz won the ARD 2021 Kurt Magnus Prize with the Y-Kollektiv reportage 'Infokrieger — The new right-wing media makers'. In November 2018, the video 'Women on the sidelines — sexism in football' by Gülseren lcüm won first place in the Juliane Bartel Media Prize. The prize is awarded to contributions that 'address gender equality in a serious or entertaining way and make grievances visible.' 
In the post on sterilization, a young mother theatrically declares how much she regrets her decision to become a mother. Then there are complaints that such confessions are 'taboo' in society; anyone who publicly states that they regret being a mother is pilloried, says the spokeswoman from the word go in the tone of a prosecutor: 'Anyone who makes the decision as a young woman not to want children is often not taken seriously, like Celine, who wants to be sterilized at the age of 22, but is met with resistance by many doctors'. Then Celine is outraged by these doctors: 'Who are they to decide about my body or tell me when I can do something with my body!' [Wanna bet that she didn't say anything about the jab?] 
Contradiction not recognized 
This satire is almost real: The same public broadcasters that vehemently advocated compulsory vaccination, i.e. that those who pay the fee should not be allowed to decide for themselves what they do with their bodies, now take exactly the opposite attitude on the subject of the sterilization of young women. Because of all that ideology, they don't seem to notice the contradiction anymore. 
Celine laments how much work and effort a child means. And then says: 'I think a person must really be made for it to raise a child or a person.' The author replies, 'Okay.' When Celine continues that not everyone is made for it, the author replies, 'Yes.' The author does not seem to notice the absurdity of the statement. Because if people weren't generally made to have children, there would have long since been no people around. 
The next example is a young man who was sterilized at 22. 'He has to justify it to himself again and again,' complains the voice from the get-go: 'He thinks that not everyone is made to have children.' [Then why don't they keep their britches and panties up or use condoms?] 
The fact that the health insurance companies do not pay for the sterilization is also mentioned in a regretful tone. 
Regretting Motherhood 
The description of the video states: '#8216;I don't want children!' Anyone who says something like this is often met with a lack of understanding, is attacked and insulted as an egoist. Y-Kollektiv author Katja Döhne wants to understand why people consciously decide against having children. 
Celine is in her early 20s and is already certain that she doesn't want to have children in her life. So she wants to be sterilized. However, sterilization 'of one's own free will' is often made difficult for young, previously childless women in Germany. 
Dominik has already had his vasectomy, is very satisfied with his child-free life and has no regrets. The 36-year-old warehouse worker had himself sterilized at the age of 22 — and hasn't regretted it to this day. [I bet when he's old and all alone he'll change his tune. But by then it's to late for that selfish p****.] 
Franziska, in her mid-30s, often regrets having a child. In the spirit of #RegrettingMotherhoodmovement ('Motherhood Repentance'), she questions her own role as a mother. The single mother from Weimar was often overwhelmed with her child and now speaks openly about her doubts. 
What will your child think about it in the future? 
On her journey through Germany, Katja Döhne meets a wide variety of people who do not want children and encounters many questions that are sometimes difficult to answer. 'So which is actually more selfish — having a child and potentially regretting it, or remaining child-free? And why is it so difficult for the rest of society to accept people who don't want to have children?' 
The author of the film is 37 years old herself and has no children — because it turned out that way, she says in the film, and because she was too busy. That journalists take up such a topic is completely legitimate. However, the fact that the film then comes across as propaganda — that is, as the dissemination of a certain worldview — is not legitimate. Especially for a fee-financed broadcaster that is committed to balance.  
Throughout the film not a single voice is heard that is really critical of sterilization at a young age. Not a single happy mother. No gynecologist to explain why he doesn't want to sterilize young women. To put it bluntly, the film seems like an advertisement for sterilization at a young age. Funded by a compulsory licence fee. 
Afterword from the translator: 
Is it just me, or does it seem that at the ARD and ZDF only brain-sterilized people, who have had wood shavings implanted, are allowed to work there? The ideological retardation in Germany is moving forward in seven-league boots by the looks of it. No wonder they are genocided by being out-bred by orcs. 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  [ 3]:  [ 4]:  

Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: October 4, 2022


End of Document
