




Newsweek.com
July 31, 2024 Wednesday 12:43 PM EST


Copyright © 2024 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 633 words
Byline: Lucy Notarantonio
Highlight: "Sounds like this marriage is over due to irreconcilable differences," said one social media user on the viral post.
Body


Some people simply do not want children and they will go to extreme lengths to make sure they stay without. Like this woman who is considering a divorce after recently discovering that her husband has a child.
In a viral  post, u/explained that her marriage was turned upside down around six months ago as her husband found out that someone he had a one-night stand with fell pregnant. She points out that the fling was one year before they met.
"After a DNA test, my husband is confirmed as the father," she wrote, adding the child was now 5 years old. "He agreed to meet his son, and they have hit it off well. They have been spending a lot of time together, and the mother is happy to let her son connect with his dad.
"But the problem is... we both agreed to a child-free life. Neither of us wanted kids. He even got a vasectomy, and I got my tubes tied."
According to recent research conducted by Pew Research Center, 57 percent of 770 adults under 50 say they're unlikely to ever have kids and the major reason is they just don't want to. The results found that female respondents aged 18 to 49 were more likely to say this as opposed to men (64 percent vs. 50 percent).
In the post that has 8,900 upvotes, the woman said her husband was willing to step up and support his son. But she did not want to become a stepmom.
She wrote: "This may be cruel of me but...  My husband knew this about me.
"I don't dare to force my husband to choose me or his kid, but this isn't the life I agreed to. I haven't told my husband yet, but I'm already talking to a lawyer," she wrote.
In the comments, she told another user, "I'm not changing my mind, and I don't like his son. Period."
Expert Advice
Newsweek discussed the July 23 post with Kate Daly, a relationship and co-parenting expert. She is also the co-founder of an online divorce services company called amicable, based in London, England.
She urged the woman against making a "knee-jerking decision" and encourages her to speak to a therapist and consider how their lives will change.
"She may find that she can make changes to their lives and relationship that allow them to be together. In any relationship where you are parents, as well as partners, carving out special time that allows time together as well as time to parent is important.
"If anis a bridge too far, then explore the different processes that exist to help have an amicable divorce. Rushing off and engaging two sets of lawyers can be expensive and emotionally damaging. There are many processes that she can participate in that focus on ending the relationship with calm dignity and that will leave them in a better emotional place.
"Couples' services help work with you together and help you arrive at a fair outcome. It's important to remember however, that who's done what to who doesn't make a difference to financial settlements. There may be a way of still being part of the other person's life but on different terms and an amicable process is the most likely way of achieving this."
Reddit Reacts
Reddit users weren't so understanding. So far, the post has received 5,500 comments, at the time of writing and the top one alone has 13,000 upvotes.
It said: "NAH, but sounds like this due to irreconcilable differences."
"Agreed. I know it will hurt them both. But it's the adult thing to do. Respect him for stepping up to his responsibility. And OP should be respected for not making him choose. It's an impossible choice," said another user.
"Sounds like it could be a sad but amicable split," said a third commenter.
Have you noticed any red flags that made you end a relationship? Let us know via  We can ask experts for advice, and your story could be featured on Newsweek.


Graphic

 
Woman driving off
Solovyova
A stock image of a man speaking to his son while a woman sits in her car. Newsweek discussed the viral Reddit post with a co-parenting expert and co-founder of online divorce services company

Load-Date: July 31, 2024


End of Document
