




Newsweek.com
April 23, 2024 Tuesday 10:11 AM EST


Copyright © 2024 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 743 words
Byline: Alyce Collins
Highlight: Dr. Erin Newins said she was "completely dismissed" by her neurologist after waiting months to be seen.
Body


A woman has sparked a conversation on social media after revealing the shocking conversation she had with a neurologist, which she claims highlights the "sexism in healthcare."
Licensed psychologist Dr. Erin Newins from Austin, Texas, has long suffered from migraines, and in late February 2024 she sought medical help to see if they could figure out a treatment or a solution. She waited five months for the appointment, and when it finally arrived, she was highly disappointed.
Newins, who declined to disclose the neurologist's details to Newsweek, wondered if her migraines were hormone-related, so she mentioned the idea of stopping her birth control and touted the idea of a vasectomy for her husband. Speaking to Newsweek about the experience, Newins said her neurologist "started to cringe" and asked "why anyone would ever let a man get a vasectomy" because they're so painful.
"He started to make statements about the pain that vasectomies can cause and wrapping it up with the comment about preferring women remove their organs rather than altering a male's anatomy," Newins said.
"The thing about these kinds of conversations is that they're often had with a casual tone. When someone is saying something absurd, but sort of laughing at it, you can't help but sort of chuckle along, incredulously. He was most concerned about the potential for pain for the men, to which I just assured him, my husband is fine."
Despite months of waiting to be seen, Newins was very annoyed that they were "discussing male anatomy" during her appointment. She explained that she tried to keep moving the conversation along and pressing him on the impact hormones could have on migraines, but "he completely dismissed that" she said.
While the neurologist did provide her with information about other potential triggers for her migraines, , she left the appointment feeling highly underwhelmed, and needless to say, she won't be going back.
"He gave subpar medical care, a few sample migraine medicines to test, and very little else," Newins continued.
It's not unheard of for migraines to correspond with hormonal fluctuations, as the American Migraine Foundation suggests that these changes can lead to new migraine symptoms and increased severity.
It's estimated that one in five women experience migraines, and for almost two out of three of them,  will occur simultaneously with their period. It's noted that changes in estrogen levels at the start of a woman's menstrual cycle can also cause more severe attacks.
How Did Social Media React?
Following the initial shock, Newins posted about the "unhinged" experience in a video on  (@drerinphd), in which she detailed the conversation.  social media users, gaining more than 172,700 views and over 22,100 likes already.
As much as Newins resents the fact that she had that conversation with the neurologist, she wanted to share it publicly and highlight the wider problem.
She said: "This is one of those situations that we should be talking about, because it was such an inappropriate situation. It was uncomfortable to post, and I never imagined a story about my husband and my birth control measures would be so public, but with the ethics of advocating for equity in health care, it felt important.
"The reaction has honestly been amazing. People in the comments were so supportive and reassuring. Unfortunately, the reactions were also so sad as to how many women commented with similar situations. This is not an isolated event."
As the video gained traction, many other women commented on the post to share their , which was devastating for Newins to see, but she's glad that her viral clip gave them the space to talk freely. She only hopes that the online discussion will help people get adequate healthcare when they need it.
With over 2,100 comments on the viral TikTok post, there was plenty of shock and, unsurprisingly, lots of people telling Newins to get a new doctor. One comment reads: "Major surgery versus an office visit procedure?"
Another person responded: "An office visit that he can drive himself home from vs major abdominal surgery? That neurologist is actually insane."
While another TikTok user commented: "My jaw is literally on the floor."
Is there a health issue that's worrying you? Let us know via  We can ask experts for advice, and your story could be featured on Newsweek.


Graphic

 
Dr. Erin's shocking experience
@drerinphd / TikTok
Dr. Erin Newins explained what happened when she went to see a neurologist after waiting five months. During the appointment, the neurologist suggested that a vasectomy isn't the answer because they're so painful for the man.

Load-Date: April 23, 2024


End of Document
