




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
May 28, 2024 Tuesday
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2024 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: OPINION; Pg. A-16
Length: 899 words
Body


The pollsters have been salivating over the race between President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump, taking advantage of their powers of prognostication while claiming precognition. Which is to say: Everyone's got a crystal ball these days.
And in between the declarations about how the youth will vote (surprisingly Republican), or how different racial demographics will perform on election day (wildly), a consistent truth has emerged from all the data: Young women are angry and want their reproductive choices back.
The economy, housing market and jobs continue to dominate the list of Issues That Matter, but women's healthcare keeps sneaking into the conversation. And it's not just the question of abortion. It's about all reproductive choices available to them, including birth control.
Is birth control on the ballot?
The Heritage Foundation, a conservative think-tank and the organization behind Project 2025, which outlines policy proposals for the next Republican administration, last year posted on X strongly against all forms of birth control: "Conservatives have to lead the way in restoring sex to its true purpose,&ending recreational sex&senseless use of birth control pills."
I spoke to many young women on the University of Pittsburgh campus a few weeks ago. Many expressed deep concern over contraceptives after Mr. Trump suggested he might allow states to restrict birth control, which none of them viewed as "senseless."
"I take birth control for my acne," a Pitt student told me. "It's like Republicans want me to be ugly and pregnant. I just want to graduate college and get a good job while looking cute."
In a post-Dobbs world, young women are facing an increased amount of pressure in their relationships, in public perceptions of their personal lives and worry that they'll be unable to prevent a pregnancy, as talk continues of banning Plan B, or the morning-after pill. Many young men are also worried about unplanned pregnancies: There's a reason procedures like vasectomies and tubal ligations are on the rise in young people.
"There's this enormous fear that's become a sort of blanket over so many who are of reproductive age," Constitutional Law Professor Michele Goodwin told WESA's Sarah Boden.
And as Ms. Boden writes, for young women the "fears include not being able to terminate a pregnancy after being raped, deadly perinatal health complications, and the overall loss of choice."
The tradwife movement
"I like watching tradwives on TikTok," a Carlow University student told me recently, "but that doesn't mean I would want to be one. I can't even work an oven."
She was referring to the "traditional wife movement," which advocates for patriarchal family roles, including a wife who performs the expected homemaking and childrearing duties. Some of the young women I spoke to found something appealing about this, while others saw it as punishment. A colleague noted that she watches this content with "a mixture of relaxation and primal terror."
The truth, like most things, is somewhere in the middle. Some women subscribe to the philosophy espoused by Kansas City Chiefs kicker Harrison Butker, who told women graduating from college that their best vocation was supporting their man (cue the Tammy Wynette). It's an idealized version of traditional values; there is something appealing about making cereal from scratch while looking fabulous.
But it's not appealing to everyone. And that's okay. We live in a country where people are allowed to decide their futures - isn't that the American spirit? Forcing people into traditional marriages, or devaluing the worth of traditional marriages, both seem equally anti-American to me.
Or as the Carlow student put it, "my sister really wants to be a [full-time] mom. That's cool. I think it's really sweet. That's her choice. It's not my choice. I'd be a terrible [full-time] mother."
And while the conversation rages on about traditional values and the libertines who oppose it, young women are feeling more like abstractions than actual human beings, with actual human bodies that will be affected by politicians who overwhelmingly don't understand what's at stake.
Choice
"Why don't we just force all men to have vasectomies," another Pitt student said to me, echoing a point I make often. "They can undo it when they want kids and then they can leave my body alone. That would be my choice."
It all comes down to that word, "choice."
Young women want to choose. As my colleague pointed out to me, the machinations that lead to the demise of abortion rights left most women feeling like every election is integral to choice now.
Some want to choose to have children and be traditional housewives. Some want to choose to enter the workforce. Some want to choose both; some neither. Most would choose to be heard and seen, however they fall on the political divide.
Voting is one of the last places where young women will get to choose their fates, and both parties are waking up to this reality. It is possible, given the current polling, that we will witness the first generation of women who have chosen to forsake their rights, or will have them taken from them, instead of gaining more autonomy.
But at least they'll get to choose. Their daughters might not get to say the same.
Adriana E. RamÃrez, author of "Dead Boys," is a columnist and InReview editor for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Find her on X @zadri.

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Rich Pedroncelli: A one-month dosage of hormonal birth control pills is displayed in Sacramento, Calif.
PHOTO: Kamil Krzaczynski/AFP/Getty Images: Women gather for a rally and march at Grant Park on Oct. 13, 2018 in Chicago, Illinois.

Load-Date: May 28, 2024


End of Document
