




The New York Times 
June 1, 2021 Tuesday 23:57 EST


Copyright 2021 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BRIEFING
Length: 1376 words
Byline: Natasha Frost
Highlight: The E.U.’s new vaccine passports.
Body


The E.U.’s new vaccine passports.
The E.U.’s new vaccine passports
A digital Covid certificate system  yesterday, offering a preview of what could become a standard for post-pandemic global mobility.
The document, known as a , records whether people have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus, have recovered from the virus or have tested negative within 72 hours. Travelers can move freely if at least one of those criteria is met.
Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Greece and Poland made the certificates available to their citizens as of Tuesday and are accepting them for visitors. The European Commission, the bloc’s administrative branch, said the system would be in use for all 27 E.U. countries as of July 1.
Stateside: The only government-issued vaccine passport in the U.S. is , which is not required by the vast majority of businesses. Other states, including Alabama, Arizona, Florida and Georgia, have banned them.
Here are  and .
In other developments:
The World Health Organization  made by the Chinese drugmaker Sinovac Biotech for emergency use.
The coronavirus has , more than 5 percent of the country’s Parliament.
A Palestinian campaign for rights and justice
For many Palestinians in the occupied West Bank, the possible downfall of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s longest-serving leader, has .
Instead, many Palestinians are consumed by their own political moment. In a rare display of unity, hundreds of thousands of Palestinians observed a general strike on May 12 across Gaza, the West Bank and the refugee camps of Lebanon and in Israel itself. Rather than pursuing a Palestinian ministate bordering Israel, the focus is now on the pursuit of rights, freedom and justice in both the occupied territories and Israel.
During Netanyahu’s current 12-year term, the Israeli-Palestinian peace process fizzled, and Netanyahu expressed increasing ambivalence about the possibility of a sovereign Palestinian state. Naftali Bennett, his likely replacement, is a former settler leader who rejects Palestinian statehood outright and would represent little improvement for Palestinians.
Quotable: The events of the past few weeks were “like an earthquake,” said one seasoned Palestinian leader. “We are part of the global conversation on rights, justice, freedom, and Israel cannot close it down or censor it.”
Israeli politics:  to the prospective coalition that were as fractured as the electorate.
Three-child limit is out of reach for most Chinese
China’s state news media trumpeted as a positive change the government’s announcement that it would allow married couples to have up to three children. But for most Chinese people, the news was only a reminder of a problem they had long recognized: the  and of the legal protections that would enable them to have more children.
Women worried that the move would only exacerbate discrimination from employers. Young people, who have barely been able to afford homes and necessities, were fuming. Working-class couples said it would be impossible.
On Weibo, users complained of growing education expenses, sky-high housing prices and unforgiving work hours, and pointed out a shortage of child-care options. Many people have to rely on their parents to help with their children. Some millennials are choosing a child-free lifestyle, and  to ensure that they remain childless.
Related: China has nearly  over the past 20 years to satisfy demands for parks and a better quality of life from a more affluent and educated populace.
THE LATEST NEWS
News From Europe
Naomi Osaka’s  could have been avoided through better communication and smarter decisions, our correspondent writes.
The pope  to explicitly acknowledge that adults, and not only children, can be victimized by priests.
Giovanni Brusca, an Italian mobster who admitted to involvement in more than 100 killings before becoming an informer,  after serving 25 years in prison.
The Catholic wedding of Boris Johnson and Carrie Symonds left many wondering how a twice-divorced man, with at least one child born out of wedlock, managed to get married in a Catholic Church. The .
Climate &amp; Environment
A drought crisis affecting more than half the American West is threatening to turn into . Separately, Western states are .
The Biden administration said yesterday that it would  that were issued in the waning days of the Trump presidency.
The authorities in Sri Lanka  laden with toxic chemicals that has burned off the nation’s coast for 12 days, spilling debris into the ocean.
Culture News
Over the past year, queer ballet dancers, especially women, have been forging stronger networks and creating work .
Activists in Britain are trying to  where Oscar Wilde was sent after his conviction for “indecency,” saying his life was an important part of Britain’s history.
A Jewish family whose relatives’ artworks were looted by the Nazis has given up  and transferred ownership to the University of Oklahoma.
A Morning Read
As the pandemic has hampered operations and sown chaos in global shipping, many economies around the world have been bedeviled by shortages of a vast range of goods — including electronics, lumber and clothing. Blame .
ARTS AND IDEAS 
The show goes on at the Globe
The Globe Theater of Shakespeare’s day survived multiple outbreaks of the plague. So when the pandemic shuttered live performances in London March 2020, many expected the modern recreation of the Globe to make it through. It hasn’t been easy.
The theater, which relies heavily on tourism, let go 180 freelance actors and crew members and furloughed most of its permanent staff members. Even with those cuts, executives said, the Globe might have shut down if not for the .
The Globe reopened last month at a quarter of its usual capacity. To cut down on costs, it’s staging a revival of a 2019 production of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Actors must maintain social distancing onstage, and plays will run without intermissions to reduce virus risk.
The Times culture reporter Alex Marshall recently headed to  in over a year. The mood outside, he reported, was ecstatic. “It’s just great we’re back and people are hungry for it,” Sean Holmes, the play’s director, said. “We can’t sustain at this level of audience by any means, but I’m feeling optimistic.”
PLAY, WATCH, EAT
What to Cook
If you’re working from home, let this springtime  burble along in the slow cooker while you type.
What to Read
“Double Blind,” the new novel from Edward St. Aubyn,  against a scientific backdrop.
A Times Classic
Take .
Now Time to Play
Here’s , and a clue: Black-and-white cookie (four letters).
And here is .
.
Thanks for starting your day with The Times. — Natasha
P.S. Christina Morales, who has reported for our Express desk, .
The latest episode of “” is about the Tulsa race massacre.
Sanam Yar wrote today’s Arts and Ideas. You can reach Natasha and the team at .
PHOTO: People gathering on the meadow in front of Altes Museum in Berlin’s museum district on May 20, 2021. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Andreas Meichsner for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: June 2, 2021


End of Document
