,docname,Newspaper,Year,Beginning of Passage,keyword,End of Passage
1,13735_0.txt,"The mountain sentinel (Ebensburg, Pa.)",1850,"is lynch law- high- handed measure . est fredericksburg , va . , july 23 . - a terrible outrage took place in culpepper , in this state , on wednesday last . a",mob,"of two hundred men , including justices ust of the peace , members of churches , and others , proceeded to the jail , resisted the sheriff , and carried off william grayson , a free negro . they dragged him to the woods , where they hung him dead"
2,13735_0.txt,"The mountain sentinel (Ebensburg, Pa.)",1850,"high- handed measure is this -grayson has twice been convicted of murdering david w . miller , a white man but each time he appealed , and the gen- eral court granted new trials , on the en ground that the testimony hardly justified suspicion- much less guilt . the",mob,"for allowed grayson one minute to confess . tate he firmly avowed his innocence of the murder . the mob then placed a fence rail across between two trees , and strung him up . this outrage has created in 30 tense excitement . the papers entreat the governor to"
3,13735_0.txt,"The mountain sentinel (Ebensburg, Pa.)",1850,"but each time he appealed , and the gen- eral court granted new trials , on the en ground that the testimony hardly justified suspicion- much less guilt . the mob for allowed grayson one minute to confess . tate he firmly avowed his innocence of the murder . the",mob,"then placed a fence rail across between two trees , and strung him up . this outrage has created in 30 tense excitement . the papers entreat the governor to arrest every man cerned in it . con"
4,13740_0.txt,Fair play (Ste. Genevieve ...),1906,"after listening to a speech by the governor of south carolina , in which he begged that the name of the state be not disgraced , a",mob,lynched negro . a
5,13741_0.txt,"The Madison daily leader (Madison, S.D.)",1905,"negro kentucky lynched . prisoner accused of attempting to en ter girl's room . elkton , ky . , oct . 13 . - shortly after midnight a",mob,"of 1,000 , supposed to be from trenton , took frank leavell , one- legged negro , from the jail here a and lynched him in a nearby wood . leavell was arrested on the charge of attempting to enter the room of a lady at trenton last saturday young"
6,13745_2.txt,"The Donaldsonville chief (Donaldsonville,...)",1907,"three memphis , tenn . , negroes charged with burglaries were taken from jail at tunica , . , by an un known",mob,and lynched miss .
7,13747_0.txt,"Live Oak daily Democrat. (Live Oak, Fla.)",1907,"followed shooting of five men in louisiana . cola , la . , april 16 . - the sequel of the shooting of five white men and two negroes at bunkie , la . , sunday , the lynching of the negro charlie was strauss , near here today .",masked,men took him away from deputies who had arrested him and it is stated that the deputies offered no resistence . the negro was hanged to a tree after which many shots were his body he was charged fired into . with assault upon a white woman . this was
8,13747_0.txt,"Live Oak daily Democrat. (Live Oak, Fla.)",1907,"followed shooting of five men in louisiana . cola , la . , april 16 . - the sequel of the shooting of five white men and two negroes at bunkie , la . , sunday , the lynching of the negro charlie was strauss , near here today .",masked men,took him away from deputies who had arrested him and it is stated that the deputies offered no resistence . the negro was hanged to a tree after which many shots were his body he was charged fired into . with assault upon a white woman . this was the
9,13747_0.txt,"Live Oak daily Democrat. (Live Oak, Fla.)",1907,"assault upon a white woman . this was the second attempt in two strauss , the first one days to lynch sunday night having resulted in the seriously wounding of five white men . strauss had been taken from the bunkie jail and escaped in the dark- ness while his",captors,were shooting at random . it is also alleged that negroes fired into lynching party . the
10,13751_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1921,,mob,"threatens to lynch notorious chicago gunman chicago , aug . 1 . - policemen fought back a hostile crowd as they carried tommy o'connor , notorious gunman and alleged slayer of detective sergeant paddy o'neill , into the office of chief fitzmorris . "" lynch him ! "" members of"
11,13755_0.txt,"The Hillsdale standard (Hillsdale, Mich...)",1855,"of debear , the murderer . the jury brought in a verdict of murder in the first degreo . the prisoner was remanded to jail to await sentence . the sheriff started for the jail with the prisoner , surrounded by the military . a rush was made by the",mob,", when the military gare way , and debear was struck to the ground by a stone . the mob then fell upon him , pounded and mangled him , tied a rope to his heels , drew him through the streets for half a mile , and hung him"
12,13755_0.txt,"The Hillsdale standard (Hillsdale, Mich...)",1855,"prisoner was remanded to jail to await sentence . the sheriff started for the jail with the prisoner , surrounded by the military . a rush was made by the mob , when the military gare way , and debear was struck to the ground by a stone . the",mob,"then fell upon him , pounded and mangled him , tied a rope to his heels , drew him through the streets for half a mile , and hung him by the heels to the lime of a tree he remained hanging lifeless up to 6 p . m ."
13,13757_0.txt,"American Lancaster gazette (Lancaster, Ohio)",1856,"[ prairie ( edgar co . , ills . ) beacon . [ monroe was the man who was dragged from his cell by a",mob,"and hanged , at charleston , coles county , illinois , on friday last , because the day of his execution had been postponed , by the governor , ninety days . for"
14,13763_0.txt,"The Perrysburg journal (Perrysburg, Ohi...)",1859,"sr . louis , wednesday , july 20 , 1859 a dispatch received to- day from marshall , in this state , states that three negroes , who were on trial yesterday at that place for rape and murder , were at night taken forcibly from the jail by a",mob,", and two of them hung , and other burnt at the stake . the"
15,13764_0.txt,Cleveland morning leader (Cleveland [Ohio...),1859,"on the 24th ult wm s . thornhill of . troy . , , mo . , punished one of his negroes . the slave rushed upon his master and stabbed him to death with a large knife . he was put in jail , when a",mob,"collected , took the negro out , and lynched him by burning . in the fejee islands the nibals feast upon as well as roast their victims can- ."
16,13765_0.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1860-1864",1864,lynch law in california five men hanged by the,mob,". a correspondent of the san francisco democratic iress give a description of the lynching of five men at los angelas , by a mob . he says : when the prisoners had all been brought out , the committee started with its victims to the place of execution ,"
17,13765_0.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1860-1864",1864,"lynch law in california five men hanged by the mob . a correspondent of the san francisco democratic iress give a description of the lynching of five men at los angelas , by a",mob,". he says : when the prisoners had all been brought out , the committee started with its victims to the place of execution , in front of the jail , on the street . here the crowd packed densely around , the committee ranged itself in front of the"
18,13768_0.txt,"Red Wing sentinel (Red Wing, M.T. ...)",1861,"law supreme.- the mayor of mo bile , like the 500 mayor of savannah , has issued his proclamation , taking grounds against vigilence committees and the practice of",mob,"lynching , so much re sorted to in the south . this is a time- movement . if the cotton statesvi intended to set up a southern confed- eracy , their people must first discipline their minds to submit to law . without a greater respect for the law ,"
19,13768_0.txt,"Red Wing sentinel (Red Wing, M.T. ...)",1861,"cotton statesvi intended to set up a southern confed- eracy , their people must first discipline their minds to submit to law . without a greater respect for the law , they can establish no popular governinént at all the despotism of the sword will fol low the despotism the",mob,", and the people lose their liberty of through their"
20,13769_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1861-1863,1863,"the woods and then effected his pur pose . as soon as the news of the outrage became generally known , great excitement prevailed among her countrymen and threats of lynching were freely made , and finally about 6 p . m . . the crowds swelled into an unruly",mob,", and frantic with rum and passion rushed towards the jail , where the criminal was confined , shouting and yelling . they were met by father o'reilly , who be sought them to disperse , but in vain . about half past seven some of the more desperate ,"
21,13769_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1861-1863,1863,"yard , where he became the football of the maddened crowd , and was at last strung up by the neck to the limb of a tree . before the first door was broken in , the negro pleaded and begged to be taken out , and given to the",mob,"to be decently hung . after they got him into the yard . he screamed several times , and that was all that . was heard from him by those outside of the crowd . immediately about him . the poor girl is in a fair to recovery . way"
22,13774_0.txt,New York dispatch (New York [N.Y.]),1865,"twice , in the arm and leg . the moth r of the girls followed up the attack by string major a heavy blow with a hatchet upon the head . young burns and his mother were ar rested , and major was carried to his hous where a threatening",mob,"was only deterred from resorting to lynch law by the presence of a strong police force . major was formerly an engineer on the hudson river railroad , but had been discharged for misconduct . his son is said to be a notorious bounty jumper . young burns tried to"
23,13776_0.txt,"The Kenosha telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1869,"the 19th regiment . yesterday morning they met upon the streets and some violent language passed between them . in the afternoon they met again , and spain went to his residence , procured his revolver , and shot britt dead . the murderer was at once arrested . a",mob,"soon ( 3 gathered , and threatened summary punishment . they were baulked for a time by the officers , who placed him in the office of the express company ; but they soon broke in , seized the wretched man , put a rope around his neck , dragged"
24,13776_0.txt,"The Kenosha telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1869,"mitw the murder of britt , which was so summarily avenged , was certainly of a . most unprovoked and aggravated character , and the murderer was , to our personal knowledge , a man of infamous anteced- ents . but these facts can not justify the action of the",mob,. it is one of the most alarming of the times that the signs peo- of this country so often take it upon themselves to inflict punishment upon of fenders . it argues a disrespect for law and authority which is pregnant evii consequences.- sentinel . a with
25,13778_0.txt,"The Cheyenne daily leader (Cheyenne, Wyo.) 1870-1884",1879,"tragedy occurred at wrightsville . in southern illinois , night . chas . e . mcauliffe , a monday physican , invited his wife and her brother , mr . heavener , into his drug store , and after drinking with heavener shot him dead with a shot gun .",mob,of sixty hung the doctor to a limb a of a tree that night .
26,13781_0.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1873,"california affair . in lynching a california papers give the following particulars of the recent lynching of a notori . ous desperado who had for years been a terror to the community in which he re sided , and who had aided on several occasions in the execution by",mob-,"law of men suspected of crime : several days ago at salinas city , in monterey county , in this state , one tar- pey , an irishma , assaulted mrs . nicholson , a very respectable married woman , in her own house , and murdered her in a"
27,13781_0.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1873,"for his great crime . but little time was wasted in the cell . the men did not tell tarpey then that they meant to hang him , but said they intended taking him to salinas city , and the crowd were only pres . ent to prevent his being",mobbed,"on the way . but something in the cold , determined faces of the men told him that this was mere subterfuge . he knew what was up- knew that sheriff wasson was not there , and knew that if what they said was true , the jail and his"
28,13782_0.txt,"The Somerset herald (Somerset, Pa.)",1874,"we are constantly having accounts from the west and south of lynching affairs , and now this species of mur- der has broken out almost at our own door . on thursday night last , at martinsburg , west virginia , an organized",mob,"of about one hundred men broke open the jail docrs , seized , carried away , and hung a negro man under sentence of death for rape and murder no resistance was made by . the citizens , and apparently no steps are being taken to arrest the offend- be"
29,13789_0.txt,"The Kenosha telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1880,"george scott , a half- breed indian and negro , was lynched at brazil , ind . , by",a party of,"masked men , who took him from the jail where he was confined outraging mrs . alli son , wife of his employer for ."
30,13789_0.txt,"The Kenosha telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1880,"george scott , a half- breed indian and negro , was lynched at brazil , ind . , by a party of",masked,"men , who took him from the jail where he was confined outraging mrs . alli son , wife of his employer for ."
31,13789_0.txt,"The Kenosha telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1880,"george scott , a half- breed indian and negro , was lynched at brazil , ind . , by a party of",masked men,", who took him from the jail where he was confined outraging mrs . alli son , wife of his employer for ."
32,13792_0.txt,"Huntsville gazette (Huntsville, Ala...)",1882,"colored , at chatham , va . ; al . weisinger and bill ludlow , at selma , ala . at south pueblo , colo . , w . t . phobus and j . w . merew , eminent horse- thieves , were taken from jail and hanged by",masked,"men . the vigilantes then rode to a ranch ten miles away , captured the the chastine bro brothers and an accom named owsby , and strung them up in the adjacent timber . it is stated that but of the gang is left as a sample , and a"
33,13792_0.txt,"Huntsville gazette (Huntsville, Ala...)",1882,"colored , at chatham , va . ; al . weisinger and bill ludlow , at selma , ala . at south pueblo , colo . , w . t . phobus and j . w . merew , eminent horse- thieves , were taken from jail and hanged by",masked men,". the vigilantes then rode to a ranch ten miles away , captured the the chastine bro brothers and an accom named owsby , and strung them up in the adjacent timber . it is stated that but of the gang is left as a sample , and a one"
34,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,,mob,"rule . particulars of the recent attack on the evansville ( ind . ) jall and the kriling of the murderer redman- one of the lynch ers killed and several others arrested redman's crime . evansville , ind . , october 11 . at ten minutes past two this morning"
35,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"to redman's cell , took him and put him in a buggy , and drove off with him . the first intelligence received by the officers was at ten minutes two o'clock , when the night turnkey , hatmacher , received a tele phone message from ullmer's brewery that a",masked,"mob had passed up the street on borseback . hatmacher immediately notifled newitt , who hastened to the jail . hatmacher , after notifying newitt , went to the sheerthable residence alarm . and deputies mauntel and martin and tom kerth jr . , were on the alert , prepared"
36,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"redman's cell , took him and put him in a buggy , and drove off with him . the first intelligence received by the officers was at ten minutes two o'clock , when the night turnkey , hatmacher , received a tele phone message from ullmer's brewery that a masked",mob,"had passed up the street on borseback . hatmacher immediately notifled newitt , who hastened to the jail . hatmacher , after notifying newitt , went to the sheerthable residence alarm . and deputies mauntel and martin and tom kerth jr . , were on the alert , prepared to"
37,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"soon arrived , and went into the clerk's office to telephone for assistance . he heard the clatter of the horses ' hoofs coming up the bowl dered streets , and hurried back into the jail . sheriff kerth was at the front door of the court- house when the",mob,"arrived . the mob dismounted , picketed their ani mals , left a guard to cover their retreat , and captured all the citizens who happened to be attracted to the scene , while a portion of the mob made a dive for the jail . kerth fired at them"
38,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"went into the clerk's office to telephone for assistance . he heard the clatter of the horses ' hoofs coming up the bowl dered streets , and hurried back into the jail . sheriff kerth was at the front door of the court- house when the mob arrived . the",mob,"dismounted , picketed their ani mals , left a guard to cover their retreat , and captured all the citizens who happened to be attracted to the scene , while a portion of the mob made a dive for the jail . kerth fired at them , but they did"
39,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"was at the front door of the court- house when the mob arrived . the mob dismounted , picketed their ani mals , left a guard to cover their retreat , and captured all the citizens who happened to be attracted to the scene , while a portion of the",mob,"made a dive for the jail . kerth fired at them , but they did not falter . they took him prisoner and were into the jail- yard in a jiffy.ited two blows were sufficient to break in the out side wooden door , and the mob was in the"
40,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"portion of the mob made a dive for the jail . kerth fired at them , but they did not falter . they took him prisoner and were into the jail- yard in a jiffy.ited two blows were sufficient to break in the out side wooden door , and the",mob,"was in the jail ball . newitt , martin and tom kerth , jr . , opened up a brisk fire , which was responded to by the mob , who poured a fusilade through the door . chisels and sledge- hammers were soon brought , and willing hands went"
41,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"the jail- yard in a jiffy.ited two blows were sufficient to break in the out side wooden door , and the mob was in the jail ball . newitt , martin and tom kerth , jr . , opened up a brisk fire , which was responded to by the",mob,", who poured a fusilade through the door . chisels and sledge- hammers were soon brought , and willing hands went to work , and in a twinkling the jail door was open . newitt ran back to redman's cell and said to him : "" i have done all"
42,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"said to him : "" i have done all i could for you ; they will get you ; "" and he replied , with an oath , that if they would give him a revolver he would kill some of them . when the jail door was opened the",mob,"rushed through the corridor to redman's cell , and in a minute it was opened and redman in their hands . they tied his hands with a strong rope and led him out . the officers all this time were trying to escape from jail and to get assistance so"
43,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"to redman's cell , and in a minute it was opened and redman in their hands . they tied his hands with a strong rope and led him out . the officers all this time were trying to escape from jail and to get assistance so as to capture the",mob,", or some of them . newitt managed to get into the sheriff's residence and run up stairs to the front window , which he opened and blew his whistle . then the mob fol ved him and threw him down stairs . when he got up the mob were"
44,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"time were trying to escape from jail and to get assistance so as to capture the mob , or some of them . newitt managed to get into the sheriff's residence and run up stairs to the front window , which he opened and blew his whistle . then the",mob,"fol ved him and threw him down stairs . when he got up the mob were bringing redman out of the front door . they were ordered to balt , when their leader replied : "" we are from posey county , and came after redman , and we are"
45,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"the mob , or some of them . newitt managed to get into the sheriff's residence and run up stairs to the front window , which he opened and blew his whistle . then the mob fol ved him and threw him down stairs . when he got up the",mob,"were bringing redman out of the front door . they were ordered to balt , when their leader replied : "" we are from posey county , and came after redman , and we are going to have him . "" an alarm of fire having been given out in"
46,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,": "" we are from posey county , and came after redman , and we are going to have him . "" an alarm of fire having been given out in the city , the chemical engine came rapidly up the street , and striking the buggy into which the",mob,"had placed redman , overturned it . this threw the mob into some disorder , when one of the leaders said : "" put him on horse back . "" this order was countermanded , and orders were given to kill him on the spot . one of the band"
47,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"redman , and we are going to have him . "" an alarm of fire having been given out in the city , the chemical engine came rapidly up the street , and striking the buggy into which the mob had placed redman , overturned it . this threw the",mob,"into some disorder , when one of the leaders said : "" put him on horse back . "" this order was countermanded , and orders were given to kill him on the spot . one of the band seized a sledge- hammer and dealt redman a powerful blow on"
48,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"were given to kill him on the spot . one of the band seized a sledge- hammer and dealt redman a powerful blow on the head , felling him to the ground . at this point chief- of- police pritchell ar . rived on the scene . one of the",mob,"ran up to him and said : "" go away from here , pritch ell ; we don't want to kill you , "" at the same time snapping a revolver in his face , but his hand was knocked up in the air before the weapon was discharged ."
49,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"the same time snapping a revolver in his face , but his hand was knocked up in the air before the weapon was discharged . by this time several officers were on the ground , who , without the orders of their superiors , opened fire on the rapidly- retreating",mob,". the mob fred as they retreated . they were well armed . a regular pitched battle was fought on third street . bulletts whistled in every direction . chief pritchell and detective newitt , who led the fight against them , made an effort to capture some of them"
50,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"snapping a revolver in his face , but his hand was knocked up in the air before the weapon was discharged . by this time several officers were on the ground , who , without the orders of their superiors , opened fire on the rapidly- retreating mob . the",mob,"fred as they retreated . they were well armed . a regular pitched battle was fought on third street . bulletts whistled in every direction . chief pritchell and detective newitt , who led the fight against them , made an effort to capture some of them , but the"
51,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"the ground to escape death . redman was killed where he was stricken down with the sledge- hammer . over two dozen balls entered his body . it was at this place that david murphy , a brother- in- law of the murdered woman , met his death . the",mob,"was so intent on killing redman that they fired helter- skelter through their own ranks . murphy was astride a gray horse , which started down third street with the remainder of the mob . when they left , a half square from the scene , murphy reeled and fell"
52,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"murphy , a brother- in- law of the murdered woman , met his death . the mob was so intent on killing redman that they fired helter- skelter through their own ranks . murphy was astride a gray horse , which started down third street with the remainder of the",mob,". when they left , a half square from the scene , murphy reeled and fell . pritchell and newitt hurried to his assistance . he was carried into the court house , and medical aid was summoned . the body of redman was conveyed to the court- house ,"
53,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,", and medical aid was summoned . the body of redman was conveyed to the court- house , but life was extinct . murphy asked for a drink of water , and said he resided in mt . vernon . in twenty minutes afterwards he was a corpse . the",mob,", on leaving the scene , separated , and done avoid the officers everything was to . in a short time after the occurrence , a young man , a stranger , approached the place where the bodies of murphy and redman were lying . chief pritchell arrested him ,"
54,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"vernon . he was locked up . chief pritchell also arrested a large , heavyset man , with black whiskers , but he was erward released . it was ascertained later in the day that this person was the leader . the description given answers for the leader of the",mob,"of saturday last at mt . vernon . dave mcfadden , a brother of the murdered woman , was shortly afterward arrested by detective merritt in young's saloon . newitt recognized him as the person who pointed a revolver at him in the jail and said : "" we are"
55,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"supposed that . while she was being beaten by the brute she managed to get away from him and started for the door , when he shot her down . she was about nineteen years of age . redman was arrested and placed in the mount vernon jail . a",mob,"was organized to hang him , and on of this the officials determined to take redman to evansville . when it was learned that he had been taken from the mount vernon jail to be sent off , a mob started for the depot after him , but the train"
56,13793_0.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"arrested and placed in the mount vernon jail . a mob was organized to hang him , and on of this the officials determined to take redman to evansville . when it was learned that he had been taken from the mount vernon jail to be sent off , a",mob,"started for the depot after him , but the train pulled out just before they reached there . redman was released from the joliet ( ill . ) penitentiary about a year ago , having served out a sentence of years for shooting a man . eight"
57,13793_1.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,", keifer in the eighth , robinson in the ninth , mccormack in the eleventh , updegraff in the seven- teenth , and taylor in the nineteenth . the four other districts are very close . the democrats claim fifteen out of the twenty- one gressmen . three of the",mob,"that broke into the evans- ville , indiana , jail and took out redman , the wife murderer , were arrested . in the fight that took place the murderer was brained with a sledge- hammer and his body riddled with bullets . the member of the lynching party killed"
58,13793_1.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"the union trust company has brought suit against the indianapolis journal for $ 50,000 damages for articles published against that organization . some nights since at the marriage of a daughter of mr . graesh , a well- known resident of lamine township , cooper county , mo . ,",a party of,"young men of the neighborhood concluded to charivari the bride and groom , when mr . graesh was shot in the heel by a gun going off accidentally , which one of the serenaders was carrying , from the effect of which he died . commissioner midgely , of the"
59,13793_1.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"cents more . the tariff on lumber was reduced 5 cents . at fort fetterman , wyoming territory , j . h . capp shot and instantly killed r . r . elgin , bookkeeper for seabright bros . , and danger- ously wounded w . k . eagan .",a party of,"cowboys took capp from custody and lynched him . this was the second lynching in that county within three days , the crops of wheat sown from california grain in loo choo , japan , result so splendidly that large preparations are made for similar experiments in various parts of"
60,13793_1.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"who had the advantage of his adversary by reason of his self possession , drew his revolver and fired at slayback , who fell mortally wounded , and gasped his last breath in a few minutes afterward . the affair caused the most intense excitement , and at one time",mob,violence seemed imminent . cockerill surrendered to the authorities the south . .
61,13793_2.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"going down a steep grade on the mosquito extension of the south park rail- road , near alma , colo . , the flat car struck a anule , throwing the engine and car down an embankment . conductor jack bludsoe and two unknown men were instantly killed . a",mob,"at evansville , ind . , attacked the jail and forcibly carried off the wife murderer redmond , for the purpose of lynching him . officers fired on the mob and killed one man , but the others got off with the murderer . theodore finney , ten years of"
62,13793_2.txt,"The Iola register (Iola, Allen Cou...)",1882,"the engine and car down an embankment . conductor jack bludsoe and two unknown men were instantly killed . a mob at evansville , ind . , attacked the jail and forcibly carried off the wife murderer redmond , for the purpose of lynching him . officers fired on the",mob,"and killed one man , but the others got off with the murderer . theodore finney , ten years of age , killed himself recently at bellwood , neb . the boy was an insatiate devourer of blood and thunder literature . a . w . ross , member of"
63,13795_0.txt,Evening bulletin (Maysville [Ky.]),1882,"neal and craft . the governor will send a battalion of infantry and a of artillery to protect them during section their trial . special to the courier- journal . frankfort , oct . 25 . - war is lowering upon the reported organized",mob,"of east- ern kentucky . reports were received to night that loud threats were made against the prisoners , neal and craft , who , the mob says , shall be hung whether the soldiers become their escort or not . simultaneously with this report came judge brown's letter requesting"
64,13795_0.txt,Evening bulletin (Maysville [Ky.]),1882,"their trial . special to the courier- journal . frankfort , oct . 25 . - war is lowering upon the reported organized mob of east- ern kentucky . reports were received to night that loud threats were made against the prisoners , neal and craft , who , the",mob,"says , shall be hung whether the soldiers become their escort or not . simultaneously with this report came judge brown's letter requesting gov . blackburn to send the state guards . the judge says he is satisfied that harm will befall the prisoners unless the governor complies with his"
65,13798_0.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1883,"an alleged outrager lynched . detroit , june 15 . - a man named warner , believed to be the person who outraged little nettie lyons at checoygan tuesday night , was taken from the jail at that place fast night by a",mob,"and hung . the girl identified him as her assailant , but he maintained his inno , even after being once let down to see if cence a confession could be extorted from him ."
66,13798_2.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1883,"a negro murderer was taken from jail in rockford , ala . , yesterday by a",mob,"and bang ed . john radford of freemont , o . , was yester day sentenced to be hanged oct . 12th for the murder of his wife . the harper ligh license bill passed the illinois senate yesterday , 30 to 20 , and the governor signed the bill"
67,13799_0.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1883,"lynched . little rock , ark . , april 4 . - albert williams , a negro boy , who outraged a little daughter col . haskew , saturday , was taken from the of officers to- day by a",mob,and hanged .
68,13799_1.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1883,hanged by a,mob,". chicago , april 4 . - the journal's hastings , neb . special says : ingham and green , murderers of cash millett were hanged by a mob of 35 masked men last night . it is not known what was done with babcock the other derer . mur"
69,13799_1.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1883,"hanged by a mob . chicago , april 4 . - the journal's hastings , neb . special says : ingham and green , murderers of cash millett were hanged by a",mob,of 35 masked men last night . it is not known what was done with babcock the other derer . mur
70,13799_1.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1883,"hanged by a mob . chicago , april 4 . - the journal's hastings , neb . special says : ingham and green , murderers of cash millett were hanged by a mob of 35",masked,men last night . it is not known what was done with babcock the other derer . mur
71,13799_1.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1883,"hanged by a mob . chicago , april 4 . - the journal's hastings , neb . special says : ingham and green , murderers of cash millett were hanged by a mob of 35",masked men,last night . it is not known what was done with babcock the other derer . mur
72,13800_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1883,a,mob,"of lynchers de feated . paola , kan . , feb . 12 . -- on wednesday night last week , at about 11 o'clock , maud bennings , a colored girl , 9 years old , was found lying upon the ground in the suburbs of this city ,"
73,13800_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1883,". smith was arrested and taken to jail . the child's father , procuring a shotgun , followed and tried to shoot the flend , but was prevented by the bystand anders . at 11 o'clock on thursday night an excited crowd , chiefly of colored men , some in",masks,", gathered at the jail and demanded the prisoner . the sheriff had prepared for the emergency , and warned them away , but the clamorous throng pushed forward and forced open the door of the building . the sheriff struck the foremost man over the head then the mob"
74,13800_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1883,"masks , gathered at the jail and demanded the prisoner . the sheriff had prepared for the emergency , and warned them away , but the clamorous throng pushed forward and forced open the door of the building . the sheriff struck the foremost man over the head then the",mob,"opened fire , to which the sheriff and his deputies replied , and a general fusillade ensued . the front windows and doors of the building were perforat heed with shot . ed . long , the sheriff's son , received a buckshot wound in the arm . james mcgraw"
75,13800_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1883,"perforat heed with shot . ed . long , the sheriff's son , received a buckshot wound in the arm . james mcgraw , colored , was shot through the head and instantly killed . two other colored men received serious wounds . several others were slightly injured . the",mob,"then retreated , and , without further effort to obtain posses sion of the prisoner , dispersed . the sheriff was supported by three four in or"
76,13805_0.txt,"The news boy. (Benton, Scott C...)",1894,"negro brutes who assault white women has been effective only where the facts are far off and little known . ida lied about southern women , and was believed . we say again that the crime which ends in lynching in the south could not be committed in england without",mob,"violence at least trying to interfere with the regular process of law . and there they would have less excuse for mob law , the common law being both swift and sure . we are not in favor of lynching , but there are conditions prevailing throughout the south which"
77,13805_0.txt,"The news boy. (Benton, Scott C...)",1894,"about southern women , and was believed . we say again that the crime which ends in lynching in the south could not be committed in england without mob violence at least trying to interfere with the regular process of law . and there they would have less excuse for",mob,"law , the common law being both swift and sure . we are not in favor of lynching , but there are conditions prevailing throughout the south which it seems to be the only re in"
78,13806_1.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1894,"lynching in pennsylvania . "" an escaped murderer recaptured and hanged to a tree by a",mob,". "" stroudsburg , pa . , march 15 . - richard puryear , who murdered christian ehelers near tannersville about a month ago , es caped from jail here this morning . a large crowd gathered , and puryear was caught in the cherry hollow woods . he fought"
79,13806_1.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1894,"puryear , who murdered christian ehelers near tannersville about a month ago , es caped from jail here this morning . a large crowd gathered , and puryear was caught in the cherry hollow woods . he fought desperately , but was overpowered and taken to palmer's island by the",mob,". a rope was obtained , and the murderer hanged to a tree until dead ( by pennsylvania "" scoundrels . "" ) ' and , again , seven days later , i found the following "" :"
80,13807_3.txt,"The farmers' union. (Memphis, Mo.)",1894,attempted lynching . 21 .,mob,lynches and burns robert smith roanoke . at
81,13807_7.txt,"The farmers' union. (Memphis, Mo.)",1894,"february . 1 . severe storms in northwest . . . . negro ravisher burned at the stake at paris , texas , by a",mob,numbering thousands . . . . minister stevens establishes a protectorate by states over sandwich islands . united
82,13808_0.txt,"Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1894,,mob,"violence . several days ago two negroes who had been convicted of murder were lynched in bullock county , and the age- herald severely condemned the lawless act at the time . a similar outbreak of the mob spirit has just taken place near memphis . six negroes charged with"
83,13808_0.txt,"Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1894,"mob violence . several days ago two negroes who had been convicted of murder were lynched in bullock county , and the age- herald severely condemned the lawless act at the time . a similar outbreak of the",mob,spirit has just taken place near memphis . six negroes charged with barn burning were riddled with bullets . the lawless spirit which finds its vent in a lynching seems on the increase instead of decrease . it is the great danger which threatens our institutions . there is no
84,13808_0.txt,"Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1894,memphis . six negroes charged with barn burning were riddled with bullets . the lawless spirit which finds its vent in a lynching seems on the increase instead of decrease . it is the great danger which threatens our institutions . there is no limit to the excess of the,mob,"spirit when it once breaks loose . the innocent is as apt to suffer as the guilty . it may be directed toward wealth , instead of toward crime . already have we seen in this country a display of animosity toward corporations and toward rich men and for no"
85,13808_0.txt,"Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1894,"it may be directed toward wealth , instead of toward crime . already have we seen in this country a display of animosity toward corporations and toward rich men and for no other reason than because , of their wealth . every man is deeply interested in putting down the",mob,"spirit , for he knows not but that he may be the next victim . so open have men become in deflance of law that they engage in a lynching without even to conceal their taking the precaution faces . this shows a most deplorable and dangerous disregard for the"
86,13808_0.txt,"Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1894,", liberty and property , but how can this protection be maintained when men take the law in their own hands . lynch law leads to an archy , and anarchy to overthrow of all government . the press , pulpit and all moral agencies cannot too severely con demn",mob,and warn the people agains : its legitimate law results .
87,13810_0.txt,"Phillipsburg herald (Phillipsburg, K...)",1894,lynch law . one of the most determined,mobs,"that ever gathered in western kansas lynched william mckinley aud bis son , lewis , at sharon springs last monday night , for the of charles garley . the crime which led up to the hanging was cruel and revolting . about a week ago charles garley , a son-"
88,13811_0.txt,"Potosi journal. (Potosi, Mo.)",1898,a,mob,"lynched dick oliver , a young negro , for asasvit fpon a white woman attempted ."
89,13812_0.txt,"The Washington weekly post. (Washington, D.C...)",1899,"negro lynched for barn- burning . memphis , tenn . , may 1- willis sees , a negro aged thirty years , was taken from the jail at osceola , ark . , sunday , and hanged in the jail yard by a",mob,"of torty mer . sees was charged with barn- burn- ing . the negro confessed the crime , and twice he was then hanged ."
90,13812_1.txt,"The Washington weekly post. (Washington, D.C...)",1899,". t . daves , declaring that the crime of hose was in excusable , and that no punishment could outweigh it , but at the same time refus- ing to approve lynching . the other set condemned the crime , but added nothing either condemnatory or in favor of",mob,"violence . the ministers discussed these two papers until they were all excited and sorely wrought up , but compromised , or at least decided not to commit them selves , by tabling both . judge george hillyer , a prominent barrister of this city , has inaugurated a movement"
91,13812_1.txt,"The Washington weekly post. (Washington, D.C...)",1899,"declares very on . as a basic principle that "" any one who thinks assaults on women should be permitted and nothing done about it has no place in such a convention . "" he follows up this remark by declaring that while there , can be no palliation of",mob,"violence , at the same time such legislation should be suggested as will render the infraction of law less probable or possible the press has favorably commented on . the scheme ."
92,13813_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,,mob,"got him . a negro prisoner lynched at mexico , mo . st . louis , july 22 . - a special to the post- dispatch from mexico , mo . , says : frank embree , the negro charged with assaulting 14 year old miss dougherty near benton ,"
93,13813_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,"the negro charged with assaulting 14 year old miss dougherty near benton , howard county , a few weeks ago , was taken from the jail here today and while en route to fay ette to be tried for his crime , he was taken from the officers by a",mob,"at steinmetz , and hanged to a tree . your correspondent had a talk with the negro and he denied his guilt . he wanted to be taken to kansas city to prevent by a mob , but the officers did capture not think it necessary ."
94,13813_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,"be tried for his crime , he was taken from the officers by a mob at steinmetz , and hanged to a tree . your correspondent had a talk with the negro and he denied his guilt . he wanted to be taken to kansas city to prevent by a",mob,", but the officers did capture not think it necessary ."
95,13813_1.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,afraid of a,mob,". it appears that there is still danger at alma . although sheriff treu of wabaunsee county stoutly asserted that there was no danger of mob violence toward "" dick "" williams and james render , alias denver kid , during their stay in alma yet he changed his mind"
96,13813_1.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,afraid of a mob . it appears that there is still danger at alma . although sheriff treu of wabaunsee county stoutly asserted that there was no danger of,mob,"violence toward "" dick "" williams and james render , alias denver kid , during their stay in alma yet he changed his mind and brought render back to the county jail in topeka friday night . there has been talk enough in alma to warrant the sheriff in being"
97,13814_0.txt,"Ottumwa semi-weekly courier (Ottumwa, Iowa) 1899-1903",1902,,mob,"lynches a murderer . day after sentence to life term . elizabethtown , ky . , nov . 17 . - har lan buckles , who was sentenced to life imprisonment saturday for the mur der of deputy marshal robert l . reid , was hanged a mob shortly after"
98,13814_0.txt,"Ottumwa semi-weekly courier (Ottumwa, Iowa) 1899-1903",1902,"mob lynches a murderer . day after sentence to life term . elizabethtown , ky . , nov . 17 . - har lan buckles , who was sentenced to life imprisonment saturday for the mur der of deputy marshal robert l . reid , was hanged a",mob,shortly after 2 o'clock yesterday by morning . hangs slayer of a deputy marshal rei's shoes he threw his own away .
99,13815_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1902-1910",1909,,mob,"lynches a negro who had attacked woman . anniston , ala . , nov . 24 . - a mob . lynched roy rolston , a negro here today for attacking mrs . w . c . cheat- wood , wife of a white farmer . the negro fled after"
100,13815_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1902-1910",1909,"mob lynches a negro who had attacked woman . anniston , ala . , nov . 24 . - a",mob,". lynched roy rolston , a negro here today for attacking mrs . w . c . cheat- wood , wife of a white farmer . the negro fled after his crime and was tracked many miles . his pusuers riddled him with shot and his body then was burned"
101,13818_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1902,,mob,"hanged two . charlotte , n . c . , june 11 . - a mob of about 50 masked men broke into the jail about 1 o'clock this morning , secured two negroes , took them to the outskirts of the city and hanged them to a tree ,"
102,13818_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1902,"mob hanged two . charlotte , n . c . , june 11 . - a",mob,"of about 50 masked men broke into the jail about 1 o'clock this morning , secured two negroes , took them to the outskirts of the city and hanged them to a tree , riddling their bodies with bullets . the negroes lynched were harris and james gillespie , charged"
103,13818_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1902,"mob hanged two . charlotte , n . c . , june 11 . - a mob of about 50",masked,"men broke into the jail about 1 o'clock this morning , secured two negroes , took them to the outskirts of the city and hanged them to a tree , riddling their bodies with bullets . the negroes lynched were harris and james gillespie , charged with the murder of"
104,13818_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1902,"mob hanged two . charlotte , n . c . , june 11 . - a mob of about 50",masked men,"broke into the jail about 1 o'clock this morning , secured two negroes , took them to the outskirts of the city and hanged them to a tree , riddling their bodies with bullets . the negroes lynched were harris and james gillespie , charged with the murder of miss"
105,13819_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1902,"negro rapist lynched . camden , ark . , july 31 . - lee newton , a negro , has been lynched by a",mob,"in the cornie bottoms , 25 miles from magnolia . a month ago the negro was found in the room of two young daughters of a prominent family . twice he escaped from custody . he was being taken to magnolia officers when the mob seized him . by"
106,13819_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1902,"has been lynched by a mob in the cornie bottoms , 25 miles from magnolia . a month ago the negro was found in the room of two young daughters of a prominent family . twice he escaped from custody . he was being taken to magnolia officers when the",mob,seized him . by
107,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,"the nick of time . officials ' prompt work prevented a lynching at oxford , 0 . the rope was cut and the victim rescued from the",mob-,"previous ly five men were shot and dangerously wounded . oxford , o . , oct . 2 . - five person's were shot and dangerously wounded thursday night in a fight between officers and several strangers from kentucky who were shooting their revolvers on the streets during the fair"
108,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,"a dangerous condition . the spiveys were arrested . a large crowd followed and soon surrounded the jail . they had secured a rope and endeavored to take both louis spivey and joseph spivey out of the officers ' hands , but they were frustrated by the officers . the",mob,"also had no recognized leader , were ineffectual in their desires . and fi nally everett woodruff , the father of the wounded marshal . appeared on the scene and expected the mob to avenge the murder of his son , himself directing the mob , the door of the"
109,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,"spivey out of the officers ' hands , but they were frustrated by the officers . the mob also had no recognized leader , were ineffectual in their desires . and fi nally everett woodruff , the father of the wounded marshal . appeared on the scene and expected the",mob,"to avenge the murder of his son , himself directing the mob , the door of the jail was battered down and a long rope was fastened around the neck of joseph spivey and he was led forth . fully one hundred men had hold of the rope and they"
110,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,"by the officers . the mob also had no recognized leader , were ineffectual in their desires . and fi nally everett woodruff , the father of the wounded marshal . appeared on the scene and expected the mob to avenge the murder of his son , himself directing the",mob,", the door of the jail was battered down and a long rope was fastened around the neck of joseph spivey and he was led forth . fully one hundred men had hold of the rope and they dragged him through the street in the direction of the public park"
111,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,a long rope was fastened around the neck of joseph spivey and he was led forth . fully one hundred men had hold of the rope and they dragged him through the street in the direction of the public park . spivey begged and cried for mercy and implored the,mob,"to allow him to see his wife and children be- fore they hung him . epithets and curses were heaped upon him , and he was dragged by the infuriated mob to the public park . when they came to the tree where 11 years ago a mob had lynched"
112,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,"the street in the direction of the public park . spivey begged and cried for mercy and implored the mob to allow him to see his wife and children be- fore they hung him . epithets and curses were heaped upon him , and he was dragged by the infuriated",mob,"to the public park . when they came to the tree where 11 years ago a mob had lynched henry corbin , the negro who killed mrs . horner , and murderously assaulted her daughter , a voice cried out to halt and to hang him . this tree was"
113,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,"implored the mob to allow him to see his wife and children be- fore they hung him . epithets and curses were heaped upon him , and he was dragged by the infuriated mob to the public park . when they came to the tree where 11 years ago a",mob,"had lynched henry corbin , the negro who killed mrs . horner , and murderously assaulted her daughter , a voice cried out to halt and to hang him . this tree was also the scene 25 years ago of a lynching of a negro who had also assaulted a"
114,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,voice cried out to halt and to hang him . this tree was also the scene 25 years ago of a lynching of a negro who had also assaulted a lady . the rope was swung around a limb and spivey was jerked into midair . in their hurry the,mob,neglected to tie spivey's hands and he grabbed the rope above his head and saved himself . he cried piteously and begged to be allowed to write a letter to his wife and children . a voice in the mob cried out to leave him down and the mob released
115,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,spivey was jerked into midair . in their hurry the mob neglected to tie spivey's hands and he grabbed the rope above his head and saved himself . he cried piteously and begged to be allowed to write a letter to his wife and children . a voice in the,mob,"cried out to leave him down and the mob released the rope , and spivey was given a pencil and paper . he vainly endeavored to write , but it was utterly unintelligible . a voice cried out , hang him , and the rope tightened and spivey was again"
116,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,the mob neglected to tie spivey's hands and he grabbed the rope above his head and saved himself . he cried piteously and begged to be allowed to write a letter to his wife and children . a voice in the mob cried out to leave him down and the,mob,"released the rope , and spivey was given a pencil and paper . he vainly endeavored to write , but it was utterly unintelligible . a voice cried out , hang him , and the rope tightened and spivey was again suspended in midair . he again grab bed the"
117,13823_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1903,suspended in midair . he again grab bed the rope above his head and be tween strangulations begged and pleaded for an opportunity to write a lette to his wife and children . he was again let down but only repeated his former miserable efforts . there were in the,mob,"a number of negroes and they were greatly excited . a colored man raised his voice and said that if spivey were a colored man , he would have been swung into eternity long ago . the rope again tightened and spivey was suspended for a third time in midair"
118,13824_0.txt,"Northern Wisconsin advertiser (Wabeno, Wis.)",1903,"of utah affirmed the verdict of guilty of murder in the first degree against peter mortensen , who was found guilty of murdering james r . hay , secretary of the pacific lumber company , and burying his body in an open field . america . lynching must continue a",mob,"hanged a negro at whites- boro , texas , on the suspicion that he assaulted mrs . hart of that town , but the sheriff's posse cut him down resulted . c . d . ellis of new york drove his automobile into a locomotive in switzerland , injuring the"
119,13826_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1903,lynch illinois,mob,"wanted to . but jailer protected negro accused of attempted assault on woman . shawneetown , ill . , sept . 1 . - a mob of fifty masked men went to the jail here early this morning and demanded that the jailer , named galloway , turn over to"
120,13826_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1903,"lynch illinois mob wanted to . but jailer protected negro accused of attempted assault on woman . shawneetown , ill . , sept . 1 . - a",mob,"of fifty masked men went to the jail here early this morning and demanded that the jailer , named galloway , turn over to them john h . griffin , colored , who was un der arrest for an attempted assault on mrs . joseph hobbs , a white woman"
121,13826_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1903,"lynch illinois mob wanted to . but jailer protected negro accused of attempted assault on woman . shawneetown , ill . , sept . 1 . - a mob of fifty",masked,"men went to the jail here early this morning and demanded that the jailer , named galloway , turn over to them john h . griffin , colored , who was un der arrest for an attempted assault on mrs . joseph hobbs , a white woman , near her"
122,13826_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1903,"lynch illinois mob wanted to . but jailer protected negro accused of attempted assault on woman . shawneetown , ill . , sept . 1 . - a mob of fifty",masked men,"went to the jail here early this morning and demanded that the jailer , named galloway , turn over to them john h . griffin , colored , who was un der arrest for an attempted assault on mrs . joseph hobbs , a white woman , near her own"
123,13826_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1903,"john h . griffin , colored , who was un der arrest for an attempted assault on mrs . joseph hobbs , a white woman , near her own home . griffin was frightened away by the woman's screams , and was arrested a short while afterward , when the",mob,"demanded the negro , galloway armed himself , and after reasoning with the men from the jail door , warned them that any effort to force the jail would be at their own peril . the mob , in spite of the jailer's words . made several ineffectual attempts to"
124,13826_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1903,"woman's screams , and was arrested a short while afterward , when the mob demanded the negro , galloway armed himself , and after reasoning with the men from the jail door , warned them that any effort to force the jail would be at their own peril . the",mob,", in spite of the jailer's words . made several ineffectual attempts to break down the doors , finally dispersing about day light . many of the colored people are taking sides with griffin , though some of them have , in fear of a race riot , left the"
125,13826_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1903,"ineffectual attempts to break down the doors , finally dispersing about day light . many of the colored people are taking sides with griffin , though some of them have , in fear of a race riot , left the town . no trouble has followed the visit of the",mob,"to the jail this morning , but preparations are making to take the negro carmi for safe keeping . to"
126,13827_0.txt,"The Waxahachie daily light (Waxahachie, Tex...)",1903,lynched on street . negro strnng up by a,mob,"of irate mississippians . seeking laborers . had a quarrel with a white man in regard to inducing negroes to leave centerville and latter killed . houston , sept . 16 . - a post special from centerville , miss . , says : william williams , a negro ,"
127,13827_0.txt,"The Waxahachie daily light (Waxahachie, Tex...)",1903,"quarrel with a white man in regard to inducing negroes to leave centerville and latter killed . houston , sept . 16 . - a post special from centerville , miss . , says : william williams , a negro , was lynched on main street of centerville by a",mob,"of several hundred people . williams , who was a laboring agent , has been here several days employing negroes for contractors in other sections of the state . it is alleged that he enticed several employes of the robinson mercantile company to leave that concern , and james h"
128,13827_0.txt,"The Waxahachie daily light (Waxahachie, Tex...)",1903,". germany , a white emn- ploye of the robinson company , met him on the street and remonstrated with him about his conduct . a quarrel followed and williams drew a re volver and shot germany dead . the negro attempted to escape after killing germany , but a",mob,"was quick ly on his heels and a running fight followed , which ended in the negro be ing captured and shot to death by crowd . the"
129,13828_0.txt,"The Savannah morning news. (Savannah, Ga.)",1904,"threatened in a southern state a . yesterday an attempt was made to lynch a negro at murphysboro , ill . it was charged that he had attempted to assault a woman . the officers dis played more courage than was shown by the officers at springfield , and the",mob,"dispersed . we have said many times , and the foregoing cases justi fy us in repeating it , that the race feeling at the north is just as strong as it is in the south , and that a negro charged with a heinous offense is in just as"
130,13828_0.txt,"The Savannah morning news. (Savannah, Ga.)",1904,as much danger of being lynched in one section as in the other . the only reason more negroes are lynched in the south than in the north is that there are many times more negroes in the south and they commit more offenses of the kind that arouse the,mob,"spirit . there is a steadily increasing negro population in many parts of the north , and it is noticeable that wherever the negro population is increasing in that section the number of lynchings is increasing . indeed , it is not too much to say that if the percentage"
131,13830_0.txt,"Perth Amboy evening news (Perth Amboy, N....)",1904,a hartford murder ex- police commissioner shot by negro body servant . a big,mob,"shouis , "" lynch himi "" wildly excited crowd a spectacle never before seen there- kill ing was in revenge for dis charge of assassin . hartford , conn . , aug . 6 . - henry osborne , a former police commissioner and one of the leading business men"
132,13831_0.txt,"The Savannah morning news. (Savannah, Ga.)",1904,negro lynching suggested theme sermon at trinity church . rev . a . m . williams ' observations on spirit of,mob,"law . miserable victims suffered briefly , while marks will remain for life with those who participated - geologically speaking , present time will be known to history as "" the lynch era "" -evils of placing transient public feel ing higher than the law . "" the lynch era"
133,13834_0.txt,"The Leavenworth echo (Leavenworth, Wa...)",1904,"a springfield , ohio ,",mob,"id springfield , ohio , the home and head quarters of the national anti- mob lynch law association , "" as well as and the home of representative stewart , the author of the ohio law providing a heavy penalty for participation in mobs , was for two or three"
134,13834_0.txt,"The Leavenworth echo (Leavenworth, Wa...)",1904,"a springfield , ohio , mob id springfield , ohio , the home and head quarters of the national anti-",mob,"lynch law association , "" as well as and the home of representative stewart , the author of the ohio law providing a heavy penalty for participation in mobs , was for two or three days in possession of a mob as wild and ungovernable as the average southern negro"
135,13834_0.txt,"The Leavenworth echo (Leavenworth, Wa...)",1904,"a springfield , ohio , mob id springfield , ohio , the home and head quarters of the national anti- mob lynch law association , "" as well as and the home of representative stewart , the author of the ohio law providing a heavy penalty for participation in",mobs,", was for two or three days in possession of a mob as wild and ungovernable as the average southern negro burning mob . in this as in all southern in stances a negro was the cause . a negro by the name of dixon , under very provoking circumstances"
136,13834_0.txt,"The Leavenworth echo (Leavenworth, Wa...)",1904,"the home and head quarters of the national anti- mob lynch law association , "" as well as and the home of representative stewart , the author of the ohio law providing a heavy penalty for participation in mobs , was for two or three days in possession of a",mob,"as wild and ungovernable as the average southern negro burning mob . in this as in all southern in stances a negro was the cause . a negro by the name of dixon , under very provoking circumstances , killed a popular police officer . the mob took dixon from"
137,13834_0.txt,"The Leavenworth echo (Leavenworth, Wa...)",1904,"law association , "" as well as and the home of representative stewart , the author of the ohio law providing a heavy penalty for participation in mobs , was for two or three days in possession of a mob as wild and ungovernable as the average southern negro burning",mob,". in this as in all southern in stances a negro was the cause . a negro by the name of dixon , under very provoking circumstances , killed a popular police officer . the mob took dixon from jail and hung him and then ven its savageness in shooting"
138,13834_0.txt,"The Leavenworth echo (Leavenworth, Wa...)",1904,"possession of a mob as wild and ungovernable as the average southern negro burning mob . in this as in all southern in stances a negro was the cause . a negro by the name of dixon , under very provoking circumstances , killed a popular police officer . the",mob,"took dixon from jail and hung him and then ven its savageness in shooting into the body ted some hundred times . having be come aroused , the mob spirit further exhibited itself in burning out all that portion of the city in which the negroes lived . finally the"
139,13834_0.txt,"The Leavenworth echo (Leavenworth, Wa...)",1904,". a negro by the name of dixon , under very provoking circumstances , killed a popular police officer . the mob took dixon from jail and hung him and then ven its savageness in shooting into the body ted some hundred times . having be come aroused , the",mob,"spirit further exhibited itself in burning out all that portion of the city in which the negroes lived . finally the governor was appealed to and sent five thousand troops to preserve order . of course after the mob had accomplished all it had set out to do , and"
140,13834_0.txt,"The Leavenworth echo (Leavenworth, Wa...)",1904,"ted some hundred times . having be come aroused , the mob spirit further exhibited itself in burning out all that portion of the city in which the negroes lived . finally the governor was appealed to and sent five thousand troops to preserve order . of course after the",mob,"had accomplished all it had set out to do , and driven all all the negroes out of the city , order was restored . it is said that the cause for the out break is the fact that several murders , together with other crimes , have lately been"
141,13835_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1905,"negro lynched . ✦ nashville , tenn . . june 20 . - simon ford , a negro who assaulted a + white woman near riverside , has ✦ been taken from jail to hohen wald , tenn . , by a",mob,of fifty and shot to death . men
142,13837_0.txt,"Owingsville outlook (Owingsville, Ky...)",1905,"advices from hattiesburg , miss . , state that ed lewis and "" kid "" george , two negrees , were lynched there by a",mob,. the men were charged with be- ing accessory to the murder of con viet guard j . g . smith.-
143,13839_0.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1905,"gus goodman , a negro , was taken from the jail at bainbridge , la . , by a",mob,"of 300 men and lynched on the bank of the river a short distance from the town . earlier in the night goodman shot sheriff stegall , who attempting to arrest him for the was murder of a colored woman ."
144,13843_0.txt,"Evening capital. (Annapolis, Md.)",1905,it is not always a white,mob,"that lynches the colored offender and law breaker . recently in bainbridge , ga . , a mob of negroes lynched one of their race who had criminally assault ed a colored girl . the mob of colored men took the accused from the sheriff and strung him up to"
145,13843_0.txt,"Evening capital. (Annapolis, Md.)",1905,"it is not always a white mob that lynches the colored offender and law breaker . recently in bainbridge , ga . , a",mob,of negroes lynched one of their race who had criminally assault ed a colored girl . the mob of colored men took the accused from the sheriff and strung him up to a tree and riddled him with bullets . the indignation of the blacks when one of their own
146,13843_0.txt,"Evening capital. (Annapolis, Md.)",1905,"it is not always a white mob that lynches the colored offender and law breaker . recently in bainbridge , ga . , a mob of negroes lynched one of their race who had criminally assault ed a colored girl . the",mob,of colored men took the accused from the sheriff and strung him up to a tree and riddled him with bullets . the indignation of the blacks when one of their own race is victimized is as strong as that in the of their white brothers under bosom similar circumstances
147,13846_0.txt,"The Salt Lake tribune (Salt Lake City,...)",1905,,mob,"hangs a negro . charged with attempting to enter woman's room . louisville , miss . , june 4 . - essic bostic , a negro , has been hanged in the woods near here by 20 band of forty masked and armed men . the negro , in the"
148,13846_0.txt,"The Salt Lake tribune (Salt Lake City,...)",1905,"mob hangs a negro . charged with attempting to enter woman's room . louisville , miss . , june 4 . - essic bostic , a negro , has been hanged in the woods near here by 20 band of forty",masked,"and armed men . the negro , in the custody of a number of officers , was being taken to jackson for safe keeping . the lynchers appeared and demanded the prisoner , and bostic was turned over to the band . bostic was charged with having at tempted to"
149,13847_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1905,deadly work georgia,mob's,"shot and killed sev en prisoners , one escapel victims were helpless assault and murder ( were alleged offenses . ( by associated press . ) watkinsville , ga . , june 29 . - seven negroes and one white man were lynch ed here by a mob of white"
150,13847_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1905,"work georgia mob's shot and killed sev en prisoners , one escapel victims were helpless assault and murder ( were alleged offenses . ( by associated press . ) watkinsville , ga . , june 29 . - seven negroes and one white man were lynch ed here by a",mob,"of white men last night . the jaller was compelled to ac company the mob and its victims to the scene of the lynching . some of the men were suspected of assaulting mrs . weldon booley , wife of a well known farmer . others were suspect . reed"
151,13847_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1905,"assault and murder ( were alleged offenses . ( by associated press . ) watkinsville , ga . , june 29 . - seven negroes and one white man were lynch ed here by a mob of white men last night . the jaller was compelled to ac company the",mob,"and its victims to the scene of the lynching . some of the men were suspected of assaulting mrs . weldon booley , wife of a well known farmer . others were suspect . reed of complicity in the murder of mr . and mrs . holbrook several weeks ago"
152,13847_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1905,". seven of the prisoners were shot to death within two hundred yards of the center of the town . eight men were carried to the scene of lynching but one , it developed later , escaped death . joe patterson , a ne gro , felgned death and the",mob,"left him , thinking he had been riddle with bullets . at the jail the men were lined up in single fille , tied with ropes , then march ed out . they were bound to a fexce with their hands tied behind them . at the command of the"
153,13847_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1905,", thinking he had been riddle with bullets . at the jail the men were lined up in single fille , tied with ropes , then march ed out . they were bound to a fexce with their hands tied behind them . at the command of the leader the",mob,"stepped back a few paces took deliberate aim and fired a volley from rifles , shot guns and pistols into the line of prisoners . every man in front the mob fell at the first voiley . of"
154,13847_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1905,"were bound to a fexce with their hands tied behind them . at the command of the leader the mob stepped back a few paces took deliberate aim and fired a volley from rifles , shot guns and pistols into the line of prisoners . every man in front the",mob,fell at the first voiley . of
155,13848_0.txt,"The commonwealth. (Greenwood, Miss...)",1905,w . b . oliphant was shot to death without cause at helm sta tion by an unidentified negro a few days ago . the negro was later tak en from an officer while aboard a train on his way to the washington county jail and lynched by an furiated,mob,of citizens . in
156,13849_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1905,hanged to a tree by a nebraska,mob,"j . a . dowding , a jeweler at seward , is rescued by the sheriff . was guilty of assault he is seen in store with a neighbor's 10- year- old daughter- is 55 years old and has a family . lincoln , neb . , aug . 31"
157,13849_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1905,. sunday flattened his face a man against the jeweler's window to look . at the clock . he was startled to find dowding in a compromising position with the 10- year- old daughter of a neighbor . he called others to witness and an hour later a hastily organized,mob,"took dowding out and hung him to a tree for a few seconds . he was rescued by the sheriff . he insisted that the girl had asked him to examine her clothing for a cricket . later he was arrested and pleaded guilty to assault , and on the"
158,13853_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1907,,mob,"lynches two negroes . they had confessed to taking part in murderous raid on italians . new orleans , march 15 . - clint farris and henry gardner , negroes , were lynched at monroe , la . , early to- day for connection with the murders and other crimes"
159,13853_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1907,public sentiment in monroe has been roused to a high state of excitement by a negro's attempt to outrage a white woman and by attacks on white men at night . the two negroes were captured late in the evening on suspicion . they confessed and shortly after midnight a,mob,"of fifty men gathered in the court house square . the mob leaders demanded the keys of the jail , and failing to get them broke into the prison , took out the prisoners and lynched them in the square . on the bodies of the lynched negroes were found"
160,13853_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1907,excitement by a negro's attempt to outrage a white woman and by attacks on white men at night . the two negroes were captured late in the evening on suspicion . they confessed and shortly after midnight a mob of fifty men gathered in the court house square . the,mob,"leaders demanded the keys of the jail , and failing to get them broke into the prison , took out the prisoners and lynched them in the square . on the bodies of the lynched negroes were found this morning the sign : bad negroes not wanted in monroe ."
161,13855_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1907,"short rope for trice . olive branch , moss , negro who killed mistress lynched by",mob,". olive branch , miss . , july 22 . andrew trice , a negro , who saturday night smashed the head of susie williams , his mistress , while the woman lay sleeping , was taken from officers near here to day by a mob of 30 negros and"
162,13855_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1907,"killed mistress lynched by mob . olive branch , miss . , july 22 . andrew trice , a negro , who saturday night smashed the head of susie williams , his mistress , while the woman lay sleeping , was taken from officers near here to day by a",mob,of 30 negros and hanged trice's body was thrown into a creek near the spot where negro had cast the corpse of the woman the .
163,13856_0.txt,"The Marion daily mirror. (Marion, Ohio)",1907,21 a texas,mob,lynched a negro because he shot a white bay . an- other chance for fonaker to clinch xa another nail with the colored vote .
164,13860_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1907,safe in jail at denver,mob,"wanted to lynch reeves , who confessed his share in the boulder horror . boulder , colo . , aug . 14 . - john w . reeves , a brakeman employed by the colorado northwestern railroad . has confessed that he is responsible for the destruction by fire and"
165,13860_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1907,", a brakeman employed by the colorado northwestern railroad . has confessed that he is responsible for the destruction by fire and dynamite last saturday of the colorado & southern station , which resulted in the killing of five and the injury of fifty persons . after his confession a",mob,"gathered to lynch reeves , but he was spirited from jail and taken to denver in a carriage . reeves said that during the discussion of the colorado & southern strike a suggestion was made that the crowd set fire to some of the company property . act ing upon"
166,13861_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1907,"garden , a negro , occurred yesterday , following the murder of albert bates a prominent white business , man . the blacks were given notice to get out of the town within forty- eight hours . a second attack was made on the jail early this morning by a",mob,"of citizens who sought a one- eyed negro named bill smith , charged with inciting garden to commit the crime . sheriff w . f . robertson spirited the man away from the okmulgee . jim mob and took him to johnson , negro who gave garden a rifle ,"
167,13861_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1907,"a second attack was made on the jail early this morning by a mob of citizens who sought a one- eyed negro named bill smith , charged with inciting garden to commit the crime . sheriff w . f . robertson spirited the man away from the okmulgee . jim",mob,"and took him to johnson , negro who gave garden a rifle , was also a taken to okmulgee ."
168,13862_0.txt,"Evening times-Republican (Marshalltown, I...)",1907,"negro tied to tree lynched black , who attempted to assault alabama woman , shot by",mob,". florence , ala . , march , 25 . - cleveland harding , a negro , who attempted to assault mrs . ben rice , near here friday , and who was driven off by mrs . rice's shepherd dog , was summarily executed sunday by his intended vic"
169,13862_0.txt,"Evening times-Republican (Marshalltown, I...)",1907,"him . upon re covering she fully identified her assailant , and on being asked what should done with him , told the negro's cap be tors to do as they thought best . harding was taken a short distance from the rice home , where a conference of the",mob,"leaders was held . some said burn him , but shooting was decided on . beyond confessing his guilt , negro had nothing to say and was the stolidly indifferent to his fate ."
170,13865_1.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1907,"of the seventh judicial circult of alabama . judge pelham has a history that is said to strike the president with much favor . besides be ing a nephew of the famous artillery officer of the confederate army , maj . john pelham , he not long as prevented a",mob,lynching a negro by the purest sort of nerve . that is what the president likes . judge pelham had a case before him of a negro charged with criminal assault upon a white woman . the people of the county wer worked to a high degree and wanted to
171,13865_1.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1907,sort of nerve . that is what the president likes . judge pelham had a case before him of a negro charged with criminal assault upon a white woman . the people of the county wer worked to a high degree and wanted to lynch the up negro . a,mob,"was at last formed and went to the jail . the sheriff , by the assistance and advice of judge pelham , drove the crowd away at the point of pistols , but the crowd sullenly retired to a nearby point and reorganized . a leader was selected , and"
172,13870_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,"the charge of rape and in whose case the supreme court had interfered to the extent of granting an appeal which had the effect of a supersedeas . on the night following the announcement of the court's action , johnson was taken out of the jail in chattanooga by a",mob,and lynched . there was no resistance on the part of the jail authorities and shipp and a number of his deputies as well as about 20 citizens were proceeded against on the charge of contempt of the federal court the . case has been pending ever since and the
173,13871_0.txt,"The Wenatchee daily world (Wenatchee, Wash...)",1909,"either orders of the state , whose officer he was , or of the supreme court , appear to the governor to grant a con- this ar- current stay of execution . rived the night before the execution was to have taken place , and on the same evening a",mob,". broke into the jail , overpowered the night pailer and took the negro out to hang him . sheriff shipp was not at the jail when the mob broke in , but hurried there as soon as he heard of the disturbance . he says that he , in"
174,13871_0.txt,"The Wenatchee daily world (Wenatchee, Wash...)",1909,"of execution . rived the night before the execution was to have taken place , and on the same evening a mob . broke into the jail , overpowered the night pailer and took the negro out to hang him . sheriff shipp was not at the jail when the",mob,"broke in , but hurried there as soon as he heard of the disturbance . he says that he , in turn , was overpowered and the lynching completed expeditionsly . the supreme court tried him and twenty of his deputies and the alleged lynch- , but this number was"
175,13877_0.txt,"The Ekalaka eagle (Ekalaka, Mont.)",1910,illinois,mob,"would lynch . governor sends orders to prevent lynching at any cost . vienna , ill . , jan . 12 . everything was quiet at vienna this morning and the mobs formed to avenge the murder of allen clark by three negroes on a passenger train near new burn"
176,13877_0.txt,"The Ekalaka eagle (Ekalaka, Mont.)",1910,"illinois mob would lynch . governor sends orders to prevent lynching at any cost . vienna , ill . , jan . 12 . everything was quiet at vienna this morning and the",mobs,"formed to avenge the murder of allen clark by three negroes on a passenger train near new burn side had not arrived in vienna but company k of cairo was on the scene prepared to prevent mob violence . the cairo company arrived at 4 o'clock this morning , after"
177,13877_0.txt,"The Ekalaka eagle (Ekalaka, Mont.)",1910,jan . 12 . everything was quiet at vienna this morning and the mobs formed to avenge the murder of allen clark by three negroes on a passenger train near new burn side had not arrived in vienna but company k of cairo was on the scene prepared to prevent,mob,"violence . the cairo company arrived at 4 o'clock this morning , after being many hours on the way . the break ing down of an engine delayed their arrival . sheriff mathis , with a scanty force of volunteers he could muster had guarded the frail structure in which"
178,13879_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1911,"of a negro owensboro , ky , may 12- indictments were returned here today against eighteen well known citizens of mclain county growing out of the spectacular lynching of the negro , william potter at livermore about three weeks ago . three of the indictments charge mur der . the",mob's,"victim , accused of having killed a white man was arrested and concealed in a dressing room in the crown theater . the mob found him and potter was strung up over the or lights while those in the house chestra filled his body with bullets ."
179,13879_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1911,"of the spectacular lynching of the negro , william potter at livermore about three weeks ago . three of the indictments charge mur der . the mob's victim , accused of having killed a white man was arrested and concealed in a dressing room in the crown theater . the",mob,found him and potter was strung up over the or lights while those in the house chestra filled his body with bullets .
180,13880_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1911,"negroes guard jail and prevent lynching stanford , ky . . jail scene of unusual doings stanford , ky . , feb . 16 . - a",mob,"of negroes heavily armed stood on guard outside the jail here last night prepared to resist any attempt of a whit mob to lynch the blacks , louis gregory and curley johnson , held for shooting and robbing three white tobacco farmers on the danville pike last monday night ."
181,13880_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1911,"negroes guard jail and prevent lynching stanford , ky . . jail scene of unusual doings stanford , ky . , feb . 16 . - a mob of negroes heavily armed stood on guard outside the jail here last night prepared to resist any attempt of a whit",mob,"to lynch the blacks , louis gregory and curley johnson , held for shooting and robbing three white tobacco farmers on the danville pike last monday night . it is believed the action of the negro mob had the effect of ward ing or an attempt to lynch the prisoners"
182,13880_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1911,"the jail here last night prepared to resist any attempt of a whit mob to lynch the blacks , louis gregory and curley johnson , held for shooting and robbing three white tobacco farmers on the danville pike last monday night . it is believed the action of the negro",mob,"had the effect of ward ing or an attempt to lynch the prisoners . at midnight a posse of armed white men who are neighbors of the high- waymen's victims drove into town and scouted about the jail . they advised against an attempt to storm the jail , it"
183,13881_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1909,who,mob,in oklahoma lynches negro killed deputy constable . and is de
184,13882_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,two negro murderers missouri,mob,"lynches break in jail doors and both confess before they put to death are charleston , mo . , july 2 . - two negroes were lynched here today for the murder of william fox , a planter of mississippi county . they were taken from the county jail by"
185,13882_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"last night . died after identifying his assail he ants . farmers began flocking into charles ton this morning . sheriff culp appealed to governor hadley by tele phone for assistance and swore in a number of deputies . the sheriffs , how ever , were powerless to check the",mob,. it required two hours to break into the jail . one negro was hanged in the jail yard after he had confessed . the oth er was hurried into an automobile and was taken to the spot where he had hidden the revolver with which fox had been shot
186,13884_0.txt,"Fulton County tribune. (Wauseon, Ohio)",1914,jailer kills a,mob,"member shoots into crowd at paris , ky . , to prevent lynching of negro prisoner . paris , ky . , aug . 31 . - in defending c prisoner whom a mob attempted to take from the jail here city jailer e . j . farris shot and"
187,13884_0.txt,"Fulton County tribune. (Wauseon, Ohio)",1914,"jailer kills a mob member shoots into crowd at paris , ky . , to prevent lynching of negro prisoner . paris , ky . , aug . 31 . - in defending c prisoner whom a",mob,"attempted to take from the jail here city jailer e . j . farris shot and killed eugene hous ton , a prominent citizen . the mob had attacked the jail in an attempt to get a negro , henry thompson , who , after being caught robbing the home"
188,13884_0.txt,"Fulton County tribune. (Wauseon, Ohio)",1914,"to prevent lynching of negro prisoner . paris , ky . , aug . 31 . - in defending c prisoner whom a mob attempted to take from the jail here city jailer e . j . farris shot and killed eugene hous ton , a prominent citizen . the",mob,"had attacked the jail in an attempt to get a negro , henry thompson , who , after being caught robbing the home of henry mead , struck mead with a hatchet , probably fatally injuring him . mead , after being injured , wrenched the hatchet from thompson's hand"
189,13885_0.txt,"The daily Gate City (Keokuk, Iowa)",1914,"store keeper . aged one negro was lynched yesterday same reason . serivce.j have should wire leased they press along , united took [ they bait negroes lynched . home correspond with the quantity of a here to fish they lynched the were that negroes wager more day by a",mob,which stormed the jail . willing catch will to not weigh as much as the
190,13886_0.txt,"Oxford eagle. (Oxford, Lafayet...)",1914,,mob,"lynches negro assailant . hearne , tex- after he had shot and twice wounded j . r . robertson , plantation manager , near here , bill williams , negro was hanged by a posse of citizens . , robertson will recover ."
191,13887_0.txt,"The Monroe journal (Monroe, N.C.)",1915,"a white man who took part in a pistol battle at pleasant hill , mo . , which resulted in the death of two men , one a policeman , was taken from jail by a",mob,"and lynched . as long as they will engage in lynching , is just as well not to draw the color it line ."
192,13891_0.txt,"Evening capital and Maryland gazette. (Annapolis, Md.)",1915,. picture the see a,mob,threatens to lynch the prisoner .
193,13893_0.txt,"The Dolores star (Dolores, Montez...)",1915,"a million dollars in gold reached new york on the ame philadelphia . it is stated at atlanta , ga . , that a member of the",mob,"who hanged leo m . frank is known , and the arresta are likely to be made . three persons were injured and two score were bruised and scratched in a wreck of westbound western pacific train no . 1 near halleck , nev . the body of leo m"
194,13894_0.txt,"The review (High Point, N.C...)",1915,"and sturte vant's no window remained whole . for twenty hours these two men had been barclay's guests . gunsdorf's great hour had come that hour for which he had plotted all his life , and lied for and schemed for . he had been the leading figure in the",mob,that had tried to lynch the triumvirate in the first burst of rage . and he found himself suddenly at the head of all the lawless ele ments in the city . he was drunk with power and a sense of his own importance . but openly he spoke of
195,13895_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1915,"lynchers georgia been lynched . ( associated press by federal wireless . ) milledgeville , georgia , august 17 . - twenty- five",masked,"and armed men overpowered the warden of the state penitentiary here last night oth delivered leo from jail . whether he is now in the hands of friends or already has been lynched by his enemies is unknown . frank was convicted of the murder of mary phagan , a"
196,13895_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1915,"notoriety than any other in the history of american criminal records , save the thaw trial . intense animosities aroused intense animosities were aroused and when general slaton commuted frank's sentence of death to life imprisonment , it was necessary to surround the exe : the to prevent his being",mobbed,". shortly after frank was taken to the state penitentiary to begin service of his sentence , he was stabbed in the neek by a fellow conviet and for days his life was in the balance . abducted . in automobile prior to the attack on warden smith last night"
197,13895_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1915,"in the balance . abducted . in automobile prior to the attack on warden smith last night , the telephone wires world were cut . after the warden had been bouud , his keys were taken from him and frank was released from his cell . closely surrounded by his",masked,"guards , he was carried to an automobile waiting outside the prison grounds and rushed away into the night in general direction of eatonton . the secure leo frank and end his life masked men overpower warden of penitentiary and ab duct prisoner in auto body of convicted slayer found"
198,13895_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1915,"were taken from him and frank was released from his cell . closely surrounded by his masked guards , he was carried to an automobile waiting outside the prison grounds and rushed away into the night in general direction of eatonton . the secure leo frank and end his life",masked,"men overpower warden of penitentiary and ab duct prisoner in auto body of convicted slayer found later mob left it hanging to tree within five miles of prison bulletin ( associated press by federal wireless . ) atlanta , georgia , august 17 . - ( 5 o'clock a ."
199,13895_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1915,"were taken from him and frank was released from his cell . closely surrounded by his masked guards , he was carried to an automobile waiting outside the prison grounds and rushed away into the night in general direction of eatonton . the secure leo frank and end his life",masked men,"overpower warden of penitentiary and ab duct prisoner in auto body of convicted slayer found later mob left it hanging to tree within five miles of prison bulletin ( associated press by federal wireless . ) atlanta , georgia , august 17 . - ( 5 o'clock a . m"
200,13895_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1915,", he was carried to an automobile waiting outside the prison grounds and rushed away into the night in general direction of eatonton . the secure leo frank and end his life masked men overpower warden of penitentiary and ab duct prisoner in auto body of convicted slayer found later",mob,"left it hanging to tree within five miles of prison bulletin ( associated press by federal wireless . ) atlanta , georgia , august 17 . - ( 5 o'clock a . m . ) - the body of leo frank who was abducted last night by an armed and"
201,13895_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1915,"left it hanging to tree within five miles of prison bulletin ( associated press by federal wireless . ) atlanta , georgia , august 17 . - ( 5 o'clock a . m . ) - the body of leo frank who was abducted last night by an armed and",masked,"band , is reported to have been found hanging from a tree , within five miles of the penitentiary at milledgeville . he state had"
202,13897_0.txt,"Newark evening star and Newark advertiser (Newark, N.J.)",1915,two negroes lynched for murder by georgia,mob,"macon , ga . , dec . 21 . - residents of eastman , a village near here , awoke today to find bullet- riddled bodies of two negroes , william stewart and samuel bland , swinging from nooses , the victims of a lynching bee during the night ."
203,13897_0.txt,"Newark evening star and Newark advertiser (Newark, N.J.)",1915,"eastman , a village near here , awoke today to find bullet- riddled bodies of two negroes , william stewart and samuel bland , swinging from nooses , the victims of a lynching bee during the night . a confession was said to have been obtained by members of a",mob,"from the that they robbed and negroes killed a . m . batchellor , a merchant , sunday night , near his home , at eastman . the mob , estimated at nearly 100 , strung up the negroes near the scene of the robbery . few of the mob"
204,13897_0.txt,"Newark evening star and Newark advertiser (Newark, N.J.)",1915,"victims of a lynching bee during the night . a confession was said to have been obtained by members of a mob from the that they robbed and negroes killed a . m . batchellor , a merchant , sunday night , near his home , at eastman . the",mob,", estimated at nearly 100 , strung up the negroes near the scene of the robbery . few of the mob wore masks and authorities today were making , an investigation ."
205,13897_0.txt,"Newark evening star and Newark advertiser (Newark, N.J.)",1915,"mob from the that they robbed and negroes killed a . m . batchellor , a merchant , sunday night , near his home , at eastman . the mob , estimated at nearly 100 , strung up the negroes near the scene of the robbery . few of the",mob,"wore masks and authorities today were making , an investigation ."
206,13897_0.txt,"Newark evening star and Newark advertiser (Newark, N.J.)",1915,"the that they robbed and negroes killed a . m . batchellor , a merchant , sunday night , near his home , at eastman . the mob , estimated at nearly 100 , strung up the negroes near the scene of the robbery . few of the mob wore",masks,"and authorities today were making , an investigation ."
207,13898_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1915,9 negroes hang in one day south executes seven by legal process and two are,mob,"victims . memphis , aug . 9 . - nine negroes were hanged , seven legally and two lynched , while a tenth was being chased in the southern states on fri day . alabama led the list with four legal hangings . at evergreen , robert wat kins and"
208,13898_1.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1915,"downey , comptroller of the treasury , was appointed to the court of claims bench . he was named in place of a . mitchell palmer , who resigned . mobile , ala . . aug . 10 . - james fox , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,at the camp of the lager sullivan company . lumber
209,13900_0.txt,"Five Mile Beach weekly journal. (Wildwood, N.J.)",1916,"traffic was subjected by a war which affected the routes most used between america and europe . keen public interest , not to say excitement , has frequently been , even up to the close of the year aroused , by the atti vict and was still suffering when a",mob,"of citizens kidnaped and hanged him , with the avowed purpose of executing the original sentence and ignoring the executive clemency which had been extended in a most dinary case . extraor"
210,13902_0.txt,"The Loup City northwestern (Loup City, Neb.)",1916,"five negroes , three men and two women , were taken from the jali at newberry , fla . , and hanged by a",mob,", as the result of the killing of constable s . g . wynne by boisey long , negro the lynched negroes were accused . of aiding long to escape ."
211,13904_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1916,,mob,"lynches negro . shreveport , la . . aug . 26 . - jesse hammet , a negro in jail at vivian , 20 miles north of here , accused of attempting an assault upon a white woman , was lynched by a mob today . there"
212,13904_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1916,"mob lynches negro . shreveport , la . . aug . 26 . - jesse hammet , a negro in jail at vivian , 20 miles north of here , accused of attempting an assault upon a white woman , was lynched by a",mob,today . there
213,13905_0.txt,"The Hartford herald (Hartford, Ky.)",1916,"been connected with the kill ling of the sheriff of lee county . ' a sixth , against whom it is believed there is a better case , was not in the jail , having been removed for safe keeping . "" here we have a typical lynching . the",mob,"did not know that the suspects were guilty , and did not want to find out the truth . it wanted the excitement of a killing bee and got it . the circumstance that the only suspect whose case looked enough to make the officers think bad he should be"
214,13906_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1916-1920,1919,". robert crosky and relious phi fer , negro ex- soldiers , had been ordered sent to the state penitentiary for safe keeping . crosky had admitted , it is said , attacking a white girl . an auto containing three deputies and the ne- groes was stopped by a",masked,"mob , which seized the negroes and lynched them . at midnight policeman barbaree attempted to quell a disturbance between three negroes and was shot and killed by one of them , will temple . before dying the officer shot temple , who was taken to a hospital . at"
215,13906_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1916-1920,1919,"robert crosky and relious phi fer , negro ex- soldiers , had been ordered sent to the state penitentiary for safe keeping . crosky had admitted , it is said , attacking a white girl . an auto containing three deputies and the ne- groes was stopped by a masked",mob,", which seized the negroes and lynched them . at midnight policeman barbaree attempted to quell a disturbance between three negroes and was shot and killed by one of them , will temple . before dying the officer shot temple , who was taken to a hospital . at 2"
216,13906_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1916-1920,1919,"lynched them . at midnight policeman barbaree attempted to quell a disturbance between three negroes and was shot and killed by one of them , will temple . before dying the officer shot temple , who was taken to a hospital . at 2 : 30 o'clock this morning six",masked,"men went to the ward in which temple lay and riddled his body with bullets . quickly the report of the third affair spread over the it signalled the attacks on the negroes , which continued well into the day . they were down by massed bodies of police of-"
217,13906_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1916-1920,1919,"lynched them . at midnight policeman barbaree attempted to quell a disturbance between three negroes and was shot and killed by one of them , will temple . before dying the officer shot temple , who was taken to a hospital . at 2 : 30 o'clock this morning six",masked men,"went to the ward in which temple lay and riddled his body with bullets . quickly the report of the third affair spread over the it signalled the attacks on the negroes , which continued well into the day . they were down by massed bodies of police of- put"
218,13906_1.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1916-1920,1919,"denounced . jury hits envoy in verdict on lynching of two mexicans , pueblo , col . , sept . 30 . - denunciation of charges attributed to a . j . ortez , mexican consul at denver , that pueblo officers of the law were in collusion with the",mob,"that lynched jose gonzales and salvador rtez , mexican here september 13 was contained in the verdict of a coroner's jury here to- day . the jury found that gonzales and or tez , who were arrested in connection with the murder of a patrolman , "" came to their"
219,13907_0.txt,"Weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1916,need negroes for lynch funds service woman a who assault,mob,"hangs and burns 2 men charged with attacking wife of railroad employe . by associated press . p . paducah , ky , oct . 16 . - the au of thorities are prepared for further - trouble tonight following the lynching and burning of two negroes today . the"
220,13907_0.txt,"Weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1916,"automobile hitched to the other end . as soon as the other negro had been identified as the assailant of the wom an , he was led to the same tree and . the process repeated . after assuring themselves that both negroes were dead , the members of the",mob,lowered the bodies and burn on a pile of brush . the lynchings came after five hours of labor to enter the cells in the jail and were the outcome of an attack made friday upon mrs . george rose at her home in the suburbs . the mob gathered
221,13907_0.txt,"Weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1916,the mob lowered the bodies and burn on a pile of brush . the lynchings came after five hours of labor to enter the cells in the jail and were the outcome of an attack made friday upon mrs . george rose at her home in the suburbs . the,mob,"gathered about 7 o'clock today after hearing that the police had arrested brack finley , a negro about 35 years old , who answered to the description of mrs . rose's assail ant . the mob demanded the prisoner and brushed aside the police reserves who had been sent to"
222,13907_0.txt,"Weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1916,"friday upon mrs . george rose at her home in the suburbs . the mob gathered about 7 o'clock today after hearing that the police had arrested brack finley , a negro about 35 years old , who answered to the description of mrs . rose's assail ant . the",mob,"demanded the prisoner and brushed aside the police reserves who had been sent to the scene . they battered down the jail door but found that the prisoners had been locked in steel cells . failing to find the keys , they sent for a foundryman to cut the bars"
223,13907_0.txt,"Weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1916,"way , asa thornhill , about 20 years old , who , it had been reported , had lauded finley's attack , was seized . the cavalcade , when it reached the rose home had grown to several thousand . while finley was being identified , the leaders of the",mob,resolved to hang thornhill . pleading for his life the boy was bound and executed . in a few minutes it was announced that mrs . rose had satisfied herself of the of he was to the same tree and a number of shots fired into his body . quietly
224,13907_0.txt,"Weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1916,to hang thornhill . pleading for his life the boy was bound and executed . in a few minutes it was announced that mrs . rose had satisfied herself of the of he was to the same tree and a number of shots fired into his body . quietly the,mob,"gathered a quantity of wood , built a fire and placed the bodies of both negroes upon it . the mob and spectators then dispersed . labor leaders must serve sentences washington , oct . 16 . - the supreme court today refused to review the convictions of four labor"
225,13907_0.txt,"Weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1916,"announced that mrs . rose had satisfied herself of the of he was to the same tree and a number of shots fired into his body . quietly the mob gathered a quantity of wood , built a fire and placed the bodies of both negroes upon it . the",mob,"and spectators then dispersed . labor leaders must serve sentences washington , oct . 16 . - the supreme court today refused to review the convictions of four labor leaders in the west virginia coal strike , who were sentenced to six months ' imprisonment for contempt of court ,"
226,13912_0.txt,"The West Virginian (Fairmont, W. Va...)",1917,,mob,that wanted to lynch a moke in a north carolina town pould not get to him . yesterday
227,13915_0.txt,"Richmond planet (Richmond, Va.)",1918,"the lynching of one negro , on march sixth , concerning no the lynching of three negroes . reply has been made to us nor have we seen any statement in the public press which would indicate your appreciation as governor of the state of the position in which louisiana's",mob,"actions place the nation at this time when national prestige abroad demands high regard for law and or der at home . does louisiana wish the nation and her own thousands of colored soldiers now serving their country in the battle for democracy , to understand that she will not"
228,13915_0.txt,"Richmond planet (Richmond, Va.)",1918,"national prestige abroad demands high regard for law and or der at home . does louisiana wish the nation and her own thousands of colored soldiers now serving their country in the battle for democracy , to understand that she will not protect black men accused of crime and that",mobs,"may visit their vengeance up on negroes without let or hindrance by the constituted authorities of your state ? what shall we inform the newspapers who receive our press service regarding louisiana's attitude ? john r . shillady , secretary . national association for the advance ment of colored people"
229,13918_1.txt,"Cayton's weekly (Seattle, Wash.)",1918,"the publishers of the san antonio , texas , express , have established a fund of $ 100 , 000 , to be maintained for five years for the purpose of combating and punishing lynch ing and",mob,"violence in the united states . a reward of $ 500 will be paid to each per son responsible for the arrest and conviction of any person instrumental in arousing a mob to commit lynching or to participate in lynching when the victim is white and $ 1 , 000"
230,13918_1.txt,"Cayton's weekly (Seattle, Wash.)",1918,"000 , to be maintained for five years for the purpose of combating and punishing lynch ing and mob violence in the united states . a reward of $ 500 will be paid to each per son responsible for the arrest and conviction of any person instrumental in arousing a",mob,"to commit lynching or to participate in lynching when the victim is white and $ 1 , 000 when the victim is colored . the offer applies both to of the law and to private citizens in officers any state ."
231,13919_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1918,"slayer of woman lynched at cordele cordele , ga . , may 23- jim cobb , alleged negro slayer of mrs . a . l . sim mons , was taken from crisp county jail by a",mob,at midnight and lynched near here early today . his body was riddled with bullets after being hang ed to tree near the scene of the mordr . a
232,13924_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,"connection with race riots in omaha . omaha , neb . , nov . 19 . - ( p ) -the grand judy which has been probing the recent race riots in this city , in which one negro was lynched and the city jail and courthouse partially furned by",mobs,"and the mayor seriously injured as a result of his stand against the rioters , has returned many indictments implicating a considerable number of people in the riots . it is maintained by the report of the grand jury that the trouble was caus ed by crimes committed by negroes"
233,13925_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1919,". baltimore fire loss may exceed $ 700 , 000 , say authorities . mcadoo makes open bid for organiz ed labor vote . i . w . w . ' s on a hunger strike will be allowed to starve . negro who chased white girl lynched by mississippi",mob,. lo cal supplies for city cancelled because of mexican trouble . negro women dressed in men's clot hes may have murdered reynolds . dr . george h . stubbs died at his ho me in the city last night . sugar should retail at from to 23 cents a
234,13928_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1919,"offer big reward for arrest of lynchers atlanta , ga . , july 27 . - fifteen hundred dollars reward is offered tor arrest and conviction of men- bers of a",mob,"that lynched bery washington , a negro , 72 years old , near milan , may 26 . governor dor sey offered $ 1,000 and dr . floyd mcrae , an atlanta physician , whose family home is in the county in which the old man was hanged to a"
235,13928_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1919,"alleged to have invaded the negro section of milan and threatened occupants of several houses . washington , armed with a shotgun . came out of his home , and shots were exchanged . one of the white men was killed and washington sur- rendered . two nights later a",mob,him from the jail and lynched took him .
236,13929_0.txt,"The Wisconsin weekly blade (Madison, Wis.)",1919,"our citizens of the negro race . for it is no answer to say that if the negro behaves himself he will not be lynched . the summary killing of "" the wrong man is a familiar sequel to the story of a clime in the south . the maddened",mob,"is satisfied as long as it lynches somebody , and that somebody was a negro in 58 of the 62 cases of mob violence reported for the year just ending . fourteen of the victims were ac eused of complicity in murder , accused not by a grand jury after"
237,13929_0.txt,"The Wisconsin weekly blade (Madison, Wis.)",1919,"be lynched . the summary killing of "" the wrong man is a familiar sequel to the story of a clime in the south . the maddened mob is satisfied as long as it lynches somebody , and that somebody was a negro in 58 of the 62 cases of",mob,"violence reported for the year just ending . fourteen of the victims were ac eused of complicity in murder , accused not by a grand jury after careful investigation but by common ru mor . six were alleged to have made threats to kill an offense not punishable by death"
238,13929_0.txt,"The Wisconsin weekly blade (Madison, Wis.)",1919,not by a grand jury after careful investigation but by common ru mor . six were alleged to have made threats to kill an offense not punishable by death even if guilt is proved . as usual the state of georgia held the rec ord for the largest number of,mob,"murders , 18 the 62 . of in the light of these ghastly figures , president wil son's remarkable exhortation to the country to abolish the lynching evil is seen to have been fully justified . as he pointed out at the time , the murders by the mob ,"
239,13929_0.txt,"The Wisconsin weekly blade (Madison, Wis.)",1919,"of mob murders , 18 the 62 . of in the light of these ghastly figures , president wil son's remarkable exhortation to the country to abolish the lynching evil is seen to have been fully justified . as he pointed out at the time , the murders by the",mob,", uncondemned by public sentiment , in certain sections of the country , afford the opportunity to our foes to question the sincerity of our motives as a na tion . those that would reform others must them selves have clean hands . many schemes have been suggested for coping"
240,13930_0.txt,"The broad ax (Salt Lake City,...)",1919,georgia,mob,"lynches negro , burns churches eastman , ga- the charred body of eli cooper , a negro , was found to day in the ashes of a negro church , burned by incendiaries this week . three other negro churches and a negro lodge in this section were burn ed"
241,13932_0.txt,"The Chattanooga news (Chattanooga, Te...)",1919,"taken precautions to guard ainst a fresh outbreak of sunday's oting , which resulted in the lynch ng of a negro , the death of one ite man , injury to many others , eavy damage by fire to the urthouse and an attempt on county the rt of a",mob,to lynch mayor ed rd p . smith . mayor's condition improved . reports today from the hospital where mayor smith is confined as a result of the injuries inflicted by the mob said he was improving . decision was expected to be made today by judges of the county's
242,13932_0.txt,"The Chattanooga news (Chattanooga, Te...)",1919,", eavy damage by fire to the urthouse and an attempt on county the rt of a mob to lynch mayor ed rd p . smith . mayor's condition improved . reports today from the hospital where mayor smith is confined as a result of the injuries inflicted by the",mob,said he was improving . decision was expected to be made today by judges of the county's district court as to whether there shall a special grand jury called to investigate the riot . reports today continued to recount how the attempt to lynch the mayor was made after repeated
243,13932_0.txt,"The Chattanooga news (Chattanooga, Te...)",1919,"special grand jury called to investigate the riot . reports today continued to recount how the attempt to lynch the mayor was made after repeated endeavor on bis part to prevent rioters from se during william brown , negro , who was finally taken from the county jail by the",mob,", shot , burned and hanged . brown was charged with having cecently attacked a 19- year- old white mayor smith about 6 o'clock sun day evening arrived at the court house , where he remained with hee commissioner ringer and chief po"
244,13940_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1919,spartacan,mob,"lynches slayer of premier eisner berlin , april 26 . - count arco valley , who assassinated kurt eis- ner , the bavarian premier , at munich , february 21 , and has since been in a hospital there after an attempted lynching by a mob , was recently dragged"
245,13940_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1919,"spartacan mob lynches slayer of premier eisner berlin , april 26 . - count arco valley , who assassinated kurt eis- ner , the bavarian premier , at munich , february 21 , and has since been in a hospital there after an attempted lynching by a",mob,", was recently dragged from the hospital by a spartacan crowd and killed ac cording to a political agent who reached bamberg from mu . . ich has"
246,13941_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1919,"follows : arlington , vermont , october 24th . my dear senator dillingham : i am writing you as a vermonter much interested in the negro question to beg you to use all your influence for a favorable action on the curtis resolution calling for an investigation of lynching and",mob,"violence . i have no need to say anything to you , of course about the horrible wrongs in- volved in letting lynching go on , as you must know more about that than we do , and must feel quite as deeply as all the rest of the vermonters"
247,13941_1.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1919,"sections who would make it appear that the south alone is the land of lynchings , but they cannot endorse his advocacy of lynching . every time such a leader as the mississippi senator publicly advocates lynching he hurts the south more than it is hurt by its enemies .",mobs,"trample dignity of court . "" the great majority of the people of the south stand for law and order . there are courts of justice , and no matter what crime is charged against a man , whether white or black , he has the constitutional right to be"
248,13941_1.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1919,"the south stand for law and order . there are courts of justice , and no matter what crime is charged against a man , whether white or black , he has the constitutional right to be tried in a court of justice , acocrding to law . when the",mob,"takes the law into its own hands it tramples the dignity of the courts and the majesty of the state can come of feet no good under its . such a course , but irreparable harm . "" senator williams , when he stands in the senate chamber and approves"
249,13941_1.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1919,"subject under discussion . of course , there are those in the south who will endorse his position , minority . the but they are in the great majority of the rank and file of the people and of the leaders in the civic and industrial life of the section",mob,"violence , from whatever deplore cause . they agree with senator wil- liams when he said : "" considering the ultimate welfare of the human family , there can be no justification for the lynching of any person , and the man who preaches it is sowing the wind that"
250,13941_2.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1919,"he national race congress of the united states , in conven representing a assembled , tion constituency in every state , and of the municipality almost every union , views with alarm the increasing lynch- law and",mob,"tendency toward country , as violence throughout the exhibited by the recent outbreaks in the cities of boston , gary , knoxville , washington ; as well as in omaha and south , and calls many parts of the upon all fairminded citizens , especially those in high authority to"
251,13941_2.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1919,"have been lynched for offenses which range from alleged mur der to "" impudence "" and fifty of this 4,000 have geen women and children . this appeal for the suppression of lawlessness is not only for the sake of justice , but for the added reasons that lynching and",mob,"violence cause the desertion of farms and overcrowding of cities , and augment the high cost of living by increasing consumption and moreover , mob production . decreasing rule is an open expression of utter disregard for law and order , which are fundamental elements of all civilization . patiently"
252,13941_2.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1919,". this appeal for the suppression of lawlessness is not only for the sake of justice , but for the added reasons that lynching and mob violence cause the desertion of farms and overcrowding of cities , and augment the high cost of living by increasing consumption and moreover ,",mob,"production . decreasing rule is an open expression of utter disregard for law and order , which are fundamental elements of all civilization . patiently we have submitted to the many acts of injustice heaped upon us by an intolerant element of this coun try and still counselling law and"
253,13943_0.txt,"The Cordova daily times (Cordova, Alaska)",1919,"negroes lynched in alabama montgomery , ala . , sept . 30 ( by associated press ) . - two negroes , one of whom was a discharged soldier , were taken from the county officials by a",mob,of twenty- five masked men last night and shot to death . negroes were charged with assaulting the a white woman .
254,13943_0.txt,"The Cordova daily times (Cordova, Alaska)",1919,"negroes lynched in alabama montgomery , ala . , sept . 30 ( by associated press ) . - two negroes , one of whom was a discharged soldier , were taken from the county officials by a mob of twenty- five",masked,men last night and shot to death . negroes were charged with assaulting the a white woman .
255,13943_0.txt,"The Cordova daily times (Cordova, Alaska)",1919,"negroes lynched in alabama montgomery , ala . , sept . 30 ( by associated press ) . - two negroes , one of whom was a discharged soldier , were taken from the county officials by a mob of twenty- five",masked men,last night and shot to death . negroes were charged with assaulting the a white woman .
256,13946_1.txt,"El Paso herald. (El Paso, Tex.)",1919,"soldiers disarm crowd of negroes omaha ; mayor still improving ; additional in troops arrive in city омана , maha , neb . , sept . 30 . - the condition of mayor ed . p . smith , who was injured here sunday during race rioting when a",mob,"attempted to lynch him , was improving this morning . the mayor is still at the hospital to which he was taken follow- ing the attempted lynching . military forces which have been on the of the city patroling streets duty were augmented today by the arrival of 511 men"
257,13946_1.txt,"El Paso herald. (El Paso, Tex.)",1919,that the action the was taken to obvinte the necessity of departmental commanders referring such requests to the department with consequent danger of the disorders getting out of control before action could be taken . crowd of negroes still improving ; arrive in city tempt on the part of a,mob,"to lynch mayor smith , lynching attempt recounted . reports today continued to recount to how the attempt to lynch the mayor was made after repeated attempts on his part to prevent rioters from se curing william brown , negro , who - was finally taken from the county jail"
258,13946_1.txt,"El Paso herald. (El Paso, Tex.)",1919,"mayor smith , lynching attempt recounted . reports today continued to recount to how the attempt to lynch the mayor was made after repeated attempts on his part to prevent rioters from se curing william brown , negro , who - was finally taken from the county jail by a",mob,"and shot , burned and hanged on the theory he was the 19 man who recently attacked year old agnes lobeck , mayor smith , about 6 oclock sun day evening , arrived at the court house , where he remained with police commissioner ringer and chief of police ebberstein"
259,13946_1.txt,"El Paso herald. (El Paso, Tex.)",1919,"compan- ions remained on the fourth floor after chief eberstein had stationed his , officers on all the floors and in all stairways . rioters were in the streets about the building in quest of brown , the negro and the courthouse had been set afire by members of the",mob,". according to commissioner ringer and chief eberstein , the mayor was firm in his conviction to uphold law and order to the last minute . mayor "" stands by ship . "" "" we were determined to protect our prisoner to the end , "" said eber- stein ."
260,13947_0.txt,"Hickory daily record (Hickory, N.C.)",1920,negro lynched at,mob,"by roxboro by the associated press . roxboro , n . c . . july 7 . - ed roach , negro man about 24 years old , charged a with an attempted attack on moved from the jail here this morn a 13- year- old white girl , was"
261,13947_0.txt,"Hickory daily record (Hickory, N.C.)",1920,"was re miles from two about and taken ing here and lynched . the negro was arrested late yesterday , about eight miles from rox toro , the scene of the alleged attack , according to sheriff thompson . the little girl identified him , the officer said . the",mob,"collected quitly during this the night and about 3 o'clock morning gained possession of roach and hanged him an investigation is being made into the lynchig , but no arrests have been made . everything quiet in roxboro this morning and was there is no danger of trouble ."
262,13954_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1920,"fort worth , tex . . dec . 23 . tom vickery , a white man , charged with the murder of a policeman , was taken the county jail here last night by from a",mob,and hanged .
263,13955_0.txt,"The Pensacola journal. (Pensacola, Fla.)",1920,", their bodies being found hours later . a negro woman said seven or eight armed negroes were in the perry ouse which ultimately was set on ire to dislodge them , the flames preading to other buildings . perry , imself apparently was captured and ater taken by a",mob,and lynched . it vas stated tonight that he was taken rom an automobile in which he was eing carried to the jail after hav- ng been treated at a hospital . ils of his capture were lacking de- .
264,13960_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1921,,mob,"wounded in 1 killed and 50 to get negro women join rush in effort knoxville , tenn . , aug . 20 . one was killed and more than 50 wounded when a mob stormed the jail here last night . the mob was bent on lynching frank martin ,"
265,13960_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1921,"mob wounded in 1 killed and 50 to get negro women join rush in effort knoxville , tenn . , aug . 20 . one was killed and more than 50 wounded when a",mob,"stormed the jail here last night . the mob was bent on lynching frank martin , negro , alleged assail ant of miss jessie park , a young school teacher . the would- be lynch- ers crossed a deadline into the fire of authorities guarding the jail . the crowd"
266,13960_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1921,"mob wounded in 1 killed and 50 to get negro women join rush in effort knoxville , tenn . , aug . 20 . one was killed and more than 50 wounded when a mob stormed the jail here last night . the",mob,"was bent on lynching frank martin , negro , alleged assail ant of miss jessie park , a young school teacher . the would- be lynch- ers crossed a deadline into the fire of authorities guarding the jail . the crowd included many women , some of them with babies"
267,13960_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1921,"women . the attack upon the jail followed a day of watchfulness on the part of jail authorities , police reserves and two machine gun companies . fire from shotguns , handled by deputy sheriffs , and machine guns from the militia swept the street . as members of the",mob,"fell , the fire was returned . excitement was at fever heat today . ."
268,13960_1.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1921,massachusetts,mob,"is menacing jail barnstable , mass , aug . 20 fearing a negro mob would storm his jail to rescue three cape verde negroes held there , sheriff samuel c . rosenthal today asked the commander of camp perkins to rush more troops to the scene . he said he"
269,13960_1.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1921,"massachusetts mob is menacing jail barnstable , mass , aug . 20 fearing a negro",mob,"would storm his jail to rescue three cape verde negroes held there , sheriff samuel c . rosenthal today asked the commander of camp perkins to rush more troops to the scene . he said he had been informed negroes in the "" jungletown "" section of onset , mass"
270,13960_1.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1921,"rush more troops to the scene . he said he had been informed negroes in the "" jungletown "" section of onset , mass . , were planning to re move from prison the three islanders who were arrested , charged with at tacking miss gertrude butler . a white",mob,"has twice menaced jail , threatening to lynch the negroes the ."
271,13963_0.txt,"The public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1921,,mobs,"attack two jails . state troops guarded jails at knox ville , tenn . , and barnstable , mass . , saturday in momentary expectation of attack by mobs intent on lynching or rescuing negro prisoners , held on charges of attacking white girls . at knoxville one man is"
272,13963_0.txt,"The public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1921,"mobs attack two jails . state troops guarded jails at knox ville , tenn . , and barnstable , mass . , saturday in momentary expectation of attack by",mobs,"intent on lynching or rescuing negro prisoners , held on charges of attacking white girls . at knoxville one man is dead and 50 wounded , following an attempt to storm the jail friday night with the intention of lynching frank martin , alleged assailant of miss jessie parks ,"
273,13963_0.txt,"The public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1921,"on charges of attacking white girls . at knoxville one man is dead and 50 wounded , following an attempt to storm the jail friday night with the intention of lynching frank martin , alleged assailant of miss jessie parks , 25 , school teacher . . at barnstable white",mobs,", planning lynching of three negroes charged with an attack on miss gertrude but ler , have been repulsed twice . soldiers have been warned negro rescue parties may attempt to release the prisoners by force . a tax of 100 levas is imposed in bulgaria for use of walking"
274,13964_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1921,dixie,mob,"hangs man who awaits death from law mississippi citizens storm jail to lynch slayer already sentenced to gallows . hattiesburg , miss . . july 23 . - casey jones , a white man recently convicted and sentenced to hang for the murder of mrs . j . s ."
275,13964_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1921,"miss . . july 23 . - casey jones , a white man recently convicted and sentenced to hang for the murder of mrs . j . s . moseley , was taken from the county jail here this and to a tree in the court house yard by a",mob,". ● the mob that lynched jones hed become impatient at delays in the he was to have been man's case . hanged july 13 , but an appeal taken to the supreme court in his behalf stayed his execution . it was not known how long it would take"
276,13964_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1921,"23 . - casey jones , a white man recently convicted and sentenced to hang for the murder of mrs . j . s . moseley , was taken from the county jail here this and to a tree in the court house yard by a mob . ● the",mob,"that lynched jones hed become impatient at delays in the he was to have been man's case . hanged july 13 , but an appeal taken to the supreme court in his behalf stayed his execution . it was not known how long it would take the supreme court to"
277,13964_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1921,"begged for his life . crying and cringing , he was led forth . in some way he got hold of a razor and started slashing . he was hit over the head with a stick and knocked unconscious . according to the story told by jailer mckenzie , the",mob,balted at the jail and demanded the keys . these the jailer refused to surrender . after some parley the door was broken down and five inside doors were broken until the cell in which jones was be ing held was reached . the jail was in a turmoil .
278,13964_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1921,at the jail and demanded the keys . these the jailer refused to surrender . after some parley the door was broken down and five inside doors were broken until the cell in which jones was be ing held was reached . the jail was in a turmoil . the,mob,"quieted the prisoner with a hard blow on the head , carrying him down the stairs and out into the open where he was hanged to a limb of one of the large trees which stands just outside the jail . the jailor said part of the mob kept him"
279,13964_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1921,". the mob quieted the prisoner with a hard blow on the head , carrying him down the stairs and out into the open where he was hanged to a limb of one of the large trees which stands just outside the jail . the jailor said part of the",mob,"kept him , sheriff edmondson and deputy joe ray surrounded while the remainder did its work . the darkness of the night and the masks worn prevented any possible identification . the body was cut down early this morning and taken to the office of coroner j . e ."
280,13964_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1921,"he was hanged to a limb of one of the large trees which stands just outside the jail . the jailor said part of the mob kept him , sheriff edmondson and deputy joe ray surrounded while the remainder did its work . the darkness of the night and the",masks,"worn prevented any possible identification . the body was cut down early this morning and taken to the office of coroner j . e . hulett , where a jury will investigate the lynching late today . not a shot was fired , said mr . mc . kenzie ,"
281,13967_0.txt,"The Pensacola journal. (Pensacola, Fla.)",1922,"head with an iron bar when she screamed on finding him in the act of burglarizing the house of her aunt , miss pearl saunders of winder , ga . , whom she was visiting , was taken from sheriff camp . just out of winder , late today by",mob,", strung up on the limb of a pine a tree and lynched ."
282,13968_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1922,burned one by,mobs,"; by two negroes lynched ( by the associated press ) conroe , texas , may 20 . - joe winters , negro , was burned at the state at the courthouse here this afternoon . thousands of persons , including women and children , witnessed the burning . just"
283,13968_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1922,"clothing , he admitted criminal assault on a 14- year old girl . the burning followed a long chase ( by the associated press ) columbus , texas , may 20 . - mose bozier , 60 , a negro , was hanged at 3 o'clock this afternoon by a",mob,of three hundred near alleyton after being taken forcibly from officers who were hoiding | him on a charge of assault on a white with bloodhounds . early today the whole town closed up . people came from the entire countryside to join in the man hunt . winters was
284,13968_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1922,"on the heap and the fire started . ¡ girl about twelve years old yesterday . bezier , who lived in the brushy com- munity , twelve mailes from columbus , according to officers assaulted the girl about two o'clock yesterday . ile was arrested about o'ciork this morning the",mob,which hanged 9 him was quiet .
285,13972_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1923,georgia,mob,"takes man from officers after at tacks on woman . by the associated press . macon , ga . , august 17 . - lee green , negro , wanted for an attack upon a prominent white woman of wellston , ga . , in houston county , little more"
286,13972_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1923,". the body was swung from a big tree and was rid- dled with bullets . the negro is said to have confessed . one of the officers in charge of the negro phoned police headquarters here from houston county , stating that the negro had been taken by a",mob,". from wellston it was learned over long- distance number of shots were heard in that vicinity and that the negro was re ported there as having been shot death . to then body riddled negro is hanged ,"
287,13974_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1923,more the result of a strange day delusion rather than the vision of an actuality in the offing . but all and sundry persons must admit that startling and unlooked for things are rapidly coming to pass these days . last week it was georgia and now it's oklahoma .,mob,violence and lynching seems to have fallen upon evil days even in the realm of its time tried and fire tested friends and it would not be at all surprising to next hear of texas or florida or the carolina's catching step to the tune of a music somewhat new
288,13974_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1923,florida or the carolina's catching step to the tune of a music somewhat new but necessary . a sheriff in georgia prevented the lynching of a negro at the expense of the life of one of the would- be lynchers . now comes the governor of oklahoma who has found,mob,law so abhorrent during his short tenure of office that he threatens to place the whole state under martial law for the remaining three years of his term unless mob lawlessness ceases at once . the oklahoma mob like all other mobs had reached the place where it found ready
289,13974_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1923,of the life of one of the would- be lynchers . now comes the governor of oklahoma who has found mob law so abhorrent during his short tenure of office that he threatens to place the whole state under martial law for the remaining three years of his term unless,mob,"lawlessness ceases at once . the oklahoma mob like all other mobs had reached the place where it found ready victims in the white race and even descended to the level of whipping children . like its operations against the black brother in years past , and not so long"
290,13974_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1923,be lynchers . now comes the governor of oklahoma who has found mob law so abhorrent during his short tenure of office that he threatens to place the whole state under martial law for the remaining three years of his term unless mob lawlessness ceases at once . the oklahoma,mob,"like all other mobs had reached the place where it found ready victims in the white race and even descended to the level of whipping children . like its operations against the black brother in years past , and not so long ago either , a motive was not always"
291,13974_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1923,comes the governor of oklahoma who has found mob law so abhorrent during his short tenure of office that he threatens to place the whole state under martial law for the remaining three years of his term unless mob lawlessness ceases at once . the oklahoma mob like all other,mobs,"had reached the place where it found ready victims in the white race and even descended to the level of whipping children . like its operations against the black brother in years past , and not so long ago either , a motive was not always needed to start the"
292,13974_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1923,"had reached the place where it found ready victims in the white race and even descended to the level of whipping children . like its operations against the black brother in years past , and not so long ago either , a motive was not always needed to start the",mob,on its way . oklahoma mobs were of the mood that some body had to be whipped just as it has followed its other bent that some body had to be lynched . in overstepping the color line the mistake was fatal . the governor came forth in his majesty
293,13974_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1923,"found ready victims in the white race and even descended to the level of whipping children . like its operations against the black brother in years past , and not so long ago either , a motive was not always needed to start the mob on its way . oklahoma",mobs,were of the mood that some body had to be whipped just as it has followed its other bent that some body had to be lynched . in overstepping the color line the mistake was fatal . the governor came forth in his majesty and power . the whole state
294,13976_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1925,"system , i wonder just how the negroes feel when a man like charles dawes- also an ex- service man- and cautious calvin , tell them about "" the constitution . "" i notice the governo of missouri has offered a reward fo the conviction of any member of the",mob,"that hanged the negro an burned his body after dragging it thru the negro district . of course it is not probable that anyone will claim the reward , and even if they do it will not stop lynching . the law of the south does not pro . tect"
295,13976_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1925,", and even if they do it will not stop lynching . the law of the south does not pro . tect the negro nor punish the whites who practice violence on the negro . i have noticed that all congressmen , as well as the gospel sharks are against",mob,"law . i used to wonder why somebody didn't do something to stop lynching but i don't wonder any more . a little lynching party keeps race hatred stirred up , making much easier for the capitalists to it exploit both races . and the loss of"
296,13977_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1927,"county , ill . , where smith founded the city of nauvoo . dissensions arose and there were various clashes with outsiders . the upshot was that joseph smith and his brother , hyrum , were thrown into carthage jail , where , on june 27 , 1844 , a",mob,"stormed the prison and lynched them . brigham young took smith's place as leader of the mormons . in 1846 he and a hand of 143 followers left nauvoo , moving westward , seeking the promised land . young fell ill and had to be carried . from a mountain"
297,13978_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1928,four negro victims of ruling class $ the lynching of four negro workers by a reactionary white,mob,"in one of the southern states . note the grins on the faces of the cowardly murderers as they observe the culmination of their work of instilling the elementary principles of capitalist democracy into the negro . ( photo by courtesy of "" labor defender . "" ) u.s ."
298,13978_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1928,"communist statement , which sets forth the measures which it declares the workers must fight for in the struggle against lynch ing , is as follows horrible crime : . three negroes have recently been lynched in the most horrible and brutal manner in the state of mississippi . a",mob,"of over 5,000 battered down the jail at brookhaven and dragged out two negroes who had been arrested because they had resisted two white men who had attacked them with following a a gun dispute . the mob tied these men to automobile trucks , dragged them around the town"
299,13978_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1928,"most horrible and brutal manner in the state of mississippi . a mob of over 5,000 battered down the jail at brookhaven and dragged out two negroes who had been arrested because they had resisted two white men who had attacked them with following a a gun dispute . the",mob,"tied these men to automobile trucks , dragged them around the town , and strung them up to an electric light pole within 50 feet of the city hall . while they were yet conscious , these ill- fated blacks were lowered to the ground mutilated , and their remains"
300,13978_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1928,", dragged them around the town , and strung them up to an electric light pole within 50 feet of the city hall . while they were yet conscious , these ill- fated blacks were lowered to the ground mutilated , and their remains again strung up . among the",mob,"were business men , prominent city officials , physicians , lawyers , schoo : heads , and church leaders . at sum mit , another negro was given over by officers to a lynching mob which hanged its victim to a tree along the road . only a few days"
301,13978_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1928,"lowered to the ground mutilated , and their remains again strung up . among the mob were business men , prominent city officials , physicians , lawyers , schoo : heads , and church leaders . at sum mit , another negro was given over by officers to a lynching",mob,"which hanged its victim to a tree along the road . only a few days before , at hous ton , texas , a young negro was lvnched as the democrats assembled for their national convention . hhad exchanged shots with a detective who had been hounding him . he"
302,13978_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1928,"lynchings reveal the true nature of the "" justice , "" "" law and order , "" which the imperialist masters of america impose upon their slaves , the mill ions of black and white workers wh have no right that their capitalist exploiters are bound to respect lynching ,",mob,"violence , burning at the stake , are common and established practices of american capi , talist of negroes , and thousands of white workers , also , have been put to death by this savage terror , lynching is openly defended in congress , in the courts , it"
303,13980_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1930,,mob,"verdict friday marion grand jurors are expected to rule . by united press marion , ind . , oct . 2 . - the long awaited grand jury finding in connection with investigation of the lynching of two negroes aug . 7 . probably will not be made until fri"
304,13981_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1930,". upon which ac the affidavits tions will be based will be filed with the attorney- general for expedition . three witnesses examined were : roy collins , assistant chief of po lice ; sheriff jacob campbell and charles belville , first police officer to reach the jail after the",mob,"had formed . "" we are planning to conduct a thorough examination of all witnesses and then will proceed with our cases , "" hardin said . branded "" shame , disgrace "" chronicle in an edi the marion torial today said the lynching was a shame and disgrace and"
305,13981_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1930,". branded "" shame , disgrace "" chronicle in an edi the marion torial today said the lynching was a shame and disgrace and "" struck at the foundation of society . "" it continues in part : "" when the sheriff and the police rasisted the last thursday night",mob,", they not only were seeking to defend the young culprits from death . a greater and more sacred obligation rested upon them . they were there to defend the good name and honor of their city and state and their nation . men gladly die for this cause ."
306,13981_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1930,". men gladly die for this cause . it is squarely up to the officers of the law to enforce the law against lynching . the lynchers went into the matter with their eyes - they must now face the con open sequence of their act . "" probers seek",mob,"names in negro lynching leaders believed known to investigators in marion hanging case . bu times special marion , ind . . aug . 14 . - investigators of the lynching of two negroes here aug . 7 were today said to be in possession of evidence show ing that"
307,13981_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1930,negroes here aug . 7 were today said to be in possession of evidence show ing that persons almost 100 miles from marion were informed several hours before sundown that lynch ing would occur that night in this city . names of almost all of the alleged participants in the,mob,action also are believed to be in the pos session of the probers . more than a score of witnesses subpenaed to appear before a spe cial court of inquiry being con ducted in the grant county superior court chambers are believed to be giving vital information in signed affidavits
308,13983_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1931,"arraigned friday . funeral services for mrs . johnson will be held sunday at the lutheran church near hallson , with burial in the hallson cemetery . . . sheriff well investigated a report that efforts had been made in the neighborhood where the murder occurred to form a """,mob,""" to lynch the prisoner but on his return here said he found , no indication of such action ."
309,13984_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1937,police thwart,mob,intent on lynching prisoner prisoner is rescued by sheriff frenzied mob urged on by husband of victim only the timely arrival of an additional force of police prevented a lynching within 15 miles of detroit last saturday night . the thwarted attempt was made in taylor township and john s
310,13984_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1937,police thwart mob intent on lynching prisoner prisoner is rescued by sheriff frenzied,mob,urged on by husband of victim only the timely arrival of an additional force of police prevented a lynching within 15 miles of detroit last saturday night . the thwarted attempt was made in taylor township and john s . harris is the name of the intended victim . harris
311,13984_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1937,"the name of the intended victim . harris is held in the coun ty jail on the charge of criminal assault , the attempted lynching occurred county detectives tremon when mcdermott and w . h . roberts took harris to taylor township to have him arraigned on a warrant ,",mob,"of 40 following the arraignment a mob of more than 40 men , led by bryant ralph , husband of the alleged victim of the attack , threatened to take harris from the of- ficers , some of the men in the mob were carrying ropes and others had a"
312,13984_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1937,"harris is held in the coun ty jail on the charge of criminal assault , the attempted lynching occurred county detectives tremon when mcdermott and w . h . roberts took harris to taylor township to have him arraigned on a warrant , mob of 40 following the arraignment a",mob,"of more than 40 men , led by bryant ralph , husband of the alleged victim of the attack , threatened to take harris from the of- ficers , some of the men in the mob were carrying ropes and others had a large can of gasoline . suspecting the"
313,13984_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1937,"have him arraigned on a warrant , mob of 40 following the arraignment a mob of more than 40 men , led by bryant ralph , husband of the alleged victim of the attack , threatened to take harris from the of- ficers , some of the men in the",mob,"were carrying ropes and others had a large can of gasoline . suspecting the intention of the men , one of the officers telephoned for help , and four officers were sent down to taylor township . as the officers left the court toom following the arraignment ralph urged the"
314,13984_1.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1937,", at their weekly meeting at noon tuesday , at ebenezer a . m . e . church , brush and willis streets , protested against the editorial comments published in recent issues of the detroit free press and detroit times . in reference to the frustrated attempt of a",mob,"to lynch a negro in michigan last sunday . the secretary of the alll ance . rev . william b . baber . pastor of st . john a . m . church . river rouge , announces that formal protest will be matle by the ministers , to the"
315,13984_1.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1937,"pastor of st . john a . m . church . river rouge , announces that formal protest will be matle by the ministers , to the two daily papers mentioned . the free press editorial , which in the opinion of the alliance covertly condones the action of the",mob,", is reprinted on editorial page of this issue the ."
316,13989_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1947,by the federal government would halt this blatant disregard of human life . if the law enforcement officers in charge of a pris oner knew that they would be held responsible for his life and would suffer the consequences if they permitted him to fall into the hands of a,mob,", much more care would be exercised . if the lynchers knew that they would be prosecuted by the federal government and possibly be hanged if caught , they wouldn't be so quick to risk their red necks . the federal government stepped in and took a hand when bank"
317,13995_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1906,"bloodshed in that general community since sunday afternoon , when conductor cooper had his fight with negroes on the train near wahalak . it is said that the woods around wa halak are filled with the dead bodies of negroes , who have been lynched and shot down by the",mob,"that was looking for george simpson , one of the negroes that assaulted conductor cooper and the one who killed officer john o'brien sunday afternoon . information is difficult to obtain , owing to the excited condition of the public mind at scooba , but these additional facts have been"
318,13996_0.txt,"The Spanish Fork press (Spanish Fork, U...)",1906,maryland,mob,"lynches fiend . annapolis , md.- henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reed , of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning"
319,13996_0.txt,"The Spanish Fork press (Spanish Fork, U...)",1906,". annapolis , md.- henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reed , of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning by a",mob,"of about sixty masked men and lynched . he was strung up and his body riddled with bullets . the personnel of the mob is not known , but reliable wit illnesses to the occurrence state that those who composed it were young all men in appearance ."
320,13996_0.txt,"The Spanish Fork press (Spanish Fork, U...)",1906,"henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reed , of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning by a mob of about sixty",masked,"men and lynched . he was strung up and his body riddled with bullets . the personnel of the mob is not known , but reliable wit illnesses to the occurrence state that those who composed it were young all men in appearance ."
321,13996_0.txt,"The Spanish Fork press (Spanish Fork, U...)",1906,"henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reed , of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning by a mob of about sixty",masked men,"and lynched . he was strung up and his body riddled with bullets . the personnel of the mob is not known , but reliable wit illnesses to the occurrence state that those who composed it were young all men in appearance ."
322,13996_0.txt,"The Spanish Fork press (Spanish Fork, U...)",1906,"of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning by a mob of about sixty masked men and lynched . he was strung up and his body riddled with bullets . the personnel of the",mob,"is not known , but reliable wit illnesses to the occurrence state that those who composed it were young all men in appearance ."
323,13997_0.txt,"The Idaho Republican (Blackfoot, Idah...)",1906,maryland,mob,"lynches fiend . . annapolis , md.- henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reed , of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday"
324,13997_0.txt,"The Idaho Republican (Blackfoot, Idah...)",1906,". annapolis , md.- henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reed , of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning by a",mob,"of about sixty masked men and lynched . he was strung up and his body riddled with bullets . the personnel of the mob is not known , but reliable witnesses to the occurrence state that all those who composed it were men in appearance young"
325,13997_0.txt,"The Idaho Republican (Blackfoot, Idah...)",1906,"henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reed , of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning by a mob of about sixty",masked,"men and lynched . he was strung up and his body riddled with bullets . the personnel of the mob is not known , but reliable witnesses to the occurrence state that all those who composed it were men in appearance young"
326,13997_0.txt,"The Idaho Republican (Blackfoot, Idah...)",1906,"henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reed , of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning by a mob of about sixty",masked men,"and lynched . he was strung up and his body riddled with bullets . the personnel of the mob is not known , but reliable witnesses to the occurrence state that all those who composed it were men in appearance young"
327,13997_0.txt,"The Idaho Republican (Blackfoot, Idah...)",1906,"of brownsville , five miles from annapolis , and who had con fessed his crime , was taken from the jail here friday morning by a mob of about sixty masked men and lynched . he was strung up and his body riddled with bullets . the personnel of the",mob,"is not known , but reliable witnesses to the occurrence state that all those who composed it were men in appearance young"
328,14000_0.txt,"The Kendrick gazette (Kendrick, Idaho)",1906,"confessed negro lynched . henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reid of browns ville , five miles from annapolis , md . , and who had confessed his crime , was taken from the jail by a",mob,"of about , 60 masked men and lynched . he was hanged and his body riddled with lets . bul"
329,14000_0.txt,"The Kendrick gazette (Kendrick, Idaho)",1906,"henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reid of browns ville , five miles from annapolis , md . , and who had confessed his crime , was taken from the jail by a mob of about , 60",masked,men and lynched . he was hanged and his body riddled with lets . bul
330,14000_0.txt,"The Kendrick gazette (Kendrick, Idaho)",1906,"henry davis , alias henry chambers , colored , who committed a felonious assault on mrs . john reid of browns ville , five miles from annapolis , md . , and who had confessed his crime , was taken from the jail by a mob of about , 60",masked men,and lynched . he was hanged and his body riddled with lets . bul
331,14002_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1906,enough of lawlessness . two wrongs do not make one right nor does the violation of the law committed in the murder of conductor flury justify another violation of the law in,mob,"vengeance on his assailants . it is to be hoped that despite all provocation , the talk of lynching and mob violence , which has been prevalent in this community for several days and culminated with the news of flury's death , will be forthwith abandoned for the determination that"
332,14002_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1906,". two wrongs do not make one right nor does the violation of the law committed in the murder of conductor flury justify another violation of the law in mob vengeance on his assailants . it is to be hoped that despite all provocation , the talk of lynching and",mob,"violence , which has been prevalent in this community for several days and culminated with the news of flury's death , will be forthwith abandoned for the determination that the law shall have its regular course in dealing with the criminals . the immediate restoration of orderly conditions is absolutely"
333,14003_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1906,lynchers get negro annapolis,mob,"hangs and riddles harry davis . confesses before he dies determined men gather at st . john's college , batter the jail , and carry off mrs . reid's assailant within two blocks of governor's home . threatened with prosecutions , annapolis , md . , dec . 21 ."
334,14003_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1906,"butt of an old whipping post , but failed . next they went to a near- by blacksmith shop and got a sledge ham- mer and a pick , and a hole large enough to admit a man was knocked in a panel of the door and six of the",mob,"of sixty were passed inside . they covered war den george taylor , deputies crouse and smallwood , and watchman marcellus with revolvers , and demanded the keys to the cells . smallwood said : "" boys , please , let the law take its course . "" the reply"
335,14003_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1906,"in sight . several heads stuck out of windows , but quickly withdrew at the sight of the revolvers . all was silent save the shuffling of sixty men's feet along the pavement . the governor's mansion was but 500 yards distant . on the outskirts of the city the",mob,"began beating and mauling the negro . the fusillade of fifty shots was fired , and a trail of blood marked the route to a big chestnut tree on a hillside sloping down to a creek . the noose was placed about davis ' neck and swung over a limb"
336,14003_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1906,"shots was fired , and a trail of blood marked the route to a big chestnut tree on a hillside sloping down to a creek . the noose was placed about davis ' neck and swung over a limb ten inches thick . davis again confessed , and as the",mob,"grabbed the rope and jerked the negro's head up to the limb , fifteen or twenty more shots rang out . he was shot through the heart and in the head , at daylight his body was found stretch- ed on the grass , full of wounds and swollen with"
337,14003_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1906,", is busy explaining that no students took part in the lynching . state not ready for trial . state's attorney n . h . green , who conducted the inquest , says he will do all in his power to identify and locate the leaders or members of the",mob,", and that those so located would be prosecuted to the full extent of the law . asked why steps had not been taken to secure a speedy trial of the negro , mr . green replied that he , as state's attorney , had not felt that he could"
338,14003_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1906,the man then and there . sheriff did not believe talk . sheriff linth im's explanation of the apparent lack of preparedness for an attack of the jail is that he did not expect the talk of lynch law to amount to anything . there had been considerable talk of,mob,"violence on sunday and monday , and on these two nights the sheriff made his home at the jail , being locked in the same tier of cells with his prisoner . the next regular term of the circuit court for the county is april , and state's attorney green"
339,14003_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1906,"of cells with his prisoner . the next regular term of the circuit court for the county is april , and state's attorney green and sheriff linthicum this morning seemed to expect no developments which would warrant an earlier session of either court or jury . the victim of the",mob's,"fury was a well but not favorably known character in annapolis , where he had lived for some years . he had served one or two terms in the house of correction for minor offenses , and was recently accused by a negro woman from camp parole of at- tempting"
340,14004_0.txt,"Iron County register (Ironton, Iron C...)",1906,"every member a murderer . little rock , ark.- judge r . j . lea , of the pulaski county circuit court , told the grand jury that every member of the",mob,"who lynched the negro in argenta was a murderer , and should be punished . ."
341,14005_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1906,the negro was saved by mother begged that her . child's le not lynched . ravisher her husband insists mr . roberts finally yields to fleadings of his wife and the the confessed wreteh .,mob,"did mot barn self chicago , jan . 30 . - following a criminal assault on a ten- year- old white girl by a negro , who was captured by a mob , the assallant's fate was in doubt while the parents of the girl were pleading for and against"
342,14005_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1906,"husband insists mr . roberts finally yields to fleadings of his wife and the the confessed wreteh . mob did mot barn self chicago , jan . 30 . - following a criminal assault on a ten- year- old white girl by a negro , who was captured by a",mob,", the assallant's fate was in doubt while the parents of the girl were pleading for and against burning him at the stake , says a dispatch to the tribune from washington , ga . mrs . roberts , weeping , begged the law be allowed to take its course"
343,14005_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1906,"parents of the girl were pleading for and against burning him at the stake , says a dispatch to the tribune from washington , ga . mrs . roberts , weeping , begged the law be allowed to take its course that . and her husband continued to incite the",mob,"to lynch the negro . she then appealed to her husband to aid her preventing the lynching . she said that hearing of her girl would be almost as to put the assailant to death within cruel to the child as the negro's act . roberts , after some hesitation"
344,14005_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1906,"that hearing of her girl would be almost as to put the assailant to death within cruel to the child as the negro's act . roberts , after some hesitation , came to his wife's side and joined his en treaties with her's . their united ef forts convinced the",mob,"that to lynch the negro would add to the wrong al ready done the child , and it was agreed to turn the assailant over to the sher iff . mamfe roberts was attacked saturday as she was returning from a neighbor's home by rich anderson , a negro ."
345,14005_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1906,". employed her father . as soon as the child reachèd by home with the story began pursuit bloodhounds posses with of anderson swamp and taken to roberts ' home , the negro was captured sunday in a where hin . it was have planned to ed . when the",mob,arrived at the rob identified by the child and then lynch guilt . erts home the negro confessed his
346,14007_0.txt,"The La Jara chronicle. (La Jara, Conejo...)",1906,"the jury in the case of doss gal- braith , the alleged leader of the springfield , mo . ,",mob,"which hanged three negroes last april , failed to on a verdict and were discharged agree ."
347,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,battle . the ing of mobile is shot dur,mob,"after a negro special officer of the mobile and ohio railroad killed in fight at jail . alderman is wounded an chairman of the city council council of mobile , was slightly wound ed in the hand during a fight at the county jail between deputy sheriffs and a crowd"
348,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,"in fight at jail . alderman is wounded an chairman of the city council council of mobile , was slightly wound ed in the hand during a fight at the county jail between deputy sheriffs and a crowd of men who were determined to capture dick robinson , a the",mob,"is still hunt young negro . ing the negro and threatens to lynch him if captured . the negro , who is only seventeen years of age , attacked ruth , the twelve- year- old daughter of blount sassaman . the girl was pass ing a secluded spot not far"
349,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,"was taken to her home . detectives were placed on the track of the negro and within three hours he was captured . he was taken before the girl , who at once identified him . deputy sheriff fatch , knowing that the negro's life would be taken by a",mob,"if he brought him into this city , caused him to be conveyed to a sta tion severai miles up the mobile and ohio railroad . he was not taken to the jail at all , and was at least eight miles from the city when the mob which determined"
350,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,"by a mob if he brought him into this city , caused him to be conveyed to a sta tion severai miles up the mobile and ohio railroad . he was not taken to the jail at all , and was at least eight miles from the city when the",mob,"which determined to lynch him , approached the building . there have been several assaults upon white wo men within the past few weeks and of this latest outrage the news caused intense excitement . early in the evening crowds gathered in the streets . he crowd was down- town"
351,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,down- town harangued by several speakers who urged them to take the life of the ne gro if he could be found and in a short time the entire crowd was on the march for the jail . smashed the jail door . powers met the leaders of the sheriff,mob,"and informed them that the lyons sidney , chairman of the city mobile , ala . , oct . 3 . - roy hoyle , a special officer of the mobile and ohio railroad , and one of the most widely known and best liked men in this vicinity ,"
352,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,"the mobile and ohio railroad , where he was to be placed upon the train and carried still further . as soon as this was known , 300 men boarded a passenger train with the expressed intention of lynching the negro if they later re- could get him . the",mob,", turned to this city , being unable to the negro . find roy hoyle died at 1 : 30 a . m . man they were seeking was not in the jail and never had been brought there he offered to let anybody whom he personally knew pass through"
353,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,"the jail and never had been brought there he offered to let anybody whom he personally knew pass through the jaii to satisfy the crowd of the truth of his statement . about forty men walked through the corridors , some of them returning and assuring the members of the",mob,"that the man was not there . while several men , including hoyle and lyons , were still in the jail , a portion of the crowd seized a telephone pole that had been blown down in the recent storm and smashed in the jail door and almost instantly a"
354,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,a portion of the crowd seized a telephone pole that had been blown down in the recent storm and smashed in the jail door and almost instantly a shot came from a revolver in the hands of a man standing in the gate . at once the members of the,mob,"commenced a fusillade . not more than a dozen men took part in the fir ing and as the shots rang out there was a stampede on the part of the crowd for shelter . the mob was widely scattered and in a few seconds alderman i yons , who"
355,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,a man standing in the gate . at once the members of the mob commenced a fusillade . not more than a dozen men took part in the fir ing and as the shots rang out there was a stampede on the part of the crowd for shelter . the,mob,"was widely scattered and in a few seconds alderman i yons , who had been on the inside of the jail , came out and , hold ing up his hand , from which the blood was streaming , announced that he had been shot and that hoyle had received"
356,14011_0.txt,"The Havre herald (Havre, Mont.)",1906,", announced that he had been shot and that hoyle had received a bullet through the left lung . the fact that hoyle had been shot while looking through the jail in order to as . certain if the negro was there , took all the fight out of the",mob,and for most part it dispersed quietly . the the crowd later received informa
357,14013_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1906,prominent men indicted . twenty- three indictments against al . leged members of springfield,mob,". springfield , mo . , may 23 . - twenty three indictments charging man slaughters against as many alleged members of the mob which hanged and burned three negroes , fred co ker , horace duncan and will allen , here on the night of april 14 , were"
358,14013_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1906,"prominent men indicted . twenty- three indictments against al . leged members of springfield mob . springfield , mo . , may 23 . - twenty three indictments charging man slaughters against as many alleged members of the",mob,"which hanged and burned three negroes , fred co ker , horace duncan and will allen , here on the night of april 14 , were re tured by the grand jury today . the names of the accused men have not been divulged but many persons prominent in business"
359,14013_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1906,", horace duncan and will allen , here on the night of april 14 , were re tured by the grand jury today . the names of the accused men have not been divulged but many persons prominent in business and social circles are known to have been in the",mob,. unrelenting efforts to gather evidence have been made . prosecutor pa ' . terson declares that any persons indicted by the grand jury will be ecuted to the limit . pros
360,14014_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1906,,mob,"lynches negro . tennessee citizens are angered by stay of execution granted by supreme court . chattanooga , tenn . , march 21 . - ed johnson , colored , was taken from jail by a mob of seventy- five men and hanged to a beam of the county bridge"
361,14014_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1906,"mob lynches negro . tennessee citizens are angered by stay of execution granted by supreme court . chattanooga , tenn . , march 21 . - ed johnson , colored , was taken from jail by a",mob,of seventy- five men and hanged to a beam of the county bridge over the tennessee river . the rope broke and the negro's body fell and the mob quickly riddled him with bul lets . sheriff shipp and the jailer were locked in a bathroom when the mob se
362,14014_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1906,". chattanooga , tenn . , march 21 . - ed johnson , colored , was taken from jail by a mob of seventy- five men and hanged to a beam of the county bridge over the tennessee river . the rope broke and the negro's body fell and the",mob,"quickly riddled him with bul lets . sheriff shipp and the jailer were locked in a bathroom when the mob se cured the prisoner . there was no dis order . the negro was to have been hanged today , but the united states supreme court yesterday granted a stay"
363,14014_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1906,a mob of seventy- five men and hanged to a beam of the county bridge over the tennessee river . the rope broke and the negro's body fell and the mob quickly riddled him with bul lets . sheriff shipp and the jailer were locked in a bathroom when the,mob,"se cured the prisoner . there was no dis order . the negro was to have been hanged today , but the united states supreme court yesterday granted a stay of execution and this action angered the citizens of the city . early in the evening the mob began to"
364,14014_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1906,"when the mob se cured the prisoner . there was no dis order . the negro was to have been hanged today , but the united states supreme court yesterday granted a stay of execution and this action angered the citizens of the city . early in the evening the",mob,began to form and it was all done so quietly that only those in the immediate vicinity of the jail knew when they were ready for action . seventy- five of the better class of citizens assembled at the jail and at once gained admission . overpowering the sheriff and
365,14014_0.txt,"The frontier. (O'Neill City, H...)",1906,"action . seventy- five of the better class of citizens assembled at the jail and at once gained admission . overpowering the sheriff and his deputies they secured the prisoner and quietly led him to the bridge , where the hanging was carried out in the orderly manner , the",mob,immedi most ately dispersing .
366,14015_0.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1903,are the governor has ordered sol- non diers to maysville to protect three ers aegroes accused of murdering a to white man . the murderers are having some trouble keeping out of the hands of,mob,anxious to lynch is them . a the
367,14016_0.txt,"The Madison daily leader (Madison, S.D.)",1903,lynchers . of led,mob,"samuel mitchell sentenced to serve ten years . carthage , mo . , june 5 . - samuel mitchell ( white ) , who led the mob that lynched thomas gilyard , a negro , at joplin recently , has been sentenced to ten years ' imprisonment in the penitentiary"
368,14016_0.txt,"The Madison daily leader (Madison, S.D.)",1903,"lynchers . of led mob samuel mitchell sentenced to serve ten years . carthage , mo . , june 5 . - samuel mitchell ( white ) , who led the",mob,"that lynched thomas gilyard , a negro , at joplin recently , has been sentenced to ten years ' imprisonment in the penitentiary . gilyard had killed a policeman who was trying to arrest him . mitchell was charged with climbing the telegraph pole and adjusting the rope with which"
369,14017_0.txt,"The Billings gazette (Billings, Mont.)",1903,wearied by laws delay,mob,"hangs double murderer at newcastle . head is torn from rody owing to great depth of fall given victim hanging results in decapitation . news has been received of a lynching at newcastle , wyo . , last tuesday night . the mob is claimed to have been composed cf"
370,14017_0.txt,"The Billings gazette (Billings, Mont.)",1903,"wearied by laws delay mob hangs double murderer at newcastle . head is torn from rody owing to great depth of fall given victim hanging results in decapitation . news has been received of a lynching at newcastle , wyo . , last tuesday night . the",mob,"is claimed to have been composed cf ranchers from gillette and vicinity and the victim of its vengeance was w . c . clifton , who according to his own confession , was a double murderer . clifton was awaiting trial for the killing of john w . church and"
371,14017_0.txt,"The Billings gazette (Billings, Mont.)",1903,the cattle business together in wyoming and he took up a home stead adjoining that of clifton . the supposition is that clifton committed the murder in order to possess him self of the property owned by the churches . head torn from body . about 50 men composed the,mob,that did the lynching . it was well organized and worked with expedition . the sheriff and nis deputies were overcome and bound and then placed in one of the cells of the jail . clif ton was taken out and a gag put in his mouth to stifle his
372,14017_0.txt,"The Billings gazette (Billings, Mont.)",1903,"ing this most coldblooded murderer who took the lives of our friends and neighbors , and we took it upon ourselves to revenge it in behalf of the parents . hoping that the action on our part will meet with the appro val of the community at large , we",mob,". "" remain , the"
373,14018_0.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1903,"an industrious washington county farmer , was criminally assaulted late yesterday afternoon by adam jackson , a charlotte , n . c . , the woman was in a field and negro . jackson knocked her down , dragged her to a wood thicket and accomplished his purpose . a",mob,"pursued and caught him and had strung him up when a deputy sheriff and posse arrived . the negro was taken down in response to appeals of the posse . he confessed his crime , was bound to and is now in jail at jonesboro . mrs . court poore"
374,14020_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"negro criminally saults a tennessee woman . jonson city , tenn . , june 11 . - mrs . isaac poore , wife of washington a county farmer , was criminally assault ed late yesterday afternoon by adams jackson , a charlotte , n . c . , negro .",mob,pursued and caught him and had strung him up when a deputy sheriff arrived . the was and posse negro taken down in response to appeals of the posse . he confessed to his crime . was bound over to court and is now in jail at jonesboro . mrs
375,14021_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"florida lynching . lake butler , fla . , july 18 . - a negro tramp named adams , who assaulted a negro woman near this place a day or so ago , was captured last night by a",mob,of negroes and lynched in santa cut into swamp . his body was fe shreds by the mob and severely disfigured the lynching was carried out by negroes . entirely .
376,14021_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,". , july 18 . - a negro tramp named adams , who assaulted a negro woman near this place a day or so ago , was captured last night by a mob of negroes and lynched in santa cut into swamp . his body was fe shreds by the",mob,and severely disfigured the lynching was carried out by negroes . entirely .
377,14022_0.txt,"Tarboro' press (Tarborough, (Ed...))",1851,,mob,"in columbus , geo . -- a tele- from columbus , geo . despatch , graphic ( says the goldsboro ' patriot ) states : that a mob occurred in that place on the 12th instant . a negro man named jarrett , convicted by two successive juries of the"
378,14022_0.txt,"Tarboro' press (Tarborough, (Ed...))",1851,"mob in columbus , geo . -- a tele- from columbus , geo . despatch , graphic ( says the goldsboro ' patriot ) states : that a",mob,"occurred in that place on the 12th instant . a negro man named jarrett , convicted by two successive juries of the nefarious crime of committing a rape upon a little girl of ten years old , had been sentenced to be hung on friday , when , to the"
379,14022_0.txt,"Tarboro' press (Tarborough, (Ed...))",1851,"a rape upon a little girl of ten years old , had been sentenced to be hung on friday , when , to the surprise of every one , he was pardoned by gov towns ; great indignation was excited among the populace , and at 5 o'clock , a",mob,"of five hundred persons proceeded to the jail and demanded the keys . the sheriff refused to give them up when the doors were broken open and the negro brought out and hung to a , pine tree back of the jail ."
380,14024_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1904,"cope with any situation that might develop . george w . blount was a negro politician and the proprietor of a fish and oyster shop in the sububrbs of berk ley . he was taken early yesterday morning from the police station , where he was confined , by a",mob,"of 50 mask- ed men and lynched . blount had been arrested saturday night for striking t . d . holloman , a berkley policeman in the face with a lighted lamp . ,"
381,14024_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1904,"situation that might develop . george w . blount was a negro politician and the proprietor of a fish and oyster shop in the sububrbs of berk ley . he was taken early yesterday morning from the police station , where he was confined , by a mob of 50",mask-,"ed men and lynched . blount had been arrested saturday night for striking t . d . holloman , a berkley policeman in the face with a lighted lamp . ,"
382,14025_0.txt,"Reporter and farmer (Webster, Day Co...)",1904,". 23 . - jim glover , a negro , was shot to death monday night near the home of the white girl he had assaulted and his body dragged a distance of about a mile into this city and burned at the stake on the courthouse square . a",mob,estimated at 500 composed the shooting and ing party . burn
383,14026_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1894,two negroes were lynched by a,mob,"near lake cirmorant , a mall town in mississippi . they were fugitives frora arkansas , and were overtaken by the mob , who strung them up . their names not known . are"
384,14026_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1894,"two negroes were lynched by a mob near lake cirmorant , a mall town in mississippi . they were fugitives frora arkansas , and were overtaken by the",mob,", who strung them up . their names not known . are"
385,14028_1.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1894,"miscellaneous : robert smith , the negro who caused the riot at roanoke , va . , on the 20th , banged by a",mob,. the twenty- fourth annual reunion of the army of cumber land opened at cleveland . the
386,14030_0.txt,"St. Landry democrat. (Opelousas, La.)",1881,"at bay st . louis , miss . , a negro wife murderer was forcibly taken from jail by",mob,of colored men and hanged . a
387,14040_0.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1867,"may or , s . b.thomas , judge keating , judge grant , mayor webber , the late mayor , e . b . hanna , and many other citizens , did what could be done by them to prevent it , but were overpowered and carried away by the",mob,"bodily . the sheriff left the jail about noon without leaving any guard , and went into the country to serve . some papers . the crowd took tibbetts in a wagon across the river bridge , put a rope around his neck , fastened it over 1 tree ,"
388,14040_0.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1867,": "" are you satisfied to hang him ? "" the crowd shouted "" no , "" but those in the wagon drove suddenly away , and left him dangling in the air . efforts were made to cut him down , but all such were in vain , the",mob,"kept all away until he was dead . great excitement prevailed . some of the most influential and prominent men in the south part of the county are leaders in it . it was difficult to get the exact language used by tibbetts , on account of the great excite"
389,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"liko hitching- bars around the court- llouse , they sur rounded judge chisolm's house and insisted that the sheriff should take the prisoners to the jail . this was done , and a guard of six mon , selected by the sherl , was placed over them . then the",mob,"hung two of chleolm's negro servants up to trees with bridlo- roins , and tried to make them confess that they had heard something to implicate the judge in the murder ; but the poor fellows know nothing , and were dnally allowed to run the woods . to at"
390,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"chlsolin went to jall all the mem bers of his family , -his wife , a daughter 18 years old , a son of 10 , and two younger buys , -knowing that ble life was in danger , and hoping that their prosence might soften the hearts of the",mob,", went with him . after they were locked in , the daughter cornelia found that the guns of the six guards wure not loaded , and that they had no ammunition . under protense of going to procure food for the failly the courageous girl left the jail ,"
391,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"through the crowd of ungry men , and re turned home , whoro who hastily secreted a powder- flask , a bag of shot , and somo nowa . japers for wadding under her dress . then taking komo brand and nicat she went back to the jail . the",mob,". leaving the stores and saloon , now began to press around the building and clamor for chisula's life . among the guards thero . was but onu itepublican , a cool , courageous scotch man , namel michollund , who was a personal friend of chisolm . this man"
392,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"the building and clamor for chisula's life . among the guards thero . was but onu itepublican , a cool , courageous scotch man , namel michollund , who was a personal friend of chisolm . this man stationed himself at the door of the jall , and told the",mob,"that if they kill ed the prisonura two of them should dig for every ilfo they took , while expostulating with the mob and threatening them , he fell , , biot by five pistol balls threo of the remaining guards now doverted their post , and , leaving their"
393,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"man , namel michollund , who was a personal friend of chisolm . this man stationed himself at the door of the jall , and told the mob that if they kill ed the prisonura two of them should dig for every ilfo they took , while expostulating with the",mob,"and threatening them , he fell , , biot by five pistol balls threo of the remaining guards now doverted their post , and , leaving their guns and taking with them the two hoppers , they went out of the jall . thero seoms to have been little personal"
394,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"now doverted their post , and , leaving their guns and taking with them the two hoppers , they went out of the jall . thero seoms to have been little personal animoalty against the lloppers , and they mingled with the crowd and got away unbarmed . the furlous",mob,"alled the lower hall of the jail , and broko open a door at the foot of a stairway leading to the floor above where the prisoners werd coudned . at the top of the statra there was an . other door with a grating in it . the lock"
395,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"top of the statra there was an . other door with a grating in it . the lock was broken off with axen . willa tho blows were falling upon it , cornelia implorod the two romaining guards , overstreet and wall , to dro through the grating upon the",mob,"pressing upon the stairs . but they refused . she then carried the gun tuft by the other guards to hor father . after the lock yielded , the two guards tried to hold the door , and the second son of the judge , , a boy of 18"
396,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"the gun tuft by the other guards to hor father . after the lock yielded , the two guards tried to hold the door , and the second son of the judge , , a boy of 18 , in alding thum , was shot in the wrist . the",mob,"pushue hu guards asido . and the mon in advance gained the upper landing , tred , and killed the poor wounded boy , who was clinging to his father . first in the brutal crowd came david itoneer , a planter and practicing physician . he was instantly killed"
397,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"the upper landing , tred , and killed the poor wounded boy , who was clinging to his father . first in the brutal crowd came david itoneer , a planter and practicing physician . he was instantly killed by the judge . as soon as ho fell , the",mob,", cowardly as all mobs are , rushed out of the building . there was a full for a few minutos ; then the crowd outalde began to yell , firo the jail ; burn them out ! "" after wards they shouted , the jall is un arol """
398,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,", and killed the poor wounded boy , who was clinging to his father . first in the brutal crowd came david itoneer , a planter and practicing physician . he was instantly killed by the judge . as soon as ho fell , the mob , cowardly as all",mobs,"are , rushed out of the building . there was a full for a few minutos ; then the crowd outalde began to yell , firo the jail ; burn them out ! "" after wards they shouted , the jall is un arol "" it was a stratagem worthy"
399,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"but cornelia thrust it aside . a volley of shots was fred against the door . the judge push ed it open , and got into the hall . mrs . chisolm drud both barrels of a shotgun and wounded one of the assailuuts in the face . the murderous",mob,closed in around their victimn . ils daughter clung to ble neck with ous band and with the other thrust away the guns aimed at him . her hand was shattered by a ball dve shots atruck ono of her legs . judge chisolm and fell wounded in eleven places
400,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,around their victimn . ils daughter clung to ble neck with ous band and with the other thrust away the guns aimed at him . her hand was shattered by a ball dve shots atruck ono of her legs . judge chisolm and fell wounded in eleven places . the,mob,", bellovlug , they had accomplished their purpose , lett the jall . the wife and son of the judge , aided by a clli zeu who , for a wonder , showed a spark of hu nuanity , carried the wounded man to fite home , a fow hundred"
401,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,"an unpri cipled man -- a gambler and something of a desparallu . mclellan was an industrious , respectable citizen . from the careful inquiries mala by gov . stone , it appears that the brothers , sons , ani nephewe of the murdered gully wure the ringluaders of the",mob,". in my conversations with the county ollcers and others of the principal citizens of the place , i have been shocked to them all meio desiroda of excusing or palliating tad the horrible crimen of the mob than to exhibit sympathy for the victims . from not a single"
402,14045_1.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1877,", ani nephewe of the murdered gully wure the ringluaders of the mob . in my conversations with the county ollcers and others of the principal citizens of the place , i have been shocked to them all meio desiroda of excusing or palliating tad the horrible crimen of the",mob,"than to exhibit sympathy for the victims . from not a single man have i heart expressed an intention to aid in bringing the murders to justice , or even the hope that they will be arrested . a por tion of the community . the perpe entirely sympathizes with"
403,14046_0.txt,"The daily gazette (Wilmington, Del...)",1879,"marcellus floyd , colored , charged with attempting to feloniously assault a white girl , was taken from the jail at richmond , tenn . , yesterday morning by an armed",mob,"and lynched . ,"
404,14047_2.txt,Wessington Springs herald. (Wessington Spri...),1885,a,mob,"of 150 men broke into the jail at minden , la . , other night and shot dead two colored men the held for murder ."
405,14047_3.txt,Wessington Springs herald. (Wessington Spri...),1885,"david scruggs ( colored ) , residing near redfield , ark . , who was charged with assaulting his own daughter , was seized on 24th by a colored",mob,and cut to pieces the with knives and razors .
406,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"the officers , especially the judges and sheriffs within whose jurisdiction lynchings occur . he will accordingly make in his next message to the legislature strong recommendations for passage of a law hold district ing accountable any judge or attorney who through neglest , incota petence or sympathy with the",mob,atlows a prisoner to be taken from the officers of the law and lynched as a rule recent lynchings have occurred because judges and sheriff's hesitate to call for assistance until too late for fear of offending the mob . all the lynchings have been due to this delay and
407,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"attorney who through neglest , incota petence or sympathy with the mob atlows a prisoner to be taken from the officers of the law and lynched as a rule recent lynchings have occurred because judges and sheriff's hesitate to call for assistance until too late for fear of offending the",mob,. all the lynchings have been due to this delay and the governor proposes to put an end to it by maks he does not inteni that sherifts shall do as was done recently in waller county . where dependence was placed on the vague and indeluite promler of the
408,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"where dependence was placed on the vague and indeluite promler of the citizens to support the law , "" a promise which was not u at the last minute and when it was hept . any good for impossible to accomplish the prisoners were then in the hands of the",mob,"a rush telegraphie order was sent to austin for the militia joot were aroused by the recent hempstead fairs , while the pris nacoglochs a and oner was legally hanged at nacogdoehtos the manner in which the execution occurred only brougit discredit on the law . at hemstead the lyneling"
409,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"the governor to stop toob done all in his power , under the taw , to pr teet prisoners . militia and state bangers was advised that it was sy to do so . in one case his orders were disobeyed and the prisoner was practically handed over to the",mob,"by the officers . investigation made by the attorney . an ( general's office shows that there is no excuse for these lynchings on the ground that murderers or other criminals escape through the law . during the year , twenty three prisoners have been tried for capita ! offences"
410,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,he has dis- sippi than gov . longino . cussed it in every message to the legislature . he himself has gone to the county seat when a lynching was expected . he has ordered out troops whenever necessary and has upheld and supported the judges in their opposition to,mobs,". he did all in his power to secure action by the crand juries against lynchers and has worked in every possible way to stop yet he has at best saved the disgrace . four or five tives , while that horrible ed dition to lynching burning at the stake"
411,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"lynching burning at the stake proviously unknown in mississippi , has finally invaded the state and was the fear ure of the recent corinth lynching . theas who oppose lynching call atten tion to the fact that it is progressive , going through an evolution of horrors . when the",mob,"first began this work in mississippi the lynching was done by a small body of men , well organized , masked and on horse back , who rode to the jail in the middle of the night and compelled the sheriff to surrender the prisoner . he was taken to"
412,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"the recent corinth lynching . theas who oppose lynching call atten tion to the fact that it is progressive , going through an evolution of horrors . when the mob first began this work in mississippi the lynching was done by a small body of men , well organized ,",masked,"and on horse back , who rode to the jail in the middle of the night and compelled the sheriff to surrender the prisoner . he was taken to the nearest tree and hanged . the next chang , a needlessly brutal one , was after hanging the negro to"
413,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"rode to the jail in the middle of the night and compelled the sheriff to surrender the prisoner . he was taken to the nearest tree and hanged . the next chang , a needlessly brutal one , was after hanging the negro to have every momb r of the",mob,"fira a rifle or pistol at the body this practice has been kept up sine , with the result that the bodies of lynched negroes to- day- nt lenst fot been burned- sre scare ly distinguisable as those of human later all masks and disguises were dis corded and the"
414,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"to have every momb r of the mob fira a rifle or pistol at the body this practice has been kept up sine , with the result that the bodies of lynched negroes to- day- nt lenst fot been burned- sre scare ly distinguisable as those of human later all",masks,"and disguises were dis corded and the mob performed its work in the open light of day in the very streets of the town , and generally in front of the court house , with no attempt at concealment or secrecy burning at the stake , when the lynching is"
415,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"fira a rifle or pistol at the body this practice has been kept up sine , with the result that the bodies of lynched negroes to- day- nt lenst fot been burned- sre scare ly distinguisable as those of human later all masks and disguises were dis corded and the",mob,"performed its work in the open light of day in the very streets of the town , and generally in front of the court house , with no attempt at concealment or secrecy burning at the stake , when the lynching is made a spectacle in which a large part"
416,14049_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1902,"was whether the victim corinth should be burned o . hanged . the more conservative citizens pleaded for a plain hanging "" and were regarded as milksops for so doing . no one seemed to plead law and order for the trial and legal execution of the criminal . the",mob,"even took possession of the telegraph station , refused to allow the sheriff to telegraph to the governor for troops , and refused to allow any word of the lynching to go out until the work was completed . it armed itself to resist any troops that might be sent"
417,14051_0.txt,"Martinsburg journal (Martinsburg, W....)",1922,", was lynched near here today for an assault alleged to have been committed on a white woman . the negro was being taken froni sandersville to wrightsville for trial when the automobile bearing him and an escort of officers was stopped and johnson taken from the car by a",mob,"of fifty persons , the officers were disarmed and johnson taken to a bridge where he was hanged . he is said to have fessed his guilt . con"
418,14053_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"blame ? who's to murder : daily times minneapolis editorial ( down near monroe , ga . , the other day a",mob,"dragged two negro couples out of a car and killed shotgun . job neatly and methodically done as if it had been well planned . while the bodies were still warm and the mob melted into the bleeding , protecting countryside . by the perverted code of lynch law it"
419,14053_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"daily times minneapolis editorial ( down near monroe , ga . , the other day a mob dragged two negro couples out of a car and killed shotgun . job neatly and methodically done as if it had been well planned . while the bodies were still warm and the",mob,"melted into the bleeding , protecting countryside . by the perverted code of lynch law it had done a good day's work , american , but by the standards of justice and human decency , it had befouled state of georgia and shamed the the whole nation . question :"
420,14053_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"sows the little seeds of bigotry and hatred , it only implants the virulent poisons of race prejudice in warped and vengeful minds . it only whips up latent angers , and moulds them into violent forms . but the klan , says grand dragon grethe is on responsible for",mob,"no that killed four negroes near roe . mon let us search further , then . what of eugene talmadge , georgia's governor- elect ? does he bear any part of black burden of responsibility for what has happened at monroe ? why no , obviously , for out in"
421,14053_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"people in that sense , the crime of mon roe is inseparable from the hooded klansmen , from the talmadges and bilbos and rankins , and from all of those who attempt , either privately or officially , to foster the of race hatred in this country doctrines . the",mob,"kills , but it is the bigot in high places who gives false courage to the mob . the embers of violence need to be fanned with ignorance and intolerance before they burst into a livid flame . in fixing the responsibilities for monroe then , look carefully for all"
422,14053_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"from the talmadges and bilbos and rankins , and from all of those who attempt , either privately or officially , to foster the of race hatred in this country doctrines . the mob kills , but it is the bigot in high places who gives false courage to the",mob,". the embers of violence need to be fanned with ignorance and intolerance before they burst into a livid flame . in fixing the responsibilities for monroe then , look carefully for all who bear , a fan ."
423,14053_3.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"them decided the other eve- indeed the race that the gallused ning that the white man's honor talmadge so recently proclaimed and the cause of justice needed "" supreme "" as he promised to take bolstering . they did not bother to steps to "" keep the negro in his",mask,"their faces . they merely got place "" ? those who preach hatred their guns , lined up two negroes and denial of the rights of man- and their wives , and fired . in any state , north or south- ask what their re- might is one of the"
424,14053_3.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"women ruthlessly shot down had be watching to see what happens committed no fault that appears in now . all of us , north and south , the record , except that of being stand condemned before this out present . one of them recognized a member of the white",mob,", and rage and share with georgia's great majority of decent and law- called him by name . this was people the humiliation of enough ; she and her companion this abiding disgrace ."
425,14054_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1946,"in history as four negroes were shot down in cold blood in monroe , georgia . the culprits are still at large , having eluded the most skillful crime detecting force in the united states- the great , the scientific , the super- sleuth department , the fbi twenty un-",masked,"murderers , committed their crime in broad daylight , with an eye witness , near a town of only a few thousand people , yet not one person has even been brought to trial ! 1946 also saw a race riot , another blot in history with property destroyed and"
426,14056_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1949,c . dortch reported last night that a young colored man was seriously beaten by a group of white men as an apparent result of a series of anonymous phone calls made to a white women . the mecklenburg county prosecutor said the assault seemed a clear violation of the,mob,"violence provisions of the virginia anti lynch law . mr . dortch , who said his in- formation was incomplete , gave this account : "" late monday night a black car with north carolina license plates drove up to a filling station here near the north carolina border ."
427,14213_0.txt,"Constantine republican (Constantine, Mi...)",1836,"be undermined and destroy ed , our boasted "" free reduced at once to a mere ruffian system of confusion , bloodshed , and unmitigated anar . chy.-n . y . cour . and enq . "" reports are rife in this vicinity of the , murder , by a",mob,", near chillicothe , of mr . , edward weed , late of lane seminary , and since of cummingsville . a gentleman of marietta , in whom entire confidence may be placed , reports the following statement as having been made in the stage house at wooster , by"
428,14213_0.txt,"Constantine republican (Constantine, Mi...)",1836,"arrived in town on some business ; and being known as an abolitionist , some indignities were offered to him- such as shaving his horse , removing the wheels of his wagon , & c . ; that mr . weed soon after left town , was followed by the",mob,", his wagon broken to pieces , his horse killed , and at length himself suspended to a tree by a rope of bark until he was dead . the kentuckian stated that he was informed of the fact on his arrival at chillicothe and went and saw the body"
429,14216_0.txt,"Eastern times (Bath, Me.)",1850,"lynch law- high handed measure . a terrible outrage took place in culpepper , in this state on wednesday last . a",mob,"of 200 men , including justices of the peace , members of the church , and others , proceeded to the jail resisted the sheriff , and carried off william grayson , a free negro . they dragged him to the woods , where they ung him . the cause"
430,14216_0.txt,"Eastern times (Bath, Me.)",1850,"measure is this- grayson had twice been convicted of murdering david a . miller , a white man , but each time he appealed , and the general court granted him new trials , on the ground that the testimony hardly justi fied suspicion , much less guilt . the",mob,"allowed him one minute to confess he . firmly avowed his innocence of the murder . the mob then placed a fence rail across be- tween two trees , and strung him up . outrage has created intense excitement . the papers entreat the governor to arrest every one concerned"
431,14216_0.txt,"Eastern times (Bath, Me.)",1850,", but each time he appealed , and the general court granted him new trials , on the ground that the testimony hardly justi fied suspicion , much less guilt . the mob allowed him one minute to confess he . firmly avowed his innocence of the murder . the",mob,"then placed a fence rail across be- tween two trees , and strung him up . outrage has created intense excitement . the papers entreat the governor to arrest every one concerned in it . - fredericksburg va . , paper , july 23 . ["
432,14229_0.txt,"Rutland weekly herald (Rutland, Vt.)",1862,"the bloomington ( illinois ) times was destroyed by the people of that place , on wednesday , for secession sentiments . it is said the editor took the oath , and afterwards , having declared he intended to disregard it , the",mob,would have have hung him had not fled . he
433,14230_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1862,", on saturday night a large number of excited people came into town , surround ed the jail , forced open the doors , took the prisoner and hung him . while suspended fifteen bullets perforated his body . he was cut down and his throat cut by the infuriated",mob,". the body was drag ged through the streeets , and finally taken to front of the negro church where it was the cut to pieces and burned ."
434,14231_0.txt,"Chicago daily tribune (Chicago, Ill.) 1872-1963",1878,". it sats : what is the meaning of lynch law ? why is it ever resorted to : it might perhaps be expected la the rough regions of the southwest , whero lav les characters abound , aud men have had to be , ia some sense , a",law unto themselves,". it has not been looked for here in new england , where ever ! community is supposed to live in uuedtence to law . but the fact existe , bero in connecticut quite a strongly as elsewhere , that a sense of the cinculty and uncertainty of obtaining jantico"
435,14232_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"willie vin son , 25 , who was accused of having attempted to criminally assault a white woman at a tourist camp . shot in stomach vinson was employed in a cafe and was at work there when he and was arrested on suspicion shot in the stomach by his",captors,", sunday morning . the wound- ed man was taken to a hospital but was later taken from the hospital by a mob and lynched . dragged through street sheriff monroe according to watts , three members of the mob the hospital and took entered vinson away . the nurses"
436,14232_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"shot in stomach vinson was employed in a cafe and was at work there when he and was arrested on suspicion shot in the stomach by his captors , sunday morning . the wound- ed man was taken to a hospital but was later taken from the hospital by a",mob,"and lynched . dragged through street sheriff monroe according to watts , three members of the mob the hospital and took entered vinson away . the nurses in the institution didn't get a good look at them , the sheriff tated . he further said the victim's body indicated that"
437,14232_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"was arrested on suspicion shot in the stomach by his captors , sunday morning . the wound- ed man was taken to a hospital but was later taken from the hospital by a mob and lynched . dragged through street sheriff monroe according to watts , three members of the",mob,"the hospital and took entered vinson away . the nurses in the institution didn't get a good look at them , the sheriff tated . he further said the victim's body indicated that it had been dragged behind an automobile before be ing hanged to a winch at a cot"
438,14234_0.txt,"The Cordova daily times (Cordova, Alaska)",1921,negro lynched by,mob,"in virginia ( by associated press ) petersburg , va . , aug . 3 . a negro arrested in connection with the murder of a white man was taken from lawrenceville jail to day and lynched the ."
439,14238_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1924,"alaska daily empire "" all the news all the time "" vol . xxiv . , no . 3612 . juneau , alaska , tuesday , july 22 , 1924 . member of associated press . price ten cents rammed during fog steamer",mob,"bent on lynching negro quieted by klansman mob forms to lynch negroes ; killed a girl klan organizer quiets several hundred men by speaking a prayer . cairo , iii . , july 22 . - a mob of three hundred formed in pulaski county this afternoon apparently bent on"
440,14238_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1924,"daily empire "" all the news all the time "" vol . xxiv . , no . 3612 . juneau , alaska , tuesday , july 22 , 1924 . member of associated press . price ten cents rammed during fog steamer mob bent on lynching negro quieted by klansman",mob,"forms to lynch negroes ; killed a girl klan organizer quiets several hundred men by speaking a prayer . cairo , iii . , july 22 . - a mob of three hundred formed in pulaski county this afternoon apparently bent on lynching two negroes tentatively identified as the slayers"
441,14238_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1924,"member of associated press . price ten cents rammed during fog steamer mob bent on lynching negro quieted by klansman mob forms to lynch negroes ; killed a girl klan organizer quiets several hundred men by speaking a prayer . cairo , iii . , july 22 . - a",mob,"of three hundred formed in pulaski county this afternoon apparently bent on lynching two negroes tentatively identified as the slayers of daisy wilson , 18 years , in an at tempted hold- up of her father's store near villa ridge , carly today . the girl went to her father's"
442,14238_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1924,"several hours but a railroad man found them and summoned sheriff seymour welch . mound city , july 22 . two negrocs suspected of slaying daisy wilson have been lodged in the county jaff here . this afternoon . f . moreland . ku klux klan organizer , quieted a",mob,intent on lynching by speaking a prayer in front of the city hall . the sheriff deputized several in the crowd to then guard the prisoners .
443,14239_0.txt,"The Nome daily nugget. (Nome, Alaska)",1914,salesman murdering for,mob,"hangs two negroes special nugget service . muskogee , okla . , aprli 7 . - ben- jomin dickerson , a negro charged with the murder of w . a . chaffin a travel ing salesman at oklahoma city sun- cay night was forcibly removed from purcell jail today by"
444,14239_0.txt,"The Nome daily nugget. (Nome, Alaska)",1914,"service . muskogee , okla . , aprli 7 . - ben- jomin dickerson , a negro charged with the murder of w . a . chaffin a travel ing salesman at oklahoma city sun- cay night was forcibly removed from purcell jail today by members of , the a",mob,"who came in automobiles tak- en to noble nine miles north of purcell and hanged . dickerson's body was then riddled with bullets . raleigh , n . c . april 7 . - jim wil son , a negro , charged with the mur of mrs . w ."
445,14239_0.txt,"The Nome daily nugget. (Nome, Alaska)",1914,"dickerson's body was then riddled with bullets . raleigh , n . c . april 7 . - jim wil son , a negro , charged with the mur of mrs . w . m . lynch at wendell , der n c . , was lynched today by a",mob,"hear that place . the lynching occur red 20 minutes before a company of militia , sent by governor craig to state prevent mob violence arrived ."
446,14239_0.txt,"The Nome daily nugget. (Nome, Alaska)",1914,", charged with the mur of mrs . w . m . lynch at wendell , der n c . , was lynched today by a mob hear that place . the lynching occur red 20 minutes before a company of militia , sent by governor craig to state prevent",mob,violence arrived .
447,14241_0.txt,"Seward weekly gateway. (Seward, Alaska)",1907,tion . negro lynched by,mob,"crisfield , md . , july 30- a negro was taken from the officers by a mob com posed of a thousand citizens and lynch . he shot and killed a policeman yesterday ed ."
448,14241_0.txt,"Seward weekly gateway. (Seward, Alaska)",1907,"tion . negro lynched by mob crisfield , md . , july 30- a negro was taken from the officers by a",mob,com posed of a thousand citizens and lynch . he shot and killed a policeman yesterday ed .
449,14242_0.txt,"The Nome nugget. (Nome, Alaska)",1925,"wounded negro charged killing highway official , is lynched shreveport , feb . 26 , ( ap ) -an infuriated",mob,"today lynched joe airy , a negro . airy was accused of having slain a state highway official as a result of brutal treat ment airy claimed the official had accorded him . airy had been shot and wounded by a deputy sheriff before he was captured . after the"
450,14242_0.txt,"The Nome nugget. (Nome, Alaska)",1925,was accused of having slain a state highway official as a result of brutal treat ment airy claimed the official had accorded him . airy had been shot and wounded by a deputy sheriff before he was captured . after the body of airy was hanged to a tree the,mob,litterally riddled it with bullets from thier guns pis- tols . and
451,14243_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,"one is lynched centralia , wash . , nov . 11 . - ( p ) -a",mob,com posed of many of the leading citizens of this town tonight lynched one of the members of the i . w . w . gang which killed three ex- soldiers by firing into a contingent of former service men as it marched down one of the main streets in
452,14243_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,town tonight lynched one of the members of the i . w . w . gang which killed three ex- soldiers by firing into a contingent of former service men as it marched down one of the main streets in a parade . the man secured from jail by the,mob,"was taken in an auto to a high bridge near here , a rope placed about his neck , and he was dropped over the guard rail . in addition to the three men already dead , two other former soldiers are not expected to thru the night . live"
453,14244_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,". check troops omaha , sept . 29 . ( ap ) state attorneys today de clare that a thoro investigation will be made of the rioting last night during which mayor p . smith was wounded in an attempt to protect wm . brown , a negro whom the",mobs,"lynched , and fifty other persons more or less seriously injured . city and other officials declare that those responsible for or implicated in the riots will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law . , mayor smith's condition is reported to be critical . he hurried to"
454,14244_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,"other officials declare that those responsible for or implicated in the riots will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law . , mayor smith's condition is reported to be critical . he hurried to the county jail when he learned of the attack on that building by the",mob,". the rioters refused to listen to him and demanded that wm . brown , a negro who had con fessed to assaulting a white girl of this city , be turned over to them for punishment . this the mayor absolutely to sanction . refused after nine hours '"
455,14244_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,"rioters refused to listen to him and demanded that wm . brown , a negro who had con fessed to assaulting a white girl of this city , be turned over to them for punishment . this the mayor absolutely to sanction . refused after nine hours ' fighting the",mob,"succeeded in entering the jail , which was set on fire during the conflict . they seized brown and hanged him to the nearest pole . the mob also attempted to lynch mayor smith , who was rescued after he had been strung up by the rioters . the rope"
456,14244_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,"be turned over to them for punishment . this the mayor absolutely to sanction . refused after nine hours ' fighting the mob succeeded in entering the jail , which was set on fire during the conflict . they seized brown and hanged him to the nearest pole . the",mob,"also attempted to lynch mayor smith , who was rescued after he had been strung up by the rioters . the rope iff flicted a serious wound in his neck from which he may not recover . besides lynching the negro , the mobbed killed one un identified white man"
457,14244_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,"to the nearest pole . the mob also attempted to lynch mayor smith , who was rescued after he had been strung up by the rioters . the rope iff flicted a serious wound in his neck from which he may not recover . besides lynching the negro , the",mobbed,killed one un identified white man . approximately 50 persons were wounded . police officers have arrested 20 men charged with being implicated in the trouble . soldiers rushed here from ft . crook succeeded in dispersing the mobs after a short conflict . before the men in uniform arrived
458,14244_0.txt,"The daily Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1919,"he may not recover . besides lynching the negro , the mobbed killed one un identified white man . approximately 50 persons were wounded . police officers have arrested 20 men charged with being implicated in the trouble . soldiers rushed here from ft . crook succeeded in dispersing the",mobs,"after a short conflict . before the men in uniform arrived , however , the rioters seeking firearms , broke into and looted 50 stores . quiet has been restored by soldiers . the"
459,14245_0.txt,"Seward daily gateway (Seward, Alaska)",1932,slayer of 8- year- old girl is lynched by angry kansas,mob,"st . francis , kas . , april 18 . ( pp ) -an angry and furious mob lynched richard read , 53 years of age , bachelor- farmer , who confessed that he adbucted , attacked and slew eight- year- old dorothy hunter of selden , kansas . read"
460,14245_0.txt,"Seward daily gateway (Seward, Alaska)",1932,"slayer of 8- year- old girl is lynched by angry kansas mob st . francis , kas . , april 18 . ( pp ) -an angry and furious",mob,"lynched richard read , 53 years of age , bachelor- farmer , who confessed that he adbucted , attacked and slew eight- year- old dorothy hunter of selden , kansas . read was protected from being taken into the hands of the mob twice saturday by the quick think- -ing"
461,14245_0.txt,"Seward daily gateway (Seward, Alaska)",1932,"( pp ) -an angry and furious mob lynched richard read , 53 years of age , bachelor- farmer , who confessed that he adbucted , attacked and slew eight- year- old dorothy hunter of selden , kansas . read was protected from being taken into the hands of the",mob,twice saturday by the quick think- -ing of the sheriff who had the farmer in custody . two hundred heavily armed men found read sunday night in the cheyenne county jail and removed him to the outskirts of the town where the hung him from a tree . at the
462,14246_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1917,,mob,"lynches negro . columbia , miss . , june 14 . - van haynes , a negro , accused of mur der , was taken from the jail here by mob and his body was a found"
463,14246_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1917,"mob lynches negro . columbia , miss . , june 14 . - van haynes , a negro , accused of mur der , was taken from the jail here by",mob,and his body was a found
464,14248_0.txt,"The log cabin Democrat (Conway, Ark.) 1901-1982",1906,a,mob,at tillar lynched a seven teen year old negro for criminal sault . as
465,14249_0.txt,"The Conway log cabin. (Conway, Faulkne...)",1901,"lewis thompson , colored , was lynched near girard , la . , for mur white derously assaulting a man the negro had been seriously wounded by the",mob,when in pur suit of him but when a physician declared he had a chance to recover he was taken into the woods and the following officers found his body swinging to day the limb of a tree .
466,14250_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star (Mena, Ark.)",1897,", at leonardville last thursday and placed a deputy in charge of the pris oner and stock of liquors . the deputy got drunk , allowed warren to take his pistol from him , who started to leaye , but met sheriff lard and shot him to death . a",mob,"started to lynch the murderer but was pursuaded not to do so by county attorney irish and he was lodged in jail . ,"
467,14251_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,"a kansas man kentucky negro lynched fol . lowing a circus fight at frankfort . within hearing of governor b . c . bower of wichita , the negro's victim , is not dead , but the",mob,"hanged his assailant , nevertheless -an investigation . frankfort , ky . , june 4 . - john maxie , the negro who shot bert c . bower of wichita , kan . , at howe's show in this city last night , was taken from the jail at 2"
468,14251_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,". frankfort , ky . , june 4 . - john maxie , the negro who shot bert c . bower of wichita , kan . , at howe's show in this city last night , was taken from the jail at 2 : 30 o'clock this morning by a",mob,"of 75 masked men and hanged . his body was then riddled with bullets . the mob gathered from every direction of the city within two blocks of where gov . wiison slept and a block and a half from the capitol , marched quietly to the jall , overpowered"
469,14251_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,"ky . , june 4 . - john maxie , the negro who shot bert c . bower of wichita , kan . , at howe's show in this city last night , was taken from the jail at 2 : 30 o'clock this morning by a mob of 75",masked,"men and hanged . his body was then riddled with bullets . the mob gathered from every direction of the city within two blocks of where gov . wiison slept and a block and a half from the capitol , marched quietly to the jall , overpowered the jailer ,"
470,14251_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,"ky . , june 4 . - john maxie , the negro who shot bert c . bower of wichita , kan . , at howe's show in this city last night , was taken from the jail at 2 : 30 o'clock this morning by a mob of 75",masked men,"and hanged . his body was then riddled with bullets . the mob gathered from every direction of the city within two blocks of where gov . wiison slept and a block and a half from the capitol , marched quietly to the jall , overpowered the jailer , j"
471,14251_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,"bert c . bower of wichita , kan . , at howe's show in this city last night , was taken from the jail at 2 : 30 o'clock this morning by a mob of 75 masked men and hanged . his body was then riddled with bullets . the",mob,"gathered from every direction of the city within two blocks of where gov . wiison slept and a block and a half from the capitol , marched quietly to the jall , overpowered the jailer , j . w . bridges , took the keys and the negro , and"
472,14251_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,"marched quietly to the jall , overpowered the jailer , j . w . bridges , took the keys and the negro , and marched a half block with him to the iron bridge spanning the kentucky river and hanged him . maxle plead for his life . but the",mob,"silently continued its work . the negro clung to an iron pole , and the mob fired 25 or so shots into the negro's body . the lynchers then dispersed . gov . wilson , who has said there would be no more mobs in kentucky in his administration ,"
473,14251_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,"took the keys and the negro , and marched a half block with him to the iron bridge spanning the kentucky river and hanged him . maxle plead for his life . but the mob silently continued its work . the negro clung to an iron pole , and the",mob,"fired 25 or so shots into the negro's body . the lynchers then dispersed . gov . wilson , who has said there would be no more mobs in kentucky in his administration , was notified at once of the lynching and said : "" i don't thank you for"
474,14251_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1909,"for his life . but the mob silently continued its work . the negro clung to an iron pole , and the mob fired 25 or so shots into the negro's body . the lynchers then dispersed . gov . wilson , who has said there would be no more",mobs,"in kentucky in his administration , was notified at once of the lynching and said : "" i don't thank you for telling me of local happenings at this time of the night . "" an investigation of the lynching will begin to- day . bower , the wounded man"
475,14254_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1918,"information received in mobile . all four were hanged , it is said , on girders of a bridge span aing the chickasalny river . information from shubuta reaching here by long distance was to the effect that the jailer was called into the street by a member of the",mob,", handcuffed and forced to unlock the prisoners ' cells . he was then placed in an automobile , but was put out of the machine before the party reached the bridge . dr . johnston was shot and killed from ambush while in his barn . ma or clark"
476,14256_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1898,"two brothers lynched . clarksville , mo . , june 6 . --- sam and curtis young , two negroes from hannibal , mo . , who murdered w . s . malone , city marshal of clarksyille , sunday at noon , were taken from the officers by a",mob,at midnight last night hanged to a tree one mile from this city . and
477,14257_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1894,"participate in the massacre of the negroes by h . n . smith , one of the men now in the county jail under indictment for mur der in the first degree for complicity in the lynching . smith gave mccarver the names of the men who would compose the",mob,", and told how the negroes would be arrested by detective w . s . richardson , placed in a wagon and then driven to big creek swamp , where the mob would be in waiting . when the invitation to assist in the assassination was tendered to young mc"
478,14257_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1894,"for complicity in the lynching . smith gave mccarver the names of the men who would compose the mob , and told how the negroes would be arrested by detective w . s . richardson , placed in a wagon and then driven to big creek swamp , where the",mob,would be in waiting . when the invitation to assist in the assassination was tendered to young mc carver it was represented that his father knew all about it and that judge cooper of the criminal court was not in the dark . these representations were untrue and were made
479,14257_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1894,"these representations were untrue and were made by smith with the intention , if possible , of mixing sheriff mccarver up in the affair through his son so that his hands would be tied if an investigation should be instituted by the authorities . young mccarver declined to join the",mob,", but the lynching came off on schedule time . mccarver disclosed the detailed of the plot to joseph thiers , chris huffman and william cox , and it was from thiers and huffman that the grand jury obtained its first information about the plot . cox denied all knowledge"
480,14258_0.txt,"The Monticellonian (Monticello, Ark...)",1901,"the deed of a desperado . kills two of party of would- be lynchers . escapes and is recaptured . --- panther , w . va . , june 29 . - the at tempt of a",mob,"to lynch a negro , yesterday , at jager , five miles south of here , resulted in the killing of two of the would- be lynchers . the negro , peter price , was accused of insulting a white woman . he was pursued by a crowd of men"
481,14258_0.txt,"The Monticellonian (Monticello, Ark...)",1901,"in the killing of two of the would- be lynchers . the negro , peter price , was accused of insulting a white woman . he was pursued by a crowd of men , and sought refuge in a small room in the rear of a sa loon . the",mob,"battered down the door , and as they entered the room price threw himself at them with the ferocity of a tiger , with a knife in each hand . in cutting his way out he killed george hooks and f . m . mc gran and seriously cut charles"
482,14258_0.txt,"The Monticellonian (Monticello, Ark...)",1901,"hand . in cutting his way out he killed george hooks and f . m . mc gran and seriously cut charles davis . as price struck down these men the others fell back , and the negro made his escape through an open window . several members of the",mob,"brought revolvers into play , but they succeeded in inflicting only two slight flesh wounds . price was pursued and captured by officers , who hurriedly sent him to the jail at welch to avoid the vengeance of the enraged populace . hooks and mcgran both well- known citizens ."
483,14259_0.txt,"The Prescott daily news. (Prescott, Ark.)",1908,", may 11 . - elmo harvard , an eighteen- year- old negro , arrested wednesday at pulaski for attempted criminal assault on claudie allen , six- teen years old , daughter of i . p . allen , a prominent farmer , was lynched fri day afternoon by a",mob,"of 300 un masked men . the men broke open the jail , and over the protest of the sheriff , carried the negro to a bridge and hanged him . several shots were fired into the negro's body by mem bers of the mob , but no further der"
484,14259_0.txt,"The Prescott daily news. (Prescott, Ark.)",1908,"- elmo harvard , an eighteen- year- old negro , arrested wednesday at pulaski for attempted criminal assault on claudie allen , six- teen years old , daughter of i . p . allen , a prominent farmer , was lynched fri day afternoon by a mob of 300 un",masked,"men . the men broke open the jail , and over the protest of the sheriff , carried the negro to a bridge and hanged him . several shots were fired into the negro's body by mem bers of the mob , but no further der occurred . disor"
485,14259_0.txt,"The Prescott daily news. (Prescott, Ark.)",1908,"- elmo harvard , an eighteen- year- old negro , arrested wednesday at pulaski for attempted criminal assault on claudie allen , six- teen years old , daughter of i . p . allen , a prominent farmer , was lynched fri day afternoon by a mob of 300 un",masked men,". the men broke open the jail , and over the protest of the sheriff , carried the negro to a bridge and hanged him . several shots were fired into the negro's body by mem bers of the mob , but no further der occurred . disor"
486,14259_0.txt,"The Prescott daily news. (Prescott, Ark.)",1908,"fri day afternoon by a mob of 300 un masked men . the men broke open the jail , and over the protest of the sheriff , carried the negro to a bridge and hanged him . several shots were fired into the negro's body by mem bers of the",mob,", but no further der occurred . disor"
487,14262_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1915,,mob,"hangs man at columbia , miss . jack hughes , member of prominent family , is lynched for killing larue holloway a days ago- affair conducted quietly few columbia , miss . . october 31 . - jack bughea , 30 years old , member of a rominent family of"
488,14262_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1915,"killing larue holloway a days ago- affair conducted quietly few columbia , miss . . october 31 . - jack bughea , 30 years old , member of a rominent family of washington par- louisiana , adjoining this county , was taken from the county jail here arly today by",a party of,"masked men and hanged to a tree a short dis- ance outside the city limita . hughes was under arrest in connection with the murder of larue holloway , a well snown young man of this place , who filled near here on the night of othe , fertenberry ,"
489,14262_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1915,"a days ago- affair conducted quietly few columbia , miss . . october 31 . - jack bughea , 30 years old , member of a rominent family of washington par- louisiana , adjoining this county , was taken from the county jail here arly today by a party of",masked,"men and hanged to a tree a short dis- ance outside the city limita . hughes was under arrest in connection with the murder of larue holloway , a well snown young man of this place , who filled near here on the night of othe , fertenberry , the"
490,14262_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1915,"a days ago- affair conducted quietly few columbia , miss . . october 31 . - jack bughea , 30 years old , member of a rominent family of washington par- louisiana , adjoining this county , was taken from the county jail here arly today by a party of",masked men,"and hanged to a tree a short dis- ance outside the city limita . hughes was under arrest in connection with the murder of larue holloway , a well snown young man of this place , who filled near here on the night of othe , fertenberry , the jailer"
491,14262_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1915,"in connection with the murder of larue holloway , a well snown young man of this place , who filled near here on the night of othe , fertenberry , the jailer , who ocupled quarters on the second floor , was awakened about 1 o'clook this morning by three",masked,"men who , fter forcing him to size up t key the cell oooupled by e es , bound im to his bed . the jyndi worked fortenberry told the sheriff , hughes to elothes thout were unable to say how many men were in the party . the jailer"
492,14262_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1915,"in connection with the murder of larue holloway , a well snown young man of this place , who filled near here on the night of othe , fertenberry , the jailer , who ocupled quarters on the second floor , was awakened about 1 o'clook this morning by three",masked men,"who , fter forcing him to size up t key the cell oooupled by e es , bound im to his bed . the jyndi worked fortenberry told the sheriff , hughes to elothes thout were unable to say how many men were in the party . the jailer ,"
493,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,"the brief report of the cases printed be low show that in several cases the lynch in one instance crs were negroes , who lynched one of their own race for the crime wich more frequently than any other prompts whites to lynch negroes . in another they aided a",mob,"of whites in lynching a negro , and in a third they lynched two negroes for the crime of lynching . records for fourteen years show that lynchings are less numerous in the months covered by the above figures than in other seasons of the year . but , assuming"
494,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,". in texas governor sayers ' efforts resulted in the indictment for mur der of eight men charged with lynching humphries and his two sons , and the cases against the defendants are being vigorously pushed . in georgia a man named hamilton , ar rested as one of a",mob,"which lynched a negro , has made a confession implicating a number of citizens of gainesville , and their vigorous prosecution by the state is promised . the black record the cas reported in the time covered are , brietiy , as follows : may 10 . - a white"
495,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,"had eluded the authorities in texas for a long time were found to have been aided in their escape by some white farmers , who were also suspected of profiting by the robberies . three of thees farmers , living near aley , tex . , were hanged by a",mob,". may 25 . -- jim humphries and his two sons , george and john , white , charged with being stock thieves , were found hanging to one tree near boggottee , tex . this lynching , like that of the case mentioned under date of may 24 ,"
496,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,", was supposed to be the work of an organized band of vigilantes . may 29 . - joe kiser and thomas johnson , negroes , assaulted and killed miss em ma hartsell , white , near charlote , n . c . they were taken from jail by a",mob,"of 1,500 and hanged . june 7 . - will and alexander hill , negro brothers , shot and wounded rufus hub bard , white , and killed his wife and baby , near birmingham , ala . a mob captured will and tied him to a tree , and"
497,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,". c . they were taken from jail by a mob of 1,500 and hanged . june 7 . - will and alexander hill , negro brothers , shot and wounded rufus hub bard , white , and killed his wife and baby , near birmingham , ala . a",mob,"captured will and tied him to a tree , and hubbard shot him dead , being carried to the spot for the purpose . a dispute about wages was the cause of the crime . june 11 . - simon brooks , a negro , assaulted anna ( armstrong ,"
498,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,"and hubbard shot him dead , being carried to the spot for the purpose . a dispute about wages was the cause of the crime . june 11 . - simon brooks , a negro , assaulted anna ( armstrong , a negress , near memphis , tenn . a",mob,"of 500 negroes sur rounded the jail , overpowered the jailers and took brooks out hanged hi n . lynchers avenge lynching june 12 . - marshall payne , white , was shot by a negro , near dunellen , fla . while on his way to jail he was"
499,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,"negroes employed in the dunellen phosphate mine seized nine oth er negroes , accused of making way with the murderer , and lynched two of them before rescuers came . june 21 . - daniel patrick , negro , assaulted miss bessie ireland , in seranton , miss . a",mob,"of 300 whites , among them the most prominent men of the neighborhood , captured patrick and hanged him . july 21 . - five italians- james , charles and . frank diffato , joseph feducio and john cerano- were shot to death by a mob , in tallubal ,"
500,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,", miss . a mob of 300 whites , among them the most prominent men of the neighborhood , captured patrick and hanged him . july 21 . - five italians- james , charles and . frank diffato , joseph feducio and john cerano- were shot to death by a",mob,", in tallubal , la . they were charged with attempting to murder dr . hodges , who had angered the italians by shooting a trespassing goat belonging to frank diffato . the italian government has asked for an explanation . june 24 . - charles mack , colored ,"
501,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,"charles mack , colored , and louis sammins , white , assaulted mrs . ogle trée , white , of bainbridge , ga . , and both were lynched . june 25 . - henry hamilton , a negro , burned a church , near hamilton , tex . a",mob,"of whites captured him after a desperate fight , in which he was twice wounded , and hanged him . june 27 . - henry stewart robbed and shot gail hamilton , both negroes , in fulton , ky . a mob of whites and negroes took stewart from jail"
502,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,"church , near hamilton , tex . a mob of whites captured him after a desperate fight , in which he was twice wounded , and hanged him . june 27 . - henry stewart robbed and shot gail hamilton , both negroes , in fulton , ky . a",mob,"of whites and negroes took stewart from jail and hanged him . june 28 . - ollie thompson , a negro , assault ed mrs . fuller , white , sixty- five years old , in marshall , tex . he was captured by a mob and lynched . the"
503,14264_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1899,", ky . a mob of whites and negroes took stewart from jail and hanged him . june 28 . - ollie thompson , a negro , assault ed mrs . fuller , white , sixty- five years old , in marshall , tex . he was captured by a",mob,and lynched . the biggest day yet from the mobile item . if birmingham really desires a great crowd attend the state fair it should set apart to a day for candidates .
504,14265_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1919,negroes praise,mob,"which lynched cox by associated press athens , ga . , september 22- negroes o oglethorpe county in mass meeting , it became known here today , several days ago appointed a committee of six to draw up resolutions condemning the crime of obe cox , who attacked and murdered"
505,14265_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1919,"september 22- negroes o oglethorpe county in mass meeting , it became known here today , several days ago appointed a committee of six to draw up resolutions condemning the crime of obe cox , who attacked and murdered a white woman recently , and commending the action of a",mob,"which lynched him . cox killed his victim with a hoe , he was trailed by a posse of more than 1000 citizens , shot to death and his burned near the home of the victim body ."
506,14266_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,big,mob,"storms jail in kentucky one prisoner believed to have been lynched two hide in water tank one man breaks away from mob and rushes into arms of sheriff further down street . the russellville , ky . , july 4 . - a mob of nearly a hundred en went"
507,14266_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,big mob storms jail in kentucky one prisoner believed to have been lynched two hide in water tank one man breaks away from,mob,"and rushes into arms of sheriff further down street . the russellville , ky . , july 4 . - a mob of nearly a hundred en went to the jail at 8 o'clock tonight and demanded the keys . once in , they were able to find only one"
508,14266_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,"big mob storms jail in kentucky one prisoner believed to have been lynched two hide in water tank one man breaks away from mob and rushes into arms of sheriff further down street . the russellville , ky . , july 4 . - a",mob,"of nearly a hundred en went to the jail at 8 o'clock tonight and demanded the keys . once in , they were able to find only one of the prisoners charged with criminal assault upon the german girl , mary gladder . the other three had crawled up the"
509,14266_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,"they shot at him four or five times , wounding him twice . one shot entered behind the ear coming out of the cheek and the other went through the leg near the thigh . neither wound is thought to be fatal . the shooting near the square frightened the",mob,"in the jail and they hurried off with only one of the men , jim lyon , leaving polk fletcher and guy lyon in the jail . these two together with the wounded man were taken away shortly afterward on the train to bowling green . it is supposed that"
510,14266_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,"one of the men , jim lyon , leaving polk fletcher and guy lyon in the jail . these two together with the wounded man were taken away shortly afterward on the train to bowling green . it is supposed that jim lyon , who was taken away by the",mob,was hanged in outskirts of the town and that his body the will be found in the morning .
511,14267_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1904,"o . , march 11 . - governor her rick today had a conference with attorney general wade h . ellis and state fire marshal hollenbeck regarding the springfield riot , and as a result strenu- ous efforts will be made to ferret out and punish the leaders of the",mob,"which lynched the negro dixon , and the men who fired the buildings in the negro quarter of the city . "" the good name of the state must be protected , "" said governor herrick . "" attorney general ellis has been empowered to assist the county prosecutor in"
512,14268_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"been no demonstration - only the general feeling of disquiet ude and unrest . crowds thronged the city's streets far into the night , but it is believed the worst is over . george hall , the ex- convict from montgomery county , who is supposed to have led the",mob,"which lynched the three alleged murderers of the lyerly family last night , is in jail , and the plan to rescue him from the clutches the law , rum ors of which caused governor of glenn to hurry troops to salisbury , las no 1-10 rialized . the surviving"
513,14268_1.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"negro removed for safekeeping . madisonville , ky . , august 7 . - joe cush- lonberry , the negro who assaulted miss myrthle eugate , near here last friday , was taken to henderson this afternoon . to escape a",mob,which was expected here tonight to lynch him . he will be returned tomorrow examining trial when it is expected the for trouble will be renewed .
514,14269_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1907,twenty men tried for lynching one of,mob,"of lynchers turns states evidence testimony is unshaken state rests at the conclusion of the statement by the star witness , who gives full details of unlawful occurrence . charlotte , n . c . , july 16 . - the trial of twenty citizens of anson county , this"
515,14269_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1907,"anson county , this state , charged with lynching j . v . john son , which was begun yesterday at mon roe , was continued today . miss alice bogan , daughter of the sheriff who was on the stand yesterday , resumed her testimony , detailing how the",mob,"broke into the jail on the plea of having a prisoner to commit , and how theiy seized and held her father , took the keys to johnson's cell away from him , released johnson and after tleing him with ropes , dragged him off down the road to the"
516,14269_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1907,"and held her father , took the keys to johnson's cell away from him , released johnson and after tleing him with ropes , dragged him off down the road to the point where he was lynched . she positively identified several of the defendants as being members of the",mob,". the cross- examination of sheriff bogan , who was recalled , fall to shake his testimony in any particular . he recognized many of the members of the mob and called their names . john jones , against whom the present testimony is directed , was one of the"
517,14269_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1907,"to the point where he was lynched . she positively identified several of the defendants as being members of the mob . the cross- examination of sheriff bogan , who was recalled , fall to shake his testimony in any particular . he recognized many of the members of the",mob,"and called their names . john jones , against whom the present testimony is directed , was one of the leaders , it is said . henry kendall , one of the mob , who turned state's evidence , was put on the stand today . he told of how"
518,14269_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1907,"fall to shake his testimony in any particular . he recognized many of the members of the mob and called their names . john jones , against whom the present testimony is directed , was one of the leaders , it is said . henry kendall , one of the",mob,", who turned state's evidence , was put on the stand today . he told of how the plan to ride to wadesboro and lynch j . v . johnson was perfected . the witness knew all the members of the party and called their names . with the others"
519,14269_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1907,", struggling and praying for mercy , tied him with ropes and dragged him along the road a mile to a point in the woods where more dead than alive he was drawn up to a limb and then riddled with bullets . his identification of the leaders of the",mob,"and many of its members was complete and cross examination failed to shake his testi mony . william meeks and h . d . kendall , jr . , corroborated the evidence of the elder kendall . at the conclusion of this testi mony the state rested . johnston was"
520,14271_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1908,"negro is lynched . oxford , miss . , september 8 . - lawson patten , a negro who late today killed mrs . mcmillin , a white woman at her home here , was taken from the jail late tonight by a",mob,"and lynched . a mob form shortly after he began to was brought to jail and despite the pleadings of the county officials who promised a speedy trial the mob , shortly afterw d battered down the doors of the jail and securing patton hanged him to a phone pola"
521,14271_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1908,"negro is lynched . oxford , miss . , september 8 . - lawson patten , a negro who late today killed mrs . mcmillin , a white woman at her home here , was taken from the jail late tonight by a mob and lynched . a",mob,"form shortly after he began to was brought to jail and despite the pleadings of the county officials who promised a speedy trial the mob , shortly afterw d battered down the doors of the jail and securing patton hanged him to a phone pola tele"
522,14271_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1908,". mcmillin , a white woman at her home here , was taken from the jail late tonight by a mob and lynched . a mob form shortly after he began to was brought to jail and despite the pleadings of the county officials who promised a speedy trial the",mob,", shortly afterw d battered down the doors of the jail and securing patton hanged him to a phone pola tele"
523,14272_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"crime his of penalty negro murderer pays houston , miss . , february 9 . - roby bas kin , murderer of the rev . w . t . hud son , was lynched by a",mob,here this aft ernoon . a crowd of over 300 determined citizens took the negro from jail and hanged him to a nearby tree . not a shot was fired and the whole proceeding was conducted in a quiet but business- like fashion . sheriff bean of okolona arrived just
524,14272_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"negro breathed his last . the prisoner was secured without resistance and accepted his fate as a matter of course , sullen and without a word of entreaty or prayer . he was hanged from an elm tree within 200 yards of the coun ty jail . yesterday the same",mob,"gathered about the jail , intent on inflicting sum mary punishment . at the entreaty of the local county officials , who urged that ef forts made to secure a speedy trial * * * * * be . . . . . . . . . . . ."
525,14272_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"they would protect the negro with their lives , action was deferred , and a messenger sent to booneville , where judge a . o . sykes is holding court , with a request for a special term . this judge sykes declined to call , and today the same",mob,", reformed , went to the jail , where the ne gro was surrendered and the lynching was soon accomplished . the representatives of the sheriff here declare that they consider their action in surrendering the negro , in view of the refusal of the court to call a special"
526,14273_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"here tuesday that he was suspected of being the guilty party . the negro will be taken to lakeland to night . charley crumley , colored , who was ar rested tuesday night on suspicion , and who is now in jail at lakeland , had a narrow escape from",mob,"violence wednesday morning when was taken he from the lakeland jail and bound to a stake , oil poured upon his body and everything in readiness for applying the match when he was rescued by the sheriff and others , who begged the infuriated citizens to give crumley an opportunity"
527,14273_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"rescued by the sheriff and others , who begged the infuriated citizens to give crumley an opportunity of establishing his innocence , as he asserted he could do . two companies of state troops were sent from tampa to lakeland last night to crumley against further efforts of protect the",mob,to lynch him .
528,14274_1.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1912,". stops itching instantly ; cures per- manently . a few days after using the disease begins to disappear . price , $ 1 . gold in birmingham by jacobs ' macy and patton- pope drug co . phar- no effort has been made to determine who was in the",mob,that lynched the negro and there probably will be none . the victim of the negro was not seriously injured . the murdered man be buried today . will
529,14275_0.txt,"Arizona weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1891,"ortiz , who shot officer nash , of reno , nevada , was taken from the by a",mob,and hanged . jail been
530,14276_0.txt,"Arizona weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1892,"pay . at warner , ark . , a",mob,"lynched george harris ( colored , ) charged with the murder of parks last september . one"
531,14277_0.txt,"Arizona weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1894,"who escaped . a posse , who tried to arrest him , were waylayed by negroes , and one of the former killed and one wounded . one negro was killed , hree captured and others are hiding still . the entire region is wild with armed men . a",mob,"battered the jail and lyached the three negroes . the search for tue desperadoes vigorously proceeds , and if they are caught they will be lynched . ,"
532,14278_0.txt,"Arizona weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1896,"sullivan , ills . , feb . 12- an armed and organized",mob,"lynched grant atterburn , an alleged murderer , last night he had not been tried yet . ."
533,14279_0.txt,"Arizona weekly journal-miner (Prescott, Ariz.)",1896,"a cincinnati telegram says : ow- ing to the incendiary advertisement calling for 1000 men at court and sveamore streets at 8 : 30 o'clock this morning "" ready for work "" there was well- founded apprehension that a",mob,"was gathering to lynch the prisoners , jackson and walling , on the way from the jail to the police court . the crowd did assemble but a heavy relay of police was on hand and no concentration was permitted . the prisoners had been quietly removed to the city"
534,14286_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1898,lynched a dying prisoner . mortally wounded negro shot by,unmasked,"men . columbia , s . c . , jan . 4 . - samuel turner , a . negro , who last friday killed constable poston , and was him- self mortally wounded by the officer at johnsville , georgetown county , was shot death last night while being"
535,14286_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1898,lynched a dying prisoner . mortally wounded negro shot by,unmasked men,". columbia , s . c . , jan . 4 . - samuel turner , a . negro , who last friday killed constable poston , and was him- self mortally wounded by the officer at johnsville , georgetown county , was shot death last night while being broug"
536,14286_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1898,"instigating turner to resis- ance when officer poston summoned him to surrender , was threatened with lynching , and he has fled to georgetown for protection . turner was shot through the abdomen and was expected to die in a very short time . the men who killed him were",unmasked,. the coroner's jury found a verdict of killing by unknown ties . par-
537,14287_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1899,"shooting by unknown parties . the execution took place so quickly that none of the officials knew what was going on . clem , ga . , aug . 18 . - will mcclure , a negro aged 18 , was lynched a few miles from here this afternoon by",a party of,"citizens . the negro went to the house of george moore , a respectable farmer of carroll county , and attempted to assault mrs . moore . she screamed and assistance coming , the rapist was defeated in his purpose and captured . atlanta , ga . , aug ."
538,14290_0.txt,"Bisbee daily review (Bisbee, Ariz.)",1907,"alleged lynchers arrested . guthrie , may 7 . - a special from south mcalester says that six prominent merchants of durmit and col bert were arrested on the charge of leading the",mob,"which lynched jim williams , negro , at sterret , march 30 . the specific charge of murder has been brought against the men . the officers were roughly handled by the sympathizers , but no attempt made to free the prisoners . was"
539,14291_0.txt,"Bisbee daily review (Bisbee, Ariz.)",1917,garland city,mob,"lynches murder suspect garland city , ark . , july 30 . - andrew avery , a negro , was lynched on the main street here tonight . it was charged that had assaulted and robbed william woods he , a contractor ."
540,14292_0.txt,"Arizona daily citizen. (Tucson, Ariz. T...)",1901,", lynched , killed and their houses burned . blacks fleeing in every direction , terrible deeds follow the out and murder of a young rage white girl . pierce city , mo . , aug . 20 . - will god- ley , a negro was hanged by a",mob,last night for outraging and murdering miss caselle wild . jean carter ano.her negro confessed to being implicated and was riddled with bullets . george lark a rallroad porter was implicated by carter's confession and the mob will lynch him if he is captured . later the mob broke into
541,14292_0.txt,"Arizona daily citizen. (Tucson, Ariz. T...)",1901,"20 . - will god- ley , a negro was hanged by a mob last night for outraging and murdering miss caselle wild . jean carter ano.her negro confessed to being implicated and was riddled with bullets . george lark a rallroad porter was implicated by carter's confession and the",mob,will lynch him if he is captured . later the mob broke into the local arsenal and armed themselves with rifles . every negro residence in the city has been burned and every negro driven from town . negro named pete hampton is said to a have been cremated in
542,14292_0.txt,"Arizona daily citizen. (Tucson, Ariz. T...)",1901,by a mob last night for outraging and murdering miss caselle wild . jean carter ano.her negro confessed to being implicated and was riddled with bullets . george lark a rallroad porter was implicated by carter's confession and the mob will lynch him if he is captured . later the,mob,broke into the local arsenal and armed themselves with rifles . every negro residence in the city has been burned and every negro driven from town . negro named pete hampton is said to a have been cremated in his home and it is reported that two others were lynched
543,14294_0.txt,"The Dolores star (Dolores, Montez...)",1907,an interesting feature of the next republican national convention will be a reunion of the delegates who for 36 ballots voted for gen . grant or a third term at chicago in 1880 . six men alleged to be the leaders of the,mob,"that lynched a negro at sterrett , i . t . , march 31 , have been ar rested by united states marshals held on a charge of murder . and"
544,14295_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1920,"and herman arthur , tuesday night at paris , texas , is contained in a telegram received late today by acting governor johnson from the national association for the adancement of colored people . the telegram urged the governor to take immediate steps to apprehend and punish members of the",mob,which lynched the negroes . two texas national guard companies were ordered to paris today but the order was cancelled when the governor was notified local officers could contro the situation . the negroes are charged with killing white farmer and his son during a a dispute over money .
545,14295_1.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1920,"negro taken from sheriff and hung durnham , n . c . , july 7 . - taken from the county jail at roxboro by a",mob,"of more than 200 masked men after he had been arrested on a charge of attacking a 13- year- old while girl , e roach , 27 , a negro , was lynched today in a church yard . roach early was hanged to a tree limb with a chain"
546,14295_1.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1920,"negro taken from sheriff and hung durnham , n . c . , july 7 . - taken from the county jail at roxboro by a mob of more than 200",masked,"men after he had been arrested on a charge of attacking a 13- year- old while girl , e roach , 27 , a negro , was lynched today in a church yard . roach early was hanged to a tree limb with a chain instead of a rope ."
547,14295_1.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1920,"negro taken from sheriff and hung durnham , n . c . , july 7 . - taken from the county jail at roxboro by a mob of more than 200",masked men,"after he had been arrested on a charge of attacking a 13- year- old while girl , e roach , 27 , a negro , was lynched today in a church yard . roach early was hanged to a tree limb with a chain instead of a rope . as"
548,14295_1.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1920,"while girl , e roach , 27 , a negro , was lynched today in a church yard . roach early was hanged to a tree limb with a chain instead of a rope . as his body swung it was riddled with bullets . sheriff thompson pleaded with the",mob,to let the law take its course . the leader is said to have given the sheriff three minutes to leave the vi- left cinity of the jail . he .
549,14299_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1908,"providence , ky . , june 1 , 08 . - on decoration day while all were busy with the celebrations , a",mob,"went to the jail and secured jake mcdonald ( one of the men who saved a negro from being lynched that shot a policeman ) and killed him , then returned his body to the jail . it has stired up the whole community but as yet nothing has been"
550,14300_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1915,"courageous governor montgomery , ala . , jan . 7 . - declaring that the men composing the",mob,", which early on the morning of jan . 4th , took two negro prisoners from the elmore county jail and shot them to death , had brought reproach upon the state , and that such men never hesitate to bring the blush of shame to every honest and patriotic"
551,14300_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1915,"charged . they were charged with the murder of one d . a . still well , and were in custody of the law , and they were awaiting their trial . "" "" there was absolutely no justification for this lynching . if those who were executed by the",mob,"were guilty , speedy trials could have been secured and their guilt established under the due and orderly processes of the law . those who have undertaken to perform the functions of judge , jury and executioner have brought merited re- proach upon our state . the history of every"
552,14300_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1915,"have been secured and their guilt established under the due and orderly processes of the law . those who have undertaken to perform the functions of judge , jury and executioner have brought merited re- proach upon our state . the history of every state in the union shows that",mob,"or lynch law does not check , but only increase crime . there is absolutely no justification for lynch in alabama . law"
553,14301_1.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1908,"oxford , miss . , sept . 9 . - former united states senator w . v . sullivan is quoted as follows with ref erence to the lynching last night : "" i led the",mob,"which lynched nelse patton and i'm proud of it . i directed every movement of the mob and i did everything i could to see that he was lynched . "" cut a white woman's throat- and a negro . i would not mind standing the consequences any time for"
554,14301_1.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1908,". , sept . 9 . - former united states senator w . v . sullivan is quoted as follows with ref erence to the lynching last night : "" i led the mob which lynched nelse patton and i'm proud of it . i directed every movement of the",mob,"and i did everything i could to see that he was lynched . "" cut a white woman's throat- and a negro . i would not mind standing the consequences any time for lynching a man who cut a white woman's throat . i will lead a mob in such"
555,14301_1.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1908,"of the mob and i did everything i could to see that he was lynched . "" cut a white woman's throat- and a negro . i would not mind standing the consequences any time for lynching a man who cut a white woman's throat . i will lead a",mob,"in such a case any time . "" the coroner's jury which conducted the inquest over the body of the negro today declared in its verdict that death was at the of parties unknown to them . hands"
556,14302_0.txt,"The Elbert County tribune (Elbert, Elbert ...)",1915,"leo m . frank lynched hanged at marietta , ga . , near phagan home . warden , superintendent and guards of georgia state prison farm overpowered by",mob,". western newspaper union news service . milledgeville , ga.- a mob overpowered the warden , superintendent and guards of the georgia state prison farm near here at 11 o'clock monday night and quickly , got leo m . frank and rushed him away in an automo . bile ."
557,14302_0.txt,"The Elbert County tribune (Elbert, Elbert ...)",1915,"leo m . frank lynched hanged at marietta , ga . , near phagan home . warden , superintendent and guards of georgia state prison farm overpowered by mob . western newspaper union news service . milledgeville , ga.- a",mob,"overpowered the warden , superintendent and guards of the georgia state prison farm near here at 11 o'clock monday night and quickly , got leo m . frank and rushed him away in an automo . bile . first reports that it might be friends of frank were dispersed when"
558,14302_0.txt,"The Elbert County tribune (Elbert, Elbert ...)",1915,"prison farm near here at 11 o'clock monday night and quickly , got leo m . frank and rushed him away in an automo . bile . first reports that it might be friends of frank were dispersed when a prisoner said he had heard a mem ber of the",mob,"say that frank's body would be placed on the grave of mary fhagan at marietta . frank was serv- ing a life term for the murder of the p'rl . atlanta , ga . , aug . 18 . - leo m . frank was kidnaped from the state prison"
559,14302_0.txt,"The Elbert County tribune (Elbert, Elbert ...)",1915,"frank was kidnaped from the state prison farm at milledgeville , ga . , monday night and was lynched at marietta , ga . , the home of 15- year- old mary phagan , of whose murder he was convicted . reports received here say he was hanged by the",mob,"about five miles from milledgeville . the mob went to the prison and first put the warden and his assistant under guard in their homes , outside the prison walls . they then forced the stockade , awed the two guards and seized frank , who had just been discharged"
560,14302_0.txt,"The Elbert County tribune (Elbert, Elbert ...)",1915,"at milledgeville , ga . , monday night and was lynched at marietta , ga . , the home of 15- year- old mary phagan , of whose murder he was convicted . reports received here say he was hanged by the mob about five miles from milledgeville . the",mob,"went to the prison and first put the warden and his assistant under guard in their homes , outside the prison walls . they then forced the stockade , awed the two guards and seized frank , who had just been discharged from the prison hospital after recovering from the"
561,14302_1.txt,"The Elbert County tribune (Elbert, Elbert ...)",1915,georgia,mob,"lynches negro bainbridge , ga.- john riggins , a ne gro , 63 years old , was lynched here by a posse . he was accused of assault ing a woman who identified him as her assailant , ,"
562,14308_0.txt,"Norwich bulletin (Norwich, Conn.)",1916,,mob,"of 300 lynches negro . ocala , fla . , jan . 28 . - a mob of 300 white men tonight lynched richard anderson , a negro accused of attacking white woman near williston . a"
563,14308_0.txt,"Norwich bulletin (Norwich, Conn.)",1916,"mob of 300 lynches negro . ocala , fla . , jan . 28 . - a",mob,"of 300 white men tonight lynched richard anderson , a negro accused of attacking white woman near williston . a"
564,14311_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1900,,mob,"lynches two negroes citizens of rockport , ind avenge a murder . a white barber assassinated and robbed by the two negroes- run down by bloodhounds- brought to the jall and lynched- one shot to death in hts cell . owensboro , ky . , dec . 16 . -"
565,14311_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1900,"to the jall and lynched- one shot to death in hts cell . owensboro , ky . , dec . 16 . - jim henderson and bud rowland , negroes , were hanged at 8 o'clock to- night in the jail yard at rockport , ind . , by a",mob,"of 500 henderson and persons . rowland waylaid , murdered and then robbed r . s . simons , a white barber , early this morning . the two men were suspected and arrested and by the aid of a bloodhound their guilt was estab henderson was shot to death"
566,14312_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1899,a prisoner placed in his charge as he is for the property confided to his care . the case comes up on a suit for damages brought against an indiana sheriff by the administrator of the es tate of a man who had been taken from the sheriff by a,mob,"and lynched . it is alleged that the sheriff was careless and negligent , and permitted a mob to assemble and left the jail without a proper guard . on such a showing , ac cording to judge baker , the sheriff is civilly liable for resulting from a breach"
567,14312_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1899,"case comes up on a suit for damages brought against an indiana sheriff by the administrator of the es tate of a man who had been taken from the sheriff by a mob and lynched . it is alleged that the sheriff was careless and negligent , and permitted a",mob,"to assemble and left the jail without a proper guard . on such a showing , ac cording to judge baker , the sheriff is civilly liable for resulting from a breach of official damages duty ."
568,14315_1.txt,"Connecticut western news (Salisbury, Litc...)",1878,#NAME?,mob,"attempted to lynch him , and have not yet knitted together he will probably be tried in january . ."
569,14317_0.txt,Morning journal and courier (New Haven [Conn...),1891,"at 10 : 50 o'clock yesterday morning jim bailey , the negro who criminally assaulted mrs . folsom thursday at little rock , ark . , was taken from jail at that place by",mob,and hanged to a rail road crossing . a
570,14318_0.txt,Morning journal and courier (New Haven [Conn...),1884,"he deserved his fate . jacksonville 12 . - jones , fla . , sept . jackson , negro , brutally assaulted an aged white woman yesterday near oxford . late last night he was taken from the by a",masked,mob and lynched . officers
571,14318_0.txt,Morning journal and courier (New Haven [Conn...),1884,"he deserved his fate . jacksonville 12 . - jones , fla . , sept . jackson , negro , brutally assaulted an aged white woman yesterday near oxford . late last night he was taken from the by a masked",mob,and lynched . officers
572,14321_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1893,"a legislator a voluntary prisoner . memphis , oct . 17 . -g . w . mckie , a member of the mississippi legislature from marshall county , has surrendered to the sheriff at holly springs to escape the wrath of a",mob,"of negroes bent on lynch ing him . mckie shot and fatally wounded john dean , a negro employed on plantation , in a difficulty saturday . his"
573,14322_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1895,"march , st . louis 8 . - a special from",mob,"came to lynch the bank robber . adel , is . , says a mob of masked and well armed farmers mounted , on blanketed , rode into town and demanded of sheriff payne that he give them his pris- crawford oner , one of the men who robbed the"
574,14322_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1895,"march , st . louis 8 . - a special from mob came to lynch the bank robber . adel , is . , says a",mob,"of masked and well armed farmers mounted , on blanketed , rode into town and demanded of sheriff payne that he give them his pris- crawford oner , one of the men who robbed the bank . the sheriff refused and told the crowd that he would defend the pris"
575,14322_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1895,"march , st . louis 8 . - a special from mob came to lynch the bank robber . adel , is . , says a mob of",masked,"and well armed farmers mounted , on blanketed , rode into town and demanded of sheriff payne that he give them his pris- crawford oner , one of the men who robbed the bank . the sheriff refused and told the crowd that he would defend the pris ober with"
576,14322_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1895,"that he give them his pris- crawford oner , one of the men who robbed the bank . the sheriff refused and told the crowd that he would defend the pris ober with his after some parleying and promise from the shorts that he would a not crawford county the",mob,departed
577,14324_0.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,,mob,"is dispersed . after ahe unsuccessful pursuit of daniels in a motor procession to ottawa last night , members of the mob had dispersed , it is believed , since the procession as a unit has not returned to this city . sheriff eley escaped from the mob at ottawa"
578,14324_0.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"mob is dispersed . after ahe unsuccessful pursuit of daniels in a motor procession to ottawa last night , members of the",mob,"had dispersed , it is believed , since the procession as a unit has not returned to this city . sheriff eley escaped from the mob at ottawa and is under the care of a physician . he is suffering , it is understood , from two broken ribs and"
579,14324_0.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"mob is dispersed . after ahe unsuccessful pursuit of daniels in a motor procession to ottawa last night , members of the mob had dispersed , it is believed , since the procession as a unit has not returned to this city . sheriff eley escaped from the",mob,"at ottawa and is under the care of a physician . he is suffering , it is understood , from two broken ribs and numerous minor injuries . following the capture of the negro by a posse yesterday , after mrs . ba ber had been attacked in her home"
580,14324_0.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"and is under the care of a physician . he is suffering , it is understood , from two broken ribs and numerous minor injuries . following the capture of the negro by a posse yesterday , after mrs . ba ber had been attacked in her home , the",mob,"spirit began to develop throughout the countryside . eley expected trouble and quietly removed the prisoner to ottawa . he was la ter transferred another place . to while the sheriff was out of the city the mob stormed the jail , forced the sheriff's wife to open the cells"
581,14324_0.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"mrs . ba ber had been attacked in her home , the mob spirit began to develop throughout the countryside . eley expected trouble and quietly removed the prisoner to ottawa . he was la ter transferred another place . to while the sheriff was out of the city the",mob,"stormed the jail , forced the sheriff's wife to open the cells , over powered the police and held the city at its mercy . sheriff eley returned last night and the mob demanded that he tell where he had hidden daniels . when the sheriff refused , the crowd"
582,14324_0.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"was la ter transferred another place . to while the sheriff was out of the city the mob stormed the jail , forced the sheriff's wife to open the cells , over powered the police and held the city at its mercy . sheriff eley returned last night and the",mob,"demanded that he tell where he had hidden daniels . when the sheriff refused , the crowd turned their wrath upon him . he escaped from his home at the jail as the mob battered down the doors , but was captured at the elks ' home . he"
583,14324_0.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"police and held the city at its mercy . sheriff eley returned last night and the mob demanded that he tell where he had hidden daniels . when the sheriff refused , the crowd turned their wrath upon him . he escaped from his home at the jail as the",mob,"battered down the doors , but was captured at the elks ' home . he"
584,14324_1.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"noose around sheriff's neck . a rope was torn from a street car trolley and a noose was placed around eley's neck . he was told he would be hanged if he did not tell where his prisoner was , and the",mob,"tore his clothing from his body and kicked and beat him . chief of po lice mckinney was helpless and at tempted to deputize citizens to aid him in rescuing the sheriff , but the men refused to oppose the mob . eley finally surrendered to escape death , and"
585,14324_1.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"not tell where his prisoner was , and the mob tore his clothing from his body and kicked and beat him . chief of po lice mckinney was helpless and at tempted to deputize citizens to aid him in rescuing the sheriff , but the men refused to oppose the",mob,". eley finally surrendered to escape death , and the mob entered automobiles and started with the sheriff as a prisoner for ottawa , just as the fire depart ment was called out . the chemical trucks were run through the streets to disperse the mob on foot . when"
586,14324_1.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"his clothing from his body and kicked and beat him . chief of po lice mckinney was helpless and at tempted to deputize citizens to aid him in rescuing the sheriff , but the men refused to oppose the mob . eley finally surrendered to escape death , and the",mob,"entered automobiles and started with the sheriff as a prisoner for ottawa , just as the fire depart ment was called out . the chemical trucks were run through the streets to disperse the mob on foot . when the motor mob reached ottawa they found their prisoner gone ."
587,14324_1.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"refused to oppose the mob . eley finally surrendered to escape death , and the mob entered automobiles and started with the sheriff as a prisoner for ottawa , just as the fire depart ment was called out . the chemical trucks were run through the streets to disperse the",mob,on foot . when the motor mob reached ottawa they found their prisoner gone . and during the confusion sheriff eley of escaped . during the remainder the night it was momentarily expect that the mob would re- form in ed upon the return of the motor party lima .
588,14324_1.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,"finally surrendered to escape death , and the mob entered automobiles and started with the sheriff as a prisoner for ottawa , just as the fire depart ment was called out . the chemical trucks were run through the streets to disperse the mob on foot . when the motor",mob,reached ottawa they found their prisoner gone . and during the confusion sheriff eley of escaped . during the remainder the night it was momentarily expect that the mob would re- form in ed upon the return of the motor party lima .
589,14324_1.txt,"New Britain herald (New Britain, Co...)",1916,called out . the chemical trucks were run through the streets to disperse the mob on foot . when the motor mob reached ottawa they found their prisoner gone . and during the confusion sheriff eley of escaped . during the remainder the night it was momentarily expect that the,mob,would re- form in ed upon the return of the motor party lima .
590,14327_0.txt,Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1901,. montana in lynching jailer released prisoner at demand of 200,masked,"men . helena , mont , oct 2 . - james edward brady , who assauited ida pugsley , years old , in helena yesterday , was this morning , about 1 : 30 o'clock , taken from the jail by a mob and hanged to a telegraph pole in"
591,14327_0.txt,Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1901,. montana in lynching jailer released prisoner at demand of 200,masked men,". helena , mont , oct 2 . - james edward brady , who assauited ida pugsley , years old , in helena yesterday , was this morning , about 1 : 30 o'clock , taken from the jail by a mob and hanged to a telegraph pole in the"
592,14327_0.txt,Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1901,"jailer released prisoner at demand of 200 masked men . helena , mont , oct 2 . - james edward brady , who assauited ida pugsley , years old , in helena yesterday , was this morning , about 1 : 30 o'clock , taken from the jail by a",mob,and hanged to a telegraph pole in the haymarket square about three blocks from the jail . the crowd was orderly and after the man had been hanged quickly dispersed . there were about 200 men engaged in the affair and they were all masked . they attacked the jail
593,14327_0.txt,Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1901,from the jail by a mob and hanged to a telegraph pole in the haymarket square about three blocks from the jail . the crowd was orderly and after the man had been hanged quickly dispersed . there were about 200 men engaged in the affair and they were all,masked,. they attacked the jail door with a bat- tering ram and it soon yielded . on gaining admittance they demanded at the point of a gun the keys of the jailer and threatened if he did not yield the man they would kill him . the jailer then got
594,14327_0.txt,Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1901,it soon yielded . on gaining admittance they demanded at the point of a gun the keys of the jailer and threatened if he did not yield the man they would kill him . the jailer then got the man out of his cell and he was given to the,mob,". when they first took him brady asked : "" what is it , gentlemen ? "" the march to the hanging place was quiet . brady was given a chance to say a word . he declared that they had the wrong man , although he had been positively"
595,14327_1.txt,Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1901,"death was on saturday night , september 21 . the boys were taken from the jail and hung from the chesapeake and ohio tracks five hundred yards from the jail . the jailer refused to open the doors when the lynchers appeared , but they were tered down by the",mob,. bat
596,14328_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1903,"supposed murderer lynched . joplin , mo . , april 16 . - a negro supposed to have murdered policeman leslie was lynched by a",mob,"here . the negro was captured in a slaughter house , to from the jail by a mob and ."
597,14328_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1903,"supposed murderer lynched . joplin , mo . , april 16 . - a negro supposed to have murdered policeman leslie was lynched by a mob here . the negro was captured in a slaughter house , to from the jail by a",mob,and .
598,14330_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1900,", march 26 . - lewis harris colored ) , who was arrested here last ( night for committing a felonious assault ion miss annie mcllvaine , a recluse , was lynched to- night . sheriff kinart and his deputy fought to protect their prisoner , and fired into the",mob,"wounding two of them . they were overpowered , ."
599,14335_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,"carrollton , iii . , march 1 . - guarded by four companies of state militia to protect him from a",mob,"determined on lynch ing , albert shenkle , who , on december 25 last , assaulted the 16- year- old daughter of charles h . giller of carrollton , was early to- day taken from the county jail at springfield and brought to carrollton on a special chicago and alton"
600,14336_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,". , march 13 . - governor sayers will to- morrow send a special message to the legislature on the subject of the burning of the negro , john henderson , at corsicana to- day . he feels that the state has been greatly outraged by the act of the",mob,in lynching the prisoner and he will recommend vigorous legislation with the view of bringing the guilty members of the mob to justice and to protest against such crimes in state in the future . this . him upon sicana authorities imposed texas executive declares that cor- governor is indignant
601,14336_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,"of the burning of the negro , john henderson , at corsicana to- day . he feels that the state has been greatly outraged by the act of the mob in lynching the prisoner and he will recommend vigorous legislation with the view of bringing the guilty members of the",mob,to justice and to protest against such crimes in state in the future . this . him upon sicana authorities imposed texas executive declares that cor- governor is indignant .
602,14337_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1903,"henderson , texas , oct . 7 . - late last night",a party of,"young white men went to the home of bob willis , a negro , for the purpose of flogging him for some alleged offense , ot clearly stated . the negro warned them not to approach , but they continued advancing and the negro fired , killing charles brown ,"
603,14337_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1903,", ot clearly stated . the negro warned them not to approach , but they continued advancing and the negro fired , killing charles brown , a young man recently from georgia , and wounding a young man named . negro is in the hands of the gossett sheriff .",mob,member of . kills negro
604,14337_1.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1903,"nashville , tenn . , oct . 7 . - the grand jury of moore county has returned a joint indictment against twenty- two members of a",mob,"charged with lynching the negro , small , on the night of september 24 allen"
605,14342_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1907,murderer,mob,"hangs wife jan . 9 . charles city , iowa , james cullen was lynched here tonight for killing his wife . more than 1000 men helped to batter through the walls of the jail with steel rails to dragging him get at their prisoner . through the streets ,"
606,14342_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1907,"wife jan . 9 . charles city , iowa , james cullen was lynched here tonight for killing his wife . more than 1000 men helped to batter through the walls of the jail with steel rails to dragging him get at their prisoner . through the streets , the",mob,hanged despite resistance by the authorities him .
607,14345_1.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1909,"texas negro lynched rosebud , tex . , dec . 20 . - coke mills , a negro , who shot and fatally wounded city marshal williams today , was . tak en jail by a",mob,tonight and lynched from .
608,14346_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1892,"day in claiborne county , near cumberland gap , deputy thompson was shot and killed by a horse thief whom he was trying to capture . one horse thief was wounded and another captured , and both were brought to the gap , where it was reported early this morning",mob,was about to lynch them . a
609,14348_0.txt,Sacramento daily record-union (Sacramento [Cal...),1889,"ned gleason and thomas allison . he at once left the girls he had with him in charge of some neighbors and started after the others . after securing the other two girls without any serious trouble . he started back , but when about two miles from home a",mob,"took possession of him and strung him up to a tree . the old man was terribly strict with the girls . he would hardly let them out of his sight , and hence the elopement . he always bragged that he would not be both ered with lazy sons-"
610,14350_0.txt,The morning call (San Francisco [...),1891,"murderer negro lynched . jackson ( tenn . ) , july 26 . - john brown a negro , who shot and mortally wounded switchman gardner , was taken from the jail last night by a",mob,500 men and hanged to a tree in the court- of house yard .
611,14352_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,threatens to hang others the,mob,"threatens to return to the and hang four other jail negroes charges with murder . circult attorney arthur sager of st . louis was a witness of the tragedy . he slipped down into the cellar of the jail and cut off the gas , hoping to thus the mob"
612,14352_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"mob threatens to return to the and hang four other jail negroes charges with murder . circult attorney arthur sager of st . louis was a witness of the tragedy . he slipped down into the cellar of the jail and cut off the gas , hoping to thus the",mob,"and defeat its he was second too late as secure a the mob had the negroes . sheriff horner tried to argue with the mob , but it was determined and hoot ed and insulted , him . jailer king was assaulted when he refused to give up the keys"
613,14352_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"with murder . circult attorney arthur sager of st . louis was a witness of the tragedy . he slipped down into the cellar of the jail and cut off the gas , hoping to thus the mob and defeat its he was second too late as secure a the",mob,"had the negroes . sheriff horner tried to argue with the mob , but it was determined and hoot ed and insulted , him . jailer king was assaulted when he refused to give up the keys . he final ly gave the mob some keys which were not for"
614,14352_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"a witness of the tragedy . he slipped down into the cellar of the jail and cut off the gas , hoping to thus the mob and defeat its he was second too late as secure a the mob had the negroes . sheriff horner tried to argue with the",mob,", but it was determined and hoot ed and insulted , him . jailer king was assaulted when he refused to give up the keys . he final ly gave the mob some keys which were not for the negroes ' cell , and the mob was forced to smash"
615,14352_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"too late as secure a the mob had the negroes . sheriff horner tried to argue with the mob , but it was determined and hoot ed and insulted , him . jailer king was assaulted when he refused to give up the keys . he final ly gave the",mob,"some keys which were not for the negroes ' cell , and the mob was forced to smash in the iron bars . sheriff wilson crane of polk county was present and tried to induce the mob not to hang the negroes . the mob beside wrecking the jail attacked"
616,14352_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"to argue with the mob , but it was determined and hoot ed and insulted , him . jailer king was assaulted when he refused to give up the keys . he final ly gave the mob some keys which were not for the negroes ' cell , and the",mob,"was forced to smash in the iron bars . sheriff wilson crane of polk county was present and tried to induce the mob not to hang the negroes . the mob beside wrecking the jail attacked the sheriff's house , demolished the furniture and rendered the sheriff's wife unconscious by"
617,14352_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"he refused to give up the keys . he final ly gave the mob some keys which were not for the negroes ' cell , and the mob was forced to smash in the iron bars . sheriff wilson crane of polk county was present and tried to induce the",mob,"not to hang the negroes . the mob beside wrecking the jail attacked the sheriff's house , demolished the furniture and rendered the sheriff's wife unconscious by threats and violence . two months ago t . m . kinney , a . prominent tailor , was assaulted and two negro"
618,14352_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"he final ly gave the mob some keys which were not for the negroes ' cell , and the mob was forced to smash in the iron bars . sheriff wilson crane of polk county was present and tried to induce the mob not to hang the negroes . the",mob,"beside wrecking the jail attacked the sheriff's house , demolished the furniture and rendered the sheriff's wife unconscious by threats and violence . two months ago t . m . kinney , a . prominent tailor , was assaulted and two negro suspects are in jail . later an old"
619,14352_1.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,missouri,mob,"wreaks its terrible revenge demolish jall , take two colored youths suspected of assault , hang and roast them in public by associated press springfield , mo . , april 14 . - a mob tonight took two negroes from the county jail here and hanged them to the electric"
620,14352_1.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"missouri mob wreaks its terrible revenge demolish jall , take two colored youths suspected of assault , hang and roast them in public by associated press springfield , mo . , april 14 . - a",mob,"tonight took two negroes from the county jail here and hanged them to the electric tower in the center of the public square and built a fire under the men as they hung . the negroes were horace duncan and james copeland , both under 21 years of age ."
621,14352_1.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"telephone poles and sledge hammers literally tore the jail to pieces . final ly the two negro suspects were dragged from the place and taken to the cen ter of the public square and hanged . it is fully a mile from the jail to the square , and the",mob,"marched down one of the principal streets of the town , shouting and firing pistols . mabel edmondson came here recent from monett , mo . , to obtain employ ment as a domestic servant . last night she was riding in 8 buggy with charles cooper , of a"
622,14352_2.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1906,"culprit another lynch by associated press . springfield , 15 . will allen , a negro charged with the murder of a man named rourke , last january , was taken from jail by the",mob,"that lynched duncan and cope land , and hanged and roasted the public square . in"
623,14353_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1905,negro murderer lynched,mob,"jury disagrees and kentucky takes case into its own the hands press associated . by london , ky . , oct . 17 . - virgil bow ers , a negro , was taken from the county jail here last night and hanged to an apple tree on the road"
624,14353_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1905,"his knox county trial last week the jury disagreed , ten voting for the death penalty and two sentence . a second for a life trial by a jury brought from rock castle county rendered a verdict of life sentence , after ten jurors had voted for hanging . the",mob,is thought to have from knox county . come
625,14354_0.txt,"The record-union (Sacramento, Cal...)",1891,"over some trifling matter . the negro left , and procuring a shotgun , laid in ambush for burke , and when the latter came along shot and killed him . the negro was captured after a long chase . this evening hunter was forcibly taken from authorities by a",mob,and lynched . the
626,14355_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1907,persons two of slayer nebraska,mob,"hangs man who killed farmer and his wife taken from sheriff , hauled off on a dray strung up and by associated press . omaha , aug . 26 . - loris higgins , who murdered w . l . cripple , a farmer , and his wife , near"
627,14356_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1907,"ard threatened her life if she did not accede to his demands . when arrest ed sykes drew a revolver , but was over powered before he could use it . he was being removed to the county jail at hous ton when was taken from the officer by a",mob,he and hanged from a tree .
628,14357_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1909,and,mob,"lynches him negro attacks woman assault on wife of farmer at camden , fla . , frustrated by screams victim's jacksonville , fla . , may 9 . - mrs . john deas , wife of a prominent farmer at camden , was attacked today by a negro , who"
629,14357_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1909,"assault on wife of farmer at camden , fla . , frustrated by screams victim's jacksonville , fla . , may 9 . - mrs . john deas , wife of a prominent farmer at camden , was attacked today by a negro , who was captured later by a",c.mob,"of citizens and lynched . the woman's screams attracted her son , who went to her rescue , but the negro had escaped . when the sheriff reached the scene the mob had captured the negro , mrs . deas had identified him , his throat had been cut and"
630,14357_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1909,"prominent farmer at camden , was attacked today by a negro , who was captured later by a c.mob of citizens and lynched . the woman's screams attracted her son , who went to her rescue , but the negro had escaped . when the sheriff reached the scene the",mob,"had captured the negro , mrs . deas had identified him , his throat had been cut and his body riddled with lets . bul"
631,14360_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,found sensation was made in the course of the trial of the police officials charged with the murder of arroyo by the production of the confession of the late inspector general of police velasquez . it is a most remarkable attempt at self justification and makes the assertion that a,mob,the common people lynch ed arroyo . of
632,14362_0.txt,"The daily gazette (Wilmington, Del...)",1881,", then through the heart and once through the shoulder . bullock fell , gasped two or three times and died . ransom walked down the street and waited in front of the bank building until he was arres ' ed . he was followed to jail by an infuriated",mob,", crying "" lynch him , "" but no attempt was made to interfere with the officers . the feeling against ransom in the community night was very bitter . last"
633,14363_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1901,"jail and hanged . richmond , va . , july 2 . - the who attempted a criminal assault negro upon a young lady in brunswick county a few days ago was taken from the jail at lawrenceville sunday night by a and lynched . it is said there were",mob,dubts as to the man's guilt .
634,14364_0.txt,"Milford chronicle (Milford, Del.)",1911,oklahoma,mob,"lynched negro . a mob forced an entrance to the jail at valliant okla . . secured young negro and hanged him to tree at the fair grounds , near the town . the man was accused of at attacking a twelve- eyar- old girl ."
635,14364_0.txt,"Milford chronicle (Milford, Del.)",1911,oklahoma mob lynched negro . a,mob,"forced an entrance to the jail at valliant okla . . secured young negro and hanged him to tree at the fair grounds , near the town . the man was accused of at attacking a twelve- eyar- old girl ."
636,14365_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1914,police holds,mob,"governor sends baltimore detec- tives to kent county , md . , speedy trial for murderers chestertown , md . , dec . 29 . - gov . ernor goldsborough's prompt action yesterday in dispatching baltimore detectives to this town and promising to send state troops if needed , has"
637,14365_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1914,"authorities have , the situation well in hand . in reply to the governor's offer of state troops , state's attorney vickers wired : we can cope with present situation . if there should be no trial monday or if the judgment should not meet with the approval of the",mob,"we might have trouble . a . j . humphrey , ex- chief of the baltimore detective corps , yesterday succeeded in obtaining a confession from james paraway , one of the colored men . the prisoner broke down under the fear that he would be lynched and admitted that"
638,14365_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1914,"lynched and admitted that he struck coleman the fatal blow . he implicated norman mabel , who had made a previous confession . a force of baltimore policeman , headed by detective thomas hoganom guarded the jail last night , and were under instruction to shoot the leaders of any",mob,"attempting to lynch the prisoners . the grand jury will sit to- day in special session , when the accused men will go upon the stand themselves . the county authorities have promised a speedy trial . some of the leading citizens were among the close observers of the near-"
639,14365_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1914,"leading citizens were among the close observers of the near- lynching party saturday night , and they are determined that the prisoners shall not leave kent county , since the confession of mabel on fri day , paraway has been on the verge of making a statement . when the",mob,"stormed the jail he hid under his cot . under pressure of the detectives para- way told him mabel had held the horse while he struck coleman on the head with an iron bar . mabel robbed the victim . jarvis hynson , alias tom blake , one of the"
640,14365_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1914,"blake , one of the prisoners , is not believed to have been implic ted . he will be held , how ever , with the two others . the twelve detectives who were yesterday summoned from baltimore to chestertown to guard the prisoners in the chestertown jail from a",mob,"that strove to lynch them , passed through this city enroute to chestertown . when the detetives arrived in wilmington , they found that they would have to wait several hours for train connections , so they made their presence known to chief of police black , who entertained them"
641,14366_1.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1891,"ket a murderer lynched . re tember shelbyville , ind . , aug . 24 . - charles hawkins , a noted desparado , shot and fatally wounded city m rshal dan 4 p . bruce . a",mob,of men then took haw ception kins from the jail and hanged him . on
642,14367_0.txt,"Daily Republican ([Wilmington, De...)",1890,"at columbus , mississippi , yesterday whi'e grant anderson , colored , was on trial for an assault upor a 13- year- old girl , he was taken from the court room a",mob,and hanged from the nearest by tree .
643,14368_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1894,a desperado lynched . had murdered two men within two weeks . his last victim the sheriff . a,mob,"took him from the carried him to a bridge , fastened a ope about rb neck and compelled him to jump . no attempt at secrecy . lexington , ky . , oct . 15 . - another lynching was added to the unusually large fall series of blue grass"
644,14368_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1894,"a barrel and made a speech , in which he said the murderer must be hanged , but it must be done quietly and with perfect eures order . morton had killed two men in less than two weeks time , and he must die by the rope . a",mob,"was quickly formed and marched to the jail . the jailer was overpowered of and the keys to morton's cell obtained . he was found lying on the floor of his cell , and after a bitter struggle was seized and to dragged out . he then became impudent ,"
645,14368_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1894,"and marched to the jail . the jailer was overpowered of and the keys to morton's cell obtained . he was found lying on the floor of his cell , and after a bitter struggle was seized and to dragged out . he then became impudent , and told the",mob,"that he did not care what they did with him , provided they did their work quick . after a short parley he was taken to a little bridge some distance from the town , and the rope was placed around his neck . the leaders drew their guns and"
646,14368_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1894,"little bridge some distance from the town , and the rope was placed around his neck . the leaders drew their guns and 30 , told him to jump or else he would be rid- 6,80 , dled with bullets . 11.51 turning around the doomed man cursed and his",captors,", and uttering wild imprecations m . , leaped into space . the jump broke his for neck , and after dangling in the air for 5.00 some minutes he became still , and a volley n . of shots were fired into him . the mob m . ,"
647,14368_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1894,"cursed and his captors , and uttering wild imprecations m . , leaped into space . the jump broke his for neck , and after dangling in the air for 5.00 some minutes he became still , and a volley n . of shots were fired into him . the",mob,"m . , for , then dispersed , and the body was left dan 8.55 , gling from the bridge . day yester- 2,25 , day it was still there , but last evening was for 5.56 35 cut down . none of the mob made any at- for ."
648,14368_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1894,"fired into him . the mob m . , for , then dispersed , and the body was left dan 8.55 , gling from the bridge . day yester- 2,25 , day it was still there , but last evening was for 5.56 35 cut down . none of the",mob,"made any at- for . tempt to conceal their identity , and the express for of hanging was conducted with as much for form 8.40 mality as if it had been a legal affair . . the dead sheriff was only recently mar tions . 5.40 ried and leaves a"
649,14369_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1894,"lynched in the court house yard . scottsville , ky , july 17 . - marion howard , colored , was taken from the court house here by a",mob,"and hanged to a tree in the court house yard . howard was being tried on the charge of criminally assaulting 10- year- old beriah david son . howard was married , 34 years old but bore a bad character . ,"
650,14370_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1892,"lynching prevented . the sheriff of kent county , md . , fearing that an attempt would be opens made by a",mob,"to lynch the colored esting all men arrested for the murder of dr . visit hill at millington , took buck brooks , 9.30 8 . fletcher williams , perry bradshaw , and frisby comegys from the jail in bowman chestertown about 2 o'clock on friday and afternoon and placed"
651,14371_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1896,tennessee,mob,"awed by winchesters . nashville , sept . 18 . - a mob visited the obion county jail , at union city , yester day and demanded a negro prisoner named bill jones , whom it was the purpose of the mob to lynch . there was a force of"
652,14371_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1896,"tennessee mob awed by winchesters . nashville , sept . 18 . - a",mob,"visited the obion county jail , at union city , yester day and demanded a negro prisoner named bill jones , whom it was the purpose of the mob to lynch . there was a force of ten deputy sheriffs on guard in the jail who had been placed there"
653,14371_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1896,"tennessee mob awed by winchesters . nashville , sept . 18 . - a mob visited the obion county jail , at union city , yester day and demanded a negro prisoner named bill jones , whom it was the purpose of the",mob,"to lynch . there was a force of ten deputy sheriffs on guard in the jail who had been placed there in anticipation of the attack . this show of force was too ( much for the mob's courage , and when the deputies presented their winchesters the attacking party"
654,14371_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1896,"prisoner named bill jones , whom it was the purpose of the mob to lynch . there was a force of ten deputy sheriffs on guard in the jail who had been placed there in anticipation of the attack . this show of force was too ( much for the",mob's,"courage , and when the deputies presented their winchesters the attacking party quietly withdrew . jones , the prisoner , with his two brothers , stabbed to death city marshal jesse wal ter , of fulton , tenn . , some time ago , and was captured brought back from"
655,14372_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,", md . , june 10 . - will iam andrews , the young negro accused "" of felonious assault upon mrs . benjamin t . kelley , was taken from the gheriff here yesterday and beaten into insensibility , and then hanged to a tree , by an infuriated",mob,", immediately after having been arraigned in court . and sentenced to death for his crime . andrews , who was but 20 years old , came here from north carolina , and on may 5 of this year was arrested for assault on mrs . kelley . at the"
656,14372_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,"after having been arraigned in court . and sentenced to death for his crime . andrews , who was but 20 years old , came here from north carolina , and on may 5 of this year was arrested for assault on mrs . kelley . at the time a",mob,"endeavored to lynch him , but he was hurriedly taken to baltimore , and confined in the jail in that city until tuesday night , when he was brought i here for trial . during the night a number of men assembled and care fully planned yesterday's program . shortly"
657,14372_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,"the sheriff and his deputy were soon over powered , and then the maddened crowd pounced upon the negro , threw him to the ground and kicked him into complete insensibility . meanwhile a rope had been procured , and picking up the inanimate figure from the ground the infuriated",mob,"placed the rope around the neck of the dying man , and drag ging the body to a tree within a hundred yards of the courthouse door threw the rope over a limb and swung the body into the air . then a dozen bullets were fired into the body"
658,14374_0.txt,"The Cordova daily times (Cordova, Alaska)",1920,"( by associated press ) . - f . f . tennigkett , of auburn , ia . , has filed suit in the federal court for $ 80,000 damages against the sheriff of auburn county and his bondsmen , charging that the sheriff failed to protect him from a",mob,which almost lynched him for alleged german sympathies december 19 . on
659,14375_0.txt,"The Cordova daily times (Cordova, Alaska)",1923,crime orgy is confessed by negro eight murders and many assaults have been admitted,mob,"threatens lynching officers now guard jail against attempt lynching at waco , tex . . feb . 10 . - a series of crimes which have baffled the local police during the past year , has been cleared up by the confession of roy mitchell , a negro , who"
660,14375_0.txt,"The Cordova daily times (Cordova, Alaska)",1923,"assaults . from february 12th , 1922 , to january 19 , 1923 mitchell committed eight mur , - ders , three assaults with intent to murder , and a number of attacks on women , according to his own admission , made to sheriff leslie stegall . guard against",mob,"waco , feb . 10 . - the entire police force of the city and a company of national guardsmen are being mobil catchized today to defend the county jail 1 against the possible onslaughts of a , mob which has declared its intention of lynching mitchell . rangers on"
661,14375_0.txt,"The Cordova daily times (Cordova, Alaska)",1923,"own admission , made to sheriff leslie stegall . guard against mob waco , feb . 10 . - the entire police force of the city and a company of national guardsmen are being mobil catchized today to defend the county jail 1 against the possible onslaughts of a ,",mob,"which has declared its intention of lynching mitchell . rangers on the way austin , feb . 10 . - a detachment of state rangers was sent to waco to day on the order of governor neff , to assist in maintaining order in connection with any situation which arise"
662,14376_0.txt,"The Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1915,"the south for rape of white girl . nashville , tenn . , sept . 5 . -another of the unlawful acts which have terrorized this sec tion of the country in the past was perpetrated near here last night when mose gunn a negro , was lynched by a",mob,"of infuriated citizens of this city and the surrounding country . the rea son for the lynching was that the negro was accused of the rape of madge gilmer , a white girl 15 years of age . the crime is said to have been committed in one of the"
663,14376_0.txt,"The Alaska citizen. (Fairbanks, Alas...)",1915,"in a box car in a practically un conscious state . she was revived , however , sufficiently to disclose the identity of the man who had outraged her , and an immediate pursuit was organized . when found the colored man denied all knowledge of the crime . his",captors,", however , took him to the home of the girl and she positively identified him . the sheriff of the county was not notified that crime had been committed until it was all over . it is understood that there will be an investigation of the conditions surrounding the"
664,14378_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1904,"lynching . sheriff learned of an organized plan to lynch negroes and spirited them away hastily . - council bluffs , ia . , dec . 30 . - neely zimmerman and george burk , the negroes who monday night narrowly es caped lynching at the hands of an infuriated",mob,", were tuesday night taken to the state penitentiary at fort madison , ia . , for safe keeping . during the afternoon the men were taken be fore judge wheeler and waived preliminary examination . the judge then signed an order for their removal , and the men were"
665,14378_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1904,"of the city to a pitch of fever ish excitement , and this feeling was freely voiced on every street corner . monday night's experience and tues day's developments were sufficient to lead the authorities to the belief that a bold attempt would be made tuesday by a well- organized",mob,"to lynch the negroes , and they then decided to avoid all trouble by removing the cause a repetition of the disturbance . for"
666,14379_0.txt,"The log cabin Democrat (Conway, Ark.) 1908-current",1920,"lynching leaves 4 duluth peaceful my united pressl duluth , minn . , june 16 . - duluth to day is quiet following the lynching this morning of three negro roustabouts who assaulted a young white girl . the",mob,"which did the lynch ing dispersed soon after midnight , leaving its victims hanging near po lice headquarters . the negroes hanged were roustabouts with a circus , which is showing today at virginia , minn . eight other circus negroes were arrested at virginia in connection with the assault"
667,14379_0.txt,"The log cabin Democrat (Conway, Ark.) 1908-current",1920,"its victims hanging near po lice headquarters . the negroes hanged were roustabouts with a circus , which is showing today at virginia , minn . eight other circus negroes were arrested at virginia in connection with the assault , but four were released . it was feared the duluth",mob,"would go to virginia , and demand also that the four be surrendered for immediatel hanging . their assault of the young white girl was on the circus monday night . grounds"
668,14380_0.txt,"The log cabin Democrat (Conway, Ark.) 1908-current",1921,"say datura , texas ,",mob,"lynched negro ( by the associated press ) groesbeck , tex . , aug . 16 . - accord ing to reports received here today , alex winn , a negro , was hanged yesterday by a mob datura , near groesbeck . at"
669,14380_0.txt,"The log cabin Democrat (Conway, Ark.) 1908-current",1921,"say datura , texas , mob lynched negro ( by the associated press ) groesbeck , tex . , aug . 16 . - accord ing to reports received here today , alex winn , a negro , was hanged yesterday by a",mob,"datura , near groesbeck . at"
670,14381_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1910,militia is in control negro prisoner cairo,mob,"wanted is given a 14- year sentence in pen . indictment and sentence took less than an hour of the court's time when it was brought up for trial . cairo , ii . , feb . 18 . - with three companies of militia guarding the court house and"
671,14381_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1910,the streets and in the vi inity of the jail but no crowd is al- lowed to congregate . threats have been made against sheriff fred d . nellis for the killing alexander halliday early this morning by his deputies and the wounding of four others in battling back the,mob,"that attempted to lynch a negro purse , but presence of the soldiers is snatcher having a satisfactiry effect in preventing further demonstrations . a third company was asked by the sheriff this afternoon and company m , of champaign , 111 . , was ordered out and arrived here"
672,14381_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1910,"is snatcher having a satisfactiry effect in preventing further demonstrations . a third company was asked by the sheriff this afternoon and company m , of champaign , 111 . , was ordered out and arrived here at 6 : 30 o'clock . john pratt , the negro , the",mob,"in tended to lynch and who was given an indeterminate sentence of not more than fourteen years in the chester penitentiary on each of two charges of robbery this afternoon , will be taken secretly to the prison at 5 o'clock to morrow with twelve other convicted special train ."
673,14381_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1910,", "" he said tonight , "" when some one fired a shot in the crowd . "" my deputies , watching the parley from a second story window , thought i fired a shot as a signal . they then fired a volicy into the air . "" the",mob,refused to retreat and my deputies then fired into the crowd . you know the result . my conscience is easy over the entire affair . they were determined to get me unless i go them . i did my duty by protect ing my prisoners at any price .
674,14381_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1910,"oust ed is unconstitutional . "" i may have paid a pretty good price to hold a job i may lose in the courts , "" said nellis tonight . a dozen token windows in the courthouse teday showed the resu't of the shots fred into the building by the",mob,", but no serious damage was done . sheriff nellis received a slight flesh wound in the hand . all the party with him in the jail escaped injury . there were six negroes in the party of fourteen armed deputies that defended the jail with nellis , he says"
675,14381_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1910,"by militiamen after he called one of them , it is alleged , an insulting name . he was lodged in jail on a charge of disorderly conduct . the commercial club and the chamber of commerce tonight at a joint meeting issued a proclamation decrying the recent acts of",mob,"violence and urging the citizens to rally to the support of their civil officials . an investigation by state militia officers as to the delay of company k . of cairo , in reporting for duty is possible , although adjutant general dick son said he had not time to"
676,14382_1.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1911,"tim demonstration and peasants make sack bakeries . lillie france , aug . 29 . - the move . ment agains : the high price of food continued to spread rapidly in south the belgium and in many places movement degenerated into serious ricting . at billy- montigny , a",mob,"at tacked a baker , who seriously shot a youth . his establishment was sacked . reinforcements of gendarmes arrived on in time to rescue the baker from lynched . two gendarmes were being badly hurt ."
677,14383_0.txt,"Newport weekly independent. (Newport, Ark.)",1903,a,mob,"held at bay . frederick kriselmeyer saved from the vengeance of a mob in brooklyn by police . had shot his wife and stepdaughter the latter thought to be fatally wounded , but mrs . kriselmeyer will probably recover- the murderous deeds were prompted by jealousy . - new york"
678,14383_0.txt,"Newport weekly independent. (Newport, Ark.)",1903,a mob held at bay . frederick kriselmeyer saved from the vengeance of a,mob,"in brooklyn by police . had shot his wife and stepdaughter the latter thought to be fatally wounded , but mrs . kriselmeyer will probably recover- the murderous deeds were prompted by jealousy . - new york , july 21 . - only by draw ing their revolvers and threatening"
679,14383_0.txt,"Newport weekly independent. (Newport, Ark.)",1903,"the latter thought to be fatally wounded , but mrs . kriselmeyer will probably recover- the murderous deeds were prompted by jealousy . - new york , july 21 . - only by draw ing their revolvers and threatening to shoot to kill did several brooklyn po lice prevent a",mob,"from wreaking vengeance on frederick kriselmeyer after he had shot his wife and his stepdaughter . up to the doors of the hamburg avenue police station , the clamoring mob went crying "" lynch him , "" and it was necessary to call out the reserves . kriselmeyer was so"
680,14383_0.txt,"Newport weekly independent. (Newport, Ark.)",1903,"- only by draw ing their revolvers and threatening to shoot to kill did several brooklyn po lice prevent a mob from wreaking vengeance on frederick kriselmeyer after he had shot his wife and his stepdaughter . up to the doors of the hamburg avenue police station , the clamoring",mob,"went crying "" lynch him , "" and it was necessary to call out the reserves . kriselmeyer was so badly beaten before the policemen res cued him that it was necessary to call an ambulance . although he is 60 years old , krisel meyer was driven to the"
681,14383_0.txt,"Newport weekly independent. (Newport, Ark.)",1903,"is thought the daughter is fatally wounded . returning from the house after the shooting , kriselmeyer was surrounded by neighbors , who beat him down . he escaped , but was again surround ed , a policeman finally reached his side , and revolver in hand , held the",mob,"back until aid was secured . the crowd followed , however , until the had been safely locked up . prisoner"
682,14384_0.txt,"The Dermott news. (Dermott, Ark.)",1915,frank's ring restored victim of,mob,"asked that it be sent widow . unidentified messenger delivers it to atlanta newspaper- mother asks forgiveness . atlanta , georgia . was leo m . frank's last request that the wed ding ring he wore be delivered to his wife . it is in the hands of o ."
683,14384_0.txt,"The Dermott news. (Dermott, Ark.)",1915,"he wore be delivered to his wife . it is in the hands of o . b . keeler , a member of the staff of an atlanta newspaper , who a resident , however , of marrietta . a messenger , supposed to be a mem ber of the",mob,"of lynchers , delivered the little gold circlet at keeler's home wednesday night with the following note : "" frank's dying request was that his wedding ring be given to his wife . will you not see that this request is carried out ? "" this note will be delivered"
684,14385_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1916,"had been heard , crying out : "" they tri d to murder me in there . "" watts was dead and moss shot frough the head . the latter recove "" ed and was the state's star witness against mcdarment . following commission of the crime . citizens ormed",mob,"to lynch the young school teacher , who was smuggled over bad roads into the musko gee jail . teachers throughout the state con tribute to a fund to employ a great array of criminal law experts to aid mcdarment . these lawyers left here last night when the cas"
685,14386_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1900,emporia finally has the lynching negro and white man strung up by the,mob,". soldiers had just gone - the crowd who tried to protect o'grady were overcome- some doubt as to his guilt murder avenged richmond , va . , march 24 . - the series of exciting events in greensville county the past week culminated today in a double lynching at"
686,14386_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1900,"- the series of exciting events in greensville county the past week culminated today in a double lynching at emporia . both cotton , the negro , who , according to his confession , killed saunders and welton , and o'grady , the white man , were hanged by a",mob,", variously estimated at from 1,500 to 2,000 strong . this morning the sheriff of the county discharged from duty the military that had been sent from this city at his re quest , and major cutchins , in command of the troops , notified governor tyler , stat ing"
687,14386_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1900,"unprotected by the military they would be lynched . the governor replied as follows : "" the sole responsibility is on the sher iff . if the orders you to withdraw , you can do nothing but obey . we have done everything possible to uphold the law and prevent",mob,"violence , and are still pre pared to render any aid necessary . have recalled train with captain cheatwood's company , and will again dismiss them . arrange with railroad to bring your back . "" men accordingly , major cutchins entrained his men and started for richmond . this"
688,14386_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1900,"pre pared to render any aid necessary . have recalled train with captain cheatwood's company , and will again dismiss them . arrange with railroad to bring your back . "" men accordingly , major cutchins entrained his men and started for richmond . this was about 11 o'clock .",mob,"goes to work hardly was the special out of sight when a mob entered the jail , took cotton , hanged him to the limb of a tree and fired several bullets into his body . later , despite the protests of cooler heads , who claimed that the guilt"
689,14386_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1900,"cheatwood's company , and will again dismiss them . arrange with railroad to bring your back . "" men accordingly , major cutchins entrained his men and started for richmond . this was about 11 o'clock . mob goes to work hardly was the special out of sight when a",mob,"entered the jail , took cotton , hanged him to the limb of a tree and fired several bullets into his body . later , despite the protests of cooler heads , who claimed that the guilt of the white man had not been established , an other crowd ,"
690,14386_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1900,", were discharged by the judge and left town . at last accounts the town had resumed its wonted quietude . governor taylor said this evening : "" i feel that i have done all i could in the matter . the civil authorities stated that they could handle the",mob,"without military assistance and when the sheriff ordered major cutchens to depant , there was noth ing left for him to do but go . "" i am greatly distressed at the result , but i could not keep the soldiers there without declaring martial law , and i did"
691,14387_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,anniston free from,mob,"spirit tread of the soldier still heard but all is quiet baker may be wrong man crowd which formed the mob was not composed of anniston peo ple , but came from the surrounding county . by howard s . williams . anniston , november 8 . - ( special"
692,14387_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,anniston free from mob spirit tread of the soldier still heard but all is quiet baker may be wrong man crowd which formed the,mob,"was not composed of anniston peo ple , but came from the surrounding county . by howard s . williams . anniston , november 8 . - ( special . ) - the measured tread of marching soldiers is still heard in anniston tonight , but everything is quiet and"
693,14387_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,"is quiet and orderly . the negro , baker , suspected of being the person who , on wednesday afternoon , assaulted mrs . williams , occupies a cell in the county jail which is guarded by soldiers of the alabama national guard . no attempts were made by any",mob,"today to take the negro from the jail . the crowd which brought baker here friday morning was composed of men who live in the vicinity of alexandria , seven miles from anniston and the scene of the crime . the story of how a negro entered the home of"
694,14387_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,"out the troops . this was done , the governor in replying say ing that he would hold sheriff woodruff responsible for the life of the negro . the officer made a bold stand , and told the crowd they would not get the prisoner . this is where the",mob,"spirit began , for the other crowd had gone away when it was understood mrs . williams i could not identify baker . the anniston rifles were ordered un der arms , and at once assembled in their armory . next orders were given to the calhoun rifles of oxford"
695,14387_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,"larger . at 4 o'clock in the afternoon the an niston company reported at the jail , as the crowd there was growing larger . in an hour more the calhoun rifles re ported . the crowd would not fall back , and it was necessary to charge on the",mob,"with bayonets . this had its effect , and the people fell back . orders were sent to the talladega and gadsden rifles an dthey arrived about 8 o'clock . the gadsden company was met by a crowd at the depot , but no trouble resulted . at 10 o'clock"
696,14387_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,"the jail , the warden's quarters and the city hall , a half a block away . they march by companies to their meals at a hotel , four blocks from the jail . the better class of people of annis ton and calhoun county deplore the fact that a",mob,"gathered here to try to lynch a man , especially as he had not even been identified . the crowd was made up of the rougher element of the town , it is said , and some of them became ex cited and drew on their imaginations . most of"
697,14389_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,: english is said to be spreading rapidly through the philippines . so we imagined from the faint rumors of official corruption that now and then reach us between times . * * * chattanooga news : the governor of deleware can do nothing in the way of punishing the,mob,"that lynched the negro at wilmington . however , the south would like to see him try his hand at the task . louisville courier- journal : ex- senator billy mason is out with the announce ment of his future platform . it is his intention , he says ,"
698,14389_1.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"other states . two very sensational lynching cases have recently occurred- the one at belleville , in illinois , and the other near wilmington , in delaware , both of which are now considered northern states . in both hundreds , if not thousands , of boys participated in the",mob,"proceedings . in both the victim was burned to ashes . in both states efforts are being made to punish the ringleaders of the lynching bees . says the charleston news and courler : "" we have no reproaches for the people of illinois , however . they will find"
699,14389_1.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"the lynching bees . says the charleston news and courler : "" we have no reproaches for the people of illinois , however . they will find that the lynching habit will grow upon them , as it has grown upon the people of the commonwealths which have permitted the",mob,"to take the place of the law . the lynching of men in the south for one offence has been followed by the lynching of men for other offences , and so it will be in illinois if the public sentiment of that state is not aroused to the dangerous"
700,14389_1.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"was cre ated by the refusal of the trial court to inconvenience itself by hearing the cas : at once . the weather is becom ing warm , and the trial judge preferred a vacation to a murder trial . this precipitated in delaware , as it would elsewhere ,",mob,"action . the judge put the case over until october , although the crime was a most brutal one , and he knew the community was deeply stirred by it . the horrible af fair lies at his door , or rather at the door of the law that permits"
701,14389_1.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"case should be heeded in this state . the bilbro bill , which would keep all the trial courts open all the time , is sad ly needed , and the legislature should not adjourn in september until it has given us this last and permanent and complete remedy against",mob,"rule . if the law is to be supreme in all cases and at all times , then we must have hand a court ready to act , and this . is at what the bilbro bill will supply ."
702,14390_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,", who had sworn in twenty- five deputies to guard the brute , william hamilton , a well- to do farmer , the self- confessed outrager and brutal murderer of little mabel rich ards , was forcibly taken from the asotin county jail shortly after midnight and lynched by a",mob,"of over 1000 men , which had been congregating all day from all parts of asotin county . all night long the feeling that hamilton should be strangled grew in volume . there were those that thought the wretch should be tortured , but it was finally agreed that vengeance"
703,14390_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"all night long the feeling that hamilton should be strangled grew in volume . there were those that thought the wretch should be tortured , but it was finally agreed that vengeance would be satisfied by blotting out the life of the beast . about 12 : 15 o'clock twenty",masked,"men , their faces concealed by handkerchiefs , marched in an orderly manner up the streets toward the jail . when they got within sight the guards called them to halt . the answer from the masked men was to throw the guards to the ground . the keys were"
704,14390_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"all night long the feeling that hamilton should be strangled grew in volume . there were those that thought the wretch should be tortured , but it was finally agreed that vengeance would be satisfied by blotting out the life of the beast . about 12 : 15 o'clock twenty",masked men,", their faces concealed by handkerchiefs , marched in an orderly manner up the streets toward the jail . when they got within sight the guards called them to halt . the answer from the masked men was to throw the guards to the ground . the keys were taken"
705,14390_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"out the life of the beast . about 12 : 15 o'clock twenty masked men , their faces concealed by handkerchiefs , marched in an orderly manner up the streets toward the jail . when they got within sight the guards called them to halt . the answer from the",masked,"men was to throw the guards to the ground . the keys were taken from the guards , the jail were entered and finally entrance was affected into the jail proper . meanwhile another company of masked men , about eighty in number , had march ed up the the"
706,14390_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"out the life of the beast . about 12 : 15 o'clock twenty masked men , their faces concealed by handkerchiefs , marched in an orderly manner up the streets toward the jail . when they got within sight the guards called them to halt . the answer from the",masked men,"was to throw the guards to the ground . the keys were taken from the guards , the jail were entered and finally entrance was affected into the jail proper . meanwhile another company of masked men , about eighty in number , had march ed up the the street"
707,14390_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"within sight the guards called them to halt . the answer from the masked men was to throw the guards to the ground . the keys were taken from the guards , the jail were entered and finally entrance was affected into the jail proper . meanwhile another company of",masked,"men , about eighty in number , had march ed up the the street and taken posses sion of the entrance of the jail . with these men none attempted to interfere . they kept back the crowd , which had filled the streets all night waiting for the lynching"
708,14390_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"within sight the guards called them to halt . the answer from the masked men was to throw the guards to the ground . the keys were taken from the guards , the jail were entered and finally entrance was affected into the jail proper . meanwhile another company of",masked men,", about eighty in number , had march ed up the the street and taken posses sion of the entrance of the jail . with these men none attempted to interfere . they kept back the crowd , which had filled the streets all night waiting for the lynching ,"
709,14390_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,the lynchers and hamilton reach ed the corner of first and fillmore streets they halted under a guy wire which crosses the street and adjoins electric light poles . here one of the leaders asked hamilton if he wanted to con fess . he did so . some of the,mob,"thought hanging too good for him and wanted to torture the brute , but the original programme vailed and it was decided to hang him pre ."
710,14391_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,"lynch black murderer negroes and white men shreveport , november 2 . - joseph crad- dock , a negro . was lynched by an infuri- ated",mob,"composed chiefly of blacks , at taylortown , in bossier parish , about seventeen miles from shreveport last night . craddock's crime was a particularly atrocious one . he secured an axe and approaching the home of wesley chamber , a negro cotton picker , called to him to come"
711,14392_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1900,". - three negroes who had been arrested by sheriff haywood for waylaying and attempting to kill mr . stallcup , were taken from the jail last night by unknown parties and hanged to the railroad bridge across cypress bayou . the negroes had confessed to the crime . the",mob,that did the hanging over powered the jailer and cut the telephone line that the jailer could not communicate so with the sheriff .
712,14393_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,tennessee,mob,"hangs negro . nashville , february 6 . - euless whitaker , colored , charged with the murder of john doster several weeks ago , was taken from jail in lynchburg last night and hanged by a mob . whitaker's case was called in court yesterday and continued . at"
713,14393_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,"tennessee mob hangs negro . nashville , february 6 . - euless whitaker , colored , charged with the murder of john doster several weeks ago , was taken from jail in lynchburg last night and hanged by a",mob,". whitaker's case was called in court yesterday and continued . at a late hour the mob appeared and securing possession of the negro , hur ried him to the court house where a rope was placed around his neck and he swung off . was"
714,14393_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1902,", february 6 . - euless whitaker , colored , charged with the murder of john doster several weeks ago , was taken from jail in lynchburg last night and hanged by a mob . whitaker's case was called in court yesterday and continued . at a late hour the",mob,"appeared and securing possession of the negro , hur ried him to the court house where a rope was placed around his neck and he swung off . was"
715,14395_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,". "" little rock charges johnstone with having swindled that city out of the league pennant in 1902 . "" red "" wright , then first baseman for little rock , knock ed the umpire down during the progress of a game between the travelers and nash ville , and",mob,"desired to lynch the fallen czar a . therefore , the arkansas kindness for johnstone is not any too extensive . in 1902 , the race between little rock and nashville for the pennant was most keen . it was known , after the home stretch had been reached ,"
716,14395_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"after the beginning of the first game , johnstone decided a close point against little rock , and "" red "" wright , stepping rapidly across the field , knocked him down . the umpire forfeited the game to nashville , was arrested , and put in jail . a",mob,"formed , and had the umpire appeared on the streets , he would probably have been lynched . nashville won the pennant by one point . it is remarkable that just four years ago the two teams now fighting it out for sub way honors , were then scrapping all"
717,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,the slightest preparazion to resist the,mob,"; the absence of all of the deputies except gibson from the jail during the mob's proceedings , occupy a period of some hours in the early evenings ; the ac tion of shipp in not resisting the mob , and not making any reasonable attempt to save johnson or"
718,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,the slightest preparazion to resist the mob ; the absence of all of the deputies except gibson from the jail during the,mob's,"proceedings , occupy a period of some hours in the early evenings ; the ac tion of shipp in not resisting the mob , and not making any reasonable attempt to save johnson or to identify an of the members of the mob , justify an inference of a disposition"
719,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"the slightest preparazion to resist the mob ; the absence of all of the deputies except gibson from the jail during the mob's proceedings , occupy a period of some hours in the early evenings ; the ac tion of shipp in not resisting the",mob,", and not making any reasonable attempt to save johnson or to identify an of the members of the mob , justify an inference of a disposition on his part to render it easy for the mob to lynch johnson and to acquiesce in the lynch ing . "" sheriff"
720,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"except gibson from the jail during the mob's proceedings , occupy a period of some hours in the early evenings ; the ac tion of shipp in not resisting the mob , and not making any reasonable attempt to save johnson or to identify an of the members of the",mob,", justify an inference of a disposition on his part to render it easy for the mob to lynch johnson and to acquiesce in the lynch ing . "" sheriff made no effort . the chief justice declared that after johnson was taken from the jail the sher iff had"
721,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"the early evenings ; the ac tion of shipp in not resisting the mob , and not making any reasonable attempt to save johnson or to identify an of the members of the mob , justify an inference of a disposition on his part to render it easy for the",mob,"to lynch johnson and to acquiesce in the lynch ing . "" sheriff made no effort . the chief justice declared that after johnson was taken from the jail the sher iff had made no effort to go after the lynchers or to reach the police or militia , or"
722,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,three blocks to the police station and got the police . no attempt was nade to summon a posse . he sent no one after deputies . he made no effort to send any one for help . although shipp was in the midst or near the members of the,mob,"for about an hour he did not seek to obtain information so th could identify any of them and . he testi fles that he does not know any member of the mob . "" reaching his conclusion with reference to shipp the chief justice said it wa "" that"
723,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,any one for help . although shipp was in the midst or near the members of the mob for about an hour he did not seek to obtain information so th could identify any of them and . he testi fles that he does not know any member of the,mob,". "" reaching his conclusion with reference to shipp the chief justice said it wa "" that shipp not only made the work of the mob easy , but in effect , aided and abetted it . "" the court found jailer gibson to be involved in the same condemnation"
724,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"to obtain information so th could identify any of them and . he testi fles that he does not know any member of the mob . "" reaching his conclusion with reference to shipp the chief justice said it wa "" that shipp not only made the work of the",mob,"easy , but in effect , aided and abetted it . "" the court found jailer gibson to be involved in the same condemnation though under less responsibility . consequently attachments were ordered to be issued for both the sheriff and his deputy , the jailor , as they were"
725,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,": "" the assertion that violence was not expected and that there was no occasion for providing more than the usual guard of one man for the jail in chattanooga are quite anreasonable and inconsistent with statements made by sheriff shipp and his deputies that they were looking for a",mob,"on the next day . "" the chief justice pointed out that the ail had been left entirely un guarded and in charge of deputy son when every precaution to guard the prisoner should have been taken . history of the case . chattanooga , may 21 . - abeut"
726,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"to be hanged . judge 8 . d . mcreynolds sentenced him 1 . ang on march 17 . to after johnston's trial , two local col- contrary to testimony . "" it seems to us that to say that the sheriff and his deputies did not anticipate that the",mob,"would attempt to lynch johnson on the night of the 19th is to charge them with gross neglect of duty , and with an ignorance of conditions in a matter which vitally concerned them all as officers and is directly contrary to their own testimony . it is absurd to"
727,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"19th or early in the morning of the 20th "" in view of this shipp's failure to . make sheriff shipp to be punished for lynching ( continued from page 1 ) days after the lynching in which shipp said that he did not attempt to hurt any of the",mob,", "" and in which he charged the supreme court with the responsibility for the lynching because of its interfer ence in the case . commenting on this utterance , the chief justice said : "" he evidently resented the necessary order of this court as an alien intra sion"
728,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"at it . ' in other words his view was that because this court in the discharge of its duty , entered the order which it did , that therefore the people of hamilton county would not submit to its mandate , and hence the court became responsible for the",mob,". he took the view expressed by several members of the mob on the afternoon of the 19th and before the lynching when they said , referring to the supreme court that they had no business interfering with our business at all . ' his reference to the people '"
729,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"this court in the discharge of its duty , entered the order which it did , that therefore the people of hamilton county would not submit to its mandate , and hence the court became responsible for the mob . he took the view expressed by several members of the",mob,"on the afternoon of the 19th and before the lynching when they said , referring to the supreme court that they had no business interfering with our business at all . ' his reference to the people ' was significant for he was a candidate for re election and had"
730,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,", referring to the supreme court that they had no business interfering with our business at all . ' his reference to the people ' was significant for he was a candidate for re election and had been told that his sav ing the prisoner from the first attempt to",mob,him would cost him his place and he had answered that he wished mob had got him before he did . the
731,14397_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,business at all . ' his reference to the people ' was significant for he was a candidate for re election and had been told that his sav ing the prisoner from the first attempt to mob him would cost him his place and he had answered that he wished,mob,had got him before he did . the
732,14399_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,"so stirred as it is at this time , and while the belief at first obtained that if the murderer was caught he would be given a short shift , yet it is now thought that judge mclean's promise of an immediate trial at this term of court may prevent",mob,violence . great sorrow is expressed for the parents who have been called upon to suffer the loss of their daughter at the hands of some fiend whose identity has not yet been disclosed . a report has it that the young lady was assaulted before she met her death
733,14400_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,"negro is lynehed macon , ga . , november 7 . - a negro named walker , who killed marshal charles bush of montzeuma , ga . . two weeks ago , was taken from the maçon county jail by a",mob,and lynched about 9 : 30 tonight . his body was strung up over the water from the flint river bridge . walker had only been cap two hours . tured about 101
734,14401_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1911,"night the negro's father , by a ruse entered the house with other negroes and overpowered him . the posse then rushed in , bound marshall and brought him here to jail , the citizens of two counties are aroused over the atrocious deed and it is reported that a",mob,"will attempt to lynch the negro tonight . court convenes here tomorrow and the authorities are trying to induce the angry citizens to let the law take its course , promising that the negro will be tried temorrow . mrs . chaplan was 22 years old . she was on"
735,14401_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1911,"chaplan was 22 years old . she was on her way to the spring when ac costed by the negro who covered her with the gun until he had accomplished his purpose . warrenton , n . c . , september 17 . - while there are rumors of a",mob,"ready to lynch george marshall , the negro accused of assaulting mrs . joseph chaplin , it is the guard is sufficient to repel believed an attack tonight ."
736,14402_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1911,negro lynched by georgia,mob,"eastman , ga . . october 5 . - frank mack , a negro chauffeur from dublin , was lynched near here late last night by a mob composed of unknown parties , for attempted criminal assault on the wife of a well known planter of dodge coun ty ."
737,14402_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1911,"negro lynched by georgia mob eastman , ga . . october 5 . - frank mack , a negro chauffeur from dublin , was lynched near here late last night by a",mob,"composed of unknown parties , for attempted criminal assault on the wife of a well known planter of dodge coun ty . the . negro was frustrated in his at tempts by the arrival of several negroes , attracted from a field nearby by the woman's screams . after a"
738,14402_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1911,"was frustrated in his at tempts by the arrival of several negroes , attracted from a field nearby by the woman's screams . after a chase of several hours mack , was captured about five miles north of here and while returning with officers was taken in charge by a",mob,"at gum camp . the negro was taken from the officers , tied to a pine tree near the road and his body riddled with bullets . the coroner's jury returned a verdict that mack came to his death at the of unknown parties . hands"
739,14403_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1912,"0000000000 boooooooooooo lo four negroes lynched by hamilton , ga . ,",mob,"o hamilton , ga . , january 22 . - a mob of 100 men tonight broke into the harris county jail here , over powered jailer e . m . robinson and took four negroes , three men and one woman , out and hung them to trees one"
740,14403_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1912,"0000000000 boooooooooooo lo four negroes lynched by hamilton , ga . , mob o hamilton , ga . , january 22 . - a",mob,"of 100 men tonight broke into the harris county jail here , over powered jailer e . m . robinson and took four negroes , three men and one woman , out and hung them to trees one mile from town . they then riddled them with builets . it"
741,14405_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1919,"arlington , vt . , oct . 24 . my dear senator dillingham : i am writing you as a vermonter much interested in the negro question to beg you to use all your influence for a favorable action on the curtis resolution calling for an investigation of lynching and",mob,"violence . i have no need to say anything to you , of course , about the horrible wrongs involved in letting lynching go on , as you must know more about that than we do , and must feel quite as deeply as all the rest of the vermonters"
742,14406_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1922,"shot colored women ! shreveport , la . , july 21- joe pem berton , negro , was taken from the bossier parish jail , at benton , by a",mob,"early today and hanged to a tree in black bayou swamp , two miles from benton , according to reports reaching here tonight . pemberton had been arrested and jailed tuesday night following the shooting of two negresses . that a mob of white men lynched a colored man for"
743,14406_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1922,"parish jail , at benton , by a mob early today and hanged to a tree in black bayou swamp , two miles from benton , according to reports reaching here tonight . pemberton had been arrested and jailed tuesday night following the shooting of two negresses . that a",mob,of white men lynched a colored man for shooting two colored women indicates that they either had great interest in the women or were else so blood- thirsty that they gladly seized the for killing some one without opportunity risk to themselves .
744,14406_1.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1922,"known papers as l'independence belge of brussels , l'echo du soir , le neptune of antwerp , norodin lisky and tribune of czecho- slovakia , and many others . the accounts read : "" the movement against lynching is spreading and the recent murder of three negroes by an excited",mob,( in texas ) has called public attention to this matter in a very decided man ner . a memorial bearing the signatures of three hundred american citizens demanding a vote on the pro posed law against lynching has just been addressed to the senate . among the signaturies are
745,14408_0.txt,"Nogales international (Nogales, Ariz.)",1934,"san jose : anthony cataloi , ( above ) 19 year old farm boy of san jose , calif . , who was the first arrested , charged with violating the california lyneh law by partiel pating in the",mob,"hanging of the kidnapers and slayers of confessed brooke hart at san jose recently ,"
746,14411_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1901,lynched two women and man . - three negroes paid the death penalty at the hands of a,mob,". carrolton , miss . , aug . 8 . - two women and a man , negroes , were lynched last night for the murder of mr . and mrs . r . t . talliferro , on the night of july 30 . they were mrs . betsy"
747,14411_1.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1901,"0 out of court and lynched . witnesses were introduced to defame a girl's character . smithville , tenn . , aug . 8 . - charles davis , on trial for an attack upon miss kate hues , was taken from the court room by a",mob,"of the friends and relatives of the girl and lynched . the immediate cause of the lynching was the introduction of witnesses in an effort to defame the girl's character . davis made an effort to jump from the second story window , but was captured before he escaped ."
748,14411_1.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1901,"girl's character . davis made an effort to jump from the second story window , but was captured before he escaped . about 1,500 men are in town from the country . the sheriff , a deputy , a constable and the defendant's father were wounded in clash with the",mob,". a a multi murderer taken where he is the most likely to be hanged . j . e . young , a sheriff of la grande county , utah , arived in town on wednesday morning on an important er rand , the end of which will no doubt"
749,14412_0.txt,"Bisbee daily review (Bisbee, Ariz.)",1919,"offer reward for negroe's lynchers atlanta , ga . , july 26 . - fifteen today for the arrest and conviction of members of the",mob,"that lynched marry washington , a negro , 72 years old , near milan , may 26 . governor dorsey offered $ 1000 and dr . floyd w . mcrae , an atlanta physician , added $ 500 . on the night of may 24 , two white men are"
750,14412_0.txt,"Bisbee daily review (Bisbee, Ariz.)",1919,"alleged to have invaded the negro section of milan and threat- | ened occupants of several houses . washington , armed with a shot gun , came out of his home and shots were exchanged , one of the white men was killed and washington surrendered . nights later a",mob,took him from two the jail and lynched him .
751,14413_0.txt,"Bisbee daily review (Bisbee, Ariz.)",1919,,mob,"lynches negro accused of murder wilmington , n . c . , dec . 27 . - a negro named green , charged with the murder of r . n . brown , a white man , was taken from the police by a mob franklinton n . c ."
752,14413_0.txt,"Bisbee daily review (Bisbee, Ariz.)",1919,"mob lynches negro accused of murder wilmington , n . c . , dec . 27 . - a negro named green , charged with the murder of r . n . brown , a white man , was taken from the police by a",mob,"franklinton n . c . , tonight and at , dragged two miles behind an auto mobile and the body then hanged to a tree . the officers were attempting to rush their prisoner to raleigh for safekeeping . in the fight with the mob , the negro escaped and"
753,14413_0.txt,"Bisbee daily review (Bisbee, Ariz.)",1919,"from the police by a mob franklinton n . c . , tonight and at , dragged two miles behind an auto mobile and the body then hanged to a tree . the officers were attempting to rush their prisoner to raleigh for safekeeping . in the fight with the",mob,", the negro escaped and was recaptured by the crowd . brown , proprietor of a motion pic ture theater , shot to death on the street . was"
754,14414_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1906,"another lynghing in south carolina negro hanged to a limb and riddled with bullets . columbus , s . c . . aug . 23 . -wm . spain , a negro 21 years of age , shot to death by a",mob,"near st . george , dorchester county , this after noon , the third lynching in south carolina within ten days . s . l . con nor , manager of the dorchester lum ber company's store at badham , was notified by a negro that he saw an other"
755,14414_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1906,"posse of forty or fifty men went to the sheriff and securing the keys of the jail , took the negro to the house of connor , where his 11- year- olā daughter positively identified the as the one who had negro tried to climb through the window . the",mob,"then took the negro to a nearby oak tree , strung him up to a limb and fired about 500 shots into his . body 0111"
756,14415_0.txt,"The Raymer enterprise. (New Raymer, Wel...)",1919,"ortez as the murderers of police officer jeff ev ans at pueblo . jose gonzales and santoz ortez mexicans , who shot and killed police man jefferson evans in the pepper bottoms negro and mexica sauce a , settlement of pueblo , were taken from the city jail by a",mob,"and lynched at the fourth street bridge , near the city limits . none of the members of the mob was recognized , as all wore handkerchief masks and were garbed in blue overalls and blue jumpers or plain blue overalls . two hundred representative citizens of boulder indorsed a"
757,14415_0.txt,"The Raymer enterprise. (New Raymer, Wel...)",1919,"who shot and killed police man jefferson evans in the pepper bottoms negro and mexica sauce a , settlement of pueblo , were taken from the city jail by a mob and lynched at the fourth street bridge , near the city limits . none of the members of the",mob,"was recognized , as all wore handkerchief masks and were garbed in blue overalls and blue jumpers or plain blue overalls . two hundred representative citizens of boulder indorsed a city bond issue for $ 100,000 to build a municipal swimming pool and city park with play . a ground"
758,14415_0.txt,"The Raymer enterprise. (New Raymer, Wel...)",1919,"in the pepper bottoms negro and mexica sauce a , settlement of pueblo , were taken from the city jail by a mob and lynched at the fourth street bridge , near the city limits . none of the members of the mob was recognized , as all wore handkerchief",masks,"and were garbed in blue overalls and blue jumpers or plain blue overalls . two hundred representative citizens of boulder indorsed a city bond issue for $ 100,000 to build a municipal swimming pool and city park with play . a ground and equipment at a meeting in boulder ."
759,14416_0.txt,"The Raymer enterprise. (New Raymer, Wel...)",1919,"omaha is hanging its head in shame because of the wild outbreak in which negro prisoner was lynched , mayor ed smith nearly murdered by the",mob,", and the handsome new county build ing set on fire . the local authorities being helpless , federal troops were hur ried to the scene and quickly restored order . smith is in a way a "" reform "" mayor , and decent omaha people lay the blame for"
760,14417_0.txt,"The Raymer enterprise. (New Raymer, Wel...)",1921,carolina,mob,"lynch negro . allendale , s . c.- ed kirkland , a ne gro under arrest , charged with having killed e . p . walker of appleton , was taken from custody by a mob and lynched . the negro was discovered on the platform of a coach of"
761,14417_0.txt,"The Raymer enterprise. (New Raymer, Wel...)",1921,"carolina mob lynch negro . allendale , s . c.- ed kirkland , a ne gro under arrest , charged with having killed e . p . walker of appleton , was taken from custody by a",mob,"and lynched . the negro was discovered on the platform of a coach of the train on which sheriff bennett was attempt . ing to take him to columbia , and was shot down , it was said , when he tried to escape . the wounded man was taken"
762,14417_0.txt,"The Raymer enterprise. (New Raymer, Wel...)",1921,"the platform of a coach of the train on which sheriff bennett was attempt . ing to take him to columbia , and was shot down , it was said , when he tried to escape . the wounded man was taken in an automobile to appleton , where the",mob,"dispersed , leaving body in the car . the"
763,14418_0.txt,"The Raymer enterprise. (New Raymer, Wel...)",1923,"city of thermopolis , in the big horn basin of wyoming , were driven from their homés by a cloudburst that sent a five- foot torrent down the big horn river into the town . no lives are believed to have been lost . protected by armed guards from a",mob,"pent upon lynching him following the slaying of catarino martino , a min- er , on bingham's crowded main street , m . fonez , a fellow worker , was in jail at bingham , utah , held in connection with the shooting . one man was killed and fifteen"
764,14419_0.txt,"Rocky Ford enterprise. (Rocky Ford, Col...)",1915,"of his sister in waterloo , n . y . , aged seventy- five years . dan barber , his son jesse , and barber's two married daughters , eula and ella charles , negroes , were taken from the jasper county jail at monticello ga . , by a",mob,", and lynched . bank bandits shot and killed robert moore , a deputy sheriff , and dangerously wounded two members of a posse , escaping with $ 3,000 from the bank of terlton , okla . the prairie pipe line company with a capital of $ 27,000,000 , organized"
765,14420_0.txt,"The Ordway new era. (Ordway, Colo.)",1913,"had the dullest day's business friday in seventeen years . five men were burned to death at san francisco on the larkspur side of mount tamalpais . a negro , known as "" kid "" tempers was taken from the jail at blounts town , fla . , by a",mob,"and lynched . a . b . odgen , believed to be a for mer resident of denver , dropped dead from heat prostration in chicago . with nearly 13,000 delegates at tending from all parts of the christianized world , the twenty- sixth an nual christian endeavor convention opened"
766,14421_0.txt,"The Ordway new era. (Ordway, Colo.)",1915,"of his sister in waterloo , n . y . , aged seventy- five years . dan barber , his son jesse , and barber's two married daughters , eula and ella charles , negroes , were taken from the jasper county jall at monticello ga . , by a",mob,", and lynched . bank bandits shot and killed robert moore , a deputy sheriff , and dangerously wounded two members of a posse , escaping with $ 3,000 from the bank of terlton . okla . the prairie pipe line company with a capital of $ 27,000,000 , organized"
767,14424_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1924,". the lynching was , therefore , an act community outlawry , otherwise known as anarchy . it will never be known , of course , what the offense of the vic- tim was the only evidence that he was "" guilty "" was the "" clamor "" of a",mob,". he had shot an officer of the law- whether he was justified or not his executioners did not stop to inquire . his tender years was no pro- tection ; he was needed as a victim "" to be flung to the wolves , "" an example to others"
768,14425_0.txt,"The Keota news. (Keota, Weld Cou...)",1917,"said to be a deserter from the army , was ar rested at mesa on complaint of mrs . told gibson who the officers that daley had killed her husband and then attacked her . daley was taken to phoenix and lodged in jail , and later taken by a",mob,"of fifty and hanged . sixty- seven have been taken from the victor bodies mine at hastings ,"
769,14427_0.txt,"Pueblo chieftain. (Pueblo, Colo.)",1921,"lynched negro 26 . a hattiesburg , miss . , april negro about 30 years old , was lynch ed by a",mob,"near picayune , 50 miles southwest of here early today for an alleged on the wife of his employer , attack a dairy man ."
770,14429_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1898,"two negroes lynched . little rock , ark . , july 14 . - jim reeded and alex johnson , negroes , were lynched at monticello to- day . a",mob,"broke down the doors of the jaid , and , entering , poured a volley of shots into the cages where the men were confined . johnson is dead and reed is fatally injured . they were convicted of killing w . f . skipper , a rich planter and"
771,14430_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,"situation control militia conditions more quiet in springfield , o . , last night . thirteen companies of state troops on hand to pat down any recrudes cence of",mob,"outrages against the negroes- responsibility for burning of levee . springfield , o . , march 10 . - the race disturbances which have terrorized the town for the last three days as the result of the murder of patrolman collis and the subsequent lynching of the negro dixon ,"
772,14430_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,". both chief of police o'brien and sheriff routzahn believe , however , that it would be a mistake to materially decrease the number of troops now on hand . there are unmis- takable signs of ugly feeling on the part of the men and boys who have composed the",mobs,of the last three days and the authorities realize that the shooting of either a white man or negro or even a street fight between men of opposite races would be sufficient to start the mob again on a kill ing and burning expedition the burn- . ing of a
773,14430_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,ugly feeling on the part of the men and boys who have composed the mobs of the last three days and the authorities realize that the shooting of either a white man or negro or even a street fight between men of opposite races would be sufficient to start the,mob,"again on a kill ing and burning expedition the burn- . ing of a portion of the levee and the vacating of several other negro saloons and lodging houses by their proprietors , has only partially satisfied the mob , which was thwarted by the military in its attempt to"
774,14430_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,"between men of opposite races would be sufficient to start the mob again on a kill ing and burning expedition the burn- . ing of a portion of the levee and the vacating of several other negro saloons and lodging houses by their proprietors , has only partially satisfied the",mob,", which was thwarted by the military in its attempt to burn the "" flickers nest , "" a row of buildings formerly occupied by about eft families , but now completely deserted . this evening , the ar rested a negro claiming cincinnati as his home and giving y"
775,14431_0.txt,"Norwich bulletin (Norwich, Conn.)",1911,"gallatin , tenn . , may 23 . - three hours after jim sweat , a negro , had murder ed david f . barry , jr . , and his cook , minnie draper , at barry's home near here , he was captured and lynched by an enraged",mob,of sumner county citizens today . bananas and potatoes are very alike in chemical composition . much
776,14433_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1906,"middah , a prominent real estate man of chicago , was to- day shot and instantly killed by west young , a negro . it is believed young intended to kill w . g . crubbs , who was accompanying middah . young escaped and is being followed by a",mob,determined to him . lynch
777,14435_1.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1889,"no clue to the lynchers , the jailor was the only person who saw them arrive or depart . columbia , s . c . , dec . 30 . - there is absolutely no clue to the identity of any of the",mob,"who lynched the eight negroes in barnwell . not a witness can be found , except the jailor , who saw them enter or leave the town . they appeared at the jail as suddenly and silently as they vanished after their terrible revenge . the jailer knows that each"
778,14435_1.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1889,"before they their were killed , but it is doubtful whether the character of the questions and answers will ever be known . sam lee and alfred grant , two negroes who were in the jail as accessories to the murder of heffernan , were seized by some of the",mob,", but others protested , and they were left in jail , nearly frightened out of their wits . the negroes do not have anything to say about the lynching in the presence of whites . it is said on good authority , however , that a vast number of"
779,14436_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1893,ala lynched by,mob,"near wamack hill , . jan . 6- five members of the sims gang"
780,14437_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1894,"few min utes later mrs . haman , the dead man's wife , accompanied by a score or two of miners , arrived , and when the woman was taken before the prisoner she identified him instantly as one the robbers . be fore officers could get tuggle away a",mob,"captured him . they marched him , with a rope around his neck , about half a mile northwest of town hanged him to a cottonwood tree . and"
781,14439_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1895,"negro murderer lynched , fulton , mo , aug 15- ernest divers , the negro who murdered mrs cain , was - taken from jail last night by a , and lynched .",mob,
782,14440_0.txt,"The Bridgeport times and evening farmer. (Bridgeport, Con...)",1918,5 men arrested for hanging of teutonic miner april 6 . - the coroner of madison county today applied for warrants for the arrest of five men whom he had been informed were in the,mob,"that lynched robert prager , early friday morning . four justices of the peace refused to issue warrants . mose johnson , district board mem ber of the united mine workers of america , has promised that "" at the proper time "" he will issue a statement to show"
783,14440_0.txt,"The Bridgeport times and evening farmer. (Bridgeport, Con...)",1918,", early friday morning . four justices of the peace refused to issue warrants . mose johnson , district board mem ber of the united mine workers of america , has promised that "" at the proper time "" he will issue a statement to show that members of the",mob,weer in possession of certain infor mation that caused them to take drastic action . gov . lowden has issued a warning to officials in this district in which he says that a recurrence of the present situation probably will result in proclamation of martial law . a
784,14442_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1895,"price five cents . shot by vigilantes . vengeance visited upon a round valley murderer . riddled with bullets . "" jack "" littlefield killed while in the hands of an officer . had slain a covelo man . ranchers took the",law into their own hands,"to avenge the crime . ukiah , cal . , oct . 1 . - news reached here to- day of the lynching of alfred , alias "" jack , "" littlefield of round valley , sun day evening . both the lynching and the murder which led up to"
785,14442_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1895,"his victim was either dead or fatally wounded littlefield filed . a young man in the employ of vinton immediately noti fied the sheriff of trinity county , who was soon on littlefield's trail , and had over taken him a short distance from the scene of the shooting .",a party of,"ranchers , to the number of about twenty- five , who heard of the affair at once took it upon themselves to punish lit tlefield for his latest crime as well as for many others he was suspected of . they started after the sheriff and his prisoner . when"
786,14442_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1895,"he resumed his right name . he was in the employ of george white , the cattle king , and a partner to some extent in his busi ness affairs , sharing that position with john rohrbough . littlefield was a rider in the employ of ves palmer . the",mob,"of lynchers consisted of about twenty- five men heavily masked , and over the heads of the horses they were riding were drawn grain sacks so as to complete the disguise . it is claimed that littlefield was only wounded by the vigilantes ' volley , and that he really"
787,14442_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1895,"employ of george white , the cattle king , and a partner to some extent in his busi ness affairs , sharing that position with john rohrbough . littlefield was a rider in the employ of ves palmer . the mob of lynchers consisted of about twenty- five men heavily",masked,", and over the heads of the horses they were riding were drawn grain sacks so as to complete the disguise . it is claimed that littlefield was only wounded by the vigilantes ' volley , and that he really died by strangulation . the shooting of vinton and the"
788,14443_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1895,"maryland . lynching in frederick goings , a brutal negro , taken from a jail and hanged by a",mob,". frederick , md . , nov . 17 . - frederick a negro , food at the residence of hamilton ' giesbert , near this city , yesterday afternoon . after eating a meal he attacked miss tillie jones , who he discovered was alone in the house ."
789,14443_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1895,"miss tillie jones , who he discovered was alone in the house . in overcoming the girl's resistance the negro broke her nose and cut her with a razor . he was arrested and held for a hearing on monday , later he was taken from the jail by a",mob,"and hanged to a tree , on which a few years ago a negro named bigus was lynched for the same crime . ortly before midnight a committee of a half- dozen went to the jail door and demanded the keys . sheriff zimmerman refused to give them up ."
790,14443_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1895,"was lynched for the same crime . ortly before midnight a committee of a half- dozen went to the jail door and demanded the keys . sheriff zimmerman refused to give them up . there was an other consultation , the word was passed among the 300 persons in the",mob,"and the whole body moved toward the prison . as the leaders reached the stout oaken side door sheriff zimmerman raised a window and fired his revolver , but no one was hurt . he also rang the jail bell for assist ance , but none came . in an"
791,14444_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1896,a texas,mob,". lynched by two outlaws who killed a bank cashier are executed . given short shrift . taken from the jail to the scene of the crime and hanged . bodies riddled by bullets , a district judge's plea for the wretches ignored by the maddened crowd . wichita falls"
792,14444_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1896,"by the maddened crowd . wichita falls , tex . , feb . 26 . - the two men who murdered cashier dorsey of the city national bank here vesterday and then looted the bank were captured this morning . to- night they were taken from the jail by a",mob,"and lynched to a tele graph pole . the robbers , foster crawford and the kid , alias younger lewis , were captured by posses of rangers under command of captain w . j . mcdonald in a thicket six teen miles from wichita falls . when called upon to"
793,14444_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1896,"younger lewis , were captured by posses of rangers under command of captain w . j . mcdonald in a thicket six teen miles from wichita falls . when called upon to surrender they replied : "" we will surrender under the condition that you give us protection against any",mob,"violence . "" captain mcdonald's reply was : "" we will bore a hole through you if you do not surrender , but i will endeavor to the best of my ability to protect you . "" the outlaws surrendered , and the rangers reached wichita falls with the prisoners"
794,14444_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1896,"of my ability to protect you . "" the outlaws surrendered , and the rangers reached wichita falls with the prisoners at 4 o'clock this morning . when the town was reached it was found to be in a state of uproar , and many threats were made , the",mob,"crying : "" we will lynch them ! give them a taste of tyler ; that's what they deserve ! "" but they finally reached the jail and landed their prisoners in safety . shortly afterward a crowd of well- armed men gathered and repaired to the jail , where"
795,14444_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1896,"nothing rash and allow the law to take its course . suddenly the report was heard on all sides that the rangers were going to slip the outlaws off to fort worth . in the twinkling of an eye , hundreds of winches ters appeared on the scene and the",mob,"at once made an assault on the jail . after some moments they succeeded in securing an entrance , and taking the prisoners from the jail , proceeded with them to the bank in which dorsey was killed , where a pile of inflammable material was ready to be converted"
796,14445_0.txt,Daily Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Ca...),1883,". , jan . 26 . - sheriff sherreman , while arresting charles cobb , alias smith , at udell station , yesterday , was shot . he died last night . and held cobb was captured by farmers to await the arrival of officers . before their arrival an",armed party of,farmers hung smith to a tree . cobb also killed constable in batler county a few days ago a .
797,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,"laramie , wyo . , aug . 29 . - joseph martin , colored , was lynched by a",mob,"of 30 % men in front of judge carpenter's house at 8 o'clock to- night . martin was a trusty in the county sail and attacked a white girl , della krause , in the jail kitchen and slashed er face and arms with a knife . one man was"
798,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,"front of judge carpenter's house at 8 o'clock to- night . martin was a trusty in the county sail and attacked a white girl , della krause , in the jail kitchen and slashed er face and arms with a knife . one man was wounded by martin while the",mob,was entering the jail to drag out the prisoner . after attacking miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . to- night a mob formed outside the jail . the first intimation that sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when
799,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,and slashed er face and arms with a knife . one man was wounded by martin while the mob was entering the jail to drag out the prisoner . after attacking miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . to- night a,mob,"formed outside the jail . the first intimation that sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two masked men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and , with revolvers leveled at him , told him that there were 300 men waiting outside for the negro and"
800,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,entering the jail to drag out the prisoner . after attacking miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . to- night a mob formed outside the jail . the first intimation that sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two,masked,"men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and , with revolvers leveled at him , told him that there were 300 men waiting outside for the negro and that he had better not at tempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another masked man"
801,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,entering the jail to drag out the prisoner . after attacking miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . to- night a mob formed outside the jail . the first intimation that sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two,masked men,"appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and , with revolvers leveled at him , told him that there were 300 men waiting outside for the negro and that he had better not at tempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another masked man had"
802,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,"two masked men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and , with revolvers leveled at him , told him that there were 300 men waiting outside for the negro and that he had better not at tempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another",masked,"man had entered and while the first two held the sheriff the third man took the keys of the jail from the sheriff's pocket and then the three started for the negro's cell . on the way they met turnkey jones and dr . miler , who had been summoned"
803,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,"dr . miler , who had been summoned to dress the wounds on martin , self- inflicted with the same razor he had used in the attack on the girl . both were compelled to stand against the cage of the cells , with their faces turned away from the",mob,. the negro was then taken from his cell and hurriedly marched through the court- house into the street . arriving at lamppost a short distance from the gail the negro was quickly strung up to the post . during the entire proceeding he did not speak or attempt to
804,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,negro was then taken from his cell and hurriedly marched through the court- house into the street . arriving at lamppost a short distance from the gail the negro was quickly strung up to the post . during the entire proceeding he did not speak or attempt to resist the,mob,. the lynching occurred at about 8 o'clock and within an hour dhe streets were deserted . acting coroner grant took charge of the body of the negro and turned it over to an undertaker . miss krause undoubtedly would have been killed by martin had not the wife of
805,14446_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,", mo . , is not seriously wounded chilli . negro lynched be fore of residence judge . strung up to a lamp post because of attack with knife upon white girl . a avengers ' victim a "" trusty "" in the county at laramie . jail wyoming hangs",mob,prisoner
806,14446_1.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1904,"statesboro , ga . , aug . 29 . - sebastian mcbride , a negro living near por tal , in the upper part of bullock coun ty . was taken out of his house on saturday night by a",mob,"of five men , carried to the woods , whipped severely and then shot , from the effects of which he died soon afterward . while dying he related to the sheriff the manner in which he was handled and gave the names of three of his assail ants ."
807,14447_0.txt,Los Angeles daily herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1884-1890,1889,"a rape fiend lynched . winona , miss . , september 25 . - early this morning a",mob,"of 200 entered the jail , took sol parnell , a negro , and banged him to a railroad trestle . parnell was accused of assaulting the 15- year- old daughter of a prominent citizen . confessed . he"
808,14448_0.txt,Sacramento daily record-union (Sacramento [Cal...),1889,"such murderers as mcdow are not aimed against the law , and are manifestations of manly spirit , of sympa- thetic instincts , and of the horror commu . nities experience in the presence of awful crimes . it is to the credit of the city of charlston that the",mob,"did not have time to crystallize its purpose into activity , and that the officials were able to protect the wretch from the anger of the multitude . never th- less -- we repeat- it is certain that had the man been lynched there would have been throughout the land"
809,14448_0.txt,Sacramento daily record-union (Sacramento [Cal...),1889,"of entire confidence in the law by the people , that it is the most certain , direct and briefest means to the accom- plishment of justice will become the rule when it deserved ; and when it is , that hour will mark the birth of the era which",mob,law will be unknown . in
810,14450_0.txt,The herald (Los Angeles [Ca...),1896,a murderer lynched grant atterbury hanged by a,mob,"in lilinols sullivan , ill . , feb . 12 . - grant atter . bury , the murderer , was taken from the jail here at 12 : 45 this morning , dragged to the court house in his night shirt and hanged to a tree . the mob"
811,14450_0.txt,The herald (Los Angeles [Ca...),1896,"mob in lilinols sullivan , ill . , feb . 12 . - grant atter . bury , the murderer , was taken from the jail here at 12 : 45 this morning , dragged to the court house in his night shirt and hanged to a tree . the",mob,"acted quickly and marched directly from the school house to the jail , which was only protected by the sheriff and one deputy . but a few minutes were consumed in breaking down the front door , the pris oner resisted with all his strength and fought like a demon"
812,14450_0.txt,The herald (Los Angeles [Ca...),1896,"blocks away . under the tree to which he was to hang , atter bury began to realize more fully that he was to die . he pleaded piteously , pro testing his innocence , saying : "" thank god , you are hanging an innccent man . "" the",mob,"was wild and restless until the man was sirung up in the air , when immediately dispersed . they"
813,14452_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1905,the lynching of a negro in georgia by a negro,mob,for the offense which has caused so many negro lynch ings by whites is not likely to be commented upon any great extent by a certain class of newspapers . to
814,14454_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1908,day .,mob,threate to lynch wife derer . mur
815,14455_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1891,". phillips . the woman fought desperately . her screams brought charles w . downes to her assistance . he grabbed the negro , but the latter made a lounge at him with a knife , nearly severing a finger . the negro then fled , pursued by an infuriated",mob,"who cried "" lynch him ! "" he was finally arrested . mrs . phillips is pletely prostrated . com"
816,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,,mob,"enraged by negro lynched hanged and torn from sheriff's hands ethiopian crouching in corner of the court room begs for mercy as is put on noose his neck [ associated press ] dallas , texas , march 3 . - torn from the very grasp of the law by members"
817,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"negro lynched hanged and torn from sheriff's hands ethiopian crouching in corner of the court room begs for mercy as is put on noose his neck [ associated press ] dallas , texas , march 3 . - torn from the very grasp of the law by members of a",mob,"of 5000 today , allen brooks , an aged negro , charged with assaulting a three- year- old criminally white child , was hanged for his crime . brooks was seized in the court room , where he was to be tried , and tossed through a window to the"
818,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"allen brooks , an aged negro , charged with assaulting a three- year- old criminally white child , was hanged for his crime . brooks was seized in the court room , where he was to be tried , and tossed through a window to the main body of the",mob,which waited in the street below . his broken body was dragged through the streets and he was hanged near the elks ' arch . the mob was led by an old negro . hardly a word was spoken and not a shot was fired . the loudest sound shrieks
819,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"in the court room , where he was to be tried , and tossed through a window to the main body of the mob which waited in the street below . his broken body was dragged through the streets and he was hanged near the elks ' arch . the",mob,was led by an old negro . hardly a word was spoken and not a shot was fired . the loudest sound shrieks for the aged negro's was mercy . after brooks as hanged the mob took possession of dallas for nearly three hours . the jail was stormed and
820,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,through the streets and he was hanged near the elks ' arch . the mob was led by an old negro . hardly a word was spoken and not a shot was fired . the loudest sound shrieks for the aged negro's was mercy . after brooks as hanged the,mob,"took possession of dallas for nearly three hours . the jail was stormed and death was threatened to three other charges of murder . negroes held on they had been taken away , however , and after a vain search the mob dispersed . the wounded victim of brooks was"
821,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"was mercy . after brooks as hanged the mob took possession of dallas for nearly three hours . the jail was stormed and death was threatened to three other charges of murder . negroes held on they had been taken away , however , and after a vain search the",mob,dispersed . the wounded victim of brooks was daughter of mr . and mrs . m . j . the buven . negro guarded immediately after his arrest last week the negro was taken out of the city for safe keeping . he was returned early this morning and taken
822,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"when attorneys for the defense , who had been appointed by the court , began arguments for a post- rumors until tomorrow , ponement started through the crowd that a change of venue had been granted . caused a demonstra this statement tion and the courthouse was charged by the",mob,". scores of officers , hastily the overpowered , summoned , were locked doors of the courtroom were wrecked and the negro , crouching in a corner , praying , was seized by the lead- this was in the sec- iers of the mob . ond story of the building"
823,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"the courthouse was charged by the mob . scores of officers , hastily the overpowered , summoned , were locked doors of the courtroom were wrecked and the negro , crouching in a corner , praying , was seized by the lead- this was in the sec- iers of the",mob,. ond story of the building . outside the main body of the mob a rope was ready and waiting . was when it was announced from the win- dow that the negro had been taken the rope was thrown into the room . died fighting the noose was placed
824,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"overpowered , summoned , were locked doors of the courtroom were wrecked and the negro , crouching in a corner , praying , was seized by the lead- this was in the sec- iers of the mob . ond story of the building . outside the main body of the",mob,"a rope was ready and waiting . was when it was announced from the win- dow that the negro had been taken the rope was thrown into the room . died fighting the noose was placed about the prisoner's neck and he was thrown from the building , fighting like"
825,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"fractured his skull in the fall . instantly dozens of men jumped on him and his face was kicked into a pulp and he was bruised all over , prob- few minutes . a ably dying within a score of men seized the rope and at the head of the",mob,"dragged the ne twelve blocks up main gro's body street to the elks ' arch , which was erected during the elks ' national convention here in 1908 . here the body was suspended from a telephone pole . the police cut the body down at after the lynching the"
826,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,was erected during the elks ' national convention here in 1908 . here the body was suspended from a telephone pole . the police cut the body down at after the lynching the mon once . marched to the county jail . the sher- it allowed committees selected by the,mob,to search the prison . the three wanted could not be found and finally negroes the mob moved away .
827,14457_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,from a telephone pole . the police cut the body down at after the lynching the mon once . marched to the county jail . the sher- it allowed committees selected by the mob to search the prison . the three wanted could not be found and finally negroes the,mob,moved away .
828,14458_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1896,"a lynching party failed . sullivan , ind . , jan . 27 . - a",mob,"endeavored to lynch grant atterbury , who is under arrest on a charge of assaulting his sister- in- law , but was driven off by the sheriff . the door of the jail was bro ken down and an entrance forced . the sheriff confronted the mob and threatened to"
829,14458_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1896,". - a mob endeavored to lynch grant atterbury , who is under arrest on a charge of assaulting his sister- in- law , but was driven off by the sheriff . the door of the jail was bro ken down and an entrance forced . the sheriff confronted the",mob,"and threatened to kill the first man who came up stairs to ward the cellroom . the mob halted and finally withdrew , but threatened to return within 24 hours . atterbury strongly asserts his innocence , and the only evidence against him is that bloodhounds a trall to his"
830,14458_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1896,"assaulting his sister- in- law , but was driven off by the sheriff . the door of the jail was bro ken down and an entrance forced . the sheriff confronted the mob and threatened to kill the first man who came up stairs to ward the cellroom . the",mob,"halted and finally withdrew , but threatened to return within 24 hours . atterbury strongly asserts his innocence , and the only evidence against him is that bloodhounds a trall to his house . followed"
831,14459_0.txt,"The Cheyenne daily leader (Cheyenne, Wyo.) 1887-1895",1891,"will attack the jail . omaha , neb . . oct . 10 . - seven mem bers of the",mob,"which lynched the negro rapist last night are under arrest charged with murder in the first degree . county attorney mahoney refused to allow the prisoners bail and by 7 p . m . , a large crowd surrounded the jail and threatened if the prisoners were not given their"
832,14459_0.txt,"The Cheyenne daily leader (Cheyenne, Wyo.) 1887-1895",1891,"bloom , h . h . brand . ies , ed . fitzgerald , and john o'dono ghue . county attorney mahoney sent word the men would not be released un der any circumstances and the crowd at once began to lay plans for attacking the jail . when the",mob,"gathered in front of the jail jailer harrigan appeared , announcing that none of the men wanted were there and offering to escort a committee of ten through the building . the crowd accepted the proposition and the committee reported the men gone . five of the prisoners have been"
833,14462_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1920,texas murderer is hanged by,mob,"italy starts operations against d'annunzio of twenty- fi masked en men ser man held on charge shooting officer sung to tree in grove near jail ( by associated press . ) fort worth , tex . , dec . 23 . -tom w . vickery , a white man ,"
834,14462_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1920,texas murderer is hanged by mob italy starts operations against d'annunzio of twenty- fi,masked,"en men ser man held on charge shooting officer sung to tree in grove near jail ( by associated press . ) fort worth , tex . , dec . 23 . -tom w . vickery , a white man , held on a charge of murder in connection with"
835,14462_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1920,". , dec . 23 . -tom w . vickery , a white man , held on a charge of murder in connection with the killing mon day night of policeman jeff c . couch , was taken from the county jail here shortly after midnight this morning by a",mob,"and hanged . several shots were fired into his body . twenty- five masked men entered the jall , overpowered a jailer and his assistants . opening vickery's cell , the mob removed the prisoner , clad only in night clothes , to a grove ne the pack ing house"
836,14462_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1920,", held on a charge of murder in connection with the killing mon day night of policeman jeff c . couch , was taken from the county jail here shortly after midnight this morning by a mob and hanged . several shots were fired into his body . twenty- five",masked,"men entered the jall , overpowered a jailer and his assistants . opening vickery's cell , the mob removed the prisoner , clad only in night clothes , to a grove ne the pack ing house district , and swung him to a tree . after firing a few shots"
837,14462_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1920,", held on a charge of murder in connection with the killing mon day night of policeman jeff c . couch , was taken from the county jail here shortly after midnight this morning by a mob and hanged . several shots were fired into his body . twenty- five",masked men,"entered the jall , overpowered a jailer and his assistants . opening vickery's cell , the mob removed the prisoner , clad only in night clothes , to a grove ne the pack ing house district , and swung him to a tree . after firing a few shots into"
838,14462_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1920,"c . couch , was taken from the county jail here shortly after midnight this morning by a mob and hanged . several shots were fired into his body . twenty- five masked men entered the jall , overpowered a jailer and his assistants . opening vickery's cell , the",mob,"removed the prisoner , clad only in night clothes , to a grove ne the pack ing house district , and swung him to a tree . after firing a few shots into his body , the mob dispersed . county officers said the lynching would be investigated by the"
839,14462_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1920,"overpowered a jailer and his assistants . opening vickery's cell , the mob removed the prisoner , clad only in night clothes , to a grove ne the pack ing house district , and swung him to a tree . after firing a few shots into his body , the",mob,dispersed . county officers said the lynching would be investigated by the next ses sion of the district grand jury . the lynching occurred at spot about a mile from the court house which vickery was being held . in
840,14463_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1921,"negro lynched in mississippi ( by associated press . ) meridian , miss . . jan . 4 . - robert lewis , a negro , accused of the murder of a white railroad watchman , was lynched by a",mob,which forced police men who arrested lewis to their prisoner . surrender
841,14473_0.txt,"The Cheyenne daily leader (Cheyenne, Wyo.) 1887-1895",1888,"a gambler lynched . salida , col . , june 14 . - during a saloon row at monarch last night a gambler named schenck shot and killed geo . davis and fatally wounded an unknown man . a",mob,took schenck and hanged him to a telegraph pole . friends of the two dead men are gathering and trouble is feared . more
842,14474_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1879,"lynch law in texas . galvestrn , july 25 . - the new's special from waco states that bill statworth , arrested last evening in a neighboring county for threatening the life of a resident , while asleep under a tree to- day under guard ,",a party of,"thirty rode up and asked for statworth . he answered , when the mob fired , killing and wounding one of the guards statworth ."
843,14474_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1879,"new's special from waco states that bill statworth , arrested last evening in a neighboring county for threatening the life of a resident , while asleep under a tree to- day under guard , a party of thirty rode up and asked for statworth . he answered , when the",mob,"fired , killing and wounding one of the guards statworth ."
844,14478_1.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1884,"in a few minutes . he was much esteemed among his neighbors and was recently married . the hickeys , who bear a hard name , were arrested . there are four in number , including joe reddy , a brother- in- law of richard hickey . last night a",mob,"of several hundred men surrounded the jail , took richard hickey and reddy to a grove near by , where hickey was hung , refusing to confess or deny the murder . reddy was also strung up , but the rope broke , and he protested his innocence and so"
845,14480_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1886,georgia lynching . how a body of,masked,"men treated a terror of the neighborhood . savannah , ga . , september 17 . three weeks ago , during the absence of her husband , mrs . thomas willis was assaulted in her house in rogers , on the central railroad , by a negro . mrs ."
846,14480_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1886,georgia lynching . how a body of,masked men,"treated a terror of the neighborhood . savannah , ga . , september 17 . three weeks ago , during the absence of her husband , mrs . thomas willis was assaulted in her house in rogers , on the central railroad , by a negro . mrs . willis"
847,14480_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1886,"morning wilkerson was sent to sylvania to be lodged in jail there as a better precaution against lynch law . this move had been anticipated , however , and as wilkerson was proceeding across the country , guarded by the officers , they were met by a band of fifty",masked,"and well- armed men three miles from millen . having er , they hanged him to a tree near the scene of his crime and riddled his body bullets store fate is in with . similar for wiggs when a captured ."
848,14482_0.txt,"The McDowell times (Keystone, W. Va...)",1913,smashes in doors of jail tennessee,mob,"lynched negro in courthouse yard . nashville , tenn . , nov . 13 . - a mob smashed in the doors of the dyersburg jail , removed john talley , a negro , eighteen years old , and lynched him in the courthouse yard . the negro was accused"
849,14482_0.txt,"The McDowell times (Keystone, W. Va...)",1913,"smashes in doors of jail tennessee mob lynched negro in courthouse yard . nashville , tenn . , nov . 13 . - a",mob,"smashed in the doors of the dyersburg jail , removed john talley , a negro , eighteen years old , and lynched him in the courthouse yard . the negro was accused of attempted criminal assault and after his arrest was identified , was said . it"
850,14486_0.txt,"The McDowell times (Keystone, W. Va...)",1916,"of placing in thice any man who believes in the lax inforcement of the law . the governor , prohibition officer or any other public official who says he will wink at certain vic lations of the law is a dangerous man because he is able to wink at a",mob,seeking to lynch you or your fellow man . this paper was wet when the state was wet and we are wet now but every man with a thim ble full of sense knows that the liquor question has no place in this campaign because neither the governor nor the
851,14488_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1882,murderer hanged by a,mob,". dallas , tex . , june 29 . - edward love , a murderer , on his way to the indian terri tory on a requisition , was taken from the guard , by a mob of indians and hanged ."
852,14488_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1882,"murderer hanged by a mob . dallas , tex . , june 29 . - edward love , a murderer , on his way to the indian terri tory on a requisition , was taken from the guard , by a",mob,of indians and hanged .
853,14496_0.txt,"The Calhoun chronicle (Grantsville, W....)",1922,,mob,"lynches negroes . jessup , ga.- james harvey and joe jordan , negroes , convicted of criminal assault and respited by governor hardwick , were taken from a deputy sheriff near lanes bridge , ga . , and lynched , a telephone message to sheriff rogers here said . the"
854,14497_0.txt,"The Calhoun chronicle (Grantsville, W....)",1923,police foil,mob,"bent on lynching . conshohocken . six policemen armed only with blackjacks , dispersed a mob of 2,000 infulated men and women who surrounded the jail and threatened to lynch horace brown , negro , who had been arrest ed for "" shooting the town , "" up brown was"
855,14497_0.txt,"The Calhoun chronicle (Grantsville, W....)",1923,"police foil mob bent on lynching . conshohocken . six policemen armed only with blackjacks , dispersed a",mob,"of 2,000 infulated men and women who surrounded the jail and threatened to lynch horace brown , negro , who had been arrest ed for "" shooting the town , "" up brown was arrested after he had terrorized the town by running up and down the main street shooting"
856,14502_0.txt,"The McDowell times (Keystone, W. Va...)",1939,"sea . moving pictures frequently reveal the effect of hysteria up- on a herd of cattle , leading to a violent commotion and unpredictable behavior . man is supposed to be a rational beng whose conduc is motviated by reason and yet when evil passion enters the mind of the",mob,"it acts as whimsically and as vehemently as brutish beasts . a blood- thirsty mob of lynch- ers might well be defined as a gang of men possessed of the devil . hysteria , like the whirl wnd , causes sudden vielent agia- tion but we cannot tell whence it"
857,14502_0.txt,"The McDowell times (Keystone, W. Va...)",1939,"cattle , leading to a violent commotion and unpredictable behavior . man is supposed to be a rational beng whose conduc is motviated by reason and yet when evil passion enters the mind of the mob it acts as whimsically and as vehemently as brutish beasts . a blood- thirsty",mob,"of lynch- ers might well be defined as a gang of men possessed of the devil . hysteria , like the whirl wnd , causes sudden vielent agia- tion but we cannot tell whence it cometh or whither it goeth . all cases of hysteria the effect transcends the cause"
858,14502_0.txt,"The McDowell times (Keystone, W. Va...)",1939,"above this hysteria caused by hebrew religious prejudice . but the rabble madden- cd by hysteria , would not have it so . the judcious pilate would have no part in the condemnation of a just man although he was unable to prevent his execution . pilate before the jewish",mob,"was in a very similar position to a conscientious southern may or at the hands of a blood- thirsty mob bent upon lynching and burng of a negro sulprit , innocent or guilty . the aroused appetite for blod will not be appeased short of vengeance . today , it"
859,14502_0.txt,"The McDowell times (Keystone, W. Va...)",1939,it so . the judcious pilate would have no part in the condemnation of a just man although he was unable to prevent his execution . pilate before the jewish mob was in a very similar position to a conscientious southern may or at the hands of a blood- thirsty,mob,"bent upon lynching and burng of a negro sulprit , innocent or guilty . the aroused appetite for blod will not be appeased short of vengeance . today , it might be said that the german people are ruled by hysteria under the spell of hit ler teh master rabbel-"
860,14503_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1922,,mob,"lynches negro for assault on girl pak r . an la year- old negro , was lynched by a mob ten miles north of here today of having attacked the he six- year old daughter of a prominent yesterday farmer late ."
861,14503_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1922,"mob lynches negro for assault on girl pak r . an la year- old negro , was lynched by a",mob,ten miles north of here today of having attacked the he six- year old daughter of a prominent yesterday farmer late .
862,14505_0.txt,"The advocate (Charleston, W. ...)",1908,snatched negroes from officers did the georgia,mob,"ten they hanged and riddled the two , accused of young girl's death- officers were erless . pow down tonight albert baker and walter wilkins , negroes , were taken from the county authorities here by an infuriated mob and lynched . the men were hanged from , the same"
863,14505_0.txt,"The advocate (Charleston, W. ...)",1908,"snatched negroes from officers did the georgia mob ten they hanged and riddled the two , accused of young girl's death- officers were erless . pow down tonight albert baker and walter wilkins , negroes , were taken from the county authorities here by an infuriated",mob,"and lynched . the men were hanged from , the same tree . the charge against the negroes they had assaulted the 13- year was old daughter of wiley wainwright , of hickox . the girl was taken from her home at 6 o'clock in the evening by the negroes"
864,14505_0.txt,"The advocate (Charleston, W. ...)",1908,"and threats were heard all over the city , little knots of citizens had gathered to discuss the attack on the little da attually daughter of wainwright . o'clock , when it became known that died her the crowd rapidly gathered and could not be held in check . the",mob,"stormed the jail , and the officers attempted to shirit the ne- groes out of the city . they were un successful , for they had gone not more than a block from the jail when discovered and sastubh for the blac * the officers struggled mantul but the odds"
865,14505_0.txt,"The advocate (Charleston, W. ...)",1908,"un successful , for they had gone not more than a block from the jail when discovered and sastubh for the blac * the officers struggled mantul but the odds , were too great . they were finally overpowered , and the two negroes were taken from them , the",mob,"proceeded to the edge of the city and began preparations to hang the two culprits . the . negroes were bound together with handcuffs . the mob was in a frenzy , and the first tangible thing to use that it could find was a trace chain . this the"
866,14505_0.txt,"The advocate (Charleston, W. ...)",1908,"but the odds , were too great . they were finally overpowered , and the two negroes were taken from them , the mob proceeded to the edge of the city and began preparations to hang the two culprits . the . negroes were bound together with handcuffs . the",mob,"was in a frenzy , and the first tangible thing to use that it could find was a trace chain . this the mob tied around the negroes ' necks and threw it over the limb of a tree . a dozen pairs of hands seized the chain and hauled"
867,14505_0.txt,"The advocate (Charleston, W. ...)",1908,"proceeded to the edge of the city and began preparations to hang the two culprits . the . negroes were bound together with handcuffs . the mob was in a frenzy , and the first tangible thing to use that it could find was a trace chain . this the",mob,"tied around the negroes ' necks and threw it over the limb of a tree . a dozen pairs of hands seized the chain and hauled lift ing one negro in awar , and the other , bound to him by the hand- cuffs , was lifted from the ground"
868,14511_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1893,"sunday's register . condensed news from yesterday's issue . last saturday a negro was lynched at ills . governor has issued a proclamation sternly denounes the affair , and he proposes to have the entire",mob,"of lynchers prosecuted to the full extent of the law , if possible . the elections being held in germany , of such great import , are not creating bitterness . emperor william is said td to be very guarded in his utterances . the gold in the national treasury"
869,14518_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1900,"negro lynched for rape . elkton , ky . , oct . 18 . - erastus warfield , a negro , was lynched here after midnight by a",mob,"who took him from the county jail , where he had been placed for attempting to break into a farm house when the farmer's and little child were the only occu wife pants ."
870,14525_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1892,"he was lynched . nashville , tenn . , june 29 , -a special from murfreesboro , tenn . , confirms the rumored lynching of the negro rapist , tom lilliard , at woodbury last night . it seems bout 11 o'clock a",mob,went to the wood- ury jail and demanded the keys from the . jailer . meeting with no resistance they took their man to the bridge over the stone and him . his neck was bro river ken and he died without a struggle .
871,14526_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1897,"hanged to a tree . a negro who attempted a criminal as ult on young lady , faken from jail by a",mob,". jacksonville , fla . , january 24 . - a special to the citizen from tallahassee , fla . , says : pierce taylor , a young negro , who at tempted an assault upon miss emma ap thorp last sunday night , was taken from the jail last"
872,14526_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1897,"fla . , january 24 . - a special to the citizen from tallahassee , fla . , says : pierce taylor , a young negro , who at tempted an assault upon miss emma ap thorp last sunday night , was taken from the jail last night by a",mob,and hanged to a tree in the jail yard . taylor had con fessed to the crime . early this morning a mob of about a dozen men went to the jail and at the point of a revolver secured from the cook the keys to the outer gate doors
873,14526_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1897,"a young negro , who at tempted an assault upon miss emma ap thorp last sunday night , was taken from the jail last night by a mob and hanged to a tree in the jail yard . taylor had con fessed to the crime . early this morning a",mob,of about a dozen men went to the jail and at the point of a revolver secured from the cook the keys to the outer gate doors were broken jail . other of the through with sledge hammers and cold chisels until the negro was secured . this the first
874,14527_0.txt,"Wheeling Sunday register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1894,"to account , in a measure , for the constant howl about the quaker city's bad water . there lives one republican candi- date who was not elected last tuesday . he is sheriff cook , of washington c . h . , o . , who recently prevented a",mob,"from lynching a negro ravisher . cook was defeated for re- election by 1,650 votes in a district that has a normal majority of 1,000 , and in a republican republican tidal wave year at that ."
875,14534_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1884,". "" trial by jury seems abcut played ont . the cincinusti judges could not get re- spectable men to serve on the juries , and jurors , for sale at five dollara a dezen , swarmed round the courts . every one of those twenty- two murderes whom the",mob,"wanted to lynch , because they could only be convicted of murder in the second day degree will be hanged sure enough now , ."
876,14535_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1881,"fora child- murderer lynched . anna , ill . , september 3 . - near gongo- la , nine miles south of here , a child was yesterday whipped to death the murder . er fled , but it is said he was caught , and an infuriated",mob,"last night hung . an was sent hire for help , and deputy sheriff baggott , with a posse , has gone to the scene of trouble . the report has caused a great deal of excitement in the county . the murderer's name is said goshirt . ley"
877,14538_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1904,"in wyoming negro lynched laramie , wyo . , aug . 30 . - joe martin , colored , was lynched by a",mob,"of 300 men in front of judge carpenter's house last night . martin was a trusty in the county jail . he attacked a white girl , della rouse , in the jail kitchen , and slashed her face and arms with a knife . one man was injured when"
878,14538_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1904,"in the jail kitchen , and slashed her face and arms with a knife . one man was injured when entering the jail to drag out the prisoner . after assaulting miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . last night a",mob,"of several hundred men formed outside the jail . the first intimation that sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two masked men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and with guns leveled at him , told him that there were 200 men waiting outside for"
879,14538_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1904,drag out the prisoner . after assaulting miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . last night a mob of several hundred men formed outside the jail . the first intimation that sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two,masked,"men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and with guns leveled at him , told him that there were 200 men waiting outside for the negro and that he would better not attempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another masked man took the"
880,14538_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1904,drag out the prisoner . after assaulting miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . last night a mob of several hundred men formed outside the jail . the first intimation that sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two,masked men,"appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and with guns leveled at him , told him that there were 200 men waiting outside for the negro and that he would better not attempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another masked man took the keys"
881,14538_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1904,"was when two masked men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and with guns leveled at him , told him that there were 200 men waiting outside for the negro and that he would better not attempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another",masked,"man took the keys of the jail from the sheriff's pockets and then the three started for the negro's cell . on the way they met dr . miller , who had been summoned dress two wounds on martin , to self- inflicted with the same razor with which he"
882,14538_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1904,"had been summoned dress two wounds on martin , to self- inflicted with the same razor with which he had assaulted the girl and turnkey jones . the doctor and the turn key were compelled to stand against the cage of the cells with their faces turned away from the",mob,. the negro was then taken from his cell and hurriedly march ed through the court house into the street . arriving at a lamp post a short distance from the jail the negro was quickly strung up the post . during the entire proceeding the negro did not speak
883,14538_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1904,taken from his cell and hurriedly march ed through the court house into the street . arriving at a lamp post a short distance from the jail the negro was quickly strung up the post . during the entire proceeding the negro did not speak or attempt to resist the,mob,within an hour after the lynching the streets were deserted . acting coroner grant turned the body of the negro over to an undertaker . miss krause would have been killed by martin had not the wife of sheriff cook held martin until his rage had cooled and until he
884,14542_0.txt,"Evening journal (Martinsburg, W....)",1912,"son , a negro , near princeton , on thursday afternoon . governor glass cock believes that an innocent man was lynched . the investigation will be conducted by judge frank may nard and assistant prosecutor ross , both of whom risked their lives in futile effort to calm the",mob,. a
885,14544_0.txt,"Bluefield evening leader (Bluefield, W. V...)",1910,"mississippi amoy , miss . , sept . 2 . - nick thomp proge son , a negro accused of criminally as- saulting a 17- year old white girl at jackson crossing near here last sat- urday , was taken to the scene of the crime this afternoon by a",mob,"and lynched . fully 2,000 persons parti- cipated in the lynching . six negroes besides thompson were arrested but later released after prov ing alibis . only the intervention of cooler heads preventel a when the first arrests were made lynching ."
886,14547_0.txt,"Martinsburg independent (Martinsburg, W....)",1899,telegraph notes . a movement to erect a national memorial in honor of abraham lincoln bas been started by the lin cola club of chicago . a,mob,"of 300 men lynched three negroes at leesburg , ga . the colored men had outraged a white wo man in sight of her husband , who was bound and gagged . the trouble that has been brew- growing for some time between col . david g . colston and"
887,14552_0.txt,"The Fairmont West Virginian. (Fairmont, W. Va...)",1913,"time . hot this is only one of smith's several character . he and offenses of the same fine has "" confessed "" to blowing the safe has "" confessed "" to blowing the safe at the bluefield ice and cold storage plant and to being the ring- leader of",mob,that lynched johnson at the princeton .
888,14555_0.txt,"Martinsburg independent (Martinsburg, W....)",1892,"a negro boy lynched . nashville , tenn . , june 30 . - late at night a",mob,"took tom lilliard , a negro boy 15 years old , from the jail at wood bury , marched him to the edge of town and hanged him to the bridge over stones river . the boy was charged with criminal assault on miss mc . knight , an iumate"
889,14556_0.txt,"Martinsburg herald (Martinsburg, W....)",1899,"but the jail guards , who had been reinforced by 10 extra officers , refused . a heavy plank was then procured , and the outer door of the jail , which is an antiquated structure , was battered in . the officers made a brave resistance to keep the",mob,"out , but they were over powered and the outer corridor of the jail war quickly in possession of the mob . a heavy iron door , however , stood between them and the cell where the man was supposed to be . this was also forced and the mob"
890,14556_0.txt,"Martinsburg herald (Martinsburg, W....)",1899,"procured , and the outer door of the jail , which is an antiquated structure , was battered in . the officers made a brave resistance to keep the mob out , but they were over powered and the outer corridor of the jail war quickly in possession of the",mob,". a heavy iron door , however , stood between them and the cell where the man was supposed to be . this was also forced and the mob surged in . thomas was at last secured and a rope was thrown about his neck and several shots were fired"
891,14556_0.txt,"Martinsburg herald (Martinsburg, W....)",1899,"mob out , but they were over powered and the outer corridor of the jail war quickly in possession of the mob . a heavy iron door , however , stood between them and the cell where the man was supposed to be . this was also forced and the",mob,"surged in . thomas was at last secured and a rope was thrown about his neck and several shots were fired into him and he was dragged to the corner of king and fair fax streets , in the heart of the business section of the city and strung up"
892,14556_0.txt,"Martinsburg herald (Martinsburg, W....)",1899,"and several shots were fired into him and he was dragged to the corner of king and fair fax streets , in the heart of the business section of the city and strung up to a lamp- post just as the clock on the city hall struck midnight . the",mob,"fired more shots into the hang ing body , and the leaders , after being satisfied that he was dead , dispersed . the body , from which all the clothing had been torn , was cut down by the police about 15 and is now in the morgue ."
893,14557_0.txt,"Martinsburg herald (Martinsburg, W....)",1903,"senate and house of delegates vás terday morning announced that a lvnching occurred sunday morning at madison , boone county , about thirty miles from this city . edgar mitchell , a young white man , accused of the murder of lee swords , was taken from prison by a",mob,"that overpowered the jailer and was hanged to a nearby tree . the governor said : "" the lvnching of the prisoner al most within the shadow of the capitol and while your honorable body is in session emphasizes the need of additional legislation on the subject of lynching ,"
894,14558_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1865,"baker with a cane , and , after he had broker it upon him , at tempted to escape by running away : that baker shot him he ran ; that hall died a few hours afterward ; that baker was arrested and put in jail , and that a",mob,"took him out and hung him the same night , despite the entreaties of the father of the man that was killed . about all this we should have little to say , for lawlessness of this character , and the murder of returned confederates by union fanatics is so"
895,14558_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1865,"laws , laws which he was sworn to defend , and which , in au unhappy day for tennessee , he was elected to execute ; this man , writing under such circumstances , has the miserable effrontery not only to justify and glory in the lawless violence of the",mob,"that murdered baker , but to say in terms , the meaning of which cannot be mistaken , that he has no power to protect any re turned confederate from the malignant passions of the east tennessee loyalists , and to remind the latter that they can safely wreak their"
896,14558_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1865,"wreak their vengeance and hatred upon the poor unfortunates , whose in pardonable offense is that they will persist in saying that they have been "" over powered but not convinced , "" for , says he with significant malice , and with a keen perception of the cowardliness of",mobs,", "" there are only one hundred and thirty six of them in the whole country , "" and i shall not protect them . we hope the day will quickly come that shall relieve tennessee from such a . -- n . y . news . monster guns and"
897,14560_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1916,,mob,"bent on lynching are foiled by prompt action of officials topeka , kans . , april 26- an at tempt on the part of the mob formed in topeka tonight to lynch fred bis sell at lawrence , where he was taken for safe keeping failed through the prompt action"
898,14560_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1916,"mob bent on lynching are foiled by prompt action of officials topeka , kans . , april 26- an at tempt on the part of the",mob,"formed in topeka tonight to lynch fred bis sell at lawrence , where he was taken for safe keeping failed through the prompt action of officials , who caused the prisoner to be taken from the jail and hurried away in an automobile . officers finally convinced the mob that"
899,14560_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1916,"the mob formed in topeka tonight to lynch fred bis sell at lawrence , where he was taken for safe keeping failed through the prompt action of officials , who caused the prisoner to be taken from the jail and hurried away in an automobile . officers finally convinced the",mob,"that bissell was not in the jail and the crowd dispersed . several automobile loads of men left here tonight for lawrence , kansas , with the avowed intention of removins fred bissell , the man charged with murdering edna dinsmore , a 9 year old girl , and lynching"
900,14560_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1916,"not in the jail and the crowd dispersed . several automobile loads of men left here tonight for lawrence , kansas , with the avowed intention of removins fred bissell , the man charged with murdering edna dinsmore , a 9 year old girl , and lynching him . a",mob,"attempted to break into the county jail here , believing that bis- sell had not been taken to lawrence , as the officers claim , sheriff kien at lawrence was notified may remove bissell to another town . the dinsmore girl's body was found yesterday in a burning house ."
901,14560_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1916,"the child had been assaulted . bissell , the police declare , admitted he had bought the child candy but denied the murder and assault . bissell is a baker , 27 years old . prisoner removed lawrence , kans . , april 26- upon receipt of information that a",mob,"formed at topeka was on the way here with the intention of lynching fred bissell , sheriff l . l . kien rei moved ibssell from the jail at 9 : 30 o'clock tonight and left lawrence in a motor car accompanied by a force of deputies . the destination"
902,14564_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,lynching is expected at cumberland if negro who assaulted girl is caught by,mob,". special dispatch to the intelligencer . cumberland , md . , april 20 . armed and determined men are searching the dans mountains for the assailant of pretty eva lowrey , aged 14 years , who was brutally maltreated in her home late yesterday afternoon , by a negro"
903,14565_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,,mob,"cheated of a victim chase deputy with indian prisoner . determined to lynch latter for murder . bloody finger prints on hat causes arrest victim of murder was daughter of farmer . whose body was found in woods . asheville , n c . oct . 8- ross french ,"
904,14565_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,"a cherokee indian , living on the birdtown , swain county reservation , was safely locked up in the county jall here tonight charged with the murder of ethel schuler , a 14 year- old farmer's daughter . his arrival here was effected after an ex elting escape from a",mob,of 100 men bent on lynching the prisoner . the body of dead girl was found friday in the woods near the town with her throat cut . no trace of her assallant was found until this morn ing . when deputy sheriff beck rested french near sylva . beck
905,14565_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,. no trace of her assallant was found until this morn ing . when deputy sheriff beck rested french near sylva . beck made the arrest on the strength of blood stained finger prints on the indian's bat . the french's capture spread quickly to the neighboring towns and a,mob,"of 100 men fol lowed the deputy eheriff to waynes ville , where french lodged in jail . as the mob continued to grow beck took his prisoner through the back door of the jail and brought him to asheville . the indian tonight made a partial confession but would"
906,14565_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,". beck made the arrest on the strength of blood stained finger prints on the indian's bat . the french's capture spread quickly to the neighboring towns and a mob of 100 men fol lowed the deputy eheriff to waynes ville , where french lodged in jail . as the",mob,continued to grow beck took his prisoner through the back door of the jail and brought him to asheville . the indian tonight made a partial confession but would give full detals of the crime . not
907,14566_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1912,negro lynched oklahoma,mob,"put to death by negro slayer of farmer and assailant of wife . oklahoma city , dec . 31 . -- for the murder of george caset , a far mer , an upon his wife at muldrow , okla , in the eastern part of the state , a"
908,14567_0.txt,"Martinsburg weekly independent (Martinsburg, W....)",1874,who distrust our people can fail to believe . but you come to appeal to the moral sense of the world ; your words are to go abroad to mankind . let it understand that you are not a race of assassins ; that you are not the men who,mask,", but stand in the dignity of your manhood , and in likeness of your creator ; with the eyes open and exposed you dare"
909,14569_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1913,"lynch negro drew , miss . , jan . 30 . - an unidentified negro , accused of complicity in the killing of a white man , at the town of goldfield , last month , was taken from a passenger train near here early today by a",mob,"and hanged to a telegraph pole . the deputy sheriff , who had negro in charge , was over- powered the ."
910,14570_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1912,two carolina negroes lynched by a,mob,"blackburg , s . c . , march 29- two negroes were lynched near here early to- day , after an unusual attack on a white man . money sometimes talks when you to keep it quiet , want"
911,14571_0.txt,"The Fairmont West Virginian. (Fairmont, W. Va...)",1906,pittsburg man checks lynchers . faces,mob,"intent upon killing a a negro and is as negro and is assaulted . pittsburg , aug . s.- while at tempting to check the the 11 try . of a mob bent upon lynching a caro suspected of the murder of an entire family , w . | j"
912,14571_0.txt,"The Fairmont West Virginian. (Fairmont, W. Va...)",1906,"pittsburg man checks lynchers . faces mob intent upon killing a a negro and is as negro and is assaulted . pittsburg , aug . s.- while at tempting to check the the 11 try . of a",mob,"bent upon lynching a caro suspected of the murder of an entire family , w . | j . macmahan , a young pittsburg civil engineer , was struck in the back of the neck with a club and severely injured in salisbury , n . c . , late"
913,14571_0.txt,"The Fairmont West Virginian. (Fairmont, W. Va...)",1906,", near salisbury the offices of the company being in , the latter place . company being last monday night a mch captured a negro suspected of marding the ly lerly family , and made frantic and finally successful efforts to lynch him . macmahan gained the attention of the",mob,"and pleaded that the relatives of the victims le permitted to make proper investigation and fasten meanwhile the crime on the negro . the later clung to marahan , piteously crying for mercy . the mob was on the point of relenting when some one struck macmahan a vicious blow"
914,14571_0.txt,"The Fairmont West Virginian. (Fairmont, W. Va...)",1906,"and finally successful efforts to lynch him . macmahan gained the attention of the mob and pleaded that the relatives of the victims le permitted to make proper investigation and fasten meanwhile the crime on the negro . the later clung to marahan , piteously crying for mercy . the",mob,"was on the point of relenting when some one struck macmahan a vicious blow on the neck with a club , feling him . in instant the mob seized the negro an and carried out its original purpose lynching him . of and carried out its original purpose"
915,14571_0.txt,"The Fairmont West Virginian. (Fairmont, W. Va...)",1906,"investigation and fasten meanwhile the crime on the negro . the later clung to marahan , piteously crying for mercy . the mob was on the point of relenting when some one struck macmahan a vicious blow on the neck with a club , feling him . in instant the",mob,seized the negro an and carried out its original purpose lynching him . of and carried out its original purpose
916,14576_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1893,its ' fiendish doings a,mob's,"thirst for blood fi nally satisfied . negro smith both lynched and burned . the horrible spectacle witnessed by several thousand people- the body reduced to ashes on an improvised pyre in the public streets- excitement prevails . wild roanoke , va . , sept 21 . - a squad"
917,14576_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1893,"hands of urknown men . thousands of people visited the scene of the lynching between daylight and 8 : 50 o'clock when the body was cut down , after the jury completed its work the body was in the hands of the officers who were unable to keep back the",mob,". three hundred men tried to drag the body through the streets of the town but rev . dr . campbell of , , the first presbyterian church with pless and by force of strength , , pre- vented them . capt . moorman hired a wagon and the body"
918,14578_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1897,"militia at urbana , o . , fired on a",mob,"which was bent on lynching charles mitchell , colored , for an assault on mrs . eliza gaumer . two were killed and nine were wounded . the mob made a later attack on the jail and lynched mitchell . obituary : -at rushville , ind . , ex- senator"
919,14578_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1897,"militia at urbana , o . , fired on a mob which was bent on lynching charles mitchell , colored , for an assault on mrs . eliza gaumer . two were killed and nine were wounded . the",mob,"made a later attack on the jail and lynched mitchell . obituary : -at rushville , ind . , ex- senator archibald m . kennedy , 79 . - at pontiac , ill . , william t . ament . at danville , ill . , w . t ."
920,14579_1.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1893,an indiana,mob,"attempted to lynch two young brothers who had been accused of murdering their father . the boys fired upon and dispersed the would- be , killing four and fatally wounding lynchers another ."
921,14581_2.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1892,"at millersburg , ohio , a",mob,lynched an unknown negro . he had been about the town a few weeks and had been notified to leave . he had lingered about people's and annoyed them in various doorsteps ways .
922,14582_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1891,whiskey,mob,". prohibition workers attacked and badly injured . dubuque , ia . , july 7 . - a man opened a saloon at elkader , the county seat of clayton county , iowa . realto price , who has been prominent in enforcing the prohibition law there , and his"
923,14582_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1891,"who has been prominent in enforcing the prohibition law there , and his son , commanded the man to close the saloon . on * * * uavy marshal's aid and closed the sa loon . as prince and his son were going home across the bridge after dark ,",mob,attacked and cut then badly . they were forced to fly into an adjoining build ing and barricade the doors to keep the mob from executing a threat of lynching them . the latest reports from elkadering are that prince and his son . in a critical condition . are
924,14582_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1891,"who has been prominent in enforcing the prohibition law there , and his son , commanded the man to close the saloon . on * * * uavy marshal's aid and closed the sa loon . as prince and his son were going home across the bridge after dark ,",mob attacked,and cut then badly . they were forced to fly into an adjoining build ing and barricade the doors to keep the mob from executing a threat of lynching them . the latest reports from elkadering are that prince and his son . in a critical condition . are
925,14582_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1891,"* * * uavy marshal's aid and closed the sa loon . as prince and his son were going home across the bridge after dark , mob attacked and cut then badly . they were forced to fly into an adjoining build ing and barricade the doors to keep the",mob,from executing a threat of lynching them . the latest reports from elkadering are that prince and his son . in a critical condition . are
926,14582_1.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1891,"bible , and they are incessantly at war with the lurks , but they hate the christians still more for refusing to conform to their own creed altogether . after plundering damascus they prepared to march against the large seaport town of beyrout , and were joined by such a",mob,"of adventurers that the turks were unable to guarantee the safety of any city in syria , and a number of european powers had to combine before the fanatics could be indue- ed to return to their mountains . when they did return they agreed to keep the peace for"
927,14583_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1887,"crime and criminals an unknown person monday night maliciously ruined 5,000 yards of fancy goods on the looms in the manville company's cotton mill at manville , r . i . schellenbfrger , convicted of killing his little daughter , was lynched by a",mob,"at nebraska city , saturday night . his last words were a threat to haunt the executioners . obadiah shaw , a young man , is under arrest at logansport , ind . , for abducting miss lowra horn , whose parents objected to shaw's attentions to their dangleter ."
928,14583_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1887,"their dangleter . there is much excitement , and even lynching is hinted at . on a farm near falmouth , ky . , wednesday morning john neave deliberately shot and killed his father , who visited the farm to get his share of the crop of wheat . a",mob,"is being organized to lynch the parricide . stanyard , who shot alice hancock be- she refused to him mon- cause marry , was , day , at youngston , ohio , sentenced to be hanged nov . 18 , next . after his doom had been pronounced the culprit"
929,14584_0.txt,"Ladysmith news-budget (Ladysmith, Rusk...)",1920,3 negros escape lynching police armed with rifles save chi cago black from,mob,". chicago- three negroes were be sieged for more than an hour in st . gabriel's catholic church on the south side by a mob of 1,000 persons after the negroes had killed a white man , charles barret , who is said to have gone to the rescue of"
930,14584_0.txt,"Ladysmith news-budget (Ladysmith, Rusk...)",1920,3 negros escape lynching police armed with rifles save chi cago black from mob . chicago- three negroes were be sieged for more than an hour in st . gabriel's catholic church on the south side by a,mob,"of 1,000 persons after the negroes had killed a white man , charles barret , who is said to have gone to the rescue of a white girl insulted by the negroes . they were rescued and placed in jail when squads of policemen were sent to avert a possible"
931,14584_0.txt,"Ladysmith news-budget (Ladysmith, Rusk...)",1920,"jail when squads of policemen were sent to avert a possible race irot . father burke , pastor of the church , appeared at the entrance and for several minutes pleaded with the crowd to disperse but without avail . only when policemen , armed with rifles , did the",mob,break up . appeared
932,14594_0.txt,"Iowa County democrat (Mineral Point, ...)",1903,"the lynching of three negroes at fremont , o . , for the murder of otto mischke and the wounding of albert gommoll was prevented by sheriff mason , for two hourse defied the j",mob,at who the jail doors .
933,14596_0.txt,"Ladysmith news-budget (Ladysmith, Rusk...)",1909,"testimony- and prostituting justice - the people arose in their might and administered the law themselves , which was their only recourse . the time for silence is past ; the worst has been done : cairo and alexander county have been overwhelmed with all the injury and disgrace that",mob,"law can bring upon a community , and it is in order now to place the responsibility for this where it belongs in order that the awful lesson may serve a good purpose . the terrible story of yester day means above all things else , that the men of"
934,14597_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1892,allen parker ( colored ) was lynched by a,mob,"at new monroeville , ala , burning a cotton gin . for"
935,14597_2.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1892,"john hastings ( colored ) was taken from jail at jonesville , la . , by a",mob,and hanged . he was charged murder . with
936,14598_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1893,work of a,mob,". john peterson , a negro , lynched at denmark , s . c . he was charged with criminally assaulting a little girl- strong evidence that he was innocent of the crime . riddled with shot . columbia , s . c . , april 25 . - the"
937,14598_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1893,"excite ment of the populace at the little vil dilage of denmark , this state , over the assault upon bessie baxter , a 15- year old girl , by a negro ten days ago culminated at 10 o'clock monday night in the lynching sof john peterson by an infuriated",mob,"of 500 persons , who filled his body with bullets while it dangled from a tree . there is every reason to believe that peterson was innocent and that the mob wreaked its vengeance on the wrong person . peterson had been suspected of the crime , was hunted by"
938,14598_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1893,"negro ten days ago culminated at 10 o'clock monday night in the lynching sof john peterson by an infuriated mob of 500 persons , who filled his body with bullets while it dangled from a tree . there is every reason to believe that peterson was innocent and that the",mob,"wreaked its vengeance on the wrong person . peterson had been suspected of the crime , was hunted by the country people , and came to columbia last saturday and delivered himself to the governor , asking his protection . the turned him to governor over a constable to be"
939,14599_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1895,"by his own people . negro murderer lynched in kentucky . dragged from the jail at springfield and strung up- doors of the structure battered down and the prisoner taken . springfield , ky . , aug . 26 . shortly after 2 o'clock this morning a",mob,", composed of about a dozen men , took harrison lewis , the negro who last friday night murdered joe brooks , also colored , from the jail here and hanged him to a tree in the court house yard . when the mob reached the jail they called for"
940,14599_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1895,"after 2 o'clock this morning a mob , composed of about a dozen men , took harrison lewis , the negro who last friday night murdered joe brooks , also colored , from the jail here and hanged him to a tree in the court house yard . when the",mob,"reached the jail they called for jailer smith , but his wife informed them that he was not at home and that he had the keys to the jail with him . this did not daunt the mob , however . going to a blacksmith shop near by , the"
941,14599_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1895,"him to a tree in the court house yard . when the mob reached the jail they called for jailer smith , but his wife informed them that he was not at home and that he had the keys to the jail with him . this did not daunt the",mob,", however . going to a blacksmith shop near by , the men procured some sledge hammers and , after three hours ' work , succeeded in battering down the jail door . lewis was found crouching in his cell and begged piteously for his life , but the leader"
942,14599_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1895,"his cell and begged piteously for his life , but the leader ordered the men to make quick work of him . he was quickly seized and , after placing a rope around his neck , was dragged to the nearest tree and strung up without further ceremony . the",mob,"did its work in a quiet , orderly way and seemed to be thoroughly organized . it is the opinion of many that it was com posed of colored men . after complet ing the work the mob quietly dispersed . the murder was a dastardly one and the negroes"
943,14599_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1895,"to the nearest tree and strung up without further ceremony . the mob did its work in a quiet , orderly way and seemed to be thoroughly organized . it is the opinion of many that it was com posed of colored men . after complet ing the work the",mob,"quietly dispersed . the murder was a dastardly one and the negroes have been greatly worked up since its occurrence . friday night lewis went to brooks ' house and , call ing him to the door , shot him down on own threshold without any warn ing his ."
944,14600_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1901,"prim , an orphan 11 years old , who lived at it is alleged that the priest's house . the girl was whipped so severely and punished in other ways that her condition is very critical . father yung was not taken into court , for fear of blut a",mob,which hanged him in effigy .
945,14603_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1920,"george robertson , negro , was taken from the city jail at laurens , s . c . . by a",mob,. and hanged to a railroad bridge on the outskirts of the city * * * .
946,14605_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1920,"* * * select reid , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,"near greenville , ala . , after an alleged attack by him on a . h . arrington , superintendent ' of the cotton oil company plant . southern * *"
947,14606_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1889,"w . j . smith and asa brown , citizens of san sabo , county , tex . , were on the 20th taken out and hanged by unknown persons . the cause of the lynching was unknown . john pucketre and wife were hanged by a",mob,on the 20th in the indian territory they were charged with stealing . .
948,14607_0.txt,"Northern Wisconsin advertiser (Wabeno, Wis.)",1906,"will prosecute lynchers . columbia , s . c . , aug 18 . - governor heyward yesterday said he had instructed solicitor cooper of the green wood circult to prosecute the known members of the which lynched the negro davis there",mob,thursday night .
949,14608_0.txt,"Northern Wisconsin advertiser (Wabeno, Wis.)",1904,a,mob,"at laramie , wyo . , lynched a negro "" trusty "" who had attacked white girl in the prison kitchen . a"
950,14611_1.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1891,á,masked,"mob broke into the jail at billings , mont . , took the murderer of joseph clancy out and hanged him to telegraph pole . a"
951,14611_1.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1891,á masked,mob,"broke into the jail at billings , mont . , took the murderer of joseph clancy out and hanged him to telegraph pole . a"
952,14611_5.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1891,"john brown , a young negro desperado , was taken out of jail at jackson , tenn , by",a party of,masked men and hanged . to a tree .
953,14611_5.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1891,"john brown , a young negro desperado , was taken out of jail at jackson , tenn , by a party of",masked,men and hanged . to a tree .
954,14611_5.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1891,"john brown , a young negro desperado , was taken out of jail at jackson , tenn , by a party of",masked men,and hanged . to a tree .
955,14612_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1892,"isaac brandon , a negro charged with attempted assault upon a white woman , was taken from the at charles city , va . , by a",mob,and hanged jail .
956,14614_0.txt,"Northern Wisconsin advertiser (Wabeno, Wis.)",1901,a,mob,"at elkins , w . va . , lynched a negro who had mortally wounded chief of police . the"
957,14616_0.txt,"Mineral Point tribune. (Mineral Point, ...)",1881,a number of,masked,"white men went to the jail at hot springs , ark . , with the intention of lynching a negro charged with rape . a party of colored men , learning of the plan , gathered in a cemetery and opened fire on the lynchers . about two hundred shots"
958,14616_0.txt,"Mineral Point tribune. (Mineral Point, ...)",1881,"a number of masked white men went to the jail at hot springs , ark . , with the intention of lynching a negro charged with rape .",a party of,"colored men , learning of the plan , gathered in a cemetery and opened fire on the lynchers . about two hundred shots were fired , but nobody killed . was"
959,14620_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1920,southern,mob,"hangs negro enterprise , miss.- james spencer , a negro postal clerk , who seriously stabbad otho parker , a white postal clerk , on the new orleans and north eastern mail car , was taken from the officers who were him to quit man for trial , and taking"
960,14622_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1872,"forced confession.- at scranton , iowa , dec . 26th , alva chambers , ar rested for murdering chas . w . ken dall at new jefferson , was taken out to be hung by a",mob,of fifty lynchers but on his making full confession they returned him to the sheriff and let the law take its course . kendall was a young man of 19 who was fer . riting out the guilty parties who had robbed the county of a large sum . two
961,14623_0.txt,"The Wisconsin weekly blade (Madison, Wis.)",1919,"it now congratulates north carolina on the conviction and imprisonment of 15 members of a lynching party . they tried to break into the jail at winston- salem to seize a negro . it took moral courage to find a verdict of guil ty , for the man whom the",mob,sought to lynch had committed a crime which drives southern ers into a frenzy . the jury might be exposed to the charge that they were lacking in chivalry . they might have palliated acquittal by pointing out that the mob had failed . they might have compromised by convicting
962,14623_0.txt,"The Wisconsin weekly blade (Madison, Wis.)",1919,"of guil ty , for the man whom the mob sought to lynch had committed a crime which drives southern ers into a frenzy . the jury might be exposed to the charge that they were lacking in chivalry . they might have palliated acquittal by pointing out that the",mob,had failed . they might have compromised by convicting one or two of the leaders and letting the rest go . the things that made it hard for the jury to convict also made it hard for the judge to sentence . but the court did its duty : sentences
963,14624_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1900,a,mob,"lynched dan long , a negro , near ivanhoe va . . for criminally as- saulting mrs . . fisher ."
964,14625_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1903,even looking at the delaware negro- burning from the,mob,"standpoint , it is hard to see how the lynching of the negro evened up matters , since it resulted in the death of two other peo- ple who were shot in the scrimmage at the jail . that is to say , the negro killed but one person and"
965,14625_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1903,", since it resulted in the death of two other peo- ple who were shot in the scrimmage at the jail . that is to say , the negro killed but one person and would undoubtedly have been hanged for the murder in the regular course of justice . the",mob,is responsible for the death of three people besides setting the law at defiance . nobobdy but a lyncher can figure even a deterrent result of that sort of a campaign . out
966,14625_2.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1903,a,mob,"lynched case jones ( colored ) , who assaulted a 12- year- old girl at elk valley , tenn . at montgomery , ala . , j . w . pace , an aged tallapoosa county planter , was convicted of holding negroes in servitude as peons , and involuntary"
967,14625_3.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1903,a,mob,"again assembled at peoria , ill . , to lynch john mccray , the mur- derer of detective murphy , but the prisoner had been to gales- burg . taken"
968,14626_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1907,gov . a . b . cummins ordered imme- diate presecution of as many as possible of the that lynched a murderer at charles,mob,"city , ia ."
969,14627_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1906,three negroes hanged . north carolina,mob,"defies bul lets to avenge the five lyerly murders . two left to live . united states senator pleads in vain one of flying wedge that storms jail is fatally shot . greensboro , n . c . , rumors that a plan has been formed to lynch one or"
970,14627_1.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1906,"raleigh , n . c . , aug . 7 . - this after noon gov . glenn received a telegram from judge b . f . long of salisbury stating that one person had been identified as a member of the",mob,that lynched the alleged murderers of the lyerly fam ily last night and that he had been placed in jail ; that evidence was hand against others and that the investigation is being pushed as rapidly and thorough ly as possible . gov . glenn received this message from sheriff
971,14627_2.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1906,"salisbury , n . c . , aug . 7 . - five negroes , charged with the murder of the lyerly family , were taken from the jail last ght , after a battle with the inilitia , in which one member of the",mob,"was fatally shot . three of the negroes , james neace , john gillespie and jack dillingham , were strung up to a tree a short distance from the town and their bolies riddled with bullets . the remaining negroes , henry lee , george ervin and bella dillingham ,"
972,14627_2.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1906,"the remaining negroes , henry lee , george ervin and bella dillingham , were not molested and later officers hurried them off to greens bero . gov . glenn today said the lynching is a blot on the state and he will bring to justice the guilty ones . the",mob,"began gathering at sundown . saloons ordered mayor boyden closed and with other citizens . united states senator overman , who was hold ing the special term of court to try the negroes , and solicitor hammer , gathered the jail steps and addressed the ( 11 crowd , which"
973,14627_2.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1906,". united states senator overman , who was hold ing the special term of court to try the negroes , and solicitor hammer , gathered the jail steps and addressed the ( 11 crowd , which at that time numbered there were howls and cat calls 2000 . from the",mob,". about 9 o'clock mayor boyden called upon the local military company , the rowan rifles , for aid . they assembled quickly , but were supplied only with blank cartridges , having no orders to shoot to kill . fireman mclendon of charlotte , a southern railway employe ,"
974,14627_2.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1906,"aid . they assembled quickly , but were supplied only with blank cartridges , having no orders to shoot to kill . fireman mclendon of charlotte , a southern railway employe , was shot in the stomach by a bullet said to have been fired by a member of the",mob,". he was fataly wounded . will troutman , negro drayman , was also seriously shot a ."
975,14627_3.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1906,flying wedge storms jaii . at 10 o'clock the,mob,"was augmented then a crowd of by fully 500 men . fifty , forming a sort of flying wedge , made a break for the jail doors , over powered the officers and effected an en trance . the great crowd surged in be hind the leaders and in a"
976,14627_3.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1906,"forts negroes , the ropes were quickly brought forward and adjusted and the three were strung up to the limbs of one tree , and with howls and curses the crowd riddled the dangling bodies with bullets . edward barber , a relative of the murdered men , followed the",mob,"with the prisoners to the scene of the lynching them pleaded with to the and return negroes to the jail and let the law take its course . the crime for which the three men were lynched was committed on the night of july 13 near barbers june tion ,"
977,14630_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1911,arkansas,mob,"hangs negro taken from prison , where he was placed following accusation made by woman , forest city , ark . , oct . 17 . - nathan lacey , a negro who , it is charged , at tacked mrs . thomas cox at her home forest city ,"
978,14630_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1911,"placed following accusation made by woman , forest city , ark . , oct . 17 . - nathan lacey , a negro who , it is charged , at tacked mrs . thomas cox at her home forest city , was taken from the near local prison by a",mob,and lynched .
979,14633_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1898,"2,520 , against 10,652 a",mob,"lynched an aged negro sherrill , ark . , for stealing a hog . near"
980,14633_1.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1898,a,mob,"lynched joseph hopkins , a ne who murdered two white farmers gro at glendore . , miss ."
981,14634_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1898,at the trial in paris of m . zola there were riotous proceedings and he narrowly escaped being lynched by,mob,. the
982,14634_1.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1898,a,mob,"lynched john kellog ( colored ) , who assaulted a 14- year- old white girl named roberts near blanch ala . ,"
983,14636_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1900,"martin durham and w . d . turner , officers of peace , were shot to death by negroes at ripley , tenn . , and a two",mob,lynched the murderers .
984,14637_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1910,""" drywar leads to lynching anti- saloon , detective hanged for killing man .",mob,"storms jall at newark , o . , gets prisoner and strings him up . newark , o.- battering down the doors of the jail , a mob of women , men and children friday took charles etherington , an anti- saloon detective , who confessed to having killed a"
985,14637_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1910,""" drywar leads to lynching anti- saloon , detective hanged for killing man . mob storms jall at newark , o . , gets prisoner and strings him up . newark , o.- battering down the doors of the jail , a",mob,"of women , men and children friday took charles etherington , an anti- saloon detective , who confessed to having killed a man here , and lynched him in the public square . the mob which had been increasing all evening at the jail became frenzied and refused to listen"
986,14637_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1910,"him up . newark , o.- battering down the doors of the jail , a mob of women , men and children friday took charles etherington , an anti- saloon detective , who confessed to having killed a man here , and lynched him in the public square . the",mob,"which had been increasing all evening at the jail became frenzied and refused to listen to pleadings for preservation of order . they broke all the jail windows and rammed in the outer door , taking the keys from the jailer . they quickly found the prisoner's cell on the"
987,14637_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1910,"cleveland and other places to get evidence against "" near beer "" sa loons . at the first place no trouble arose . at the second charles rich ards , the bartender , was handcuffed for over an hour . at the third place visited the trouble started . a",mob,"of 2,000 gathered and threatened the detectives . with revolvers drawn the anti- saloon league officers retreated to a hotel . the police interfered there , arresting eight of the detectives . the remaining twelve detectives broke and ran , pursued by the howling mob . half a dozen were"
988,14637_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1910,"the trouble started . a mob of 2,000 gathered and threatened the detectives . with revolvers drawn the anti- saloon league officers retreated to a hotel . the police interfered there , arresting eight of the detectives . the remaining twelve detectives broke and ran , pursued by the howling",mob,". half a dozen were caught and beaten . the police rescued most of them . a downtown crowd fell on james henderson of columbus , and beat him o severely that he was taken to the newark hospital . ether ingto , who hed to the ball park ,"
989,14637_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1910,"and the crowd set upon him . howard , the proprietor of a "" near beer "" saloon , the last place searched by the detectives , was in front of etherington when the latter drew a revolver and fired . etherington was hurried to the jail with a yelling",mob,at the heels of the police who were protecting him . all afternoon the crowd stormed about the place threatening to lynch the detective . .
990,14638_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1897,it now transpires that it was the police of mexico and not a,mob,", who lynched the man who attempted to president diaz . assassinate"
991,14641_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1900,lynched by a,mob,". port arthur , tex . , feb . 12 . - james sweeney was lynched at one o'clock sunday morning . sweeney was a cotton foreman , and had killed charles crumbach , a fellow laborer , by jam ming a bayonet through his neck . the crime was"
992,14641_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1900,"beaumont , tex . , friday , and saturday night the jury returned a verdict of "" not guilty . "" as soon as he was released sweeney returned to port arthur , arriving here at 12 : 30 sunday morning he was met at the . depot by a",mob,", marched uptown and strung up to a telephone pole without ceremony the mob then quietly dispersed . ."
993,14641_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1900,"verdict of "" not guilty . "" as soon as he was released sweeney returned to port arthur , arriving here at 12 : 30 sunday morning he was met at the . depot by a mob , marched uptown and strung up to a telephone pole without ceremony the",mob,then quietly dispersed . .
994,14643_1.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1903,"at hamilton mont . walter jackson , , , the convicted murderer of fonnie buck , a six year- old boy was taken from the - jail by a",mob,"and lynched , ."
995,14643_2.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1903,"later news . . tom hall , alias douglass . a negro , charged with shooting crockett child ress , a white boy , at kevil , ky . , was taken from jail a",mob,of 100 men and hanged to a by tree in the jail yard .
996,14644_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1903,"curred in elmira , n . y . , aged 103 years : a",mob,"at lynched c . clifton , murderer of mr . and w . mrs . john w . church ."
997,14645_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1900,a,mob,"lynched john jennings ( col ) at cresswell , ala . , for the murder ored of l . martin ."
998,14646_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1869,"a negro named wisdom scott was taken the jail at somerville , tenn . , by a from",mob,", on friday night , and hung ."
999,14648_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1893,colored murderer lynched . taken from officers by a,moband,"swung to a limb . morganfield , ky . , aug . 18 . - charles walton , the colored murderer , was swung to a limb in richard woods near here last night . a little before 12 o'clock jailer sellers and the marshal started for henderson with the"
1000,14649_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1895,coit did his duty . gov . mckinley endorses the firing on a,mob,"of lynchers by troops . columbus , o . , march 9 . - the ohio national guard military commission , ap pointed by gov . mckinley to inquire into the shooting of certain citizens at washington court house by ohio troops under command of col . alonzo b ."
1001,14649_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1895,", , not to break the peace of the country . "" the governor then outlines the affair at washington c . h . , october 7 , in which the prisoner was being taken from the jail to the courtroom to enter a plea of guilty , when the",mob,"interfered . having reached the courtroom with the prisoner and he having been sentenced for twenty years , the full extent of the law , the officers of the county and the military remained there , besieged by the mob , until the shooting followed on account of an at"
1002,14649_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1895,"courtroom to enter a plea of guilty , when the mob interfered . having reached the courtroom with the prisoner and he having been sentenced for twenty years , the full extent of the law , the officers of the county and the military remained there , besieged by the",mob,", until the shooting followed on account of an at tempt of the mob to break into the build 99 ing . "" the unlawful assemblage , ' says the governor , "" neither heeded the warn ings of the officers nor of the citizens , which were repeatedly given"
1003,14649_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1895,"reached the courtroom with the prisoner and he having been sentenced for twenty years , the full extent of the law , the officers of the county and the military remained there , besieged by the mob , until the shooting followed on account of an at tempt of the",mob,"to break into the build 99 ing . "" the unlawful assemblage , ' says the governor , "" neither heeded the warn ings of the officers nor of the citizens , which were repeatedly given . "" "" under this grave provocation , "" continues the governor , """
1004,14649_2.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1895,"religious riots . protestant church attacked at sofia , bulgaria . sofia , bulgaria , march 8 . - during the progress of a religious service at the protestant church at lompani on sun day last the building was invaded by a",mob,"of members of the orthodox greek church , who assaulted the worshipers , tore up the prayerbooks and completely wrecked the interior of the church . several germans and americans were among the worshipers , who were seriously in during the disturbance . the amer jured icans are under british"
1005,14650_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1896,"their supposed destination is decatur . . a negro lynched . nashville , tenn . , april 3 . - a telegram from tupelo , miss . , sixty miles south east of memphis , says that a young gro about 18 years old was taken from jail by a",mob,and lynched in front of the courthouse . the prisoner attempted to assault a prominent white lady plantersville about two weeks ago . at
1006,14653_0.txt,"The Washburn times (Washburn, Wis.)",1901,,mob,"threatens to lynch . indiana citizens ready to revenge murder of blind man . princeton , ind . , feb . 15 . - the loomil ler tragedy at hazelton , this county , may result in mob action against martin hobbs , who was arrested after an investigation which"
1007,14653_0.txt,"The Washburn times (Washburn, Wis.)",1901,"mob threatens to lynch . indiana citizens ready to revenge murder of blind man . princeton , ind . , feb . 15 . - the loomil ler tragedy at hazelton , this county , may result in",mob,"action against martin hobbs , who was arrested after an investigation which was in progress privately all day yesterday . great crowds thronged the streets of hazelton during the investigation and many threats were made . bloodhounds early in the day followed trails to hobbs ' home and to two"
1008,14655_0.txt,"Kenosha tribune & telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1857,"another man hung in iowa.- the askaloosa ( iowa ) times , of july 16th , relates that wm . b . thomas , charged with the murder of mr . & mrs . castell , was taken from the custody of the sheriff by armed",mob,"of 200 persons and hung , without even with the formalities of a mock trial . this makes the seventh hung by mobs in iowa during the last eight weeks mau ."
1009,14655_0.txt,"Kenosha tribune & telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1857,". b . thomas , charged with the murder of mr . & mrs . castell , was taken from the custody of the sheriff by armed mob of 200 persons and hung , without even with the formalities of a mock trial . this makes the seventh hung by",mobs,in iowa during the last eight weeks mau .
1010,14657_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1906,negroes fire upon policemen one officer killed and three wounded . white pupils ston ed who had angry,mob,"hangs negro threatened the town marshal six white men sentenced to jaj riot- citizens ex for inciting to pect more trouble . atlanta , ga . , sept . 25 . - while a party of county policemen were last night riding by an alley in south atlanta near clark"
1011,14657_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1906,"upon policemen one officer killed and three wounded . white pupils ston ed who had angry mob hangs negro threatened the town marshal six white men sentenced to jaj riot- citizens ex for inciting to pect more trouble . atlanta , ga . , sept . 25 . - while",a party of,"county policemen were last night riding by an alley in south atlanta near clark university , a negro einstitution , they were fired upon by a party of negroes . county policem heard was killed , three other officers wounded and one is missing . officers and soldiers patrolling that"
1012,14657_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1906,"jaj riot- citizens ex for inciting to pect more trouble . atlanta , ga . , sept . 25 . - while a party of county policemen were last night riding by an alley in south atlanta near clark university , a negro einstitution , they were fired upon by",a party of,"negroes . county policem heard was killed , three other officers wounded and one is missing . officers and soldiers patrolling that sec tion followed the fleeing negroes into the woods . the authorities felt so confident that they had the situation well in hand that at noon an or"
1013,14657_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1906,"of policeman . heard in south atlanta last night , the force which accompanied him captured 10 of the attacking party . four escaped . six were put aboard a street car under a guard of police and deputies and started for the jail . at crews street , a",mob,"stoppped the car . two of the prisoners made a dash for liberty . the mob caught . them in the front yard of a home occupied by mrs . r . c . thompson , a highly respected white woman . the negroes were cut and beaten and left"
1014,14657_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1906,"10 of the attacking party . four escaped . six were put aboard a street car under a guard of police and deputies and started for the jail . at crews street , a mob stoppped the car . two of the prisoners made a dash for liberty . the",mob,"caught . them in the front yard of a home occupied by mrs . r . c . thompson , a highly respected white woman . the negroes were cut and beaten and left for dead . mrs . thompson , watching the scene from the porch of her home"
1015,14657_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1906,"10 of the attacking party . four escaped . six were put aboard a street car under a guard of police and deputies and started for the jail . at crews street , a mob stoppped the car . two of the prisoners made a dash for liberty . the",mob caught,". them in the front yard of a home occupied by mrs . r . c . thompson , a highly respected white woman . the negroes were cut and beaten and left for dead . mrs . thompson , watching the scene from the porch of her home ,"
1016,14658_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1912,guayaquil,mob,"kills leaders are five revolutionary generals lynched in ecuador . guayaquil , ecuador.- generals eloy alfaro , flavio alfaro , me dardo alfaro , manuel serrano and ulpiano paez , all prominent revolutionists , were lynched by a mob which broke into the quito prison , despite the heavy guard"
1017,14658_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1912,"guayaquil mob kills leaders are five revolutionary generals lynched in ecuador . guayaquil , ecuador.- generals eloy alfaro , flavio alfaro , me dardo alfaro , manuel serrano and ulpiano paez , all prominent revolutionists , were lynched by a",mob,"which broke into the quito prison , despite the heavy guard surrounding it . with the putting to death of gen . eloy alfaro , ex- president of ecuador ; his brother , gen . flavio alfaro , ex minister of war and commander- in chief of the revolutionary forces"
1018,14660_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1912,,mob,"lynches negro slayer . prisoner in jail near baltimore is dragged out and body hacked . baltimore , md.- king davis , a ne gro , aged thirty- eight years , who shot and killed frederick a . schwab , a white man , at fairfield , anne arundel county"
1019,14660_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1912,"years , who shot and killed frederick a . schwab , a white man , at fairfield , anne arundel county , was taken from the lockup at brooklyn , a suburb of baltimore , and lynched . his body was badly hacked with hatchets in the hands of the",mob,nothing was known of the lynching by the authorities of brooklyn until the chief of police was notified by a newspaper carrier of what had happened . the mutilated body of the ne was found in the rear of the town gro jail .
1020,14661_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1886,"hung to an oak . nd of geo . graham , the missouri wife murderer . a band of",masked,"men lynch him at an early hour in the morning . springfield , mo . , april 27 . - george graham , the wife- murderer , was lynched here by a mob at an early hour , this morning . a spring wagon was part of the outfit of"
1021,14661_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1886,"hung to an oak . nd of geo . graham , the missouri wife murderer . a band of",masked men,"lynch him at an early hour in the morning . springfield , mo . , april 27 . - george graham , the wife- murderer , was lynched here by a mob at an early hour , this morning . a spring wagon was part of the outfit of the"
1022,14661_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1886,"an oak . nd of geo . graham , the missouri wife murderer . a band of masked men lynch him at an early hour in the morning . springfield , mo . , april 27 . - george graham , the wife- murderer , was lynched here by a",mob,"at an early hour , this morning . a spring wagon was part of the outfit of the lynching party . the wagon was halted in front of the jail door , and a few men heavily armed and carrying in their hands rope and sledge hammers knocked at the"
1023,14661_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1886,. strangled to death . at 5 o'clock a . m . the body of graham was hanging where left by the lynchers . this is the first instance of lynch law that has occurred in green county for twenty years . it was reported that one wing of the,mob,"went to bolivia , where cora lee is still in jail , with the intention of her also ; but this is not verified lynching ."
1024,14662_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"october . the people of quincy , fla . , lynched two men suspected of firing a new mill .",masked,"men at steelville , mo . , lynched r . p . wallace , the alleged murderer of the logan family of five per sons- father , mother , and three children . other culprits who fell victims to mob law during october were : tom farrar , a negro"
1025,14662_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"october . the people of quincy , fla . , lynched two men suspected of firing a new mill .",masked men,"at steelville , mo . , lynched r . p . wallace , the alleged murderer of the logan family of five per sons- father , mother , and three children . other culprits who fell victims to mob law during october were : tom farrar , a negro ,"
1026,14662_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"lynched two men suspected of firing a new mill . masked men at steelville , mo . , lynched r . p . wallace , the alleged murderer of the logan family of five per sons- father , mother , and three children . other culprits who fell victims to",mob,"law during october were : tom farrar , a negro , who assaulted miss lizzie murray and afterward murdered her father at throckmorton , texas . thomas israel , a negro , for brutally assaulting a ten year- old white girl at rocky ford , ga . vigi iantes of"
1027,14662_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,", texas . thomas israel , a negro , for brutally assaulting a ten year- old white girl at rocky ford , ga . vigi iantes of montrose , col , took from jail a notorious man- slayer named john mclees , and hanged him to a gate- beam .",masked,"men at monticello , ill . , took out of jail and hanged henry wildman , a wife- murderer . three ne of incendiarism- strung ' up . james haynes , a murderer , was taken from jail at brownsville , miss . , and hanged : all parties- the"
1028,14662_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,", texas . thomas israel , a negro , for brutally assaulting a ten year- old white girl at rocky ford , ga . vigi iantes of montrose , col , took from jail a notorious man- slayer named john mclees , and hanged him to a gate- beam .",masked men,"at monticello , ill . , took out of jail and hanged henry wildman , a wife- murderer . three ne of incendiarism- strung ' up . james haynes , a murderer , was taken from jail at brownsville , miss . , and hanged : all parties- the murdered"
1029,14662_1.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"december . the town of brenham , texas , was invaded at midnight by a",masked,"mob who took from the jail shea felder , alfred jones and ephraim jones ( murderers ) , who were found next morn ing hanging to a tree . george parks and mon roe smith , colored , charged with incendiarism , were lynched at ringgold , ga . james"
1030,14662_1.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"december . the town of brenham , texas , was invaded at midnight by a masked",mob,"who took from the jail shea felder , alfred jones and ephraim jones ( murderers ) , who were found next morn ing hanging to a tree . george parks and mon roe smith , colored , charged with incendiarism , were lynched at ringgold , ga . james howard"
1031,14662_4.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,june . during the month,mobs,"inflicted summary punishment in the following cases : long , who murdered a . j . mcbride and wife and burned their bodies , near lexington , n . c . charles whittle ( colored ) , accused of assault ing the child of a clergyman . ole beckvolt ,"
1032,14662_4.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,", accused of assault ing the child of a clergyman . ole beckvolt , near grand forks , dakota . eli owens , arrested for assault upon his 16- year- old sister- in- law , taken from jail at hebron , neb . , and hanged to a tree by",masked,"men . w . p . pruitt , lynched near sipe springs , comanche county , texas , for conspiring to murder j . o . hostetter . the wanton murder of john cowey at detroit city , minn , , by marshal a gambler named william"
1033,14662_4.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,", accused of assault ing the child of a clergyman . ole beckvolt , near grand forks , dakota . eli owens , arrested for assault upon his 16- year- old sister- in- law , taken from jail at hebron , neb . , and hanged to a tree by",masked men,". w . p . pruitt , lynched near sipe springs , comanche county , texas , for conspiring to murder j . o . hostetter . the wanton murder of john cowey at detroit city , minn , , by marshal a gambler named william"
1034,14662_7.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"catalogue the most note worthy deeds of blood of the year 1886 . murders with malice aforethought , killing in the heat of passion , and excusable homicides . the legal executions of the year- the hangman's noose claims a long list of viciims . the lynchings of a twelvemonth-",mob,violence claims a large ber of victims . num
1035,14662_9.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"him at pearlington , miss sidney davis was on trial at morgan , texas , for outrage , when the proceedings were interrupted by the arri al of 500 men , who hanged the culprit . steve ren froe , a notorious outlaw and desperado , was hanged by a",mob,"at livingston , ala . jake bra wel , colored , horribly maltreated dolly woods , a six- year- old giri on her way to school ; brasweil was captured , and a conference of one hundred whites and blacks gave him the choice of being burned or hanging himself"
1036,14662_9.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"posse in pur suit of a murderer surrounded a stable where the fugitive was concealed , and upon the latter refusing to surrender he was killed by a volley of bullets . bill haley , a murderer , was taken from the jail at paulding , ohio , by a",masked,"mob and hanged to a tree . porter sorrell , colored , was shot to death by a mob in luling , texas ; he had assaulted mrs . duke with a hatchet in comanche county , texas , a mob hanged a negro boy who had assaulted and murdered"
1037,14662_9.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"in pur suit of a murderer surrounded a stable where the fugitive was concealed , and upon the latter refusing to surrender he was killed by a volley of bullets . bill haley , a murderer , was taken from the jail at paulding , ohio , by a masked",mob,"and hanged to a tree . porter sorrell , colored , was shot to death by a mob in luling , texas ; he had assaulted mrs . duke with a hatchet in comanche county , texas , a mob hanged a negro boy who had assaulted and murdered mrs"
1038,14662_9.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"latter refusing to surrender he was killed by a volley of bullets . bill haley , a murderer , was taken from the jail at paulding , ohio , by a masked mob and hanged to a tree . porter sorrell , colored , was shot to death by a",mob,"in luling , texas ; he had assaulted mrs . duke with a hatchet in comanche county , texas , a mob hanged a negro boy who had assaulted and murdered mrs . stephens ; the lynchers were bent on burning him , but the mother of the murdered woman"
1039,14662_9.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1887,"the jail at paulding , ohio , by a masked mob and hanged to a tree . porter sorrell , colored , was shot to death by a mob in luling , texas ; he had assaulted mrs . duke with a hatchet in comanche county , texas , a",mob,"hanged a negro boy who had assaulted and murdered mrs . stephens ; the lynchers were bent on burning him , but the mother of the murdered woman plead d for a less barbarous punishment . a man named lockwood was lynched near litchfield , conn . , for the"
1040,14663_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"check his progress , renched the posi dent's side an attempted to kill him . president pia was not hurt . the assassin was at once arrested and thrown into prison . this attempted murder cre ated much excitement and subsequently the would be assassin was dragged prison by a",mob,and lynched . from
1041,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"at danville . negro is lynched and burned- county jail and city prison are almost demolished- troops are ordered to the city . after the terrible scenes of saturday night , when for six hours danville , ill . , was at the merey of a howling , blood thirsty",mob,"of frenzied and half- drunken men , the city is quiet . it is the quiet , however , that is brought about by the glitter of rifles in the hands of soldiers who are licensed to kill . on the surface all is peaceful , but underneath the storm"
1042,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"field was dragged to death and his corpse hacked to bits and burned . city is in dread . close by is the county jail , not a whole pane of glass left in the windows , and the doors and walls bearing the marks of the assault by the",mob,". three blocks away is the city prison , demolished by the mob . in the hospitals are a dozen or more men suffering ganshot wounds , and many more slunk away after the sheriff made his determined stand , bear- ing with them testimony in the way of buckshot"
1043,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,". city is in dread . close by is the county jail , not a whole pane of glass left in the windows , and the doors and walls bearing the marks of the assault by the mob . three blocks away is the city prison , demolished by the",mob,". in the hospitals are a dozen or more men suffering ganshot wounds , and many more slunk away after the sheriff made his determined stand , bear- ing with them testimony in the way of buckshot , that he was a man of his word . public feeling against"
1044,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,", a young butcher , in front of an east main street saloon , which ended in the negro shooting gat- terman dead . the negro was caught and with much difficulty the police took him to the city prison , followed by a crowd which rapidly grew into a",mob,"that yelled itself hoarse in demanding that the murderer be lynched . the police , assisted by sheriff h . h . whitlock , gathered in the city building trying to keep the mob out , but were finally forced to admit a portion of them . the colored murderer"
1045,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"took him to the city prison , followed by a crowd which rapidly grew into a mob that yelled itself hoarse in demanding that the murderer be lynched . the police , assisted by sheriff h . h . whitlock , gathered in the city building trying to keep the",mob,"out , but were finally forced to admit a portion of them . the colored murderer had previously been locked in a vault in which the police records are kep : and the officers hoped that the mob would not find him . dragged from jail . the leaders were"
1046,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,". whitlock , gathered in the city building trying to keep the mob out , but were finally forced to admit a portion of them . the colored murderer had previously been locked in a vault in which the police records are kep : and the officers hoped that the",mob,"would not find him . dragged from jail . the leaders were told that metcalf had been taken out of the rear door and carried into the country in a buggy , but they refused to believe the assertion . some went for railroad irons and others for sledge hammers"
1047,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"country in a buggy , but they refused to believe the assertion . some went for railroad irons and others for sledge hammers , and a few minutes later the lock had been knocked off the vault door and the negro was dragged forth amid the exultant shouts of his",captors,". the victim made a fierce struggle , but the blows that were rained upon him soon brought him to the floor of the police station , and a volver in the hands of one of the members of the mob put a sudden end to his sufferings . body"
1048,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"was dragged forth amid the exultant shouts of his captors . the victim made a fierce struggle , but the blows that were rained upon him soon brought him to the floor of the police station , and a volver in the hands of one of the members of the",mob,"put a sudden end to his sufferings . body is ricated , the mob then dragged the dying man from the building , and placing a rope about his neck dragged him one square south to main street and then five squares east to the saloon where he killed gatterman"
1049,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"a fierce struggle , but the blows that were rained upon him soon brought him to the floor of the police station , and a volver in the hands of one of the members of the mob put a sudden end to his sufferings . body is ricated , the",mob,"then dragged the dying man from the building , and placing a rope about his neck dragged him one square south to main street and then five squares east to the saloon where he killed gatterman , where his body was struck up to a telegraph pole and riddled with"
1050,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"south to main street and then five squares east to the saloon where he killed gatterman , where his body was struck up to a telegraph pole and riddled with bullets . cries of "" burn him ! "" "" burn him ! "" were then heard , and the",mob,"leaders soon had the lifeless body of the negro cut down and were dragging him souh on the wabash railroad tracks . at south street the mob leaders decided to take the body to the jail , where james wilson , another negro captured at marshfield , ind . ,"
1051,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"and riddled with bullets . cries of "" burn him ! "" "" burn him ! "" were then heard , and the mob leaders soon had the lifeless body of the negro cut down and were dragging him souh on the wabash railroad tracks . at south street the",mob,"leaders decided to take the body to the jail , where james wilson , another negro captured at marshfield , ind . , charged with trying to assault mrs . mary burgess , a white woman , the previous day , is imprisoned . "" on to the jail ."
1052,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,", where james wilson , another negro captured at marshfield , ind . , charged with trying to assault mrs . mary burgess , a white woman , the previous day , is imprisoned . "" on to the jail . "" as soon as the word was given the",mob,"yelled , "" to the jail , "" "" mob the other etc . and made a wild charge for that building , where quite a crowd had already congregated in anticipation of another lynching . arrived at the jail , the body of the negro was placed in the"
1053,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,", ind . , charged with trying to assault mrs . mary burgess , a white woman , the previous day , is imprisoned . "" on to the jail . "" as soon as the word was given the mob yelled , "" to the jail , "" """,mob,"the other etc . and made a wild charge for that building , where quite a crowd had already congregated in anticipation of another lynching . arrived at the jail , the body of the negro was placed in the center of the converging streets , where dozens of freu"
1054,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"dozens of freu zied men and boys kicked and jumped it . body was totally naked , upon the and blood was oozing from dozens of sallet holes . some one then threw an armful of hay upon the body and touched a match to it . after which the",mob,"backed away a short distance and watched the awful spectacle . demand more blood . growing tired of this grewsome sight , the mob turned its attention to the coun ty jail and demands were made upon sheriff whitlock to surrender wilson . a dozen or more deputies and police"
1055,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"dozens of sallet holes . some one then threw an armful of hay upon the body and touched a match to it . after which the mob backed away a short distance and watched the awful spectacle . demand more blood . growing tired of this grewsome sight , the",mob,"turned its attention to the coun ty jail and demands were made upon sheriff whitlock to surrender wilson . a dozen or more deputies and police men had hurriedly been gathered together and placed in the jail , heavily armed . sheriff whitlock remonstrated with the mob , but without"
1056,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"sight , the mob turned its attention to the coun ty jail and demands were made upon sheriff whitlock to surrender wilson . a dozen or more deputies and police men had hurriedly been gathered together and placed in the jail , heavily armed . sheriff whitlock remonstrated with the",mob,", but without effect . finally a peep hole was opened and the barrel of a winchester gun was thrust through it and another demand from the sheriff , this time from a window in the second story , for the mob to disperse , was made . shot angers"
1057,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"heavily armed . sheriff whitlock remonstrated with the mob , but without effect . finally a peep hole was opened and the barrel of a winchester gun was thrust through it and another demand from the sheriff , this time from a window in the second story , for the",mob,"to disperse , was made . shot angers mob . no attention being given to it , a shot was fired over the heads of the mob . the thot seemed only to anger the mob , and a charge was made with the battering ram upon the door ."
1058,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,", but without effect . finally a peep hole was opened and the barrel of a winchester gun was thrust through it and another demand from the sheriff , this time from a window in the second story , for the mob to disperse , was made . shot angers",mob,". no attention being given to it , a shot was fired over the heads of the mob . the thot seemed only to anger the mob , and a charge was made with the battering ram upon the door . the gun was again fired , this time into"
1059,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"was thrust through it and another demand from the sheriff , this time from a window in the second story , for the mob to disperse , was made . shot angers mob . no attention being given to it , a shot was fired over the heads of the",mob,". the thot seemed only to anger the mob , and a charge was made with the battering ram upon the door . the gun was again fired , this time into the dense crowd wielding the railroad iron , and several men were seen to drop to the ground"
1060,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"sheriff , this time from a window in the second story , for the mob to disperse , was made . shot angers mob . no attention being given to it , a shot was fired over the heads of the mob . the thot seemed only to anger the",mob,", and a charge was made with the battering ram upon the door . the gun was again fired , this time into the dense crowd wielding the railroad iron , and several men were seen to drop to the ground . several more shots were fired from the jail"
1061,14664_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1903,"upon the door . the gun was again fired , this time into the dense crowd wielding the railroad iron , and several men were seen to drop to the ground . several more shots were fired from the jail door and windows by the officers inside , and the",mob,"began to scatter , leaving four or five on the ground bleed ing from bullet wounds . others limped away , showing that many of the buckshot and bullets had taken effect . from far and near . the contract for the oklahoma build ing at the st . louis"
1062,14665_0.txt,Wood County reporter (Grand Rapids [i...),1913,"two negroes lynched . shreveport , la . , dec . 18 . - ernest and frank williams , negro brothers , were lynched by a",mob,"at blanchard for the murder of calvin ballard , a both negroes confessed to planter the murder . ."
1063,14665_1.txt,Wood County reporter (Grand Rapids [i...),1913,"north dakota man lynched . williston , n . d . , dec . 18 . - cleve cul bertson , convicted of the murder of three members of the dillon family , was taken from the jail here . by a",mob,and hanged to a wagon bridge tuesday . on
1064,14668_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1907,,mob,"md , . . crisfield , a lynched was by a negro who murdered a policeman"
1065,14668_1.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1907,a crisfield ( md . ),mob,", unappeased by the lynching of negro , dug up burned his body . and"
1066,14670_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1920,", a negro , was lynched on a rail road bridge near millersburg . he was charged with having attacked ruby anderson , a fourteen- year- old white girl . the crime was committed on february 3 , the day of the riot in lexington , when soldiers stopped a",mob,"bent on lynching will lockett , a negro who was being tried for a similar crime . the negro fled from the state after the outrage but was caught at , pontiac , mich . , last week . sheriff c . w . powell and other officers were taking"
1067,14670_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1920,"for a similar crime . the negro fled from the state after the outrage but was caught at , pontiac , mich . , last week . sheriff c . w . powell and other officers were taking him to flemingsburg , where the crime was committed , when the",mob,"suddenly rushed from the roadside , disarmed the officers and dragged the negro to a railroad bridge , where strung him up . the mob then quietly they dispersed ."
1068,14670_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1920,"week . sheriff c . w . powell and other officers were taking him to flemingsburg , where the crime was committed , when the mob suddenly rushed from the roadside , disarmed the officers and dragged the negro to a railroad bridge , where strung him up . the",mob,then quietly they dispersed .
1069,14673_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1920,,mob,"lynches three negroes . douglas , ga . , nov . 20 . - two negro men and one negro woman accused of implication in the killing of pearly harper , a young planter of this county , were shot by a mob of about men who overpowered the sheriff"
1070,14673_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1920,"mob lynches three negroes . douglas , ga . , nov . 20 . - two negro men and one negro woman accused of implication in the killing of pearly harper , a young planter of this county , were shot by a",mob,of about men who overpowered the sheriff . 150
1071,14675_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1901,"at leeds , ala . , charley bentley , a negro who confessed to the murder of jim vann , was lynched by a",mob,robert lee .
1072,14675_1.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1901,a,mob,"hanged betsy mccray ( colored ) and her son and daughter at car rolton , miss . , for the murder of and mrs . r . t . taliferro . mr ."
1073,14675_2.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1901,"at carrollton , miss . , will price ( colored ) was lynched by a",mob,for complicity the murder of mr . taliaferro and wife in .
1074,14676_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1902,"after being tried and found guilty of criminal assault and murder of a wom an , jim wesley and reddick barton , negroes , were taken from the authorities at hempstead tex . , and lynched in the public square , by a",mob,.
1075,14677_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1903,"near forest , miss . , four negro men and one woman were negro killed by a",mob,for the shooting ambush of mr . craft . from
1076,14678_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1905,"negroes attempt to lynch a white . atlanta ( ga . ) man accused of assault on colored girl , but is rescued by police . atlanta , ga . , nov . 13 . -t . v . justice , a white man , was captured by a",mob,"of negroes here and today charged with the assault of a negro girl . justice was threatened with violence and the mob increased to more than 1000 , demanding that he be lynched . a force of police rescued justice . strong"
1077,14678_0.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1905,"is rescued by police . atlanta , ga . , nov . 13 . -t . v . justice , a white man , was captured by a mob of negroes here and today charged with the assault of a negro girl . justice was threatened with violence and the",mob,"increased to more than 1000 , demanding that he be lynched . a force of police rescued justice . strong"
1078,14678_1.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1905,,mob,"lynches three men negroes were accused of murdering white farmer- preacher and companion are spared . dallas , tex . , nov . 13 . -- a mob of 200 white men attacked the jail at henderson , tex . , and lynched three negroes accused of the murder of"
1079,14678_1.txt,"Watertown republican (Watertown, Wis.)",1905,"mob lynches three men negroes were accused of murdering white farmer- preacher and companion are spared . dallas , tex . , nov . 13 . -- a",mob,"of 200 white men attacked the jail at henderson , tex . , and lynched three negroes accused of the murder of elias howell , a white farmer , hanging them to a tree in the courthouse yard . the negroes lynched were : john reese , rob ert auker"
1080,14679_0.txt,"The Watertown news (Watertown, Wis.)",1917,"piersol , only twenty years old , who vowed , with a noose around his neck , that he was innocent , and won mercy from a",mob,"bent on lynching him revealed a wholesale abduction plot . ,"
1081,14680_0.txt,"Watertown leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1909,negro is is cremated black shoots four and house is fired by,mob,". race war threatened in arkansas , texas has lynching and missouri reports duel . montgomery , ala . , dec . 21 . with four men shot , one negro burned to death in a cabin where he took refuge from arrest . and two others in jail after"
1082,14680_0.txt,"Watertown leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1909,"the flames and was cremated . reports indicate that the negroes of the neighborhood are armed and ugly . rosebud , tex . , dec . 21 . - coke mills , a negro , who shot and fatally wounded city marshal williams , was taken from jail by a",mob,"and lynched . williams was shot while attempting to take the negro into custody on a minor charge . the negro then fled , with mayor ward in close pursuit . near the out skirts of rosebud several shots were ex changed , those of the negro going wild ,"
1083,14680_0.txt,"Watertown leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1909,"of the mayor's bullets disabled the fugitive , who was overpowered and placed in jail . little rock , ark . , dec . 21 . following the shooting to death in his cell at devils bluff , ark . , of george bailey , a negro , by a",mob,"and the assembling in protest of a number of negroes , a clash between the races there is expected . white citizens under arms patrol the streets at devils bluff , while others sleep on their weapons . bailey shot and probably fatally wounded matt todd , a planter ,"
1084,14681_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1911,,mob,"lynches negro slayer . bluefield , w . va.- a mob gave john henry morgan , a negro , two minutes here to pray and then lynched him saturday , after which they riddled his body with bullets . two hours previ morgan had shot and instantly ous killed grover"
1085,14681_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1911,"mob lynches negro slayer . bluefield , w . va.- a",mob,"gave john henry morgan , a negro , two minutes here to pray and then lynched him saturday , after which they riddled his body with bullets . two hours previ morgan had shot and instantly ous killed grover lambert , a contraetor ."
1086,14682_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1909,threaten to lyneh slayer . a,mob,"threatened to lynch an unidentified miner who murdered mell robb , 50 years old , the railroad station agent at doanville , ohio . police saved the derer . mur"
1087,14683_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1906,": : acting on information presented by attorney general moody , the sepreme court has summoned sheriff shipp , his deputy , and twenty- five alleged mem bers of the tennessee",mob,"which lynched ed johnson , march 19 , to appear and show cause why they should not be punished for contempt . the lynching of johnson occurred after he had been sentenced to be hanged and after an application for a writ of error had been granted by the supreme"
1088,14683_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1906,cause why they should not be punished for contempt . the lynching of johnson occurred after he had been sentenced to be hanged and after an application for a writ of error had been granted by the supreme court . the jail officers are accused acting in collusion with the,mob,. of
1089,14684_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1911,"fatal race riot whites and blacks clash at coweta , okla . negro is lynched by",mob-,"two are dead and several wounded in bat tle on streets of town . muskegee , okla . -- as a result of a war between whites and negroes at coweta , a town twenty- five miles north of this city , two men are dead . sev . eral"
1090,14686_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1918,such a spirit is the same as that which causes,mob,"violence , from which it differs not in kind , but only in degree . the same people that will make life unbearable for the woman , whose letter i have printed above , would under conditions , different , have joined the mob which lynched innocent in illinois bean"
1091,14686_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1918,"the same as that which causes mob violence , from which it differs not in kind , but only in degree . the same people that will make life unbearable for the woman , whose letter i have printed above , would under conditions , different , have joined the",mob,which lynched innocent in illinois bean man it was rumored that he was a cause spy .
1092,14689_2.txt,Wood County reporter (Grand Rapids [i...),1903,"nine persons were killed and twenty- eight injured by head- on a collision of two santa fe railroad passenger trains near stillwell , kas . samuel mitchell , white , who led the",mob,"that lynched thomas gilyard , a negro , at joplin , mo . , recently , sentenced to ten years ' imprisonment was ."
1093,14692_1.txt,Wood County reporter (Grand Rapids [i...),1898,four negroes were lynched by a,mob,"of 100 white near phoenix , s . men c . the negroes were charged with being implicated in the shooting of whites during the election troubles day before . the"
1094,14695_1.txt,"The Kenosha telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1883,"john smith ( colored ) was killed in a saloon row , and at coosacoo , ala . , jordan corbin , a negro murderer , was taken the jail by a",mob,and hanged . from
1095,14695_3.txt,"The Kenosha telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1883,a,mob,"took aaron harris , a colored boy who murdered a white peddler at enter prise , miss . , from jail the other night hanged him . he had confessed his guilt and ."
1096,14702_0.txt,Wood County reporter (Grand Rapids [i...),1891,the new orleans grand jury having exonerated the leaders of the,mob,"that lynched the italians , it is now in order to send them as missionaries to those misguided communities which believe in always upholding the majesty of law . the"
1097,14704_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1895,"guarding the jail . hopkinsville's mayor apprehends a lynching bee . hopkinsville , ky . , feb . 22 . - for two nights the mayor has had a posse of thir ty armed citizens on watch at the jail and courthouse because of rumors that a",mob,"was coming to lynch peter mayer , who brutally murdered a farmer on feb 18 . no mob appeared ruary on either night , but rumors continue that the friends of the dead man are organizing for vengeance , and the mayor will either have the prisoner sent elsewhere or"
1098,14704_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1895,", feb . 22 . - for two nights the mayor has had a posse of thir ty armed citizens on watch at the jail and courthouse because of rumors that a mob was coming to lynch peter mayer , who brutally murdered a farmer on feb 18 . no",mob,"appeared ruary on either night , but rumors continue that the friends of the dead man are organizing for vengeance , and the mayor will either have the prisoner sent elsewhere or continue his guard . ."
1099,14708_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1899,"negro lynched in kansas . victim cut down , regains conscious ness , but cannot live . dick williams , a negro , charged with the murder of two white men , was lynch ed at alma , kan . , by a",mob,"of white men . the mob left the negro hanging to a telegraph pole and six minutes later he was cut down by the town marshal and taken back to the county jail , where he recovered consciousness . the negro cannot live . on june 28 harry t ."
1100,14708_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1899,"negro lynched in kansas . victim cut down , regains conscious ness , but cannot live . dick williams , a negro , charged with the murder of two white men , was lynch ed at alma , kan . , by a mob of white men . the",mob,"left the negro hanging to a telegraph pole and six minutes later he was cut down by the town marshal and taken back to the county jail , where he recovered consciousness . the negro cannot live . on june 28 harry t . tandy and an unknown white man"
1101,14708_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1899,", alias trilby , both colored , were arrested by james ramsey , chief of police of to peka , and when questioned denver kid sheriff fastened the crime on trilby . true of wabaunsee county took trilby to alma to lodge him in jail . when he arrived a",mob,"of at least 200 men met him with his prisoner at the rock island depot , but were foiled until the prisoner was being placed in jail , when trilby was seized , dragged with a rope around his neck a block and strung up to a pole . telephone"
1102,14709_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1900,,mob,"hangs negroes . double lynching in south ern indiana town . brutal murder of h . simons , a barber at rockport , is foon avenged- b . rowland and j . henderson are taken from jail and slain . a mob of 500 men , after shooting jas ."
1103,14709_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1900,"mob hangs negroes . double lynching in south ern indiana town . brutal murder of h . simons , a barber at rockport , is foon avenged- b . rowland and j . henderson are taken from jail and slain . a",mob,"of 500 men , after shooting jas . henderson in his cell , dragged his body to the court house yard and there obtained a confession from frank rowland , another negro , that he and henderson had kill ed h . s . simons . they then hung both"
1104,14709_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1900,"been a porter and bootblack in si mons ' barber shop and had been dis , charged some time ago for petty thieving . bloodhounds were telegraphed for and put on the track . with their assistance both negroes were captured and locked in jail . when darkness came a",mob,"of 500 men gathered , surrounded the jail , broke into it with picks and iron bars , shot henderson to death in his cell , and then took rowland and the lifeless body into the court house yard . there they tied a rope around rowland's neck . rowland"
1105,14710_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1905,"sheriff saves a negro . the sheriff of fairburn , ga . , saved the colored alleged assailant of mrs . moore from a lynching . as the negro was be ing strung up by a",mob,the sheriff appeared and made a speech that the crowd . appeased
1106,14711_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1925,negro lynched by,mob,"girl identified him as man who attacked her excelsior springs , mo . , aug . 7 ( by u . p . ) a mob of 700 persons dragged miller mitchell , negro as saulter of miss maud holt , 18 , from the county jail here this afternoon"
1107,14711_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1925,"negro lynched by mob girl identified him as man who attacked her excelsior springs , mo . , aug . 7 ( by u . p . ) a",mob,"of 700 persons dragged miller mitchell , negro as saulter of miss maud holt , 18 , from the county jail here this afternoon and lynched him . the mob entered the jail shortly before 3 p . m . and brought the negro into the street , where he"
1108,14711_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1925,"who attacked her excelsior springs , mo . , aug . 7 ( by u . p . ) a mob of 700 persons dragged miller mitchell , negro as saulter of miss maud holt , 18 , from the county jail here this afternoon and lynched him . the",mob,"entered the jail shortly before 3 p . m . and brought the negro into the street , where he was hanged . miss holt , who is in a serious condition , identified mitchell at the jail this morning . the attack occurred early today while miss holt and"
1109,14712_0.txt,"Northwest enterprise (Anacortes, Wash...)",1882,"- kansas city , mo . , is looking up . a policeman was shot april 4th by a negro , and the negro was hung by a",mob,". thereupon the negroes in the city got up a riot supposing the mol , had hung wrong man . but it was all right . the"
1110,14714_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1892,four negroes lynched . a,mob,"deals out justice to a quartette of tennessee blacks . nashville , tenn . , april 28 . - a tele phone message from goodletsville , a small place some twelve miles from this city , states that four negro men have been lynched at that place and two other"
1111,14715_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1893,strung up by a,mob,". john terrell , slayer of conductor price , hanged at bedford , ind . bedford , ind . , may 15 . -- at 2 : 10 this morning a mob of 100 men appeared be fore the jail here , forced the sheriff to give up the keys"
1112,14715_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1893,"strung up by a mob . john terrell , slayer of conductor price , hanged at bedford , ind . bedford , ind . , may 15 . -- at 2 : 10 this morning a",mob,"of 100 men appeared be fore the jail here , forced the sheriff to give up the keys and took john terrell , who murdered conductor l . f . price at seymour , from his cell and hanged him in the jail yard . terrell begged for his life"
1113,14715_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1893,"seymour , from his cell and hanged him in the jail yard . terrell begged for his life , but his appeals were met with silence . the lynching was conducted in the most orderly manner , terrell's cries being the only sound heard . after lynching their man the",mob,requested that the body be not taken down until daylight after which it dispersed . the mob hanged terrell to a tree in the jail yard within twelve feet of the railroad track so that all passing trains this morning can see his body . he was dressed as though
1114,14715_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1893,"life , but his appeals were met with silence . the lynching was conducted in the most orderly manner , terrell's cries being the only sound heard . after lynching their man the mob requested that the body be not taken down until daylight after which it dispersed . the",mob,hanged terrell to a tree in the jail yard within twelve feet of the railroad track so that all passing trains this morning can see his body . he was dressed as though he had been expect ing them . there were forty- three men at the jail masked and
1115,14715_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1893,the mob hanged terrell to a tree in the jail yard within twelve feet of the railroad track so that all passing trains this morning can see his body . he was dressed as though he had been expect ing them . there were forty- three men at the jail,masked,and about fifty or sixty standing guard at different points over the city . terrell's crime was the murder of conductor l . f . price of the ohio & mississippi road . the assassination was as cowardly as it was brutal . it seems that terrell tendered an old
1116,14718_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1940,"prevents lynching "" a man made a remark about president mckinley when the chief executive was assassinated and a",mob,"went after him to lynch him , "" frawley said . borah spirited the man away in a hack and used his eloquence to quiet the rioters . "" jim quarles , a negro , cringed in a nampa , ida . , jail while a lynch that city was"
1117,14718_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1940,"for his prosecution of the slayers of gov . frank steuenberg . borah phoned the governor and commandeered a special train from walked boise to nampa . he through the two empty cars and pulled the window shades , just be fore the car halted . in sight of the",mob,at the jail . he told the mob the train was loaded with soldiers and there would be bloodshed . he persuaded the people to go home . they didn't call his bluff and borah carried negro back to boise on the the otherwise empty train .
1118,14718_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1940,". frank steuenberg . borah phoned the governor and commandeered a special train from walked boise to nampa . he through the two empty cars and pulled the window shades , just be fore the car halted . in sight of the mob at the jail . he told the",mob,the train was loaded with soldiers and there would be bloodshed . he persuaded the people to go home . they didn't call his bluff and borah carried negro back to boise on the the otherwise empty train .
1119,14719_0.txt,"The San Juan islander (Friday Harbor, ...)",1899,"lynched by his own race work mississippi avenge the negroes of ravisher of a . sardis , miss . , june 14 . - simon brooks ( colored ) , has been lynched by a",mob,"of negroes near here . the crime atrocious . sat- thus avenged was most urday night a negress named armis . tead , while returning from a shopping tour to her home , was assaulted by brooks and another negro . the woman was outraged , her throat was cut"
1120,14719_0.txt,"The San Juan islander (Friday Harbor, ...)",1899,the head and her jaws tightly tied to prevent was concealed in some rubbish . then the woman rallied sufficiently to give the alarm and the names of her assailants . parts of the goods taken from the woman was later found in a trunk belonging to brooks . the,mob,", which was composed entirely of negroes , did its work quickly . the white people knew nothing of the affair til hours after it occurred . un-"
1121,14720_0.txt,"The Northwest worker (Everett, Wash.)",1915,"socialist review ) a negro was burned at temple , texas , two or three months ago . the victim had been accused of being the principal in an atrocious murder , but it is freely charged that the real instigator of the murder was the first one in the",mob,"to apply a match to the wood piled round the doomed man , it having been rumored that the victim had agreed to "" turn state's evidence . "" he was hung to a telegraph pole by a chain , and , on the wires sup ported by this pole"
1122,14720_0.txt,"The Northwest worker (Everett, Wash.)",1915,"solid christian commun ity , "" is "" dry "" as a bone and is firm ly convinced that the i.w.w . is a most "" lawless organization . "" we have had "" some "" lynchings in the south during the past year . over in mississippi , a",mob,"lynched a negro because they "" thought he was steal ing mules . "" the sheriff came and cut down the body , but , finding the coun ty had no money in its treasury to bury it , hung it to the tree again in order to force the"
1123,14720_0.txt,"The Northwest worker (Everett, Wash.)",1915,"the ensuing struggle , killed one of them and badly wounded the other . then , recognizing that he was in a highly christian- white- supremacy community , a community that would not stand for a "" nigger "" killing a "" white man , "" he fled . the",mob,"gath ered and , failing to find him , took outraged girl out and the lynched her ! down on the border recently those noble "" preservers of lawanorder , "" the infamous texas rangers , posed before a camera , showing themselves drag ging down the public road ,"
1124,14721_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1911,"a negro preacher , is dead here today . he was executed for having incited a race riot in which jesse singley , a prominent planter , was killed . the sheriff erected the gallows on the stage , and the negro's confes alsion was read from there while a",mob,outside clamored for a ing . lynch
1125,14722_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1912,"negro lynched . meridian , miss . , aug . 6 . - suspected of murdering a white man , one negro was lynched today at hill station , alabama , 40 miles east of here , and a",mob,is in pursuit another . of
1126,14724_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"into the lynching of the six negroes is being pushed with vigor . the grand jury returned five indictments late this afternoon and more will follow tomorrow . those indicted include detective w . s . richardson , who arrested the negroes and led them into the hands of the",mob,": a . atkinson , the man who drove the wagon ; jeff lawton , a merchant at kerrville , who is supposed to have been the leader of the mob ; mike mcfadden and jim sessler , members of the committee . vigilance"
1127,14724_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"detective w . s . richardson , who arrested the negroes and led them into the hands of the mob : a . atkinson , the man who drove the wagon ; jeff lawton , a merchant at kerrville , who is supposed to have been the leader of the",mob,"; mike mcfadden and jim sessler , members of the committee . vigilance"
1128,14725_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"disguised its opinion that the failure to convict hill of murder , or at least of manslaughter , was a gross miscarriage of justice , but lynching hill does not mend the matter in the least . the question of the guilt or innocence of the party lynebed by a",mob,"cate no figure in the case at all , and it does not make boclety a whit safer against such crimes as that for which hill received a grossly in adequate sentencs . when a people grow so indifferent to their duty to see to it that none but vigorous"
1129,14725_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"that of hul , but the woman was not lynched for two reasons ; probably the sickly senti mentalism that thinks there is sex in crime protected her , and probably the peo ple of beattle are too intelligent not to see that no miscarriage of justice is corrected by",mob,"law . the murder of dawe murphy was another case in point . the by trouble lles with a false public opinion , which has so little respect for the machin ery of justice we devise through the ballot box and the legislature that it allows it to be administered"
1130,14725_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"does no possible good , but does immense harm . it gratifies the feeling of personal vindictiveness that some men mistake for justice ; it bulldozes a decent court and upright jury , who are afraid to try a case in accordance with the law and the testimony lest the",mob,"may prove the highest court of appeal and mur der the prisoner . if the mob is the high est court of appeal why create any courts ; why enact any forms of law ? why not dis pense with all this delegated machinery of justice , of life and"
1131,14725_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"vindictiveness that some men mistake for justice ; it bulldozes a decent court and upright jury , who are afraid to try a case in accordance with the law and the testimony lest the mob may prove the highest court of appeal and mur der the prisoner . if the",mob,"is the high est court of appeal why create any courts ; why enact any forms of law ? why not dis pense with all this delegated machinery of justice , of life and death and return to the days of tarbarism when might made right and the mob on"
1132,14725_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"the mob is the high est court of appeal why create any courts ; why enact any forms of law ? why not dis pense with all this delegated machinery of justice , of life and death and return to the days of tarbarism when might made right and the",mob,"on the village green or town meeting run mad decided by a show of hands whether any accused man should live and more and have his being ? if a mob because of a probable miscarriage of justice may murdor a helpless prisoner , it may rob a man of"
1133,14725_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"justice , of life and death and return to the days of tarbarism when might made right and the mob on the village green or town meeting run mad decided by a show of hands whether any accused man should live and more and have his being ? if a",mob,"because of a probable miscarriage of justice may murdor a helpless prisoner , it may rob a man of his liberty or property without due process of law , and our boasted civilization becomes nothing better than a nest of passionate pirates . miscarriages of justice are the fault of"
1134,14725_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"it does not , we will murder the prisoner , or rob him of his property or his liberty . "" there is no argument whatever for lynch law . law is devised for the protection of society , not for the vindication of the per sonal vindictiveness of a",mob,", a faction of the people , stupidly pluming themselves on being the whole people and assuming the right to break the laws of the state made by the whole people for the whole people . the whole arga- meni of an appeal to the higher law "" in a"
1135,14727_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,"all day , hiding behind piles of brick . in the afternoon he came out and said the police and superintendent matthies were trying to murder him for stealing $ 500 . soon after he stepped up to matthies and deliberately fired two shots into his stomach . an infuriated",mob,"quickly gathered and the policemen had a difficult task to get the murderer out . working men in the building and other members af the mob wanted to lynch him . bradley hid behind a pile of cornice , revolver in hand . the police fired a number of shots"
1136,14727_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,him for stealing $ 500 . soon after he stepped up to matthies and deliberately fired two shots into his stomach . an infuriated mob quickly gathered and the policemen had a difficult task to get the murderer out . working men in the building and other members af the,mob,"wanted to lynch him . bradley hid behind a pile of cornice , revolver in hand . the police fired a number of shots and ordered him to come out . bradley finally came out on the run , and when the policemen seized him fought like a wild cat"
1137,14729_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,a,mob,"hanged richard mays , a young negro , at springville , ala . tuesday for an attempt to outrage a white woman , ."
1138,14733_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1892,"prince woods , tom smith and henry gains , confessed to having committed an outrage on mrs . hart , near sturgis . on confession being made , ten men were deputized to con vey the negroes to the woodville jail . when about a mile from sturgis , fifty",masked,"men demanded the negroes and the demand was acceded to . the guards were ordered to retrace their steps , which they did . a few moments later a volley from the guns of the masked men told the fate of the negroes . the deputies returned and found the"
1139,14733_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1892,"prince woods , tom smith and henry gains , confessed to having committed an outrage on mrs . hart , near sturgis . on confession being made , ten men were deputized to con vey the negroes to the woodville jail . when about a mile from sturgis , fifty",masked men,"demanded the negroes and the demand was acceded to . the guards were ordered to retrace their steps , which they did . a few moments later a volley from the guns of the masked men told the fate of the negroes . the deputies returned and found the dead"
1140,14733_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1892,"negroes to the woodville jail . when about a mile from sturgis , fifty masked men demanded the negroes and the demand was acceded to . the guards were ordered to retrace their steps , which they did . a few moments later a volley from the guns of the",masked,"men told the fate of the negroes . the deputies returned and found the dead , riddled with bullets . negroes"
1141,14733_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1892,"negroes to the woodville jail . when about a mile from sturgis , fifty masked men demanded the negroes and the demand was acceded to . the guards were ordered to retrace their steps , which they did . a few moments later a volley from the guns of the",masked men,"told the fate of the negroes . the deputies returned and found the dead , riddled with bullets . negroes"
1142,14734_0.txt,"The Kennewick courier (Kennewick, Wash...)",1909,,mob,"lynches four white sien . ada , okla . , april 19- at 3 o'clock this morning a mob of 200 men stormed the county jail here and after overpowering the sheriff lynched four white men . the men lynched are : j . b . miller , of fort"
1143,14734_0.txt,"The Kennewick courier (Kennewick, Wash...)",1909,"mob lynches four white sien . ada , okla . , april 19- at 3 o'clock this morning a",mob,"of 200 men stormed the county jail here and after overpowering the sheriff lynched four white men . the men lynched are : j . b . miller , of fort worth , tex . , charged with the mur der of a . a . bobbitt , a wealthy"
1144,14737_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,"- emil divers , the e gro who outraged and killed mrs . cain near fulton , mo . , a couple of weeks ago , and who was brought here for safe- keep ing was taken from the sheriff at fulton about , 1 o'clock this morning by a",mob,"and hanged to a railroad bridge . divers was taken from here yesterday after noon deputy sheriff buchanan , of calloway by county ."
1145,14738_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,". a demand was made upon deputy sheriff radford for the keys , but he did not yield . henry bratlaucht , who was sleeping in the jail , heard the commotion , opened the door to see what the trouble was , and was at once seized by the",mob,". the doors were then forced open , and johnson , null , sem ler and moreno were marched out to the court yard . the condemned men were stolid , and took their fate without a mur mur , with the exception of young semler , who begged piteously"
1146,14738_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,"in agonizing appeal , and cried out : "" tell my dear old mother i am innocent of the crime . "" sheriff hobbs had given secret orders , in case any attempt at lynching was made , to ring the fire bells and rouse the citizens , but the",mob,"had anticipated this , and had laid their plans well . every per son about the streets in the vicinity of the jail was stopped . s . f . miles and sam roop were going to the house of the latter's mother , and were held at the scene"
1147,14738_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,"about the streets in the vicinity of the jail was stopped . s . f . miles and sam roop were going to the house of the latter's mother , and were held at the scene of the hanging . nearly every section of the county was represented in the",mob,". in fact , ever since null's cold- blooded murder of henry hayter lynching was freely talked of in the western end of the county , and when johnson killed his wife the avenging spirit kept on fermenting . after the bailey hill murder the feeling reached a dangerous stage"
1148,14738_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,"as he was going through the courthouse park a winchester was stuck in his face and he was compelled to stand where he was . the whole affair was carefully ar ranged and well executed , and not over twenty minutes elapsed from the time the keys were surrendered the",mob,"rode swiftly out of town . until the lynching can in no way reflect upon the officers of the court . the information in the null case was filed on may 22 , and under his plea of innocence the law gave him the right to send wherever necessary to"
1149,14738_1.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,"another kentucky negro lynched . springfield , ky . , aug . 26 . - at 2 o'clock this morning a",mob,"of about a dozen men took harrison lewis , a negro who murdered joe brooks , also colored , friday night , from jail and hanged him to a tree in the courthouse yard . the mob pro cured sledge hammers , and after three hours ' work succeeded in"
1150,14738_1.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,". , aug . 26 . - at 2 o'clock this morning a mob of about a dozen men took harrison lewis , a negro who murdered joe brooks , also colored , friday night , from jail and hanged him to a tree in the courthouse yard . the",mob,"pro cured sledge hammers , and after three hours ' work succeeded in battering down the jail door . lewis begged piteously for life , but with a rope around his neck he was dragged to the nearest tree and strung up . it is the opinion of many that"
1151,14738_1.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,"cured sledge hammers , and after three hours ' work succeeded in battering down the jail door . lewis begged piteously for life , but with a rope around his neck he was dragged to the nearest tree and strung up . it is the opinion of many that the",mob,"was composed of colored men . on friday night lewis went to brooks ' house and , calling him to the door . shot him down on his own threshold without warn ing . lewis was a brother of matthew lewis , who narrowly escaped lynching here two weeks ago"
1152,14739_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1895,". 5 . - tobe m . crady , a colored youth , assaulted mrs . gus berry , the young wife of a respectable farmer near perote , ala . he was arrested by sheriff chancey , who started with him to the county jail at troy . a",mob,stopped the buggy . the negro was allowed by the sheriff to jump and run . a fusillade of was fired after him and he was rid shots died with bullets .
1153,14740_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1891,"lynched . murderer negro jackson , july 26 . - john brown , the ne who shot and mortally wounded gro switchman gardner , was taken from jail night by a",mob,of 500 men and hung last to a tree in the courthouse yard .
1154,14744_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1918,,mob,"in illinois town lynchespro- german ( united press leased wire . ) ( collinsville , i . , april 5 . - robert p . praeger , 45 , alleged pro- german , was taken from hiding in the city hall early today by a mob of 350 "" loyalists"
1155,14744_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1918,"mob in illinois town lynchespro- german ( united press leased wire . ) ( collinsville , i . , april 5 . - robert p . praeger , 45 , alleged pro- german , was taken from hiding in the city hall early today by a",mob,"of 350 "" loyalists "" and hanged to a tree two miles west of town . no arrests have been made , al- tho the lynchers were not masked and were said to have been led by prominent citizens . early last night praeger came to collinsville , after evading"
1156,14744_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1918,". praeger , 45 , alleged pro- german , was taken from hiding in the city hall early today by a mob of 350 "" loyalists "" and hanged to a tree two miles west of town . no arrests have been made , al- tho the lynchers were not",masked,"and were said to have been led by prominent citizens . early last night praeger came to collinsville , after evading patriotic band at marysville , where he was alleged to have talked socialism and made die loyal remarks . members of the mo followed and captured him her compelled"
1157,14744_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1918,"he was alleged to have talked socialism and made die loyal remarks . members of the mo followed and captured him her compelled to march barefooted and draped with an american flag down the main street . police rescued him and hid him in the city hall basement , the",mob,"demanded the prisoner and when refused rushed past authorities and dragged him from his hiding place beneath a pile of tilings . mayor siegel's pleadings were disregarded . still barefooted , praeger was led along the old nationl highway with a noose around his neck , police and the coroner"
1158,14744_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1918,"place beneath a pile of tilings . mayor siegel's pleadings were disregarded . still barefooted , praeger was led along the old nationl highway with a noose around his neck , police and the coroner followed bour later and fon his body dangling collinsville st . louis merville while the",mob,"was storming the jail searching for him , praeger wrote his parents in dresden , germany "" i must , this , the fourth day of april , die . please pray for me , my dear parents . this is my last letter and testament . "" a second"
1159,14745_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1899,". hodges ' weapon . at this point joe difatta made his appearance , and seeing his brother down and a second shot about to be fred , shot at dr . hodges . then followed the lynching of these two italians , joe difatta and charles difatta . the",mob,"took them before they had been arrested . up to this point , according to the ital lan report , only these italians had figured in the affair . the report goes on to state that throughout the occurrence , the three other italians- frank dilatta , joseph fu d'clo"
1160,14745_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1899,". hodges , and that they did not even know of it until some time after , when the local officers came to arrest them . this atrest was accomplished and the three italians were actually placed in jail . the report then brings out the alleged fact that the",mob,", having already lynched charles and joe difatta , turned their attention to the three itallans under arreat two of these men . joseph fudicio and frank difatta , were first taken from the officers and lynched . subsequently and some little time aer ward , the mob returned and"
1161,14745_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1899,"that the mob , having already lynched charles and joe difatta , turned their attention to the three itallans under arreat two of these men . joseph fudicio and frank difatta , were first taken from the officers and lynched . subsequently and some little time aer ward , the",mob,"returned and took john cerami and lynched him . particular importance is laid upon this feature , while it is mid there may have been some extenuating circumstances in punishment upon those immediately concerned in , the affray with dr . hodges , yet the time elapsing be fore the"
1162,14746_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1891,"who had joined the party saw the shooting . day turned upon him at made an attempt to kill him also , but his pistol failed to discharge . the boy reached woodlawn , where he reported the killing of beebe . day fled to the woods , but a",mob,"gathered to lynch day , but the constable was next morning by a took his prisoner over the river into clarke county , and brought him by a circuitous route to kalama . day has a bad record . he was a guerrilla during the war , and boasts of"
1163,14750_0.txt,"The Evening statesman (Walla Walla, Wa...)",1907,children drunk .,mob,"gathers to lynch men who made marietta , o . , march . 6 . - had it not been for the determined fight by officers , this city would have seen a lynching . in one room were found six girls , from 12 to 14 years of age"
1164,14753_0.txt,"The Evening statesman (Walla Walla, Wa...)",1909,lynching . against law illinois has a new law providing that when a sheriff permits a prisoner to be taken from him by a,mob,he shall be immediately removed fdom office . it was under this law that governor deener removed from his position the sheriff of alexandria county for permitting the lynching of the negro and white man in cairo . it would seem in this instance the sheriff did all that laid
1165,14753_0.txt,"The Evening statesman (Walla Walla, Wa...)",1909,"deener removed from his position the sheriff of alexandria county for permitting the lynching of the negro and white man in cairo . it would seem in this instance the sheriff did all that laid in his power to protect his pris oner , but he lost him to the",mob,"and the law is strict . he tried to take him from the city , but found the railroad stations in the hands of mobs ; he tried to take him across the country , but found that the mobs were scouring the woods . he found it impossible to"
1166,14753_0.txt,"The Evening statesman (Walla Walla, Wa...)",1909,"seem in this instance the sheriff did all that laid in his power to protect his pris oner , but he lost him to the mob and the law is strict . he tried to take him from the city , but found the railroad stations in the hands of",mobs,"; he tried to take him across the country , but found that the mobs were scouring the woods . he found it impossible to pur chase food or to hire a rig , and finally was come upon when he and his pris were fatigued with the hardships they"
1167,14753_0.txt,"The Evening statesman (Walla Walla, Wa...)",1909,"his pris oner , but he lost him to the mob and the law is strict . he tried to take him from the city , but found the railroad stations in the hands of mobs ; he tried to take him across the country , but found that the",mobs,"were scouring the woods . he found it impossible to pur chase food or to hire a rig , and finally was come upon when he and his pris were fatigued with the hardships they oner had undergone ."
1168,14756_0.txt,"Iditarod pioneer. (Iditarod, Alask...)",1915,leo frank lynched by angry,mob,"milledgeville , ga . , aug . 17 . - seventy- five persons overwhelmed the superintendent and guards of the georgia prison farm at 11 o'clock last night , captured leo frank , the man convicted of the murder of mary phagan , whose sentence was recently commuted to life"
1169,14756_0.txt,"Iditarod pioneer. (Iditarod, Alask...)",1915,"frank was a wrists were handcuffed in front of him . the rope opened the wound inflicted vict . the body was taken to marietta , where the inquest is to be held . prison superintendent burke was bound and left on the porch of the prison by the auto",mob,". it is stated authoritatively that frank protested his innocence to the last . prison officials whitewashed milledgeville , aug . 18 . - the prison officials been exonerated by the prison board for the kidnapping of frank . have governor harris not satisfied atlanta , ga . , aug"
1170,14756_0.txt,"Iditarod pioneer. (Iditarod, Alask...)",1915,"the last . prison officials whitewashed milledgeville , aug . 18 . - the prison officials been exonerated by the prison board for the kidnapping of frank . have governor harris not satisfied atlanta , ga . , aug . 18 . - governor harris describes the action of the",mob,"which lynched frank as a great wrnog . he will demand a full investigation of the occurrence . the governor is not satisfied with the action of the prison board in exonerating the prison officials , and will demand an explanation of conditions at milledgeville . he will personally supervise"
1171,14756_0.txt,"Iditarod pioneer. (Iditarod, Alask...)",1915,"wrnog . he will demand a full investigation of the occurrence . the governor is not satisfied with the action of the prison board in exonerating the prison officials , and will demand an explanation of conditions at milledgeville . he will personally supervise the probe . ex- governor denounces",mob,"action san francisco , aug . 17 . - former governor slaton of georgia , who commuted frank's sentence from death to life imprisonment , in a statement given to the press denounces the action of the mob which hanged leo frank . body taken to brooklyn atlanta , ga"
1172,14756_0.txt,"Iditarod pioneer. (Iditarod, Alask...)",1915,"milledgeville . he will personally supervise the probe . ex- governor denounces mob action san francisco , aug . 17 . - former governor slaton of georgia , who commuted frank's sentence from death to life imprisonment , in a statement given to the press denounces the action of the",mob,"which hanged leo frank . body taken to brooklyn atlanta , ga . , aug . 18 . - guarded by thirty police , the body of leo frank was placed on a train at midnight , and accompanid by his wife , is now en route to brooklyn for"
1173,14757_0.txt,"The Daily Alaska empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1927,,mob,"lynches negro ; state militia out little rock under guard as result of work of mob last night . little rock , ark . , may 5 . the state militia is guarding lit tle rock today after john carter . negro , who admitted attacking two white men yesterday"
1174,14757_0.txt,"The Daily Alaska empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1927,mob lynches negro ; state militia out little rock under guard as result of work of,mob,"last night . little rock , ark . , may 5 . the state militia is guarding lit tle rock today after john carter . negro , who admitted attacking two white men yesterday , was lynch- ed last night . miss glennie stewart , one of the women ,"
1175,14757_0.txt,"The Daily Alaska empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1927,"tle rock today after john carter . negro , who admitted attacking two white men yesterday , was lynch- ed last night . miss glennie stewart , one of the women , identified him . her mother is in the hospital , suffering from injuries the negro inflicted . the",mob,", together with posses of officers , pursued carter into a for est and captured him . the mob , numbering several hundred persons took charge of the negro and hang ed him from a telephone pole rid i - , dled the body with bullets , cut it down"
1176,14757_0.txt,"The Daily Alaska empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1927,"ed last night . miss glennie stewart , one of the women , identified him . her mother is in the hospital , suffering from injuries the negro inflicted . the mob , together with posses of officers , pursued carter into a for est and captured him . the",mob,", numbering several hundred persons took charge of the negro and hang ed him from a telephone pole rid i - , dled the body with bullets , cut it down , tied it behind an automobile and dragged it through the principal business thoroughfares . blater the body was"
1177,14758_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1925,"sheveport , la . , feb . 26 . a",mob,"early this morning lynched joe airy , negro , accused of slaying a highway officer , a deputy had wounded airy . sheriff"
1178,14762_0.txt,"Judsonia weekly advance. (Judsonia, Ark.)",1915,"john riggins , a negro , 63 years old , was lynched at bainbridge , ga . , by posse . a",mob,"near hope hull , ala . three negroes were lynched by a"
1179,14763_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1910,negro,mob,"lynches negroes . man and woman taken from officer in lonoke county . keo . a mob composed entirely of negroes overpowered constable mal lory on the bert simm's farm four miles north of this place and took form him two prisoners , frank pride , 50 years old ,"
1180,14763_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1910,negro mob lynches negroes . man and woman taken from officer in lonoke county . keo . a,mob,"composed entirely of negroes overpowered constable mal lory on the bert simm's farm four miles north of this place and took form him two prisoners , frank pride , 50 years old , and laura mitchell , 40 years old , both negroes , and shot them to death ."
1181,14763_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1910,had been buried since last december . pride's wife is also miss- ing and is believed to have been murdered and buried on the same farm . mallory had stopped with his prisoners and was preparing to house them in a cabin to keep out of the storm when the,mob,appeared . the officer was covered by a score of guns and the two prisoners were torn apart and carried about a hundred yards away and shot almost before they had time to make an outcry . their bodies were then strung up side by side and left until the
1182,14763_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1910,"left until the next morning , none of the negroes on the place daring to touch them . the double murder and lynching has stirred lonoke county from bor . der to border , and the efforts of sheriff fletcher to determine who composed the have been una vailing .",mob,
1183,14764_0.txt,"Woodruff County news (McCrory, Ark.)",1908,"twenty one year term . negro pleads guilty to at tempted assault at 2 a . m . session of court- was spirited away . augusta , ark . , aug . 20 . - hur ried into augusta in the dead of nignt , for fear of",mob,"violence , randolph young , a negro , was arranged before a special session of court at 2 o'clock thursday morning , pleaded guilty and was sentenced to twenty- one years in the penitentiary . young is charged with attempt- to assault miss iva edwards , a 22- year old"
1184,14764_0.txt,"Woodruff County news (McCrory, Ark.)",1908,"court at 2 o'clock thursday morning , pleaded guilty and was sentenced to twenty- one years in the penitentiary . young is charged with attempt- to assault miss iva edwards , a 22- year old white girl , about thirty days ago . at the time of the crime a",mob,"attempted to lynch the prisoner , but sheriff cain saved the negro's life by hurrying him from the county . there had been talk of mobbing young whenever he would be placed on trial . court was in sesssion at augusta and sheriff cain arranged for a special session to"
1185,14764_0.txt,"Woodruff County news (McCrory, Ark.)",1908,"assault miss iva edwards , a 22- year old white girl , about thirty days ago . at the time of the crime a mob attempted to lynch the prisoner , but sheriff cain saved the negro's life by hurrying him from the county . there had been talk of",mobbing,"young whenever he would be placed on trial . court was in sesssion at augusta and sheriff cain arranged for a special session to try the case . he had his negro in augusta , sentenced and back at the jail at newport be fore any of the citizens knew"
1186,14768_0.txt,"The log cabin Democrat (Conway, Ark.) 1901-1982",1907,"before notice that his sentence been commuted reached the sheriff had . lawrence who leberg , was lynched at las animas , cal . , for murde , was recently released from the asum at prono , utah . the su- perin ndent of the utah institu- lieves the california",mob,lynch tion a lunatic .
1187,14769_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1916,"contes two negroes lynched.w 91 one attacked white woman , and the other approved of it , n paducah , ky , oct . 16 . - two negroes were lynched by a",mob,"here today and their bodies burned . one was charged with attacking white woman and the other was accused of voicing his approval of the action of the other.m the negroes were taken from the jail by a mob of citizens , who over powered the jail guards , and"
1188,14769_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1916,oct . 16 . - two negroes were lynched by a mob here today and their bodies burned . one was charged with attacking white woman and the other was accused of voicing his approval of the action of the other.m the negroes were taken from the jail by a,mob,"of citizens , who over powered the jail guards , and were near the home of the wo man hanged attacked ."
1189,14770_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1910,"in their statement they make it known that it was not the lew . less element who did work . cairo , ill . , jan . 8 . - "" we believe po innocent man met his death at the hands of the",mob,". "" the above was the report of the grand jury which probed the muruer of miss anna pelley , and the lynch- of henry salzner and will james , a negro , several months ago . the graid jury adjourned today without returning indictments . arthur alexander , the"
1190,14772_0.txt,"The Mena weekly star. (Mena, Ark.)",1906,"spingfield charge altered . daniel springfield mo . , 19 . - , aug . d . galbraith , said to be one of the leaders of the",mob,"which lynched three negroes here last april , will be placed on trial monday , but the charge against him will be second de gree murder intead of first degree , as the indictment , reads ."
1191,14773_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1911,plea of judge went unnoticed,mob,"at gallatin , tenn . , hangs negro who kill ed magistrate he resisted arrest constable is injured- four pearl hunters robbed and lynched near compton , ky . international news special gallatin , tern . , may 23 . - in spite of the pleas of circuit court judge"
1192,14773_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1911,"ad , was killed by sweat and the colored cook on the barry farm . a posse formed soon after barry was killed and sweat was cornered in a barn . several shot were exchanged resulting in the wounding of con . . . stable barnes . this infuriated the",mob,". so that they hung the negro shortly afterwards . his body was then riddled with bullets . five bodies found . campton , ky . , may 23 . - the bodies of four men , pearl hunters , were found today in a remote part of the county"
1193,14774_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1916,", where shots had been heard , crying out : "" they tri.d to murder me in there . "" watts was dead and moss shot through the head . the latter recove ed and was the state's star witness against mcdarment . following commission of the crime citizens ormed",mob,"to lynch the young school teacher , who was smuggled over bad roads into the musko- gee jail . teachers throughout the state contributed to a fund to employ a great array of criminal law experts to aid mcdarment . these lawyers left here last night when the cas went"
1194,14775_0.txt,"Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1894,"ascension . watertown , s . d . , pt . 4 . - the man bourke , who assaulted mrs . bourne here some days ago , was caught yesterday , aud as the officers were bringing him back here last evening he was taken from them by a",mob,and hung to an electric light pole . a lynching had been threatened and his mary death was almos . expected . sum
1195,14776_0.txt,"The age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1898,"to go into the water and search for the body of lo'n , but he was unable to find it . the negro was taken back to bessie , where a crowd of several hundred men had assembled . and shot . twenty bullets being fired into his head .",a party of,about 400 then began searching the country for the other negro . at last accounts he had not been captured . loin leaves motherless children . several
1196,14780_0.txt,The daily press. (Cincinnati [Ohi...),1859,kansas,mob,"-- hanging of mr . day and st . louis , march 2 . - the st . joseph correspondent of the "" republican , "" under date of the 27th ult . , says that a special messenger from platte city brings the information that mr . day and"
1197,14780_0.txt,The daily press. (Cincinnati [Ohi...),1859,""" republican , "" under date of the 27th ult . , says that a special messenger from platte city brings the information that mr . day and son , confined on the charge of running off negroes , were taken from the jail , last night , by a",mob,"of three hundred men , and hung . the reason assigned is , that the court would acquit the prisoners on the ground that it was not the proper district to try them in . the st . joseph papers of the 28th ult . and the 1st inst ."
1198,14780_0.txt,The daily press. (Cincinnati [Ohi...),1859,"the ground that it was not the proper district to try them in . the st . joseph papers of the 28th ult . and the 1st inst . contain nothing in reference to the hanging of mr . day and his son , at platte city , by the",mob,". the story is , doubtless , an mitigated hoax . un"
1199,14782_0.txt,"Pullman herald (Pullman, W.T. [...)",1918,"the world , though the participants in their blindness may have fancied that they were doing a brave and patriotic thing . in illi- nois some months ago a man of little influence , who had been put in jail for supposed disloyal language , was taken out by a",mob,"and hanged . the purpose was to give the culprit a coat of tar and feathers , a punishment which would have been quite severe enough if the man had been proved guilty , but he was killed without trial and while protesting his loyalty and innocence . the crowd"
1200,14783_0.txt,"New Orleans daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1858,on the 3d inst . a,mob,"hung two men on suspicion in bad ax county , wisconsin . the name of the county should be bad acts . a tennessee editor , for whom we have great re spect , thinks we are too merciless toward the poor creatures that assail us . we can't agree"
1201,14787_0.txt,"Delaware weekly Republican (Wilmington, Del...)",1857,"riot.- the stanton spec corner tator , in an able and considerate article on this the subject has the following paragraph which is hill worthy of thought and attention : land one fact connected with the washington house is full of alarm for the future- a majority riot of the",mob,is said to have been boys one fact connected with the washington riot is full of alarm for the future- a majority of the mob is said to have been boys under eighteen years of age . the mob which hung the negroes in louisville a few weeks ago was
1202,14787_0.txt,"Delaware weekly Republican (Wilmington, Del...)",1857,of thought and attention : land one fact connected with the washington house is full of alarm for the future- a majority riot of the mob is said to have been boys one fact connected with the washington riot is full of alarm for the future- a majority of the,mob,"is said to have been boys under eighteen years of age . the mob which hung the negroes in louisville a few weeks ago was partially composed of the same material , and whenever a riot occurs we have the same ro- ports . and these are to be the"
1203,14787_0.txt,"Delaware weekly Republican (Wilmington, Del...)",1857,full of alarm for the future- a majority riot of the mob is said to have been boys one fact connected with the washington riot is full of alarm for the future- a majority of the mob is said to have been boys under eighteen years of age . the,mob,"which hung the negroes in louisville a few weeks ago was partially composed of the same material , and whenever a riot occurs we have the same ro- ports . and these are to be the men who in a short time will have control of the country ! -"
1204,14788_0.txt,"Daily Iowa State Democrat (Davenport, Iowa)",1857,"the jailor fearing the escape of the prisoners formally surrendered two of them , and they were hung by the",mob,". the third took a razor and cut his throat the who turned negro states evidence . was ummmolested . about dark to night , a mob broke into the cannon house , got a caunon and placed it in front of the jail . a number of shots were"
1205,14788_0.txt,"Daily Iowa State Democrat (Davenport, Iowa)",1857,"the jailor fearing the escape of the prisoners formally surrendered two of them , and they were hung by the mob . the third took a razor and cut his throat the who turned negro states evidence . was ummmolested . about dark to night , a",mob,"broke into the cannon house , got a caunon and placed it in front of the jail . a number of shots were fired from the jail and from the mob , and brick bats hurled against the jail.- the remaining negro implicated in the joyce murder was hung by"
1206,14788_0.txt,"Daily Iowa State Democrat (Davenport, Iowa)",1857,"cut his throat the who turned negro states evidence . was ummmolested . about dark to night , a mob broke into the cannon house , got a caunon and placed it in front of the jail . a number of shots were fired from the jail and from the",mob,", and brick bats hurled against the jail.- the remaining negro implicated in the joyce murder was hung by the mob last night , making three hanged one suicide . and buffalo , may 15 ."
1207,14788_0.txt,"Daily Iowa State Democrat (Davenport, Iowa)",1857,"into the cannon house , got a caunon and placed it in front of the jail . a number of shots were fired from the jail and from the mob , and brick bats hurled against the jail.- the remaining negro implicated in the joyce murder was hung by the",mob,"last night , making three hanged one suicide . and buffalo , may 15 ."
1208,14789_0.txt,The north Iowa times (M'Gregor [i.e. ...),1857,"murder and hanging . a man named grifford shot another named ingalls in jackson co . , iowa on the 28th , march . he was jailed for trial , but",mob,"recently took him a out to lynch him . he confessed the deed and charged jarret and mcdonald as instigators : all the parties had been living near together . the mob proceeded to a formal hanging frolic , and after , getting through with the poor victim , they"
1209,14789_0.txt,The north Iowa times (M'Gregor [i.e. ...),1857,"jackson co . , iowa on the 28th , march . he was jailed for trial , but mob recently took him a out to lynch him . he confessed the deed and charged jarret and mcdonald as instigators : all the parties had been living near together . the",mob,"proceeded to a formal hanging frolic , and after , getting through with the poor victim , they adjourned with a de- termination to hunt up and hang two accessaries ! the"
1210,14790_0.txt,"Muscatine weekly journal (Muscatine, Iowa)",1857,"motives , we should judge , has been endeavoring to prejudice the public mind against mr . brown , editor of the her- ald , since the unfortunate shooting affair in which he was concerned , on the 4th of au- gust last . true to its border ruffian and",mob-,"law instincts , it was not satisfied to wait for a fair investigation of the case before deciding upon the guilt of mr . brown and even since his acquittal has been inflain ing the prejudices of its peculiar class of readers and by implication if not by direct council"
1211,14791_0.txt,"New Orleans daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1857,"the prisoner would be acquitted , and expressed themselves determined at all hazards to execute lynch law upon the offenders . gov . walker had . reached the city , and was endeavoring to pacify the populace , but without effect . the officers of the alonzo child think the",mob,"has by time pre- vailved , and the prisoners have been hung this ."
1212,16741_0.txt,The national intelligencer and Washington advertiser (Washington City...),1805,"is of a very alarm ing nature . in many places the peo ple are in a state of infurrection . want of bread has driven the lower claffes to grant extremity , and in confequence to media.feme fhocking outrages . in one town the poorer inhabitants have in a",mob,"and hanged the governor . rifen """
1213,16742_0.txt,"Virginia Argus (Richmond, Va.)",1805,"is of a very alarming na ture . in many places the people are in a state of insurrection . want of bread has driven the lower classes to great extremity , and in consequence to some shocking outrages . in one town the poorer inhabitants have risen in a",mob,and hanged the governor .
1214,16744_0.txt,"Berkeley and Jefferson intelligencer (Martinsburg, Va...)",1805,"country is of a very alarming nature . in many places the people are in a state of insurrection.- want of bread has driven the lower classes to great extremity , and in consequence , to some shocking outrages . in one town poorer inhabitants have risen in a the",mob,"and hanged the governor . """
1215,16745_0.txt,Lynchburg Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1835,"last monday night , many houses being attacked with the fury of sav ages , and the blacks that were seized exceedingly abused- some of them so much so that they will hardly survive . a house was fired , and a battle took place between the firemen and the",mob,"-- but after some terrific scenes , the former succeeded in quenching the flames . the mob then changed their scence of operations , and attacked other hou- ses and persons . at 2 o'clock , exhausted with their own violence , they dispersed , after having reigned about six"
1216,16745_0.txt,Lynchburg Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1835,"blacks that were seized exceedingly abused- some of them so much so that they will hardly survive . a house was fired , and a battle took place between the firemen and the mob -- but after some terrific scenes , the former succeeded in quenching the flames . the",mob,"then changed their scence of operations , and attacked other hou- ses and persons . at 2 o'clock , exhausted with their own violence , they dispersed , after having reigned about six hours from s p . m . on monday , to 2 a . m . tuesday"
1217,16747_0.txt,"South Branch intelligencer (Romney, Va. [W....)",1835,"lynch law . -- the following account of a summary execution of vindictive justice , scorning the law's delay , is from a late number of the new orleans adver natiser : new orleans , july 11 .",mob,"justice.- information was re . ceived from vicksburg ( in mississip- ) yesterday , by the steamboat scotstopping land , that a serious act of mobocracy took place on the 9th inst . in the town mentioned . it appears that a den of gamblers existed in that place ,"
1218,16747_0.txt,"South Branch intelligencer (Romney, Va. [W....)",1835,", scorning the law's delay , is from a late number of the new orleans adver natiser : new orleans , july 11 . mob justice.- information was re . ceived from vicksburg ( in mississip- ) yesterday , by the steamboat scotstopping land , that a serious act of",mobocracy,"took place on the 9th inst . in the town mentioned . it appears that a den of gamblers existed in that place , which had become obnoxious to the citizens . on the fourth of july the gamblers were refused permission to participate in the celebration , whereupon ,"
1219,16751_0.txt,"South Branch intelligencer (Romney, Va. [W....)",1835,"r . w . carroll , à hair dresser of charleston s . c . was lynched on the 21st ult . the",mob,"seized him between 8 and 9 o'clock in the morning , gave him 20 lashes , a coat of tar and cotton , from head to foot , then marched through several principal streets and lodged him in jail . the account states that respecta- ble citizens lent of presence"
1220,16757_0.txt,"Richmond enquirer (Richmond, Va.)",1835,"stating that mr . thom , formerly a member of lane semina at cincinnati , and who , in connexion with many others , left that institution a year or two since because they were not permitted to agitate on the subject of abolition , has been seized by a",mob,", near his place of residence in kentucky , and dreadfully whipped- having received 30 lashes on his bare back , so heavily laid on that they nearly cost him his life . the letters so add , that he would actually have been murdered but for the interference of"
1221,16758_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1915,"atlanta constitution.- the assault of the lowest criminal upon the life , person or property of another affects directly but two person , the assailant and his victim , that act of the",mob,"which lynched leo frank has put a stain upon the escutcheon of the state which more than 2,500,000 people are trying to preserve un tarnished . every man , woman and child in george will feel the ultimate effect of that act of the law- de mob which lynched not"
1222,16758_0.txt,"The Alaska daily empire (Juneau, Alaska)",1915,"act of the mob which lynched leo frank has put a stain upon the escutcheon of the state which more than 2,500,000 people are trying to preserve un tarnished . every man , woman and child in george will feel the ultimate effect of that act of the law- de",mob,"which lynched not leo frank , who is only tying a detail in the lawful story ; but the state itself ."
1223,16759_0.txt,"The Nome nugget (Nome, Alaska)",1938,"to investigate ruston , la . , oct . 14th , ( pp ) district judge e . l . walker said he would call a special grand jury session to investigate into the lynching yesterday of r . c . williams . aged 19 , a negro . a",mob,"of several hundred men caught the negro and marched him to the spot , where they said he killed r.m . blair , aged thirty , a jonesboro papermill foreman , tuesday , and slugged his woman hanged companion mob . the the negro's body from a tree before riddling"
1224,16759_0.txt,"The Nome nugget (Nome, Alaska)",1938,". williams . aged 19 , a negro . a mob of several hundred men caught the negro and marched him to the spot , where they said he killed r.m . blair , aged thirty , a jonesboro papermill foreman , tuesday , and slugged his woman hanged companion",mob,. the the negro's body from a tree before riddling his body with . ets . bul
1225,16760_0.txt,"The daily Alaskan (Skagway, Alaska)",1910,"texas grand jury forgets ( by alaska news bureau ) rock springs , texas , dec . 21 the grand jury has adjourned and apparently forgot during its deliberations to find indictments against the members of the",mob,which ed the mexican rodrigues . lynch
1226,16762_0.txt,"Reporter and farmer (Webster, Day Co...)",1888,"last july a negro named moore was lynched at charleston ill . for an alleged criminal assault upon a woman , afterwards , . it was discovered that the man was innocent and the",mob,had been guilty of murder . the grand jury has indicted 10 well known citizens who are alleged to have taken part in the lynching the men are among the best known in the . country .
1227,16763_0.txt,"The true Democrat (Little Rock, Ar...)",1854,"learned that the negro boy belonging to the estate of samuel mcmorin , who has been confined for more than a year past , charged with the murder of young dug- lass , was , on day before yesterday , forcibly taken from the jail house of saline county a",mob,and hung . by
1228,16765_0.txt,"The true Democrat (Little Rock, Ar...)",1854,"was a peace offi cer , named william hardmouth . he was at tempting to arrest the californian for disorderly conduct in a dance house , when he resisted , and finally shot him in the abdomen with buckshot . the californian was afterwards dragged from his bed by a",mob,", and hung from the eaves the house in which he had committed the mur of-"
1229,16773_0.txt,True American (New Orleans [La...),1839,cir lynch law.- judge shattuck escaped a day or two of are since very narrowly at benton from the mercies of defect lynch law . he gave some offence to the jury and the become,mob,at once proposed to lynch him . he got out by a back upon way .
1230,16774_0.txt,NA,1839,"the deluded girl taken care of until monday morning , when the man was ta ken before one of our magistrates ; but having committed no offence , as it was thought , for which the law provided a punishment , he was about being dismiss ed , when the",mob,"manifested a disposition to take him in hand- a commitment was then made out for the purpose of plac . ing him in jail beyond the reach of the mob , and he was given over to the peace officers ; but on the way to the jail , the"
1231,16774_0.txt,NA,1839,"was thought , for which the law provided a punishment , he was about being dismiss ed , when the mob manifested a disposition to take him in hand- a commitment was then made out for the purpose of plac . ing him in jail beyond the reach of the",mob,", and he was given over to the peace officers ; but on the way to the jail , the in- . dignant crowd seized him , and placing him on a rail , rushed forward with the intention of passing the jail gate . the officers who had him"
1232,16774_0.txt,NA,1839,"dignant crowd seized him , and placing him on a rail , rushed forward with the intention of passing the jail gate . the officers who had him in charge , however , with great exertions , and much to their credis , succeeded in directing the course of the",mob,"into the gate , and thus got their charge within the prison yard . here a parley took place which resulted in a compromise , according to which the offender received thirty nine stripes on the bare back , well laid on . he was then committed ; and in"
1233,16774_0.txt,NA,1839,"a parley took place which resulted in a compromise , according to which the offender received thirty nine stripes on the bare back , well laid on . he was then committed ; and in the afternoon , escorted out of town by a committee appointed to leep off the",mob-,and permitted to pur- sue his way for pennsylvania . if should ever visit hagerstown again on he a
1234,16777_0.txt,"Litchfield enquirer (Litchfield, Con...)",1844,an innocent man hung by a,mob.-,"under this caption the paris ( mo . ) mercury narrates some curious particulars connected with mob law . some years since mr james barnes , son of aquilla barnes , of missouri was hung by a mob in arkassas , because he was suspected of having murdered the wright"
1235,16777_0.txt,"Litchfield enquirer (Litchfield, Con...)",1844,an innocent man hung by a mob.- under this caption the paris ( mo . ) mercury narrates some curious particulars connected with,mob,"law . some years since mr james barnes , son of aquilla barnes , of missouri was hung by a mob in arkassas , because he was suspected of having murdered the wright 6 family , ' in one of the counties of that state . barnes to the very"
1236,16777_0.txt,"Litchfield enquirer (Litchfield, Con...)",1844,"an innocent man hung by a mob.- under this caption the paris ( mo . ) mercury narrates some curious particulars connected with mob law . some years since mr james barnes , son of aquilla barnes , of missouri was hung by a",mob,"in arkassas , because he was suspected of having murdered the wright 6 family , ' in one of the counties of that state . barnes to the very last asserted his innocence , but the mob were inexorable and he was hanged by them . if now appears ,"
1237,16777_0.txt,"Litchfield enquirer (Litchfield, Con...)",1844,"barnes , son of aquilla barnes , of missouri was hung by a mob in arkassas , because he was suspected of having murdered the wright 6 family , ' in one of the counties of that state . barnes to the very last asserted his innocence , but the",mob,"were inexorable and he was hanged by them . if now appears , from the statement in the van ers have been found , and are in confinement at fayetteville , in state . there are three of by the name of star and reese , and they are said"
1238,16777_0.txt,"Litchfield enquirer (Litchfield, Con...)",1844,"of the church of jesus christ . how painful it must have been to his father and mother , the wife of his bosom , with her helpless babes , and his relatives , to be thus deprived of his society ; and to think , too , that a",mob,"hung him without judge or jury , under the charge of murder- thus blasting his fame , and putting a stain upon his poor little children , his unot- fending wife , his aged father and mother together with brothers and sisters , his friends and relatives . "" his"
1239,16784_0.txt,"The Dakota chief. (Gann Valley, Bu...)",1896,". 25 . two men for assault at dan ville , ill . . . . wheat lynched reaches 82 cents . 26 . three killed by explosion of tug boller at chicago . . . . sheriff and posse at tiffin , ohlo , kill two of a lynching",mob,". . . . burning of virginia's state university . 29 . negro criminal burned at the stake in texas . . . . $ 200,000 fire in springfield , ohio two killed , three hurt , in a collision in st . louis . fatally"
1240,16791_0.txt,"The North-Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1841,"been carried into effect . between the 5th and 10th inst . , phillips coun ty , in arkansas , about 40 miles below helena , and the county of coahoma , in the mississippi , on the opposite side of the river , appear to have the scene of",mob,"and lynch law to a become greater extent than has lately been recorded by the public press . a numerous gang of counterfeiters had their places of rendezvous and the abodes of their fam lies in the above named counties , to the great and continued annoyance of the citizens"
1241,16793_0.txt,"Southport telegraph (Southport, W.T....)",1841,", for the alleged murder of john campbell . a coroners inquest has been held upon the bodies of the driscalls , and the jury have returned a verdict of wilful murder ! this then , is likely to result in serious business to those who assumed to take the",law into their own hands,". we learn that immediately after the mob had wreaked their vengeance upon the lives of two driscalls , they repaired to the residences of all the driscalls and expelled the widowed and orphaned families , and burnt their houses to the ground . it is al so stated that"
1242,16793_0.txt,"Southport telegraph (Southport, W.T....)",1841,"has been held upon the bodies of the driscalls , and the jury have returned a verdict of wilful murder ! this then , is likely to result in serious business to those who assumed to take the law into their own hands . we learn that immediately after the",mob,"had wreaked their vengeance upon the lives of two driscalls , they repaired to the residences of all the driscalls and expelled the widowed and orphaned families , and burnt their houses to the ground . it is al so stated that money and valuable papers , were upon the"
1243,16793_0.txt,"Southport telegraph (Southport, W.T....)",1841,"and expelled the widowed and orphaned families , and burnt their houses to the ground . it is al so stated that money and valuable papers , were upon the persons of the driscalls at the time of their being shot , which were abstracted from their pockets by the",mob,". the driscalls were the owners valu- ble farms , which are under a high of state of cultivation , and covered with extensive crops of growing grain . the mob have forbidden under the penalty of death any persons from harvesting the crops . bridge , whom we stated"
1244,16793_0.txt,"Southport telegraph (Southport, W.T....)",1841,"of the driscalls at the time of their being shot , which were abstracted from their pockets by the mob . the driscalls were the owners valu- ble farms , which are under a high of state of cultivation , and covered with extensive crops of growing grain . the",mob,"have forbidden under the penalty of death any persons from harvesting the crops . bridge , whom we stated last week as being one of the murderers o "" campbell , has been arrested , tried , and acquitted . we learn from the galena papers , that the of-"
1245,16793_0.txt,"Southport telegraph (Southport, W.T....)",1841,"the crops . bridge , whom we stated last week as being one of the murderers o "" campbell , has been arrested , tried , and acquitted . we learn from the galena papers , that the of- fice of the rockford star , "" was entered by the",mob,"on the night of the 6th instant , and the type and fixtures so much injured and mutulated , that the paper has been obliged to discontinue . the alleged cause for this transaction is , that the star has spoken out in condemnation of the proceed ings of the"
1246,16793_0.txt,"Southport telegraph (Southport, W.T....)",1841,"on the night of the 6th instant , and the type and fixtures so much injured and mutulated , that the paper has been obliged to discontinue . the alleged cause for this transaction is , that the star has spoken out in condemnation of the proceed ings of the",mob,". in a good government lynch law can never be justified . lynch law is the stepping stone to anarchy , misrule and un controlable violence . to say that the laws of the states , are inadequate to perform the demands of human justice , is a libel upon"
1247,16794_0.txt,NA,1841,"son was served in the manner . "" same two other men of the same party , who had made their have since been caught escape and executed in the same manner as the above . have been executed in grant also two men , , ohio , by a",mob,", for robbing and county murdering a man by the name of utterback ."
1248,16796_0.txt,"New Orleans daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1857,,mob,"law in iowa . chicago , april 18 . - eli griffin , a half breed , has been hung by a mob in jackson county , iowa , for killing a white man named john ingalls . on the same day a mob entered the jail at belle view"
1249,16796_0.txt,"New Orleans daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1857,"mob law in iowa . chicago , april 18 . - eli griffin , a half breed , has been hung by a",mob,"in jackson county , iowa , for killing a white man named john ingalls . on the same day a mob entered the jail at belle view , and took a prisoner accused of murder and counterfeiting from and hung him . there is a great excitement in the it"
1250,16796_0.txt,"New Orleans daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1857,"mob law in iowa . chicago , april 18 . - eli griffin , a half breed , has been hung by a mob in jackson county , iowa , for killing a white man named john ingalls . on the same day a",mob,"entered the jail at belle view , and took a prisoner accused of murder and counterfeiting from and hung him . there is a great excitement in the it neighborhood ."
1251,16802_0.txt,"Bloomington herald (Bloomington, I....)",1841,"abolition riot in cincinnati . cincinnati , sept . 5 , 1841 our city has been a scene of extreme confusion ever since night before last .",mobocracy,"has been triumphant . negro . town , situated between seventh and fifth streets , east of broadway , has been storm ed by a mob , and several lives have lost . been last night , the scenes of violence again commenced . thousands of people were in the"
1252,16802_0.txt,"Bloomington herald (Bloomington, I....)",1841,"cincinnati . cincinnati , sept . 5 , 1841 our city has been a scene of extreme confusion ever since night before last . mobocracy has been triumphant . negro . town , situated between seventh and fifth streets , east of broadway , has been storm ed by a",mob,", and several lives have lost . been last night , the scenes of violence again commenced . thousands of people were in the streets , some out of curiousity , and others bent on mischief . some desperate fellows , put themselves at the head of a large body"
1253,16802_0.txt,"Bloomington herald (Bloomington, I....)",1841,"several lives have lost . been last night , the scenes of violence again commenced . thousands of people were in the streets , some out of curiousity , and others bent on mischief . some desperate fellows , put themselves at the head of a large body of the",mob,", attacked the office of the philanthropist , and effectually destroyed the entire office , throwing the presses into the river , streets.- the editor had left of what would be done , or done to him . violence"
1254,16803_0.txt,"The Mississippi Creole (Canton, Miss.)",1841,"city has been a scene of extreme ion ever since night before last . cracy has been triumphant . wn , situated between 7th and ne 5th s , east of broadway , has been by a",mob,", and several lives "" wrought up to an extreme pitch of scene of operation to the shop of burnett excitement , the mob then changed its shop of burnett , the confectioner , who had rendered him runaway negroes . it's-"
1255,16803_0.txt,"The Mississippi Creole (Canton, Miss.)",1841,"before last . cracy has been triumphant . wn , situated between 7th and ne 5th s , east of broadway , has been by a mob , and several lives "" wrought up to an extreme pitch of scene of operation to the shop of burnett excitement , the",mob,"then changed its shop of burnett , the confectioner , who had rendered him runaway negroes . it's-"
1256,16804_0.txt,"The North-Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1841,"knives . a bout 9 o'clock on the following evening , a large concourse of people , without concert or arms , assembled in the immediate vicinity of "" five points , "" or , as it is called , "" nigger town . "" a few persons in the",mob,"which consisted of 3 or 400 , threw stones against the buildings of the negroes . the negroes immediately poured into the mob a volley of bullets , from muskets and rifles , with which they had previously provided themselves in anticipation of an attack . the mob , being"
1257,16804_0.txt,"The North-Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1841,"in the immediate vicinity of "" five points , "" or , as it is called , "" nigger town . "" a few persons in the mob which consisted of 3 or 400 , threw stones against the buildings of the negroes . the negroes immediately poured into the",mob,"a volley of bullets , from muskets and rifles , with which they had previously provided themselves in anticipation of an attack . the mob , being unarmed , fled precipitate ly , and were pursued for nearly a square by the blacks , who yelled out a wild shout"
1258,16804_0.txt,"The North-Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1841,"in the mob which consisted of 3 or 400 , threw stones against the buildings of the negroes . the negroes immediately poured into the mob a volley of bullets , from muskets and rifles , with which they had previously provided themselves in anticipation of an attack . the",mob,", being unarmed , fled precipitate ly , and were pursued for nearly a square by the blacks , who yelled out a wild shout of triumph and defiance , and returned to their houses . about midnight the mob advanced to the position they had occupied in the early"
1259,16804_0.txt,"The North-Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1841,"previously provided themselves in anticipation of an attack . the mob , being unarmed , fled precipitate ly , and were pursued for nearly a square by the blacks , who yelled out a wild shout of triumph and defiance , and returned to their houses . about midnight the",mob,"advanced to the position they had occupied in the early part of the evening , provided with arms and a six- pounder . the six pounder and small arms were fired , which was re turned by the blacks , and the parties engaged in a terrible conflict . fortunately"
1260,16804_0.txt,"The North-Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1841,"pounder . the six pounder and small arms were fired , which was re turned by the blacks , and the parties engaged in a terrible conflict . fortunately for the lives of many , the prompt arrival of the military silenced the firing , restored peace and dispersed the",mob,". there are various reports of the number killed and wounded on both sides , the truth of which cannot at pres ent be known . the city was all in confusion and uproar again , on the 4th , and the negroes flying in all directions . there was"
1261,16806_0.txt,NA,1841,"the remaining four ruffians made their escape to the lowa side of the river , and there succeeded in rallying a",mob,", who came over in a ferry boat and recaptured fisher . this was in the middle of the afternoon . fisher was taken some 70 yards from the road , tied with a chain and rope , and a guard of two men , armed with knives and pistols"
1262,16807_0.txt,"Democratic standard (Georgetown, Bro...)",1842,. cincinnati in,mob,"the cincinnati gazetto gives the following account of the riot that occurred in that city last week . we are no advo- cate of mob or lynch law ; but if its ex- ercise is ever justifiable , it is when en- forced against the corporations that have for years"
1263,16807_0.txt,"Democratic standard (Georgetown, Bro...)",1842,. cincinnati in mob the cincinnati gazetto gives the following account of the riot that occurred in that city last week . we are no advo- cate of,mob,"or lynch law ; but if its ex- ercise is ever justifiable , it is when en- forced against the corporations that have for years been acting in violation and de . fiance of express legal enactments . as a natural consequence , they are at length made to feel"
1264,16807_1.txt,"Democratic standard (Georgetown, Bro...)",1842,the,mob,"had with this exception un disputed possession of the city , and commenced an attack first upon bates ' ex change bank , and after that upon lou gee's exchange office , both of which they destroyed , making avoc of every thing which was at all destructible . the"
1265,16810_0.txt,"Southport telegraph (Southport, W.T....)",1842,"powder , lead , and other contraband articles of war , together with coin . a dispute has arisen whether she was a mexican or an united states vessel , which has not yet been settled . the mary and elizabeth was bound to vera cruz from new orleans .",a party of,"fifteen men recently left austin for the upper colorado and region of the san saba , in search of silver mines , known to be abundant in that section . capt . dolson's company of mounted men have left austin on a tour into the in dian range , though"
1266,16811_0.txt,The New York herald (New York [N.Y.]),1842,"office where they called out his honor and demanded the redemption of "" les billets des municipalites . "" his honor , who did not happen to have the change "" past . him , "" declined this opportunity of showing his put- . lie spirit , but told the",mob,"that the story of the depreciation of their notes was a falsehood , and that they would all be redeemed in a few days . the crowd , upon this , left the mayor's office ; and being ; instigated by the devil , who sometimes delighteth to witness the"
1267,16811_0.txt,The New York herald (New York [N.Y.]),1842,"sometimes delighteth to witness the destruction of his own works , proceed . ed in a body up chartres street to canal , yelling like ten thousand wild indians . on the corner of canal ; and camp , ( the latter being a continuation of char tres ) the",mob,"commenced the work of destruction by completely gutting the exchange office of messis . valentine and williams , and carrying off all ; the"
1268,16813_1.txt,Vermont telegraph (Brandon [Vt.]),1842,"treet from a letter from john orvis . dibald burgess of hancock , n . h , pastor of a",mobacratic,"church.- a non resistant lynched by two church mem- viz : joseph hill , jr . and nathan wood dear orsons i have long wanted to a line to you . i can sympathize with in your almost single combat , with the rers of darkness . we have met"
1269,16822_0.txt,"The Ohio Democrat (Canal Dover, Oh...)",1841,"more lynch law . --- two men named couch and maythe , were lynched at willi . amstown , grant county , ky , last saturday week , for committing a murderous assault up . on a drover , named utterbeck , whom they also robbed . the",mob,"went to the jail in which they were confined , took them out by force , carried them to the epot where they had committed the outrage on the drover , and hung them both upon a tree . the mob seeme to have acted with the utmost order in"
1270,16822_0.txt,"The Ohio Democrat (Canal Dover, Oh...)",1841,"named utterbeck , whom they also robbed . the mob went to the jail in which they were confined , took them out by force , carried them to the epot where they had committed the outrage on the drover , and hung them both upon a tree . the",mob,"seeme to have acted with the utmost order in this ehocking tragedy , and even listened with respect to the remonstrance of an eminent law yer against their proceedings . if anything can palliate such an outrage , it was the fact that one of the robbers was a notorious"
1271,16825_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1920,"lynching not subject to geographical lines the lynching of three negroes at duluth , minn . , for assault on a white girl is no more of a surprise than had the lynching taken place in mississippi , alabama , or georgia . where that crime occurs the",mob,"metes out punishment . man will care for his women and he who abuses them is headed to quick immolation on the altar of instinct . as faith rises above mathematical demonstration , man's protective spirit in relation to woman brushes restraint aside and goes straight to the mark of"
1272,16825_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1920,"wholesale style . not long ago in knoxville , a south- ern city , the arm of the law extended to the protection of a negro fiend who had ravished and murdered a number of women , the last a white girl in her early teens . members of the",mob,"were shot down and killed . the negro was tried , convicted and suffered the law in the usual way . in duluth thirty policemen in the jail enclosure gave way to the mob after the sole and ridiculous effort of dispersing it with a stream of water . the"
1273,16825_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1920,"of women , the last a white girl in her early teens . members of the mob were shot down and killed . the negro was tried , convicted and suffered the law in the usual way . in duluth thirty policemen in the jail enclosure gave way to the",mob,after the sole and ridiculous effort of dispersing it with a stream of water . the would make greater negro progress toward the elimination of lynching if less attention were paid to lynching statistics and more to preachment of the inevitable consequence of this cropping out of the sav age
1274,16826_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1915,negro escapes,mob,"montgomery , december 21 . - will bubbs , a negro , is in jail at dothan , after having eluded a mob bent upon lynching him for the alleged fatal poisoning of gid blan , a white farmer of alaga . the negro is alleged to have supplied strychnine"
1275,16826_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1915,"negro escapes mob montgomery , december 21 . - will bubbs , a negro , is in jail at dothan , after having eluded a",mob,"bent upon lynching him for the alleged fatal poisoning of gid blan , a white farmer of alaga . the negro is alleged to have supplied strychnine to be used in a plot to kill the farmer . the strychnine was put in a capsule and farmer swallowed it for"
1276,16827_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1920,ministers pass resolutions on saturday's riot regretting the,mob,"spirit that prevailed saturday night and commending highly the bravery of the police and other of- ficials in their successful efforts to pre vent a lynching , the methodist ministersed of the birmingham and bessemer districts at their regular meeting passed the following resolutions : "" the methodist ministers of"
1277,16827_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1920,"methodist ministers of the birmingham and bessemer districts in their regular meeting of june the 21st in the birmingham first church wish to ex press their profound regret at the action of some of the citizens of th community , when on last saturday night they yield- ed to the",mob,"spirit and turned the streets of law- abiding birmingham into a scene of turmoil and peril . "" we in no way condone impertinence , insolence or crime , but when men , wheta er black or white , become offenders , we insist that it is the duty of"
1278,16827_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1920,"of law- abiding birmingham into a scene of turmoil and peril . "" we in no way condone impertinence , insolence or crime , but when men , wheta er black or white , become offenders , we insist that it is the duty of the law and not the",mob,"to punish . we congratulate and honor our brave policemen and officials in their determined and success ful effort , at the risk of their own lives , to save the accused negro from the wrath of the mob . "" we assure them that not only do they i"
1279,16827_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1920,"that it is the duty of the law and not the mob to punish . we congratulate and honor our brave policemen and officials in their determined and success ful effort , at the risk of their own lives , to save the accused negro from the wrath of the",mob,". "" we assure them that not only do they i have the gratitude of all law- abiding citizens for saving us of the disgrace of a public lynching , but that we believe that many of the partici- pants in the riot , in their calmer moments , will"
1280,16829_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,,mob,"hangs negro . tampa , fla . , may 17 . - a mob entered the jail at inverness . citrus county , late last night , took the keys from the jailor and took out frank jordan , colored , charged with robbing and murdering a white peddler named"
1281,16829_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"mob hangs negro . tampa , fla . , may 17 . - a",mob,"entered the jail at inverness . citrus county , late last night , took the keys from the jailor and took out frank jordan , colored , charged with robbing and murdering a white peddler named sweeney at stage pond two weeks ago . the negro was hanged by the"
1282,16829_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"entered the jail at inverness . citrus county , late last night , took the keys from the jailor and took out frank jordan , colored , charged with robbing and murdering a white peddler named sweeney at stage pond two weeks ago . the negro was hanged by the",mob,"to a tree a short distance from town , there was no disorder , the mob doing its work quietly and no shots were fifed . very"
1283,16829_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"from the jailor and took out frank jordan , colored , charged with robbing and murdering a white peddler named sweeney at stage pond two weeks ago . the negro was hanged by the mob to a tree a short distance from town , there was no disorder , the",mob,doing its work quietly and no shots were fifed . very
1284,16831_1.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,"due process of law . "" no state , "" says the fourteenth amendment , "" shall deprive any person of life without due process of law . "" the riggins case that arose in huntsville when horace maples was taken from the county jail and hanged by a",mob,"is now before the federal su- court , and that court will preme at its next session no doubt define the of the clause scope it will be compelled to quoted ssy what . powers the federal courts"
1285,16831_2.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,have over individuals who prevent a state from affording a prisoner due process of law . no fault is imputed to the state or the state's laws . the trouble relates to the action of the individuals in the,mob,"that hung horace maples , a murderer . the boston herald contiues to give the riggins attention , and this case considerable is the way it puts the issue in the case as it before the court of last resort : goes"
1286,16837_0.txt,"Boon's Lick times (Fayette, Mo.)",1844,from the paris mercury . an innocent man hung by a,mob,". our readers no doubt recollect that a mob in arkansas , some years back , hung without judge or jury , a mr . james barnes , son of aquilla barnes , of missouri , charging him with having murdered the "" wright family , "" which was so"
1287,16837_0.txt,"Boon's Lick times (Fayette, Mo.)",1844,from the paris mercury . an innocent man hung by a mob . our readers no doubt recollect that a,mob,"in arkansas , some years back , hung without judge or jury , a mr . james barnes , son of aquilla barnes , of missouri , charging him with having murdered the "" wright family , "" which was so inhumanly murdered in arkansas- barnes all the tima declaring"
1288,16837_0.txt,"Boon's Lick times (Fayette, Mo.)",1844,""" wright family , "" which was so inhumanly murdered in arkansas- barnes all the tima declaring his innocence , which , how . ever , availed him nothing . circumstances have since come to light which prove that he was inno . cent of the crime for which the",mob,"so inhu . manly put him to death . this is truly gratifying to us , for we personally knew him- we lived a neighbor to his father , aquilla barnes , and the barnes family , twenty six years ago , at old franklin , howard county , mo"
1289,16837_0.txt,"Boon's Lick times (Fayette, Mo.)",1844,"of them exemplary members of the church of jesus christ . how painful it must to and mother , the wife of his bosom , with her helpless babes , and his relatives , to be thus deprived of his society ; and to think , too , that a",mob,"hung him without judge or jury , under the charge of murder- thus blasting his fame , and putting a s'ain upon his poor little children , his unoffending wife , his aged father and mother , together with his brothers and sisters , his friends and relatives . but"
1290,16837_0.txt,"Boon's Lick times (Fayette, Mo.)",1844,"were the murderers of the wright family , ' and consequently proves barnes to have been an innocent man , most shamefully put to death , charged with a horrid murder , about which he knew nothing . let this be a warning to all who have any love for",mobs,or law . the following is the extract alluded lynch to : --
1291,16839_0.txt,"American Republican and Baltimore daily clipper (Baltimore, Md.)",1846,the tragedy at nashville- disgraceful,mob-,"lynch law . we have already briefly noticed an affray at nashville , tenn . , between mr . robert porterfield , a worthy citizen of that place , and one e . z . c . judson , in which the former was killed . the last nashville whig"
1292,16839_0.txt,"American Republican and Baltimore daily clipper (Baltimore, Md.)",1846,"robert porterfield , a worthy citizen of that place , and one e . z . c . judson , in which the former was killed . the last nashville whig gives a detailed account of the whole affair , with the particulars relative to the proceedings of a disgraceful",mob,by whom judson was seiz- and attempted to be . we make a few extracts from it : hung
1293,16840_0.txt,"Ypsilanti sentinel (Ypsilanti, Wash...)",1847,"relation to the above case the houston telegraph says that wilkinson confessed that he had given the arsenic to the cook purposely to be unixed in the cake , and he cautioned the bridge and other members of the family not to eat the cake . he belonged to the",moderater party of,"sabine , and he stated that he took this opportunity to destroy as many regulators as possible , to avenge himself for the injuries they had inflicted upon him and his friends . fantastic freaks of elictricity . -- the albany argus of the 15th gives us the follow ing"
1294,16840_0.txt,"Ypsilanti sentinel (Ypsilanti, Wash...)",1847,"drowned . the remainder of the crew arrived at singapore on the 15th of march . lynch law.- wilkinson , the man who at san augustine , texas , poisoned a large wed ding party , it is said in the houston telegraph , was overtaken in his flight by",a party of,"the regulators and was hung by them . he belon ged to the moderator party of sabine , and he said that he took this oppotunity to destroy as many regulators as posible , to avenge himself and his friends . he has made fearful atonment for this horid crime"
1295,16840_0.txt,"Ypsilanti sentinel (Ypsilanti, Wash...)",1847,"lynch law.- wilkinson , the man who at san augustine , texas , poisoned a large wed ding party , it is said in the houston telegraph , was overtaken in his flight by a party of the regulators and was hung by them . he belon ged to the",moderator party of,"sabine , and he said that he took this oppotunity to destroy as many regulators as posible , to avenge himself and his friends . he has made fearful atonment for this horid crime ; others , may be implicated and the bloody fude of the regulators and moderators may"
1296,16844_0.txt,"Burlington free press (Burlington, Vt.)",1848,the,mob,"at washington . our readers have seen , in our telegraphic despatches , as well as elsewhere , notices of the proceedings of a tolerably numerous mob , in washington who took themselves upon to con- , nect the national era newspaper of that city with the absconding of some"
1297,16844_0.txt,"Burlington free press (Burlington, Vt.)",1848,"the mob at washington . our readers have seen , in our telegraphic despatches , as well as elsewhere , notices of the proceedings of a tolerably numerous",mob,", in washington who took themselves upon to con- , nect the national era newspaper of that city with the absconding of some seventy slaves a few , days ago , and to threaten its proprietors with the judgment and execution of a law that is widely in vogue among"
1298,16853_0.txt,The Washington union (City of Washing...),1857,"a telegraphic despatch from louisville , dated may 19 , are states that a large meeting of the citizens took place in the court- house in relation to the recent outrages committed by the",mob,in hanging the negroes who were tried . for murder . resolutions were passed in favor of support
1299,16855_0.txt,"Weekly American (Washington, D.C...)",1858,a kentucky barnburner hung by a,mob,". robert j . griffin , who was arrested at paris , ken , tucky , a few days ago , and confined in the bour . bon county jail , to await trial on a charge of hav ing been engaged in setting fire to barns in that ."
1300,16855_0.txt,"Weekly American (Washington, D.C...)",1858,"a few days ago , and confined in the bour . bon county jail , to await trial on a charge of hav ing been engaged in setting fire to barns in that . vicinity , was taken out of jail at two o'clock mon , day morning by a",mob,", and hung by the neck un til he was dead . one ne end of the rope with which . the unhappy man was murdered , was fastened to a cross- tie in the lofty trestle work of the railroad bridge , which crosses the creek on the northeast"
1301,16857_0.txt,"The Louisiana Democrat (Alexandria, La.)",1877,if general pearson gets into the hands of the,mob,"he will be hed . citizens sympathize with the strikers , but denounce the mob who are only plunderers and tramps in strong est terms . the"
1302,16857_0.txt,"The Louisiana Democrat (Alexandria, La.)",1877,"if general pearson gets into the hands of the mob he will be hed . citizens sympathize with the strikers , but denounce the",mob,who are only plunderers and tramps in strong est terms . the
1303,16859_0.txt,"Chicago tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1869,"the whole woods were full of people hun ing po- tillo who was arrested about sandown and , taken the email town of grantsbarg , near where the shooting took place , and placed ut der guard . night between 12 and 2 o'clock he was that taken by a",mob,"and hung . """
1304,16862_0.txt,"Chicago tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1866,"also burder of his own sister . the [ special despatch to the chicago tribune . ] detroit , august 29 . john taylor , the octoroon who committed the terrible butchery of the buck family at deelhi last thursday , was taken from the jall at mason by a",mob,"last night and hung , after being allow ed fifteen minutes to prepare for death . after hanging about an honr , the body was cut down buried near by . and he confessed that he intended to murder mr . buck and three other men in michigan , and"
1305,16862_0.txt,"Chicago tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1866,"about an honr , the body was cut down buried near by . and he confessed that he intended to murder mr . buck and three other men in michigan , and that he had formerly murdered his own sister . it is not known that the sheri resisted the",mob,which disgraced the country whose houor it was his duty to guard . h
1306,16864_0.txt,Daily Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Ca...),1882,"reported lysestg denied . denver , col . , april 3rd.- ad vices from pueblo deny the report that the",mob,"friday night lynched three men ten miles from town , and say there is no foundation the report . for"
1307,16865_0.txt,Los Angeles daily herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1873-1876,1874,"jackson , kansas , march 27th . on wednesday last one ames was killed by his son- in- law , pierce , who was yesterday taken from the jail by",mob,and hanged . a
1308,16867_0.txt,"The Trinity times (Weaverville, Ca...)",1855,"later- since writing the above , we are informed that the",mob,"hung the wrong man person evidently innocent of the sup posed -a crime . [ evening journal . more lynching in alameda county . on monday , the 2d inst , a short time before sunset , a man was found hanging upon a tree on the premises where the"
1309,16868_0.txt,The weekly Butte record (Oroville [Calif...),1861,more lynching.- a,mob,"recently hung a mexican at the jail door of san louis obispo , for an infamous crime ; and on the 19th inst . , some of his countrymen broke open the jail and hung a prisoner named dillon , who was confined on a charge of rape upon an"
1310,16869_0.txt,"Weekly Trinity journal (Weaverville, Ca...)",1859,"was and ,",mob,"the was hung left , beef by hanging a fellow in minnesota was caught stealing"
1311,16872_0.txt,"The Sentinel=record. (Hot Springs, Ar...)",1911,wiped out the family,mob,"lynches two members of malpass family who killed officers inquest held- four bodies buried in one , grave and other negro residents have no fear of violence . dumas , ark . , sept . 27 . - as a result of the killing of sheriff w . d ."
1312,16885_0.txt,"Pine Bluff daily graphic. (Pine Bluff, Ark...)",1920,"negro lynched . danville , va . , july 7 . - red roach , after- negro arrested late yesterday , noon alleged attempt to attack the year old daughter of a farmer , was 13 taken from the person county jail last night by a",mob,"and hanged near the town of roxboro . a number of shots were fired into his body . ac cording to sheriff robert thompson of roxboro , the negro was identified by the girl after his arrest . roxboro was quiet today and was no indication of race feeling there"
1313,16890_0.txt,"American Republican and Baltimore daily clipper (Baltimore, Md.)",1846,"a rich planter of chicot county , ark . was murdered about a year ago , by one of his slaves , who was tried and convicted of the offence , but subsequently obtained a new trial . the populace , fearing he would thus escape punishment , took the",law into their own hands,", and on the 4th inst . a mob repaired to the jail , cut down the door , notwsthstanding the remonstrance and resistance of the sheriff , entered the prison and forcibly took the prisoner , led him forth with a halter round his neck , and in cold"
1314,16890_0.txt,"American Republican and Baltimore daily clipper (Baltimore, Md.)",1846,"year ago , by one of his slaves , who was tried and convicted of the offence , but subsequently obtained a new trial . the populace , fearing he would thus escape punishment , took the law into their own hands , and on the 4th inst . a",mob,"repaired to the jail , cut down the door , notwsthstanding the remonstrance and resistance of the sheriff , entered the prison and forcibly took the prisoner , led him forth with a halter round his neck , and in cold blood hung him to a tree within 100 of"
1315,16898_0.txt,NA,1847,"of the boais to being prevent seen , arrived at hannibal and enlisted in the army . "" if all this be so , a great deal of unde served sympathy has been wasted on mr . knight , and two men were very near fal ling victims , to",mob,"violence , in conse . of his malignant disposition . --st . quence louis rep ."
1316,16898_1.txt,NA,1847,send him a hat.the editor of the zanesville courier says that there were cincinnati local editors accompanied the late,mob,to kentucky enough to have rescu scued the negro but they would not interfere because they wanted the item cincinnati atlas . . --
1317,16899_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1847,what is,mob,"law- what the code of lynch , but just such an influence of excited public opinion ? and what is the difference , whether a mob , a cla mor , a public opinion , however expressed , influence the action of our courts , or execute its will by"
1318,16899_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1847,"what is mob law- what the code of lynch , but just such an influence of excited public opinion ? and what is the difference , whether a",mob,", a cla mor , a public opinion , however expressed , influence the action of our courts , or execute its will by c'her we have seen a little too much of this interference of mob- excitement , with the administration of the laws the has . press too"
1319,16899_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1847,"of excited public opinion ? and what is the difference , whether a mob , a cla mor , a public opinion , however expressed , influence the action of our courts , or execute its will by c'her we have seen a little too much of this interference of",mob-,"excitement , with the administration of the laws the has . press too often threatened courts and juries with its vengeance , unless a par tieular verdict was rendered , and a particular judgment pronounced . too often have we seen court rooms crowded , with audiences who applauded ,"
1320,16899_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1847,"tieular verdict was rendered , and a particular judgment pronounced . too often have we seen court rooms crowded , with audiences who applauded , tre , or a political meeting , the other , as at a thea- more and worse . in this very city has an excited",mob,"collected under the windows of a jury room , clamoring for such a verdict as such public opi- , nion desired ; and the result was a capital ion- sentence- and death ! convic"
1321,16900_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1848,"fashionable scoundrelism , in popular ras cality the colored man has no chance to com white . who is it burns cath pete with the olic convents , who fires catholic churches , who has done murder when lynch law uttered its mandate , who has filled every city with",mob,"violence defying the civil authorities , who butcher each other with bowie knives and kill each other in duels ? is it the white inan or the man who is so de graded as to do these colored things ?"
1322,16901_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1848,"to pour out the liquors and tear down the premises in which they had been sold . we go for progress , but this is getting ahead our time . we are reformers , in our way , but we have not yet given our assent to the policy of",mobbing,"or lynching those who will not be reformed so fast as we wish to have them . we are in favor of temperance , and practice it more than is required by the usual pledges , but we have not decided that it is our duty to pull a man's"
1323,16904_0.txt,The New York herald (New York [N.Y.]),1848,"square in front of the hotel de ville , where the general cry has been vive napoleon ! "" "" vive l'empereur ! "" the night before last , an individual had the imprudence to cry , "" viva la république ! "" when he was immediately seized by the",mob,", and carried to the quay wall to be flung into the river . he was only saved by the interposition of the military and police , the latter of whom suffered severely in the conflict . the boulevards and other public thoroughfares swarm with hawkers , selling at a"
1324,16906_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1848,"cincinnati was on the 23d instant , thrown into an intense excitement in consequence of two germans being arrested for an assault on a girl only 9 years of age . the prisoners were committed to jail for a further hearing , but the",mob,"attacked the jail for the purpose of lynch ing them . the officers fired from the windows of the jail upon the mob , which killed three and wounded several . the mob had not dispersed , and they may succeed in taking posses- sion of prisoners . if so"
1325,16906_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1848,"cincinnati was on the 23d instant , thrown into an intense excitement in consequence of two germans being arrested for an assault on a girl only 9 years of age . the prisoners were committed to jail for a further hearing , but the",mob attacked,"the jail for the purpose of lynch ing them . the officers fired from the windows of the jail upon the mob , which killed three and wounded several . the mob had not dispersed , and they may succeed in taking posses- sion of prisoners . if so ,"
1326,16906_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1848,"being arrested for an assault on a girl only 9 years of age . the prisoners were committed to jail for a further hearing , but the mob attacked the jail for the purpose of lynch ing them . the officers fired from the windows of the jail upon the",mob,", which killed three and wounded several . the mob had not dispersed , and they may succeed in taking posses- sion of prisoners . if so , they will undoubtedly the kill them ."
1327,16906_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1848,"years of age . the prisoners were committed to jail for a further hearing , but the mob attacked the jail for the purpose of lynch ing them . the officers fired from the windows of the jail upon the mob , which killed three and wounded several . the",mob,"had not dispersed , and they may succeed in taking posses- sion of prisoners . if so , they will undoubtedly the kill them ."
1328,16907_0.txt,"The Caledonian (St. Johnsbury, ...)",1848,"van buren locofocos assembled and took out the linchpius from the waggons of the whigs . this is consistent , for van buren , in his inaugural message , took ground in favor of lynch law , and spoke ap provingly of those who had been foremost in pro- slavery",mobs,", and in shooting lovejoy alton . at"
1329,16908_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1848,"morning , septr 14 , 1918 . news of the day . "" to show the very age and body of the totes . after all the excitement raised in cincinuati against two returned volunteers , who were charged with rape on a small girl , and after a furious",mob,"was gathered to lynch them , and some half dozen of the assailants being killed in the attempt , it has turned out that the little girl was not only unmolested , but the poor soldiers were altogether innocent . they were indicted because the avaricious and almost brutal father"
1330,16908_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1848,"girl hoped to get some money in the shape of land warrants from them . the father himself , fearing an arrest , has fled the city , and now the tide of public feeling is set against him and in favor of the prisoners , ting how senseless are",mobs,.
1331,16917_0.txt,"Huntsville gazette (Huntsville, Ala...)",1882,in chambers county on the 12th a,mob,"lynched two men , bob brooks and charged with c . grifin murder a year ago . ,"
1332,16918_0.txt,"Bisbee daily review (Bisbee, Ariz.)",1902,"negro lynched in school yard knoxville , jan 11- jim mays , colored was hanged today by an infuriated",mob,"at knoxville , tennessee . mays had assaulted a white girl and was taken into the school yard before the chil dren and banged.-"
1333,16919_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1907,"far as evidence is concerned , this phase of the case in itself without a precedent , is finally closed . , there are about 3000 pages of typewritten evidence upon which briefs will be prepared by the attorneys for sheriff shipp . his deputies and alleged members of the",mob,"that lynched in this city ed johnson , a federal prisoner . the supreme court will meet in washington in october . whether the shipp case will be given a regular assignment on the docket along with other cases , or whether it will be set for a special date"
1334,16919_1.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1907,"negro school should help the negro not injure him . racial differences cannot be philanthropists . overcome by misguided "" superiority does not justify cruelty . the man who breaks the law to punish a crime is himself a criminal . there is no place in georgia for riots and",mobs,". it is the duty of the governor to execute the power of his office to enforce the law and to prevent lynching , and i shall per form this duty . i recognize the duty of the white man to be absolutely just to negro . "" the"
1335,16922_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1911,"a georgia hanging . the victim negro charged with a assault . laurenceville , ga . , april 7 . - shortly after midnight a",mob,"of 200 hundred masked men stormed the jail here and secured a negro , charles hale , arrested earlier in the night for assaulting mrs . c.c . williams . the mob hanged the negro a tree and riddled his body with bullets to ."
1336,16922_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1911,"a georgia hanging . the victim negro charged with a assault . laurenceville , ga . , april 7 . - shortly after midnight a mob of 200 hundred",masked,"men stormed the jail here and secured a negro , charles hale , arrested earlier in the night for assaulting mrs . c.c . williams . the mob hanged the negro a tree and riddled his body with bullets to ."
1337,16922_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1911,"a georgia hanging . the victim negro charged with a assault . laurenceville , ga . , april 7 . - shortly after midnight a mob of 200 hundred",masked men,"stormed the jail here and secured a negro , charles hale , arrested earlier in the night for assaulting mrs . c.c . williams . the mob hanged the negro a tree and riddled his body with bullets to ."
1338,16922_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1911,"charged with a assault . laurenceville , ga . , april 7 . - shortly after midnight a mob of 200 hundred masked men stormed the jail here and secured a negro , charles hale , arrested earlier in the night for assaulting mrs . c.c . williams . the",mob,hanged the negro a tree and riddled his body with bullets to .
1339,16924_0.txt,"The Kalida venture (Kalida, Ohio)",1848,"there was great excitement on the 23d ult . in cincinnati , two germans committed a rape on a girl 9 years of age . they were committed to trial for further hearing.- a",mob,"attacked the jail , and the officers fi ed froin the windows , killing three and wound . ing several . the mob desired lynch the prisoners- but they were finally to prevented ."
1340,16924_0.txt,"The Kalida venture (Kalida, Ohio)",1848,"there was great excitement on the 23d ult . in cincinnati , two germans committed a rape on a girl 9 years of age . they were committed to trial for further hearing.- a",mob attacked,"the jail , and the officers fi ed froin the windows , killing three and wound . ing several . the mob desired lynch the prisoners- but they were finally to prevented ."
1341,16924_0.txt,"The Kalida venture (Kalida, Ohio)",1848,"ult . in cincinnati , two germans committed a rape on a girl 9 years of age . they were committed to trial for further hearing.- a mob attacked the jail , and the officers fi ed froin the windows , killing three and wound . ing several . the",mob,desired lynch the prisoners- but they were finally to prevented .
1342,16934_0.txt,NA,1849,"disturbance of any kind occur , it seemed that the riot had been effectual- ly quelled ; but it subseqently appeared that . the rioters were only preparing for a more des . the - perate attack . on the night of the 10th , theatre was assailed by a",mob,", several thou sand the strong audience were rudely expelled , , mr . macready had to fly for his life , and the building was sacked and set on fire . the military being ordered out , came promptly to the , aid of the police . the mob"
1343,16934_0.txt,NA,1849,"mob , several thou sand the strong audience were rudely expelled , , mr . macready had to fly for his life , and the building was sacked and set on fire . the military being ordered out , came promptly to the , aid of the police . the",mob,"was fired upon , and after considerable resistence dispersed ; the flames were extinguished and the theatre saved , further particulars are given in the following despatch to the new orleans picayune : the fight between the military and the mob was desperate , and the number killed and wounded"
1344,16934_0.txt,NA,1849,"to the , aid of the police . the mob was fired upon , and after considerable resistence dispersed ; the flames were extinguished and the theatre saved , further particulars are given in the following despatch to the new orleans picayune : the fight between the military and the",mob,"was desperate , and the number killed and wounded is estimated at from thirty to forty . the military and police finally obtained session of the ground , and cannon loaded with grape were planted in front of the theatre . the city was in an uproar all night ,"
1345,16934_0.txt,NA,1849,"finally obtained session of the ground , and cannon loaded with grape were planted in front of the theatre . the city was in an uproar all night , and en- trenchments are being thrown up by the military this morning to resist any renewal of at- tack . the",mob,"is hanging about in great excitement . there was rumors that macready was killed , but he escaped unhurt . a number were killed and wounded were not engaged in the riot . who"
1346,16948_1.txt,"Wilmington journal (Wilmington, N.C...)",1850,"in missouri , in 1833 , an enthusiastic young man named mills , was their most popular and admired preacher . indeed , so great was his fame , that whenever the held meetings , a crowd of the saints were sure to be present . a strong and violent",mob,"of lynchers was about this time organized to put down the mormons , under the command of col . turk- one of the most desperately dangerous men that missouri , or in truth , any other country , ever produced . some of the mormons were tarred and feathered ,"
1347,16948_1.txt,"Wilmington journal (Wilmington, N.C...)",1850,"seemed literally loaded with music . tears , groans and wild shrieks , from the audience , proved the despotic pow- er of suddenly three rifles exploded in quick succession before the door , and three sentinels , shaking with terror , rushed into the room , crying out the",mob,"! the mob ! save yourselves from col . turk's mob ! "" person can depict the scene of dismay no and confusion that ensued . the females screamed aloud , as all hope had departed several of the . men sprang out of the windows , as if pursued"
1348,16948_1.txt,"Wilmington journal (Wilmington, N.C...)",1850,"with music . tears , groans and wild shrieks , from the audience , proved the despotic pow- er of suddenly three rifles exploded in quick succession before the door , and three sentinels , shaking with terror , rushed into the room , crying out the mob ! the",mob,"! save yourselves from col . turk's mob ! "" person can depict the scene of dismay no and confusion that ensued . the females screamed aloud , as all hope had departed several of the . men sprang out of the windows , as if pursued by a legion"
1349,16948_1.txt,"Wilmington journal (Wilmington, N.C...)",1850,"shrieks , from the audience , proved the despotic pow- er of suddenly three rifles exploded in quick succession before the door , and three sentinels , shaking with terror , rushed into the room , crying out the mob ! the mob ! save yourselves from col . turk's",mob,"! "" person can depict the scene of dismay no and confusion that ensued . the females screamed aloud , as all hope had departed several of the . men sprang out of the windows , as if pursued by a legion of dev- ils , while most of those"
1350,16948_1.txt,"Wilmington journal (Wilmington, N.C...)",1850,"of the poor sufferers swelled to a wail wilder than the howlings of the wind without . at length col . turk roared turn out the women and seize the men , and let us have the hickory switches and the tar and feath- ers ! "" and the drunken",mob,"shouted , and hastened to execute the brutal mandate . up to this time young mills had continued stand with the bible of their prophet in his hand , but un earthly pale and strangely excited , his teeth clench ed , and his bright eyes swimming in a halo"
1351,16948_1.txt,"Wilmington journal (Wilmington, N.C...)",1850,". oh ! there is no daring like the courage inspired by passion for revenge ! in the meanwhile , mills had approached the farther shore , when he discovered the startling apparition of armed men on the bank . he knew at a glance what it meant . the",mob,", to prevent any of the mor mons from escaping , had stationed a guard beyond the river . he instantly turned his course down the stream , when a whole platoon let off their rifles , but the distance was too inconsiderable . a hail of bullets rattled around"
1352,16953_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1850,"time was given them for explanation . they vainly tried to speak , but none of them understanding english , they were obliged to employ their native which derstood . "" vainly they called for an interpreter , for their cries were drowned by the yells of a now infuriated",mob,". a black handkerchief was bound around the eyes of each ; their arms were pinioned , and at a given signal , without priest or prayer- book , the drawn from under them and they wagon was , launched into eternity ! their graves were were dug ready to"
1353,16955_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1850,", has invented a remedy which renders a drunken man immediately sober , and think he could do better we not than serd to an agent with a good supply of the medicine , to herman , mo.a terrible outrage is reported to have taken place in culpepper , on",mob,"of 200 men including justices , of the peace , members of the and others , proceeded to the jail , resisted the sheriff , and carried off william grayson , a free negro , dragged him to the ossed and hung him . gray son had twice been of"
1354,16955_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1850,"ossed and hung him . gray son had twice been of murdering da vid a . miiler , a white man , but each time he appealed , and the general court granted him new on the ground that the testimony hardly iustified suspicion , much less guilt . the",mob,"allowed grayson one minute to confess . he firmly avowed his innocence of the murder . the mob then placed a fence rail across between two him trees and up . this outrage has , cre ated intense excitement the . papers entreat the governor to arrest one concerned very"
1355,16955_0.txt,Sunday dispatch (New York [N.Y.]) 1845-1854,1850,"a white man , but each time he appealed , and the general court granted him new on the ground that the testimony hardly iustified suspicion , much less guilt . the mob allowed grayson one minute to confess . he firmly avowed his innocence of the murder . the",mob,"then placed a fence rail across between two him trees and up . this outrage has , cre ated intense excitement the . papers entreat the governor to arrest one concerned very in it by . the a fellow by the name of isaac batton was arrested at chambersburg ,"
1356,16957_0.txt,"The Minnesota pioneer (St. Paul, Minn....)",1850,,mob,"violence- man hung.- a dis patch frout baltimore of the 23d ult . , says that in culpepper county , va . , a mob of 300 persons including justices of the peace and others , resisted the sheriff , and took from jail wm . grayson and hung him"
1357,16957_0.txt,"The Minnesota pioneer (St. Paul, Minn....)",1850,"mob violence- man hung.- a dis patch frout baltimore of the 23d ult . , says that in culpepper county , va . , a",mob,"of 300 persons including justices of the peace and others , resisted the sheriff , and took from jail wm . grayson and hung him till he was dead . the cause assigned , is that grayson had twice been convicted of the murder of david w . miller ,"
1358,16962_0.txt,The southern press (Washington [D.C...),1850,boston,mob,"law.- the chronotype has the following account of an attempt at lynch law in boston . . it was reported on monday afternoon , that a colored man was in the city , and about the viein- ity of south street , who informed against wm . l . chaplain"
1359,16964_0.txt,"The daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1851,* * * a disgraceful seene -- the,mob,"at peoria , illinois . some days ago we had an account ( by telegraph ) of some disgraceful proceedings at peoria , a mob having attempted to hang two prisoners who were in jail there under sentence of death for murder . the peoria republican gives the following particulars"
1360,16964_0.txt,"The daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1851,"* * * a disgraceful seene -- the mob at peoria , illinois . some days ago we had an account ( by telegraph ) of some disgraceful proceedings at peoria , a",mob,"having attempted to hang two prisoners who were in jail there under sentence of death for murder . the peoria republican gives the following particulars of the disgraceful affair : it is generally known that we have two young meh confined in our county jail , under sentence of death"
1361,16964_0.txt,"The daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1851,", it must suffice to say , that despite the efforts of a few inside and some outside , who were anxious to arrest proceedings , the door of the jail was burst in , and the hall , up to the cells of the victims , filled with the",mob,". here the strength of the cell door brought them to a halt . beams of timber , crow bars , stones and sledges , did the work , however , and the en trance to both cells was effected . george was caught praying , and brought into the"
1362,16964_0.txt,"The daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1851,"did the work , however , and the en trance to both cells was effected . george was caught praying , and brought into the hall to await the capture of tom . here a slight obstacle again intervened . tom had concluded not to be taken . while the",mob,"was at work without , he had managed to dig a stone from the floor of his cell , which he slid into the leg of a pair of cast off breeches , and stood on the defensive . but when the door was burst in , it seems he"
1363,16964_0.txt,"The daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1851,"a pistol and ordered him to surrender . he bared his breast and challenged the fellow to shoot , and said they might him where he was , or the sheriff might take and hang him according to law , but that he would never be dragged out by a",mob,", and hung like a dog . this fierce determination to sell his life dearly , and die in his tracks , had a mellowing and enlightening influence upon the dense faculties of his assailants . they began to moderate in their zeal for justice , and to think they"
1364,16964_0.txt,"The daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1851,"too far . the favorable moment was seized by the friends of order , and a proposition affording a loop hole of escape from the ignominy of defeat , was made and accepted . after some parley , the jail was cleared , the gallows taken down , and the",mob,"dispersed . the performance was over- the moun . tain had labored , the mouse was born , the throes of parturition ceased to be felt . thus ended in farce , what threatened and was intended for tragedy . and this result was brought about chiefly by skill and"
1365,16965_0.txt,"The Texas Republican (Marshall, Tex.)",1851,the,mob,"at peeria , illinois . some days ago we had an account ( by telegraph ) of some disgraceful proceedings at peoria , a mob having attempted to hang two prisoners who were in jail there under sentence of death for murder . the peoria the 27th ult gives the"
1366,16965_0.txt,"The Texas Republican (Marshall, Tex.)",1851,"the mob at peeria , illinois . some days ago we had an account ( by telegraph ) of some disgraceful proceedings at peoria , a",mob,"having attempted to hang two prisoners who were in jail there under sentence of death for murder . the peoria the 27th ult gives the fol republican of . , , lowing particulars of the disgraceful affair : it is generally known that we have two young men confined in"
1367,16965_0.txt,"The Texas Republican (Marshall, Tex.)",1851,"must suffice to say , that de . the efforts of few inside and spite a some outside who were anxious to arrest , proceedings , the door of the jail was burst in , and the hall , up to the cells of the victims , filled with the",mob,". here the strength of the cell door brought them to a halt . beams of timber , crow- bars , stones and sledges , did the work , however , and an entrance to cells was effected . george both was caught , praying , and brought into the"
1368,16965_0.txt,"The Texas Republican (Marshall, Tex.)",1851,"did the work , however , and an entrance to cells was effected . george both was caught , praying , and brought into the hall to await the capture of tom . here a slight obstacle again intervened . tom had concluded not to be taken . while the",mob,"was at work without , he had man floor of aged to dig a stone from the his cell , which he slid into the leg of a pair of east off breeches , and on the but when the door was burst in , it seems he was taken"
1369,16965_0.txt,"The Texas Republican (Marshall, Tex.)",1851,"drew a pistol and order ed him to surrender . he bared his breast and challenged the fellow to shoot , said they might kill him where he was or the sheriff might take and hang him according to law , but he would never be dragged out by a",mob,"and hung like a dog . this fierce determination to sell his life dearly , and die in his tracks , had a mellow . ing and enlightening influence upon the deuse faculties of his assailants . they began to moderate in their zeal for justice , and to think"
1370,16965_0.txt,"The Texas Republican (Marshall, Tex.)",1851,". the favorable moment was seized by the friends of order , and a proposition , affording a loop- hole of escape from the ignominy of defeat , was made and accept ed . after some parley , the jail was cleared , the gallows taken down , and the",mob,"dis . persed . the performance was over the mountain had labored , the mouse was born , and the throes of parturition ceased to be felt . thus ended in farce , what threatened and was designed for tragedy and this . result was brought about chiefly by the"
1371,16966_0.txt,"Flag of the Union (Jackson, Miss.)",1851,"boston , feb . 15 . a fugitive slave named frederick wilkins was arrested this morning and taken before u . s . commissioner curtis in the u . s . courtroom for examination , which was postponed till tuesday . a",mob,"of three hundred negroes stormed the court- room and in despite of the officers carried off in the the fugitive triumph . armed but hurt the negroes were , no one was . mob used the marshal's own sword , hanging in great the court- room , keep off the"
1372,16966_0.txt,"Flag of the Union (Jackson, Miss.)",1851,"the u . s . courtroom for examination , which was postponed till tuesday . a mob of three hundred negroes stormed the court- room and in despite of the officers carried off in the the fugitive triumph . armed but hurt the negroes were , no one was .",mob,"used the marshal's own sword , hanging in great the court- room , keep off the officers . excitement prevailed to throughout the city ."
1373,16966_2.txt,"Flag of the Union (Jackson, Miss.)",1851,", mr . clay denounced the",mob,as a great out . it rage and an infamous proceeding . the resolution was unanimously adopted . the senate then took up the cheap bill . postage
1374,16966_3.txt,"Flag of the Union (Jackson, Miss.)",1851,"the boston rescue . we give to- day every thing which we can glean of the disgraceful affair in boston , touching the rescue of a fugitive slave from the civil authority , by a",mob,"of blacks and abolitionists . we trust that boston and old massachusetts will yet wipe off this stain of insubordination to the laws of the constituted authorities . nor will we ever give intelligent law abiding up- , , and as we believe , patriotic massachusetts , until she places"
1375,16971_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1851,"senate of the united states . they are goverened by rules as fixed as the stat- utes of the medes and persians , have a written constitution and laws . to guide them and conduct their proceedings with every there is no sort of judicial importance . insanity of the",mob,"discoverable in their movements . they try , condemn and pun ish a culprit , with as much preparation and as coolly as any court in the united states . in arresting a person unfortunate enough to come under their notice they go to all lengths . they will track"
1376,16974_1.txt,"The Evansville daily journal (Evansville, Ia....)",1851,"prevailed in perth amboy , n . j . , on the 23d ult . , against the collector of that port , for appointing to office , as inspector of the customs , a young englishman , not yet naturalized , and not a voter by age . a",mob,gathered in front of house and burnt him in effigy . his
1377,16978_0.txt,NA,1851,"both for and against the prisoner , the room was closed for the jury to deliberate . loud cries of vengeance on the prison er , "" were now heard . the jury found the prisoner guilty . -- this , for a short time , appeared to quiet the",mob,". the excitement , in a short time time , again became uncont olable . it was immediately put to vote that roe should be hanged , and carried ly . unanimous"
1378,16987_0.txt,Richmond daily times (Richmond [Va.]),1852,"a gambler lynched- scene on the mississippi.- we learn that a gambler of the name of williamson suffered the penalties of lynch law at hickman a few days since , at the passengers of the steamer paul . it appears that",a party of,"returned californians started for st . louis on the boat from new or leans , but as the boat was about leaving port a po . lice officer came on board , and cautioned the passengers to beware of gamblers and pickpockets during the trip , at the same time"
1379,16988_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1852,"murder and lynch law.- we learn from the grenada ( mise . ) republican of a case of murder and lynch law which occurred recently near that place . a . mr . bingham , residing near grenada , was missing .",a party of,"ten or fifteen citizens , supposing that he had been thrown from his horse , and either killed or dis abled , repaired , so soon as the news was made known to his farm , and searched the woods for a considerable distance around , but without making any"
1380,16988_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1852,"life was extinct . his body was then thrown into a neighboring creek , and the negroes spent the remainder of the night in singing and dancing . two of the negroes were taken into custody , and a guard placed over them , but they were seized by a",mob,"and hung . two others were placed jail . in a gambler lynched.- we learn that a gambler of the name of williamson suffered the penalties of lynch law at hickman a few days since , at the hands of the passengers of the steamer st . paul . it"
1381,16988_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1852,". two others were placed jail . in a gambler lynched.- we learn that a gambler of the name of williamson suffered the penalties of lynch law at hickman a few days since , at the hands of the passengers of the steamer st . paul . it appears that",a party of,"returned californians started for st . louis on the boat from new orleaus , but as the boat was about leaving port a police officer came on board and cautioned the passengers to be ware of gamblers and pickpockets during the trip , at the same time informing them that"
1382,16989_0.txt,Richmond daily times (Richmond [Va.]),1852,"life was extinct . his body was then thrown into a neighboring creek , and the negroes spent the remainder of the night in sing- ing and dancing . two of the negroes were taken into custody and a guard placed over them , but they were seized by a",mob,and hung . others were placed in jail.-n . o . picayune two .
1383,16991_0.txt,The republic (Washington [D.C...),1852,"1835 , august 1 . "" beauties of slavery.- when a",mob,"burnt down the charleston convent , they told the south it all us at was owing to free suffrage , and our not having slaves ; and gov . mcduffie said , in his message , that there could be no freedom with out slavery . the southern papers have"
1384,16991_0.txt,The republic (Washington [D.C...),1852,"the south it all us at was owing to free suffrage , and our not having slaves ; and gov . mcduffie said , in his message , that there could be no freedom with out slavery . the southern papers have never ceased to taunt us with our lawless",mobs,", and tell our aristocracy that they have no refuge from anarchy but in monarchy . the tables are now turned . mobs of the most horrid and bloody kind are now prevailing at the south , the very offspring of the elavery without which , governor mcduffie tells us"
1385,16991_0.txt,The republic (Washington [D.C...),1852,", in his message , that there could be no freedom with out slavery . the southern papers have never ceased to taunt us with our lawless mobs , and tell our aristocracy that they have no refuge from anarchy but in monarchy . the tables are now turned .",mobs,"of the most horrid and bloody kind are now prevailing at the south , the very offspring of the elavery without which , governor mcduffie tells us , there can be no liberty . our mobs never end in the mobs bloodshed . at the south always take life ."
1386,16991_0.txt,The republic (Washington [D.C...),1852,"no refuge from anarchy but in monarchy . the tables are now turned . mobs of the most horrid and bloody kind are now prevailing at the south , the very offspring of the elavery without which , governor mcduffie tells us , there can be no liberty . our",mobs,never end in the mobs bloodshed . at the south always take life . the recent scene at vicksburg has never been exceeded in outrage upon law since the mob at edinburgh hanged captain porteus we sub- . join a sample of what mobs at the south doing . their
1387,16991_0.txt,The republic (Washington [D.C...),1852,"in monarchy . the tables are now turned . mobs of the most horrid and bloody kind are now prevailing at the south , the very offspring of the elavery without which , governor mcduffie tells us , there can be no liberty . our mobs never end in the",mobs,bloodshed . at the south always take life . the recent scene at vicksburg has never been exceeded in outrage upon law since the mob at edinburgh hanged captain porteus we sub- . join a sample of what mobs at the south doing . their majesties decree that all the
1388,16991_0.txt,The republic (Washington [D.C...),1852,"very offspring of the elavery without which , governor mcduffie tells us , there can be no liberty . our mobs never end in the mobs bloodshed . at the south always take life . the recent scene at vicksburg has never been exceeded in outrage upon law since the",mob,"at edinburgh hanged captain porteus we sub- . join a sample of what mobs at the south doing . their majesties decree that all the itinerant are preach- ers , doctors , clock- pedlars , and gamblers , are in- atigators of slave insurrections , and if they can flog"
1389,16991_0.txt,The republic (Washington [D.C...),1852,can be no liberty . our mobs never end in the mobs bloodshed . at the south always take life . the recent scene at vicksburg has never been exceeded in outrage upon law since the mob at edinburgh hanged captain porteus we sub- . join a sample of what,mobs,"at the south doing . their majesties decree that all the itinerant are preach- ers , doctors , clock- pedlars , and gamblers , are in- atigators of slave insurrections , and if they can flog a negro into naming any white man , he is seized and hung by"
1390,16991_0.txt,The republic (Washington [D.C...),1852,"the south doing . their majesties decree that all the itinerant are preach- ers , doctors , clock- pedlars , and gamblers , are in- atigators of slave insurrections , and if they can flog a negro into naming any white man , he is seized and hung by the",mob,". the next thing will be , that every citizen of a free state , found south of the potomac , will be hung by lynch's law . governor mcduffie will please excuse us from his notions a free government . "" of i"
1391,16993_0.txt,"Gallipolis journal (Gallipolis, Ohi...)",1852,mission the on scene lynched- gambler a sippi . we learn that a gambler of the name of williamson suffered the penalties of lynch law at hickman a few days at the hands of the passengers of the steamer st . paul it appears that,a party of,"returned californians started for st . louis on the boat from new orleans , but as the boat was about leaving port a police officer came on board and cautioned the passengers to beware of gamblers and pick pockets during the trip , at the same time informing them that"
1392,16995_0.txt,"Southern sentinel (Plaquemine, Par...)",1852,". important from rio grande . . by an arrival from the brazos santiago , says minds the bee , we are in possession of brownsville on papers to the 28th ult . the rio bravo of in that date contains the annexed interesting and nigh important intelligence : suf",a party of,"gentlemen arrived last evening honors from rio grande city , from whom we learn the has extraordinary events which form the applied this want of we obliged re to give only the facts without any of the atten , dant circumstances and particulars . votes , it seems that a"
1393,16995_0.txt,"Southern sentinel (Plaquemine, Par...)",1852,"encamped two mexicans and a boy . when mr . p . was asleep , he was set upon an his ac brains beaten out by these fellows , for the sake of of his money and effects . information to this effect having been given by the boy ,",a party of,"citizens started out in de pursuit , and one of the fellows was taken . after a regular trial he was hung by the citizens , of rio grande city , in presence of the whole people -- all concurring . just before his exe to cution , he made"
1394,16997_0.txt,"The Texas Republican (Marshall, Tex.)",1852,exciting news from rio grande city and roma two men hung by the citizens- six meri cans shot in camp ! probable murder of mr . thomas 1 . harris of roma ! ! !,a party of,"gestleman arrived last eve . ning from rio grande city , from whom which the extraordinary events we learn this article . for want form the caption of of room we are obliged to give only the facts without any of the attendant circum particulars . it seems that a"
1395,17000_0.txt,Richmond daily times (Richmond [Va.]),1852,"two men charged with theft , were taken from the authorities of coloma by a",mob,", and hanged . the papers contain notices of several other of mob violence . cases"
1396,17000_0.txt,Richmond daily times (Richmond [Va.]),1852,"two men charged with theft , were taken from the authorities of coloma by a mob , and hanged . the papers contain notices of several other of",mob,violence . cases
1397,17001_0.txt,"Wilmington journal (Wilmington, N.C...)",1852,"two men , charged with theft , were taken from the authorities of coloma by a",mob,and hanged . - papers contain notices of several other cases of the mob violence .
1398,17001_0.txt,"Wilmington journal (Wilmington, N.C...)",1852,"two men , charged with theft , were taken from the authorities of coloma by a mob and hanged . - papers contain notices of several other cases of the",mob,violence .
1399,17002_0.txt,NA,1852,"there is a marked improvement in business throughout the state . he two men charged with theft , were taken from the authorities of colma , by",mob,", and hanged . the"
1400,17032_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1853,"lynch law in missouri -we learn from the columbia , mo . , statesman , the following of the execution of a negro by the",mob,": particulars "" hiram , a negro man belonging to col . young , of boon county , attempted to commit a rape on the daughter of a respectable citizen . he was taken before a justice , and the trial was progressing , when a mob of citizens rushed"
1401,17032_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1853,"negro by the mob : particulars "" hiram , a negro man belonging to col . young , of boon county , attempted to commit a rape on the daughter of a respectable citizen . he was taken before a justice , and the trial was progressing , when a",mob,"of citizens rushed into the court room , put a rope around the negro's neck , and forced him into a wood north of the court house , where an attempt was made to hang him , but the rope broke , and the mob was prevailed on to take"
1402,17032_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1853,"was progressing , when a mob of citizens rushed into the court room , put a rope around the negro's neck , and forced him into a wood north of the court house , where an attempt was made to hang him , but the rope broke , and the",mob,"was prevailed on to take him back to jail . these occurrences took place on saturday , the 20th ef august . on sunday , the negro confessed his guilt , implicating two other negroes in the crime . on monday , a meeting of citizens was called , and"
1403,17034_0.txt,"The Evansville daily journal (Evansville, Ia....)",1854,"penwis , superintendent of the buffalo state line railroad , was found guilty of kidnapping , by an erie jury yesterday . the charge arose from the late harbor creek riot during the erie railroad disturbance when the",mob,"endeavored to lynch dennis . the cars were put in motion to protect him , and a harbor creek man named cooper , was car ried into new york state.-"
1404,17035_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1854,"singular kidnapping.- mr . dennis , superintendent of the buffalo and state line railroad , was found guilty of kidnapping , by an erie jury , on thursday . the charge arose from the late erie railroad disturbance . it appears that when the",mob,"endeavored to lynch dennis , the cars were put in motion to protect him , and a harbor creek man , cooper , who was on the train , was carried into mr . new york state ."
1405,17044_0.txt,"The Portsmouth inquirer (Portsmouth, O. ...)",1851,outrage ! -- jail opened by a,mob,". john hoard was last week committed to to newport jail opposite theis city , on charge of being concerned in making or deal- in counterfeit he closures that lead to the arrest mentioned yesterday . this got out , and some twelve or fifteen on tore down a part"
1406,17056_0.txt,"The daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1851,"take all legal means sheriff hires , at great expense , armed military companies to aid him , he cannot claim to be repaid by the county for such expenses . the sheriff hired several volunteer companies to protect the rolling mills which threatened with destruction were by , a",mob,". the court drew a distinction between lawful and legal means , which the sheriff is author ized under law to adopt , when , a riot is threatened . to say that the sheriff was bound to use all lawful means to prevent the threatened destruetion of property ,"
1407,17059_0.txt,NA,1851,"a band of co- workers in ohio , who refuse to submit to the law of the land and who thus openly counsel a disregard of its requirements . it will be very convenient to them when they wish to burn abolition papers that get into the mail , or",mob,"and lynch any incendiary preacher or pedlar that happens to stray off in that direction . once throw open the the house top that we are under no obligation , moral or legal , to respect and garded as ww wrong that or may happen to and be we re"
1408,17073_1.txt,"North Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1851,,mob,"in columbus ga . , we find the following dispatches in the macon journal & messenger of wednesday last : columbus . aug . 12 , 3 , 30 p . m . messrs . editors : there is a great mob raging here at present . the negro man"
1409,17073_1.txt,"North Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1851,"mob in columbus ga . , we find the following dispatches in the macon journal & messenger of wednesday last : columbus . aug . 12 , 3 , 30 p . m . messrs . editors : there is a great",mob,"raging here at present . the negro man jarrett , convicted by two successive juries of the infamous crime of commiting a rape upon a little girl of ten years old , was to have been hung to- day . to the surprise of every one , he was pardoned"
1410,17073_1.txt,"North Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1851,"the infamous crime of commiting a rape upon a little girl of ten years old , was to have been hung to- day . to the surprise of every one , he was pardoned by gov . towns . this has created great indignation among the populace , and a",mob,"of five hundred persons are now before the jail awaiting the hour of 4 o'clock , which time they expect to hang him . at"
1411,17073_2.txt,"North Carolina standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1851,"columbus , aug . 12 , 6 , 10 p . m . the",mob,"assembled at 4 o'clock , proceeded to the jail and demanded the keys . the sheriff refused to give them up the doors were broken open , and the negro brought out and hung to a pine tree of back"
1412,17081_0.txt,Meigs County telegraph (Pomeroy [Ohio]),1852,"-mr . willard , an auctioneer of st . joseph , missouri , was seized by",a party of,"men , on the $ 27th ult . , who carried him to the woods , tied him to a tree , and whipped him to death . the body was discovered in the afternoon , and three men , named langton , jones , and anderson , found near"
1413,17081_0.txt,Meigs County telegraph (Pomeroy [Ohio]),1852,"afternoon , and three men , named langton , jones , and anderson , found near the spot , were arrested and lodged in jail . mr . willard was accused of having contracted debts , with the intent citement prevailed . the jail was strongly ed to prevent the",mob,from lynching the prisoners guard .
1414,17089_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1852,"of moore & co . , of the sum of nine hundred dollars . this robbery was committed on sherlock's creek , seven of eight miles from this port , and suspicion at the time being directed to an old man , named johnson , he was arrested by the",mob,"and hanged by the neck until he became insensible , and whipped upon the bare back in the most cruel manner ; but all this failed to extort from him a confession of the theft . mr . carrico , who was the leader of the mob . proposed to"
1415,17089_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1852,"arrested by the mob and hanged by the neck until he became insensible , and whipped upon the bare back in the most cruel manner ; but all this failed to extort from him a confession of the theft . mr . carrico , who was the leader of the",mob,". proposed to place his bleeding and unfarcerated body upon hot embers , and to extract the nails of his fingers and toes with a pair of ballet moulds ; but this diabolical proposition meeting with no support , the poor old man . alive was set at liberty ."
1416,17108_0.txt,"Nashville union and American (Nashville, Tenn.) 1853-1862",1854,"15 , 1853 . aj , l . marling , e . g . bastman , g . c . torbett , m . c . c . church . it john l . marling & co . editors and proprietors . saturday morning , may 27 , 1854 .",mobocracy,". the mob spirit in this country is gaining an alarming ascendency . outbreaks which a few years ago were extremely rare , and attracted atten tion all over the country , are now of such frequent occurrence as to excite very little remark . the "" sovereign people """
1417,17108_0.txt,"Nashville union and American (Nashville, Tenn.) 1853-1862",1854,". aj , l . marling , e . g . bastman , g . c . torbett , m . c . c . church . it john l . marling & co . editors and proprietors . saturday morning , may 27 , 1854 . mobocracy . the",mob,"spirit in this country is gaining an alarming ascendency . outbreaks which a few years ago were extremely rare , and attracted atten tion all over the country , are now of such frequent occurrence as to excite very little remark . the "" sovereign people "" in a great"
1418,17108_0.txt,"Nashville union and American (Nashville, Tenn.) 1853-1862",1854,"offence into their own hands . there is , to them , a peculiar fascination about lynch law . it admits of no conflicting testimony , special plead ing , or hung juries , but decides and punishes with unerring certainty and refreshing promptness . the last specimen of the",mob,"spirit was exhibited at wheeling the other day . on the last trip of the pennsylvanian to that town , she low ered her chimneys when passing under the two cables which remain of the bridge . the people on the wharf thought there was no occasion for low ering"
1419,17117_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1854,"a mexican , at hornitas , mariposa county , stab bed a butcher named thompson in the breast , on the 4th of june . the mexican was instantly seized by",mob,of americans and hung up on the nearest a tree .
1420,17120_0.txt,"The Athens post (Athens, Tenn.)",1854,"murder and lynch law in texas.- dr . linton , formerly surgeon in the united states navy , shot two men at laredo , texas , recently . he was subsequently seized by a",mob,"of united states soldiers and , hung on a gallows erected upon the public plaza . lin ton , it is said , was on board the united states brig somers when young spencer was hung by commander mckenzie . the two men who were killed were achilles centro ,"
1421,17122_0.txt,"The Hillsborough recorder (Hillsborough, N...)",1854,"dr . linton , formerly surgeon in the united states navy , shot two men at laredo , texas , recently . he was sub- sequently seized by a",mob,", and hung on a gallows erected upon the plaza . public"
1422,17123_0.txt,Washington sentinel (Washington [D.C...),1854,"august 11- mr . dennis , the superin- it on tendent of the buffalo and state line railroad the was found guilty of kidnapping by an erie jury , been yesterday . the charge arose from the late erie and railroad disturbance . it appears that when the in in",mob,"endeavored to lynch dennis , the cars were . put in motion to protect him , and a harbor creek . mr . cooper , who was on the train , was carried man into new york state ."
1423,17124_0.txt,"Richmond daily Whig (Richmond, Va.)",1854,"singular kidnapping case . buffalo , aug . 11 , 1854 . -mr . dennis , the superintend ent of the buffalo and state line kailroad , was found of by an the charge arose from the late erie railroad disturbance . it appears that when the",mob,"endeavored to lynch dennis , the cars were put in motion to protect him , and a harbor creek man , mr . cooper who was on the train , was into new york state . carried"
1424,17128_0.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1854,"has committed . "" the court sat in caroline county last weck and the negro was tried and found guil- ty . the baltimore sun of wednesday last gives the following account of after proceed : the excitement at denton- dave thom as , the murderer , hung hy a",mob.-,"we sta yesterday that dave thomas , the negro who murdered mr . wm . h . butler , in caro line county , md . , on the 27th ult . , had been tried at denton , and convicted of murder in the second degree , "" and"
1425,17128_0.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1854,"prisoner out and hung him from a plank which they nailed to a window on the outside , in the story of the building , he was suspended until life was extinct , when he was cut down and his body conveyed back into the jail . nor did the",mob,"sstop here . they then released and set at liberty two other prisoners , one of whom had been sentenced to the penitentiary . we learn from another source that the sher iff was siczed and tied by the mob before they proceeded to their murderous work . this is"
1426,17128_0.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1854,"body conveyed back into the jail . nor did the mob sstop here . they then released and set at liberty two other prisoners , one of whom had been sentenced to the penitentiary . we learn from another source that the sher iff was siczed and tied by the",mob,before they proceeded to their murderous work . this is ono of the most daring outrages ever trated in maryland . perpe
1427,17131_0.txt,"Indiana American (Brookville, Ind...)",1854,"telegraph has been hanged and burnt in effigy by the people of moder mo . , because he had reproved their",mob,"spirit in hanging by lynch law a man shoot , who had killed his wife . named"
1428,17136_0.txt,NA,1854,"of his wife attacked him with a gun and so severely injured him that he died in about three hours after- and who was tried for the murder and sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for sixteen years , was on last saturday night taken from the jail by a",mob,"of some sixty or seventy men , and hung from a plank which they nailed to a window on the outside , in the second story of the jail building . he was suspended until life was extinct , when he was cut down and his body conveyed back into"
1429,17136_0.txt,NA,1854,", and hung from a plank which they nailed to a window on the outside , in the second story of the jail building . he was suspended until life was extinct , when he was cut down and his body conveyed back into the jail . nor did the",mob,"stop here . they then released and set at liberty two other prisoners , one whom has been sentenced to the penitentiary of ."
1430,17137_0.txt,"Smyrna times (Smyrna, Del.)",1854,the,mob,"at denton , md.- the denton journal that the says mob which bung dave thomas , the murderer of butler , also released two other prisoners and tied the sheriff . the latter was at the jail , and did all in bis power to preserve or and both and"
1431,17137_0.txt,"Smyrna times (Smyrna, Del.)",1854,"the mob at denton , md.- the denton journal that the says",mob,"which bung dave thomas , the murderer of butler , also released two other prisoners and tied the sheriff . the latter was at the jail , and did all in bis power to preserve or and both and ender prevent the act by pesuasion , threats , but the"
1432,17143_0.txt,"The Evansville daily journal (Evansville, Ia....)",1855,"the citizens of weston , mo . , have held a meeting in which they denounced the of which - proceedings the",mob,lynched philips . they say the disgraceful affair belongs entirely to the citizens of leaven- worth . we are glad to see this evidence of awakening decency in the part of any portion the citizens of missouri . the weston of reporter denounces the lynching of philipe
1433,17148_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1855,""" resolved , that",mob,"law , lynch law , or any other attempted exercise of political or civil power outside of the regular channels of justice and law which result in injury to person , destruction of property or loss of life , cannot by any sophistical plea of necessity or self- defense be"
1434,17151_0.txt,"Semi-weekly standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1855,"already recorded the murder of miss thorn ton , a respectable young lady , near gaston , ala bama , by a negro man- the horrible affair created the greatest excitement , and subsequently the mur . derer was forcibly taken from the custody of the civil authorities by a",mob,", and put to a terrible death , an account of which is thus given in the mari on republican of the 28th ult . on friday last , after due preparation they carried him to the spot where he so cruelly murdered his innocent victim , and burnt him"
1435,17151_1.txt,"Semi-weekly standard (Raleigh, N.C.)",1855,"so that we cannot talk to gether even on the great subject of our common de fence and safety against the serpent of abolition , without being conscious of the chilling influence and restraints of secret obligations . it has excited in the minds of the ignorant the spirit of",mob,"violence , thus turning loose and sanctifying in such minds the most dangerous and lawless passions . witness the riots in cincinnati and louisville . wit ness our own city , where for three successive nights , houses were pulled down and their inhabitants were flying in terror for life"
1436,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,". at an early hour in the evening there was a large crowd around the building- a little atter o'clock the marshal with some six or eight of the police , armed with pistols , entered the room where the liquors were stored . about half past 8 , the",mob,"began to throw stones against the door on congress street , breaking out the glass in the upper part of the door . the marshal then gave orders to the police to keep on either side of the door , so as to be out of reach of any stones"
1437,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,"gave orders to the police to keep on either side of the door , so as to be out of reach of any stones that might come in and not to fire their pistols , until some one should attempt to enter in the meantime the marshal repeatedly cautioned the",mob,to desist upon peril of their lives and in the course of the evening they were ordered to disperse by the sheriff of the county and also by the mayor . at length one man who appeared to be the ringleader in the mob came to the door swearing horrible
1438,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,meantime the marshal repeatedly cautioned the mob to desist upon peril of their lives and in the course of the evening they were ordered to disperse by the sheriff of the county and also by the mayor . at length one man who appeared to be the ringleader in the,mob,"came to the door swearing horrible oaths , and using most insulting and violent language towards the police in the room . he called them "" a pack of damned cowards , "" challenged them to fire , and taunted them by saying that they did not dare to fire"
1439,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,"horrible oaths , and using most insulting and violent language towards the police in the room . he called them "" a pack of damned cowards , "" challenged them to fire , and taunted them by saying that they did not dare to fire . then he harangued the",mob,", urging them to come on , assuring them that there was no danger- that the police were cowards , and had only blank cartridges , and did not dare fire upon them if they had . the marshal again warned him upon peril of his life not to attempt"
1440,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,"there was no danger- that the police were cowards , and had only blank cartridges , and did not dare fire upon them if they had . the marshal again warned him upon peril of his life not to attempt to enter the room . but under his leadership the",mob,"made a violent rush for the door , which however , proved too strong for them . the police then fired intentionally aimed over their heads , hoping to frighten and thus avoid the necessity of killing . this checked them for a few minutes , but the same voice"
1441,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,"the door , which however , proved too strong for them . the police then fired intentionally aimed over their heads , hoping to frighten and thus avoid the necessity of killing . this checked them for a few minutes , but the same voice was again heard rallying the",mob,", assuring them that nobody was hurt- that they were only blank catridges & c . & c . . and another rush was made for the door , the leader reaching in and attempting to unbar it . the police then fired with effect . one man , named"
1442,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,"the police then fired with effect . one man , named robbins , as we are informed . a mate of an eeastport vessel- fell dead or murtaliy wounded close dy the door , and it is supposed he was the man who had been so busy in exciting the",mob,". as that voice was not heard again during evening . the of this however , the police are not certain , as they were not able clearly to distinguish objects in the darkness and confusion . prior , however , to this firing by the police a military company"
1443,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,"in the darkness and confusion . prior , however , to this firing by the police a military company , "" the light guards "" or a portion of the company , marched through the crowd and took a position in front of the door on congress street when the",mob,"began to pelt them with and stones several , of the soldiers were severly injured . an order was given to them to fire , thinking that the order itself might possibly terrify the mob . but the order was not executed , and the company finally retired to their"
1444,17152_1.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1855,"crowd and took a position in front of the door on congress street when the mob began to pelt them with and stones several , of the soldiers were severly injured . an order was given to them to fire , thinking that the order itself might possibly terrify the",mob,". but the order was not executed , and the company finally retired to their armory , some what in confusion . the "" rifle guards was then called upon , and promply responded to the call . mayor dow , with aldermen carleton and brooks ( the committee appointed"
1445,17161_1.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,of were informed that the ringleaders of the,mob,"who lynched mayberry were the friends and neighbors of alger , from jef.be ferson county . this is not the case , as we are credibly informed that only four or five persons went from johnson's creek , where mr . alger's family reside . and net more than 20"
1446,17161_1.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"or five persons went from johnson's creek , where mr . alger's family reside . and net more than 20 or 25 persons present from jefferson county , pus them altogether ; and the greater portion of them are men who had no desire or wish to participate in the",mob-,"law proceedings ; and we as sure our contemporaries that the odium , or whatever it may be called , does not partie belong to the citizens of jefferson ularly co.- jeffersonian ."
1447,17163_1.txt,"The weekly Portage sentinel (Ravenna, Ohio)",1855,"worthy of lynch law . hill , the father of the child pretended to be charmed by snakes , is now in this neighborhood with his disgusting display . if lit- tlefield came near being",mobbed,"in new york for the exhibition of the wax statuary of dr . parkman and professor webster , we cannot see what will save this hill from a similar evidence of popular displeasure . it is said , on good authority that he has compelled his child to handle the"
1448,17164_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1855,"a magistrate , who informed him that he was accused of aiding slaves to escape from their masters . the whole town was soon assembled , in a high state of excitement . the citizens , fearing that the evidence against him would prove insufficient , formed themselves into a",mob,"for the purpose of inflicting lynch law in case he should be cleared . some cried , hang him ; some , shoot him ; others , give him a thousaud lashes on the bare back . no one dared speak a word in his behalf , save a lawyer"
1449,17168_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1855,,mob,"law in wiscousin- a murderer hung . milwaukie , wis . , aug . 8th.- yesterday special term of the court was held at west ben . for the trial of debar , who recently murdered : german family there , named mueller . he wa convicted of murder in"
1450,17168_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1855,"trial of debar , who recently murdered : german family there , named mueller . he wa convicted of murder in the first degree , and wa being taken to jail by a guard of soldiers , wher the populace rushed on them . the soldiers gav way . the",mob,"fell upon debar , and after dread fully mangling him , tied him with a rope , and af dragging him through the streets . hung him ter to a tree , head downwards until he was dead ."
1451,17170_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1855,"hands the execution of justice- in the london case however unsuccessfully , the police proving too strong for the crowd , and conveying the prisoner in safety to jail , where he hung himself the same night one of his suspenders . with the hanging of de bar by the",mob,"has drawn indignant comment from the press , especially that portion of it which is foremost in advocating resistance to such laws as do not suit its own notions . we are no advocates of lynch law , but there are in this case strong extenuating circumstances . the crime"
1452,17171_0.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"was lynch ed here yesterday . the result is that i have a greater horror than ever of the lynch law , the excitement is now over , and even here you cannot find one but condemns the proceedings of yesterday , tot one but denies he was in the",mob,"or encouraged it- not one but speaks of it as a cowardly act , and compare- ho , they do not compare the two military companies that came here to old women , bat say , that any ten old women with broomsticks would make a more forcible military power"
1453,17171_1.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"now let these men who wish to restore the death penalty show us that it will be any better hereafter , with it , than heretofore . and if it is not to be , whether we are not just as likely to have",mobs,"to set upon a man and murder him after he has been pronounced "" free , "" as after he has been sentenced to the penitentiary for a life time . it was only by the most strenuous efforts that a mob at milwaukee was prevented from lynching radcliffe after"
1454,17171_1.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"we are not just as likely to have mobs to set upon a man and murder him after he has been pronounced "" free , "" as after he has been sentenced to the penitentiary for a life time . it was only by the most strenuous efforts that a",mob,"at milwaukee was prevented from lynching radcliffe after he had been acquitted , and at that time the very imminence of that mob was made a strong reason and had a powerful influence in procuring the abolition of the death penalty , just as these mobs are now made a"
1455,17171_1.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"free , "" as after he has been sentenced to the penitentiary for a life time . it was only by the most strenuous efforts that a mob at milwaukee was prevented from lynching radcliffe after he had been acquitted , and at that time the very imminence of that",mob,"was made a strong reason and had a powerful influence in procuring the abolition of the death penalty , just as these mobs are now made a reason for its restoration.nd if we had time and room , we might cite any number of such instances . indeed the new"
1456,17171_1.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"strenuous efforts that a mob at milwaukee was prevented from lynching radcliffe after he had been acquitted , and at that time the very imminence of that mob was made a strong reason and had a powerful influence in procuring the abolition of the death penalty , just as these",mobs,"are now made a reason for its restoration.nd if we had time and room , we might cite any number of such instances . indeed the new york more tri-"
1457,17171_2.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,about 4 o'clock this afternoon a coroner's in quest was held before justice rusco . the ju found that he came to his death by the hands of the,mob,", in which several persons whom they named , took part , i saw his body . it was a horrid sight . his lower jaw was broken by kicks , his head cut open in several places in long gashes , to the bone- stabs apparently , in his"
1458,17171_2.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"scott to mexico , told me he did not see , in the whole of that war , so cruel a sight so horrid a spectacle , as the torture of that young man presented . the end is not yet . there are many here who are determined that",mobs,"shall be punished . i heard one wealthy citizen say that he would spend half he had , but those who lynched de bar should be dealt with according to the laws of the land . i think there is no doubt that if there had been no military here"
1459,17171_3.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"it is clear then , that the existence of the death penalty does not prevent murder , nor will it pre- vent",mobs,". to prevent mobs the mode it seems to us is perfectly plain . let those engaged in them be dealt with properly . they murdered both mayberry and de bar in a more revolting spirit and shocking manner , than they murder- ed their vietims . we do not"
1460,17171_3.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"it is clear then , that the existence of the death penalty does not prevent murder , nor will it pre- vent mobs . to prevent",mobs,"the mode it seems to us is perfectly plain . let those engaged in them be dealt with properly . they murdered both mayberry and de bar in a more revolting spirit and shocking manner , than they murder- ed their vietims . we do not ask that they shall"
1461,17171_3.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"a more revolting spirit and shocking manner , than they murder- ed their vietims . we do not ask that they shall be killed in return . let them be shut up in the penitentiary for a life time and we will be re - , sponsible for any similar",mobs,"which will eccur during the next quarter of a century . in conclusion , it will be recollected , that soon after the abolition of the death penalty in michi- an , several shocking murders occurred there in rapid succession . there as here , there was much excitement and"
1462,17171_4.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"in every instance where mortal violence ensued , the beginning of the riots was an unprovoked slaughter , by foreign ers , of peaceable ainericans while quietly passing in the streets at a distance from the polls . this infuriated the populace , and a prompt and terrible resort to",mob,"violence by which many foreigners were killed and much property destroyed , was the consequence . in the first ward , about 9 o'clock in the the was quietly at the polls , mr . geo . burge , a respectable and quiet american citizen , was brutally assaulted by"
1463,17171_4.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"violence by which many foreigners were killed and much property destroyed , was the consequence . in the first ward , about 9 o'clock in the the was quietly at the polls , mr . geo . burge , a respectable and quiet american citizen , was brutally assaulted by",a party of,"irishmen on jackson st . , between jefferson and greene- without having given any provocation , he was knocked down and horribly beaten with stones and clubs . he at tempted to escape from the fiends by whom he was attacked and ran into the alley of an adjoining house"
1464,17171_4.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"were fired . in the 8th ward the most serious disturbances occurred about 6 o'clock a . m . a mr . rhodes , in company with two friends , all american citizens , was quietly passing along main street , near chapel , when they were set upon by",a party of,"ten irishmen , who with horrible caths swore they would clean the streets of every american . fif teen shots were fired upon them . rhodes was killed , and both his companions badly wounded , one of them seriously . the irishmen then ran up chapel st . ,"
1465,17171_5.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"in a few weeks after his trial it became apparent to all , and in a few months he died a maniac in the in sane asyluin , yours , truly . g . w . f . p.s . 1 ought to have said janesville is responsible for this",mob,. now janesville must show how she ean prosecute the mob . the ger mans had understood here that the murderers of mayberry were permitted to go at large and the authorities winked at crime . i assured them it was not so . their
1466,17171_5.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1855,"all , and in a few months he died a maniac in the in sane asyluin , yours , truly . g . w . f . p.s . 1 ought to have said janesville is responsible for this mob . now janesville must show how she ean prosecute the",mob,. the ger mans had understood here that the murderers of mayberry were permitted to go at large and the authorities winked at crime . i assured them it was not so . their
1467,17175_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1855,"the south were declaring that if the abolitionists should go south they would be burned at the stake , or hung as high as haman ; and while southern legislatures were offering large rewards for the head of garrison , and arthur those in church and the north with the",mob,"to aid them , went forward in their career of violence and persecution , and the martyr age was begun . the first mob in boston was led on by "" gentlemen of property and standing in brond day light and in broad cloth . "" it was directed aga"
1468,17175_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1855,"haman ; and while southern legislatures were offering large rewards for the head of garrison , and arthur those in church and the north with the mob to aid them , went forward in their career of violence and persecution , and the martyr age was begun . the first",mob,"in boston was led on by "" gentlemen of property and standing in brond day light and in broad cloth . "" it was directed aga inst a womens ' anti- slavery meeting . garrison was dragged through the streets with a hal ter about his body , and the"
1469,17175_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1855,"in boston was led on by "" gentlemen of property and standing in brond day light and in broad cloth . "" it was directed aga inst a womens ' anti- slavery meeting . garrison was dragged through the streets with a hal ter about his body , and the",mob,"was hungry for the blood of g . thompson , who by accident was absent from the city , and thus escaped their fury . in n . y . city , at utica , in philadelphia and elsewhere over the north a demoniac spirit prevailed . in the latter"
1470,17175_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1855,"and thus escaped their fury . in n . y . city , at utica , in philadelphia and elsewhere over the north a demoniac spirit prevailed . in the latter city , pennsylvania hall , a beautiful building dedicated to free discussion , was burned to ashes by the",mob,", and the mayor and other leading men looked on approvingly while the deed was done . in the west at cincinnati and elsewhere , the abolitionists were at the mercy of the vilest of men , who were invited and encouraged to attack them . the press of the"
1471,17175_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1855,"were at the mercy of the vilest of men , who were invited and encouraged to attack them . the press of the cincinnati philanthropist thrown into was the ohio river , the colored people driven from the city , and their friends left to the tender mercies of the",mob,"at alton lovejoy fell to . a martyr , the cause of the slave . and the the leading influences in church and state were with the mob , and against the friends of freedom . even those in the church who had espoused the cause early , forsook it"
1472,17175_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1855,"the ohio river , the colored people driven from the city , and their friends left to the tender mercies of the mob at alton lovejoy fell to . a martyr , the cause of the slave . and the the leading influences in church and state were with the",mob,", and against the friends of freedom . even those in the church who had espoused the cause early , forsook it when the hour of trial came phelps , st . clair , cox , fitch and towne , joined in the cry against the abolitionists as infidels ."
1473,17178_0.txt,The North-Carolinian (Fayetteville [N...),1855,at ranchora,a party of,"mexican robbers had attacked the settlers killing eight men and one woman , , including a man named a . francis , whom they robbed of seven thousand dollars . the robbers were pursued by a party under command of sheriff phoenix , and a fight ensued in which the"
1474,17180_0.txt,"Minnesota weekly times (St. Paul, Minn.)",1855,"in northern california and southern oregon . twenty- five miners had been killed on the klamarth and thirteen in- di , : ns had been caught and hung . the indians hal attacked the miners on the upper sacramento . seven americans had been murdered and fifty indians killed .",a party of,"mexican robbers had killed seven settlers at ranshoria and one woman , robbing a mr . french of $ 7,00 . the robbers were pursued by the sheriff and a party . a fight ensued in which the sheriff and three robbers were killed . nine of the robbers were"
1475,17181_0.txt,"Green-Mountain freeman (Montpelier, Vt.)",1855,"a magistrate , who informed him that he was accused of aiding slaves from to their escape masters . the whole town was soon assembled in a high , state of excitement . the citizens , fearing that the evidence against him would prove insufficent , formed themselves into a",mob,"for the purpose of inflicting lynch law in case he should be cleared . some cried , hang him ! some , shoot him ! others , give him a thousand lashes on the bare back ! no one dared to speak a word in his behalf , save a"
1476,17181_2.txt,"Green-Mountain freeman (Montpelier, Vt.)",1855,"blight . its glory is dimmed , its spirit abated and its hope fading . the emigration to kansas has been almost entirely checked . emigrants from the free states have ceased to go to kansås , because they can find as good lands elsewhere , not cursed by the",mob,"law , nor ruled by non resident bullies . emigrants from the slave states do not go to kansas ; because they will not put their slave property in peril , by taking in into a territory where there is a strong free soii element threatening the security of the"
1477,17186_0.txt,"Squatter sovereign (Atchison, Kan. ...)",1855,"de bear , a convicted murderer , was recently taken from the authorities in milwaukee by a",mob,", and hung by the heels until dead what "" "" an outrage had it happened . in kansas ."
1478,17194_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1855,"capitol . but boldly in yon not by your favorites ,",mob,"and lynch ,"
1479,17198_0.txt,"The weekly Portage sentinel (Ravenna, Ohio)",1855,"to pay for it . he took hold of her roughly , tore her dress and forced her down into a chair . her husband , named john s . barclay , came in . , and after a few words with shot him dead . was taken by the",mob,", who were at first die posed to trust in the care of the statutes and the courts , but they were induced by inflam- matory harangues to change their determin- al ation . they held a lynch court , and heard the witnesses . when the jury was about"
1480,17198_0.txt,"The weekly Portage sentinel (Ravenna, Ohio)",1855,", is not stated in its the papers , but hanged he was under a large mining flume , about twenty feet from the ground , at midnight , in the midst of the glare of torches and the shouts of the crowd . of andon the 7th of october",a party of,"chinamen , while asleep at night in their tents , near st . louis , sierre county , were attacked slain and several others severely wounded . the robbers took $ 1,100 in dust from the tents . to audied hetsg on the 6th of october the flourishing vil lage"
1481,17199_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1855,"more lynch law women- a "" grocery "" was broken into the other day at danville , miss . , by",a party of,"ladies , and all the liquor in it "" smashed up atterly spilt . this was in revenge for the damage- done to their husbands by said grocery ."
1482,17201_0.txt,"The Opelousas courier (Opelousas, La.)",1855,"disgraceel disturbance- the bath ( e . ) tribune , of the 12th ultimo , furnishes the following a",mob,"in that city , on sunday , the 11th we hoped , when we chronicled of the old south church in andre , de la paroisse outrage never again upon be the pained dry , administrateur de la suc the temper of many femme , tous deux décédés on sunday"
1483,17201_0.txt,"The Opelousas courier (Opelousas, La.)",1855,"from its setting , which was prevented , as we learn , by the exertions of marshal walker and at there was much bad talk , shouting , fighting , & c . the catholics , finding they would be opposed in their exercises , quietly withdrew and left the",mob,"in possession of the field . no attempt that we hear of was made to arrest any of the disturbers of the peace up to 4 o'clock . at about 5 o'clock , the crowd , having accomplish ed their objects , and the religious exercises , gradually dispersed ."
1484,17203_0.txt,Belmont chronicle (St. Clairsville...),1856,"dare not say as much , for they are both the candidates of the pro- slavery sectional party . parties that will not permit the friends of fremont to hold a meeting even in the city of wheeling , in sight of our own native hills , without resort to",mob,"violence ; parties that will murder and drive from the state those whose only offence is reading and speaking the very sentiments of thomas jefferson , george washington and madison upon the subject of slavery . free speech and a free press is guaranteed to the people of the united"
1485,17203_0.txt,Belmont chronicle (St. Clairsville...),1856,"by so many ties- where but very few slaves are held- that prominent citizens , formerly of our county- we allude to capt . pumphrey and dr . thoburn -- with their associates could not be permitted to have their sentiments expressed without having their meeting broken up by a",mob,", and their speaker threatened with lynch law . "" tyrants look well to your path , a cloud shall come over your fame , and the terrible storm of a free people's wrath overwhelm you with anguish aud shame . to year and to ages unborn , throughout every"
1486,17207_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1856,"that mr . william horn , who formerly kept a clothing store and liv . ery stable in that city , but who is now engaged in buying and trading in carriages through that er portion of delaware , and the adjacent counties of maryland , was attacked by a",mob,"on the 6th inst , tampering slaves . mr . h . refuge in the hotel of mr . purnell , through whose persuasion the mob finally dispersed after assured that the charge was unfounded . being"
1487,17207_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1856,"in buying and trading in carriages through that er portion of delaware , and the adjacent counties of maryland , was attacked by a mob on the 6th inst , tampering slaves . mr . h . refuge in the hotel of mr . purnell , through whose persuasion the",mob,finally dispersed after assured that the charge was unfounded . being
1488,17218_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1955,"invalid town girl is found dead at angel's feet . he becomes at once the central figure in a rape- murder case that enlivens the area front pages . similarly , he becomes the quarry of two inflamed forces . one of these is the community's racial bigots , a",mob,"in a lynch ing mood . the other is a communist lawyer who sees angel's case as a chance to exploit race hatred in the party's cause . predicament , in this desprate the unjustly accused lad has a single friend . this is an idealistic young lawyer , played"
1489,17218_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1955,"race hatred in the party's cause . predicament , in this desprate the unjustly accused lad has a single friend . this is an idealistic young lawyer , played by ford , seeking court experience and woefully unware of how much of it he is to get between the local",mob's,quest for a lynching victim and the hunger for a martyr communists's .
1490,17223_0.txt,"Shepherdstown register (Shepherdstown, ...)",1859,"leaped from the stand and there was a general shout given , and he led the way to the jail , and nine tenths of the multitude following . on arriving at the jail , they found the sheriff and jailor , who did all they could to suppress the",mob,", but all to no purpose . they now mustered some 800 or 1000 strong . they then commenced with sledge hammers , crowbars and axes , and in an and brought forward their victim , ( the negro murderer . ) they marched him to the centre of the"
1491,17226_0.txt,"Daily intelligencer (Wheeling, Va. [...)",1860,,mob,"in baltimore . baltimore , april 26 . - the republican state convention met to- day . there were about 30 present . montgomery blair was chosen president . a large crowd of spectators , including a considerable sprinkling of roughs , who were led on by erastus levy ,"
1492,17226_0.txt,"Daily intelligencer (Wheeling, Va. [...)",1860,"their papers and documents . the police interfered and made several arrests . the convention adjourned till 2 o'clock . the members were greeted on the outside by a large crowd who fol lowed booting . mr . gunnison , a prom nent abolitionist , was pursued by an immense",mob,", crying "" lynch him ! "" "" harg him ! "" "" ges a man who stole a nigger . "" there "" there goes the spirit of john"
1493,17227_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1951,cuban,mob,"tries to lynch bus driver in fatal crash by the associated press havana , cuba , jan . 11 . - po lice saved a bus driver from lynching yesterday after he wrecked his bus , killing a nine month- old girl and her grand mother . five passengers were"
1494,17229_0.txt,"Jackson advocate (Jackson, Miss.)",1949,sheriff's talk halts fla .,mob,"tanores , fla . , july 18 fast talk by sheriff w . v . mccall sunday succeeded in dispersing a mob of 100 armed men bent upon lynching four negroes accused of the robbery of a white man and the kidnapping and rape of his wife . before dispersing"
1495,17229_0.txt,"Jackson advocate (Jackson, Miss.)",1949,"sheriff's talk halts fla . mob tanores , fla . , july 18 fast talk by sheriff w . v . mccall sunday succeeded in dispersing a",mob,of 100 armed men bent upon lynching four negroes accused of the robbery of a white man and the kidnapping and rape of his wife . before dispersing however the mob fired several shots into a cafe owned by the father of one of the suspects and into several negro
1496,17229_0.txt,"Jackson advocate (Jackson, Miss.)",1949,"fla . , july 18 fast talk by sheriff w . v . mccall sunday succeeded in dispersing a mob of 100 armed men bent upon lynching four negroes accused of the robbery of a white man and the kidnapping and rape of his wife . before dispersing however the",mob,"fired several shots into a cafe owned by the father of one of the suspects and into several negro homes between graveland and boy lake . two negro ex- soldiers , samuel shepherd and walter irain , have been arrested in connection the crime . with"
1497,17231_0.txt,"Auttaja (Ironwood, Mich.)",1944,27-,mob,"lynches joseph smith mormon leader , 2 in carthage , , ill . , 1844 ."
1498,17238_0.txt,"Detroit evening times. (Detroit, Mich)",1945,,mob,"lynches vichy aide paris , feb . 17 ( up ) -a french press dispatch from dijon said today that former vichyite police commissioner jacques mar- sac was hanged yesterday by infuriated mob . an"
1499,17238_0.txt,"Detroit evening times. (Detroit, Mich)",1945,"mob lynches vichy aide paris , feb . 17 ( up ) -a french press dispatch from dijon said today that former vichyite police commissioner jacques mar- sac was hanged yesterday by infuriated",mob,. an
1500,17241_0.txt,"The Omaha guide (Omaha, Neb.)",1948,"carpenter stated sunday , july 18th that the civil rights program "" stinks . "" he also stated that he favored letting the south correct its own problems . of course , we know what the policy of th esouth has been ever since emancipation the policy of terror ,",mob,"rule , lynching and dis franchisement . mr . carpenter would not do anything to help this domstic crisis , yet he said that he would "" spend every dollar we got to put other countries on their feet . . "" he went on to say "" and if"
1501,17255_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"here thurs nell russell day night . "" but nothing in the undertaker's art could put back the faces of roger malcom or may dorsey . "" shotgun shells fired point blank don't leave much face . "" their deaths or the death of some other georgia negro by lynch",mob,"violence was inevitable . "" when the votes were counted in the july 17 primary , and the minority candidate talmadge was declared the democratic nominee , the season on "" niggers "" was automatically opened , and every pin- headed georgia cracker and bigoted ku kluxer figured he had"
1502,17255_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1946,"i don't know whether the murderers of roger malcolm and george dorsey and their wives will ever be brought to trial . "" i doubt it . "" but in two hours in this town i've picked up enough clues as to the identity of the leader of the lynch",mob,"and at least one of his hench men that it would seem child's play for anyone with authority to have the guilty ones within twenty- four hours . "" i intend to put those clues before the chief of the georgia bureau of investigation ; but as i say ,"
1503,17260_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1937,"negro lynched 17 . ( up ) -the body of albert goo- den , negro , today was found hanging from a bridge , riddled with bullets . he was lynched by six",masked,men who took him from gooden sheriff w . j . vaughn . was indicted for the murder of white man . a
1504,17260_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1937,"negro lynched 17 . ( up ) -the body of albert goo- den , negro , today was found hanging from a bridge , riddled with bullets . he was lynched by six",masked men,who took him from gooden sheriff w . j . vaughn . was indicted for the murder of white man . a
1505,17265_0.txt,"Henderson daily dispatch. (Henderson, N.C.)",1938,"have taken place because nellie had refused him . when the body was found wilcox was arrested and placed in the pasquotank county jail . feel ing against him ran high and it was nellie's father , william hardy crop sey , who died yesterday , who prevent ed a",mob,"from lynching by refusing to join the mob . cropsey later said that was "" where he made his mistake , "" and he died with the firm belief that his 17- yearold daughter was murdered by wilcox , who took his own life here on december 4 , 1934"
1506,17265_0.txt,"Henderson daily dispatch. (Henderson, N.C.)",1938,". when the body was found wilcox was arrested and placed in the pasquotank county jail . feel ing against him ran high and it was nellie's father , william hardy crop sey , who died yesterday , who prevent ed a mob from lynching by refusing to join the",mob,". cropsey later said that was "" where he made his mistake , "" and he died with the firm belief that his 17- yearold daughter was murdered by wilcox , who took his own life here on december 4 , 1934 , by placing a shot gun under his"
1507,17271_0.txt,"St. Paul recorder (St. Paul, Minn.)",1940,the truth is that government has fallen down in law enforcement . the,mob,"that lynches a black man offers the best example of what goes on when the people are too close to judicial processes . everybody scurries for cover when a federal grand jury is called , because it is generally agreed that men who constitute such an inquisitorial body , coming"
1508,17273_0.txt,"The Northwest enterprise (Seattle, Wash.)",1940,"the following as corrections and omissions from the write- up for the walter white , speaking engagement in portland , nov . 25 and 26 . mr . white opened his speech at the banquet on monday night ( by giving a background of the deep south ) with its",mob,"violence , lynchings and race hatred etc . words in parentheses were omitted ( a typographical er- ror ) in the former writeup . the book to mrs . a . rob- presented rts for her loyalty to the portland branch n . a . a . c . p"
1509,17276_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"by isaac jones peoples daily doings happenings on the "" unjustice side "" of our great democracy your blood was spilled again last week by the hands of an unknown",mob,", when willie vinson , a colored man was lynched in coward whites . vinson lies coid in his grave today because a while woman thought that he looked like a colored man that had attempted to fape her . so bitter was the mob until lynching their victim alone"
1510,17276_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"the hands of an unknown mob , when willie vinson , a colored man was lynched in coward whites . vinson lies coid in his grave today because a while woman thought that he looked like a colored man that had attempted to fape her . so bitter was the",mob,until lynching their victim alone was not enough ; they felt that it would perhaps add more push to the war efforts by dragging his body through the streets in the colored section . the laws of this country that citizen equal rights were lynched with this poor . innocent
1511,17276_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"the nren of this texas town that should have been on duty to enforce the law were perhaps taking a part in the lynching carnival "" or hidde somewhere with their faces buried in a newspaper . you and i would not have protested at all , had inis same",mob,"lynched a jap or german and dragged their bodies through the streets , because they are our enemies . this is a different story : here one american burn by his fellowmen on his own time americans should be as one- with- out regards to race , creed or color"
1512,17276_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"? i doubt they could give an honest- to- godness answer themselves . regardless what may happen , there is always some one looking on the "" victory- side "" of democracy . so henry humphrey , editor of the texarkana gazette , a daily white paper published in the",mob,"town , has taken his stand in your favor . he is urging a grand jury investigation of the lynching your colored brother . he even at of tacked sheriff monroe watts , of bowie county , texas , editoriaily , for not providing guards at the texarkana hospital where"
1513,17277_2.txt,"The Michigan chronicle (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"alliance of high point , n . c . , moved to righteous indignation by the recent lynching of two negro children in mississippi , asks that we set aside the second sunday in november as a day of prayer , that god will deliver america from the curse of",mob,"violence . now prayer is all right . i know from personal experience . but if we do nothing the second sunday in november but speak or breathe prayers , our efforts will come to naught . my experience has taught me that the "" good book "" is true"
1514,17277_2.txt,"The Michigan chronicle (Detroit, Mich.)",1942,"as his wife bandaged his wounds she asked him , "" honey , didn't you pray ? "" he replied "" yes , i prayed , but prayer ain't worth a damn in a bear fight . "" i , too , have my doubts about prayer stopping a mississippi",mob,". yes , my dear brethren , it is all right to "" praise lord "" but don't forget to "" pass the the ammunition . """
1515,17283_0.txt,"The Detroit tribune. (Detroit, Mich.)",1943,"door of the present government . it self . this resolution , which was forwarded immediately to the president of the united states and to members of the congress , ended with the assertion that "" race riots and",mob,"law , lynchings and racial terrorism obtained in america long before hitler was ever heard of and will continue long after he is dead and forgotten unless negroes receive the status of first- class citizenship in america . that the remedy lies in america practicing what it preaches , namely"
1516,17286_0.txt,"St. Paul recorder (St. Paul, Minn.)",1946,"negroes have learned to defend themselves against lawless attacks , and the nation has learned much from the second world slaughter now drawing to a close . it was a racial doctrine similar to that of the klan's that was re- sponsible for world war two , and the nazi",mobsters,"who destroyed and crucified acted in much the same manner as the klansmen do . it has been reported that the klan originally adopted the white sheet regalia because it made the members look like ghosts , and negroes were supposed to be afraid of ghosts . that may or"
1517,17286_0.txt,"St. Paul recorder (St. Paul, Minn.)",1946,"were not above executing a woman because she was suspected of being a witch , but this is a new negroes are not afraid of the most superior caucasian on a man to man basis , and they are in an improved position to do something effective about superior caucasian",mobs,"that come looking for trouble . heretofore , as i pointed out in another column , the price a law less mob has had to pay for attacking negroes has been negli- gible , and consequently , there has not been too much hesitancy on the part of these gangsters"
1518,17286_0.txt,"St. Paul recorder (St. Paul, Minn.)",1946,"not afraid of the most superior caucasian on a man to man basis , and they are in an improved position to do something effective about superior caucasian mobs that come looking for trouble . heretofore , as i pointed out in another column , the price a law less",mob,"has had to pay for attacking negroes has been negli- gible , and consequently , there has not been too much hesitancy on the part of these gangsters to liven up a dull evening by kicking up merry hell in the negro section . however , those are no longer"
1519,17287_0.txt,"Henderson daily dispatch. (Henderson, N.C.)",1946,georgia lynching victims buried brother and sister victims of a lynching,mob,"in walton county , ga . , george dorsey and dorothy malcolm , are buried at monroe , gr . , follow church services . the bodies are pictured being lowered into a grave , two ing other negroes were also lynched . ( international sound photo"
1520,17289_0.txt,"St. Paul recorder (St. Paul, Minn.)",1946,"every time a jew is slaughtered , or a negro is lynched , stop where you are and tremble , for you are next it take . may little while a to get to you , but doubt it not , your will come . it's either the",mob,lor turn you .
1521,17289_1.txt,"St. Paul recorder (St. Paul, Minn.)",1946,"was not created for such as they , nor was it created for those who kill and defile them , for those supermen are above the law . there is no law , really . there are rules , and they do not apply to the lesser men . the",mob,"that lynches the color of a man's skin , and kills his body in the process , is not accountable to any of the so- called decent forces that have been up in every community . a mob is an anonymous thing , never identified , but easily recognizable ,"
1522,17289_1.txt,"St. Paul recorder (St. Paul, Minn.)",1946,", and they do not apply to the lesser men . the mob that lynches the color of a man's skin , and kills his body in the process , is not accountable to any of the so- called decent forces that have been up in every community . a",mob,"is an anonymous thing , never identified , but easily recognizable , yet when the mob functions the law breaks down . ,"
1523,17289_1.txt,"St. Paul recorder (St. Paul, Minn.)",1946,"color of a man's skin , and kills his body in the process , is not accountable to any of the so- called decent forces that have been up in every community . a mob is an anonymous thing , never identified , but easily recognizable , yet when the",mob,"functions the law breaks down . ,"
1524,17292_0.txt,"The potters herald (East Liverpool,...)",1949,"terrorism spreads in south- this is part of a 100- car ku klux klan parade in tallahassee , florida . at stone mountain , kkk grand dragon samuel green initiated new members before a crowd of 20,000 . in alabama , an anti-",masking,"bill was defeated by the state legislature . three white people were beaten in birmingham , ala . by persons wearing kkk robes . in houston , miss . the sheriff shielded a negro from an armed mob which came to the jail to get . all this took place"
1525,17292_0.txt,"The potters herald (East Liverpool,...)",1949,"members before a crowd of 20,000 . in alabama , an anti- masking bill was defeated by the state legislature . three white people were beaten in birmingham , ala . by persons wearing kkk robes . in houston , miss . the sheriff shielded a negro from an armed",mob,"which came to the jail to get . all this took place last week . first lynching of the year was in orwinton , ga . two weeks before . all him the participants went free ."
1526,17297_0.txt,"Plymouth advertiser (Plymouth, Ohio)",1855,in the guard- house of the fort . great excitement ensued . threats of,mob,"violence and lynch law were circula- , but no unlawful demonstrations made . ted a petition was gotten up by the mob , and"
1527,17297_0.txt,"Plymouth advertiser (Plymouth, Ohio)",1855,"in the guard- house of the fort . great excitement ensued . threats of mob violence and lynch law were circula- , but no unlawful demonstrations made . ted a petition was gotten up by the",mob,", and"
1528,17298_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1855,"to the fostering culture of the administration . ) grown and spread , until it has been made to overshadow and swallow all others . up it has broken down old party lines , north and south , and has really consolidated ( all other parties into two , the",great party of,"slavery , and the party of freedom . on the one side is arranged the south , headed by the administration and a few northern flunkies ; on the other , the great body of northern freemen . within the last year , we have seen the missouri compromise line"
1529,17298_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1855,"year , we have seen the missouri compromise line strick en down by the hand of power , and the territories of kansas and nebraska open ed to the inroads of slavery , in defiance of solemn compact . twice has the territory of kansas been invaded by an armed",mob,"from missouri , and the elec sien carried in favor of slavery , in defi ance of law , by the aid of bowie- knives and revolvers , and freemen and legal vo ters driven from the polls . we have seen a free press thrown into the river and"
1530,17298_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1855,"the elec sien carried in favor of slavery , in defi ance of law , by the aid of bowie- knives and revolvers , and freemen and legal vo ters driven from the polls . we have seen a free press thrown into the river and destroyed by a lawless",mob,"; its editors , threatened with lynch- law if there after found in kansas , and methodist clergymen included in the same threat . -we see fillibuster expeditions encour saged , and the energies of the administration bent on the acquisition of cuba , in order to strengthen the arm"
1531,17298_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1855,"in be kansas are known and read of all men , onercept the readers of the trumlull democrat . they learn nothing about them from that sheet . "" squatter sovereign ty "" ( the alleged doctrine of the nibras ka bill , ) is violated in kansas by a",mob,"of slaveholders , yet no voice of condemn ation is heard from the democrat . the freedom of the press is stricken down by slavery- the democrat silently acquies es , and by its silence approves . lynch law is proclaimed in order to establish slavery in kansas- the democrat"
1532,17298_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1855,", and by its silence approves . lynch law is proclaimed in order to establish slavery in kansas- the democrat does net not object . the elective franchise is in ja vaded , and elections are carried by force of arms- the democrat raises no warn ing voice . a",mob,"of slaveholders as e sembles , and proclaims that the govern or appointed by the president under the constitution , is deposed- the democrat meekly submits . revolution and civil insurrections are established and inaugurated in kansas- the democrat by its silence says amen to it . not a word"
1533,17306_0.txt,New-York dispatch (New York [N.Y.]),1855,"forced off the door of the akland ( € al . ) jail by a party supposed to be red woods men , who captured two of the inmates- notorious horse thieves- george sheldon and bob parker . they immediately proceeded to the bridge leading to clinton , where the",mob,"hung george sheldon upon a tree . bob parker was set at liberty . these men had been arrested on the 29th by officers kellogg and stoder , for stealing a horse from alderman kelsey . they were tried before judge marier , justice of the peace , and found"
1534,17306_1.txt,New-York dispatch (New York [N.Y.]),1855,"his escape , but was finally arrested by the officers o the law , from whom he was violently wrested . a jury of th people was then empanneled , and he was tried and convicted of manslaughter in the first degree . not satisfied with the verdict , the",mob,"took the miserable prisoner and hung him to a tree . moran was a young man , born in the city of york . new"
1535,17315_0.txt,"The Middlebury register (Middlebury, Vt.)",1854,"and the marks of the iron nails in the heavy boot heels , found in a half a dozen places over his body . the brutal wretch was immediately arrested and committed to jail . the inhabitants of the city were áread fully excited , and assembled in a furious",mob,", and marched to drag the prisoner from his confinement and ad , minister lynch law . the police however , and more sober citizens , gathered together and by strenous exertions , succeeded in quelling the disturbance and keeping the criminal secure . in about one week he will"
1536,17320_0.txt,"The Ohio star (Ravenna, Ohio)",1854,horrid cruelty -- a slave burned to death . a,mob,was collected together and a lynch court was held to determine what was best to be done with a negro who had the impuder ce to raise his hand against a white man . the lynch court decided that he should be burned at the siake . a natchez paper
1537,17322_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1854,"erie , jan . 21- the",mob,"last night hung in effigy mr . j . h . walker , director of the erie and northeast railroad , accompanying the act with shouts and yells like infuriated fiends . the mad and dranken excitement knows no bounds . the effigy , which is labelled the "" father"
1538,17325_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1853,"the attempted justification by the press of the applicatian of lynch law in california there is a decided manifestation in other parts of the coun try , exists upon criminals , without waiting for the operation negro , ago , was in columbiana county , mo . , by a",mob,", and hung , for an attempted rape on a white girl , daughter of citizen of that place . the negro had been safely confined in jail , and his escape was impossible ; but excited feeling got the better of all other , son and the mob the"
1539,17325_0.txt,"Anti-slavery bugle (New-Lisbon, Ohi...)",1853,"a mob , and hung , for an attempted rape on a white girl , daughter of citizen of that place . the negro had been safely confined in jail , and his escape was impossible ; but excited feeling got the better of all other , son and the",mob,"the out their victim , took a vote whether he should be burnt or hung , and executed him by hanging , notwiths purstanding the remonstrances of a large portion the citizens . of"
1540,17331_0.txt,"The Hillsdale standard (Hillsdale, Mich...)",1851,"same men , were they on the ground , would be found ac . tive members of the committee of vigilance . this another important feature in which this matter is pertmaciously misunderstood by so 80 accustomed to regard an exercise of lynch law as the excited act of a",mob,", that they can not understand how a whole pe ple should bo imbued with a desire to raise to ho laws . yet such was the case ; and in that very fact is found the most irrefragible proof of the necessity and propriety of their course . all"
1541,17332_0.txt,"Gallipolis journal (Gallipolis, Ohi...)",1851,"his neck , and lynch law was making the last of him , when he begged for his life , and promised to tell all , if they would not hang him , -when he did tell the whole story , and of all the persons engaged with him .",another party of,"the pursuers overtook charles cromwell , an intelligent colored gentleman from new york city . he too begged for spared him after he made full confessions , but not until he had been half hung some ten minutes . ,"
1542,17355_0.txt,"The daily Minnesota pioneer (St. Paul, Minn.)",1855,great excitement ensued . threats of,mob,"violence and lynch law were circulated , but no unlawful demonstrations made . a petition was gotten up by the mob , and signed by three or four hundred names , re- questing the officers in command at the fort to give up the prisoner , promising to give him"
1543,17355_0.txt,"The daily Minnesota pioneer (St. Paul, Minn.)",1855,"great excitement ensued . threats of mob violence and lynch law were circulated , but no unlawful demonstrations made . a petition was gotten up by the",mob,", and signed by three or four hundred names , re- questing the officers in command at the fort to give up the prisoner , promising to give him the benefit of an impartial trial by jury . the petition was not acceded to , and prisoner was still confined"
1544,17360_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1852,", ched on board the winfield scott . the government steamer massachusetts sailed from san francisco on the 12th for n . york . a doel was fought on the 12th between wm . h . jones and john s . nugent , in which the former was wounded .",a party of,"seceding mortoons , who left missouri two years ago with prophet brews ter , arrived recently at san diego , from gila , in a very destitute condition . they report that brewster was residing at sorocco , in mex . ico . the suspicious movements of the yuba and"
1545,17373_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1935,"they exist , whether they reflect creditably or not upon te activities of the convention or general southern baptist attitudes . "" beside the study of conditions among sharecroppers and textile workers , dr . poteat proposed the family.bureau should seek the truth about the liquor question , unemployment ,",mob,"violence in lynch- ings and other factors of "" confusion in our social life . "" j . b . secretary of the home mission board , reported last night that during 1934 the board received from all sources , $ 320,030.95 , an increase of $ 81,330.42 over 1933"
1546,17375_0.txt,"El heraldo de Brownsville (Brownsville, Te...)",1935,"miss . , june 22 . - ( ap ) a 25- year- old negro identified by officers as r . d . mcgee , accused of attempting to attack the 11- year old daughter of a white farmer , was lynched saturday two miles east of wiggins by a",mob,of white men estimated at between 200 and 400 men . seized from bed the alleged attack upon the white girl occurred friday after noon and a posse of citizens which formed into an infuriated mob in stone county seized the negro from his bed friday night at his home
1547,17375_0.txt,"El heraldo de Brownsville (Brownsville, Te...)",1935,"a white farmer , was lynched saturday two miles east of wiggins by a mob of white men estimated at between 200 and 400 men . seized from bed the alleged attack upon the white girl occurred friday after noon and a posse of citizens which formed into an infuriated",mob,in stone county seized the negro from his bed friday night at his home near wiggins and carried him into the woods . there mcgee was hidden away from the officers and it was declared that he was identified by the white girl and also by a negro girl who
1548,17375_0.txt,"El heraldo de Brownsville (Brownsville, Te...)",1935,"as saying that he did not know why he did it ex cept that "" i must have been crazy . "" the child was reported attacked while picking blackberries in a pasture near her home . she bore bruises on her face and neck . hanged from tree the",mob,"hanged the negro from a woodland tree saturday morning between 8 and 9 o'clock and riddled his body with bullets . they left the body hanging and dis- persed . sheriff j . a . simpson , of stone county , said saturday that the mob had successfully hidden the"
1549,17375_0.txt,"El heraldo de Brownsville (Brownsville, Te...)",1935,"hanged from tree the mob hanged the negro from a woodland tree saturday morning between 8 and 9 o'clock and riddled his body with bullets . they left the body hanging and dis- persed . sheriff j . a . simpson , of stone county , said saturday that the",mob,had successfully hidden the hunt ed man from him and his officers during the night and that he had not had mcgee in his custody . the scene of the lynching was in one of the remote rural sec tions south mississippi . no ar rests had of been made
1550,17377_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1935,mississippi,mob,"by two negroes lynched columbus , miss . , july 15 . - ( p ) -two young negro farmers , bert moore and dooley morton , each about 26 , were lynched monday 8 miles south of columbus . a mob of white citizens wrested the prisoners from a"
1551,17377_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1935,"mississippi mob by two negroes lynched columbus , miss . , july 15 . - ( p ) -two young negro farmers , bert moore and dooley morton , each about 26 , were lynched monday 8 miles south of columbus . a",mob,"of white citizens wrested the prisoners from a deputy sheriff hanged them to an oak tree . and the negroes were arrested sunday after two alleged attempts to attack a white woman , the wife of an arkansas lumberman , who resided about a mile zion negro church , the"
1552,17378_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1935,"two negroes lynched columbus , miss . , july 16 . ( up ) -a , mississippi",mob,"riding in eight automobiles yesterday lynched two young negroes who admitted attempts to attack ta farmer ' wife . the unmasked members of mob , numbering less than 50 , heid "" themes swung them to a tree near here . * * * * 4 : 04"
1553,17378_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1935,"two negroes lynched columbus , miss . , july 16 . ( up ) -a , mississippi mob riding in eight automobiles yesterday lynched two young negroes who admitted attempts to attack ta farmer ' wife . the",unmasked,"members of mob , numbering less than 50 , heid "" themes swung them to a tree near here . * * * * 4 : 04"
1554,17378_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1935,"two negroes lynched columbus , miss . , july 16 . ( up ) -a , mississippi mob riding in eight automobiles yesterday lynched two young negroes who admitted attempts to attack ta farmer ' wife . the unmasked members of",mob,", numbering less than 50 , heid "" themes swung them to a tree near here . * * * * 4 : 04"
1555,17379_0.txt,"Henderson daily dispatch. (Henderson, N.C.)",1935,"stokes victim of negro who was new buried at lynched church ; bethel baptist ardent churchman was and good citizen ; county buries negro victim while franklin county authorities made preparations for an inquiry to morrow morning into the lynching of govan ward , 25- year- old negro , a",mob,two miles across the line in by franklin county about noon yeste
1556,17380_0.txt,"Henderson daily dispatch. (Henderson, N.C.)",1935,"progress in lynch probe is reported but three- hour inquiry at louisburg yesterday brought no arrests louisburg , aug . 2 . - ( ap ) -officials said today some progress had been made in their investigation of the of the negro roosevelt lynching ward by a",mob,"of two dozen unmask ed men , although a three- hour judi cial inquiry yesterday failed to de . evidence which velop on one any might be held . the committing magistrate's hear ing was recessed indefinitely on re solicitor william y . bickett quest of and attorney general a"
1557,17380_0.txt,"Henderson daily dispatch. (Henderson, N.C.)",1935,"in lynch probe is reported but three- hour inquiry at louisburg yesterday brought no arrests louisburg , aug . 2 . - ( ap ) -officials said today some progress had been made in their investigation of the of the negro roosevelt lynching ward by a mob of two dozen",unmask,"ed men , although a three- hour judi cial inquiry yesterday failed to de . evidence which velop on one any might be held . the committing magistrate's hear ing was recessed indefinitely on re solicitor william y . bickett quest of and attorney general a . a . f"
1558,17381_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1935,"the franklin lynching for as sure as govan ward was crazy , as sure as the",mob,"which lynched him was stripped of all the senses of responsible men while they killed , there will be no reason for the escape of those responsible save feeblemindedness in the officers charged with the duty of apprehending the lynch ers . franklin county is not so large a county"
1559,17381_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1935,"him was stripped of all the senses of responsible men while they killed , there will be no reason for the escape of those responsible save feeblemindedness in the officers charged with the duty of apprehending the lynch ers . franklin county is not so large a county that any",mob,could assemble in daylight and take a prisoner from the sheriff and a deputy without the overwhelming probability that the sheriff or the deputy would know some of the men . there were no masks and no efforts on the part of the lynch ers to conceal their identities .
1560,17381_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1935,apprehending the lynch ers . franklin county is not so large a county that any mob could assemble in daylight and take a prisoner from the sheriff and a deputy without the overwhelming probability that the sheriff or the deputy would know some of the men . there were no,masks,and no efforts on the part of the lynch ers to conceal their identities . others in louisburg saw the men who lynched the negro . everything was done in the light of day and under the eyes of men . the body was still hanging to the tree when
1561,17381_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1935,"to return the verdict which is too familiar after lynchings , that the victim came to his death at the hands of a party or parties un- known . if this case ends with that verdict then not only will north carolina be shamed by the killing insanity of a",mob,"but convicted of feeblemindedness on the part of its officials . if ever a crime was solved , this is it . it committed which should be will fail to be solved only if a forgetfulness or a carelessness approximating idiocy appears in this as it has in other cases"
1562,17384_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1856,"from a letter from china , dated december 8 , 1855 : -- "" our peaceable suburbs were a scene of unwonted uproar yesterday afternoon . a canton man quarrelled with a fuh chau man in the street and killed him on the spot he was instantly seized by the",mob,", and with ."
1563,17385_0.txt,"The Athens post (Athens, Tenn.)",1856,"the bill to restore enpital punishment in wisconsin , has been indefinitely postponed notwithstanding a",mob,"in the assembly . in wisconsin , within the last year , hung by lynch law , a man for murder , it appears that a majority of the people are against punishment . capital"
1564,17386_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1856,"living in lew is county , va . , for the alleged ill treatment of his family , was lynched by the young men in the neighborhood , one night last week . the west . ern herald says , "" he was taken a few nights since , by",a party of,"men , who stripped him of his clothing ; and rode him for a length of time , in that condition , on a rail ; he was then taken to a briar patch and made to run through it . whenever he evinced a dis position to move less"
1565,17387_0.txt,"Alexandria gazette (Alexandria, D.C...)",1856,"of his receipts have been disallowed , and it is , therefore , a mere question as to the amount paid over by mr . p . to his successor . the bill to restore capital punishment in wisconsin , has been indefinitely postponed in the assembly . notwithstanding a",mob,"in wisconsin , within the last year , hung by lynch law , a man for murder , it appears that a majority of the people are against capital punishment . a land slide occurred on the baltimore and ohio railroad , about fifty miles this side of wheeling ,"
1566,17389_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1856,". hornbeck , living in lewis county , va . , for the alleged ill treatment of his family , was lynched by the young men in the neighborhood , one night last week . the weston herald says : "" he was taken a few nights since , by",a party of,"men , who stripped him of his clothing , and rode him for a length of time , in that condition , or a rail ; he was then taken to a briar- patch and made to run through it . whenever he evinced a disposition to move less slowly"
1567,17390_0.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1856,"sentiment . we shall see if no popular out breaks have ensued , caused by the impotency of the law to meet the demand of safety and public justice . upon enquiry we find a terrible tragedy occurred at janesville ; a murderer was lynch ed and hung by a",mob,", and this mob was witness ed by the youths , and by the middle- aged , as well as by the aged , and the mob itself was composed , it is said , of "" respectable men . "" what occasioned this mob ? ' we are told"
1568,17390_0.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1856,"see if no popular out breaks have ensued , caused by the impotency of the law to meet the demand of safety and public justice . upon enquiry we find a terrible tragedy occurred at janesville ; a murderer was lynch ed and hung by a mob , and this",mob,"was witness ed by the youths , and by the middle- aged , as well as by the aged , and the mob itself was composed , it is said , of "" respectable men . "" what occasioned this mob ? ' we are told that these "" respecta-"
1569,17390_0.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1856,"public justice . upon enquiry we find a terrible tragedy occurred at janesville ; a murderer was lynch ed and hung by a mob , and this mob was witness ed by the youths , and by the middle- aged , as well as by the aged , and the",mob,"itself was composed , it is said , of "" respectable men . "" what occasioned this mob ? ' we are told that these "" respecta- ble men "" did not consider the punishment which the law inflicts and an adequate one for the ter- rible crime that had"
1570,17390_0.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1856,"ed and hung by a mob , and this mob was witness ed by the youths , and by the middle- aged , as well as by the aged , and the mob itself was composed , it is said , of "" respectable men . "" what occasioned this",mob,"? ' we are told that these "" respecta- ble men "" did not consider the punishment which the law inflicts and an adequate one for the ter- rible crime that had been committed . if we enquire again , we shall hear of another mob , and another case"
1571,17390_0.txt,"Tribune and telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1856,""" what occasioned this mob ? ' we are told that these "" respecta- ble men "" did not consider the punishment which the law inflicts and an adequate one for the ter- rible crime that had been committed . if we enquire again , we shall hear of another",mob,", and another case of lynching in washington county , in this state . this too was a case of murder , but the demands of public justice outstripped the milder appliances of the law . we may abhor riots , we may preach against them until we are gray"
1572,17391_0.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1856,"a . f . monroe , in coles county , ill . , hung by a",mob,". we regret to learn that monroe , who murdered his father- in- law , ellington , in coles county , ill . , who was to have been executed according to law last friday , but who had been respited by the governor till the 15th of may ,"
1573,17391_0.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1856,"learn that monroe , who murdered his father- in- law , ellington , in coles county , ill . , who was to have been executed according to law last friday , but who had been respited by the governor till the 15th of may , was hung by a",mob,"on the day first above mentioned . we find the following particulars of the last tragedy in the missouri republican of the 18th : "" a large crowd , as is usual on such occasions , had assembled to witness the execution , and when it was known that a"
1574,17391_0.txt,"Mineral Point tribune (Mineral Point, ...)",1856,"is briefly stated above the . man , on hearing what was going on outside of the jail , attempted to destroy himself by beat his brains out willing against the wall of the prison , and when taken out he was in an insensible condition his upon restoration the",mob,"hanged . , him . it is said that six or eight of the leaders in the affair have been arrested and are new confined in jail to await an examination . "" one of the papers from coles county , printed last weck , contained a long speech which"
1575,17395_0.txt,"American union (Morgantown, Va....)",1857,"the law should deal with the guilty , and it is hoped that it will prevail . since writing the above , we learn that the people of the neighborhood as- sembled and avowed a determination to hang the murderers on the spot . they were then in custody of",a party of,"the friends of mr . joyce , who started with them to this city . on the road they were met by a deputation of citizens of jefferson with several from this city , finally persuaded them to bring them to bring them here and let the law have its"
1576,17401_1.txt,"The Cadiz Democratic sentinel (Cadiz, Ohio)",1856,"of the person , and moved the tale of the sufferer instantly hun by , - ted him up . on examination , his lip was founded to be scratched and marked in the manner described by the sufferer . so soon as this was commen ted on by his",captors,", and before he had been informed of the object of their visit he remark . , ed- she did not do that . "" other declarations made by him , aud proofs obtained , satisfied the whole town that he was the vile wretch who perpetrated the atrocious deed"
1577,17401_1.txt,"The Cadiz Democratic sentinel (Cadiz, Ohio)",1856,"called a great multitude to town , and we presume some 500 or more persons at this time surrounded the jail . no person obeyed the sheriff ' ' s command . it was very ev ident that the sympathies of a large number of the crowd was with the",mob,", "" regulators , "" or whatever the reader may please to call them . this crowd seized from the sheriff a gun , with which he had armed himself , demanded the key of the room in which the negro was incarcerated , and on his refusal to furnish"
1578,17401_1.txt,"The Cadiz Democratic sentinel (Cadiz, Ohio)",1856,"terrible punishment . we hope never again to be called upon to record either a crime of the horribio ypo of the one we have only faintly endeavored to describe above , or a punishment similar to the penone which has visited it . theoretically we have heretofore ever opposed",mob-,"law , and this bition of its operations , has by no means lessened exhi"
1579,17412_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1856,"the peace the populace made frequent threats to bang him ; upon which assistance was sent for to san andreas . on the receipt of the news deputy sheriff's schroble and betts started with a posse upon their arrival , a man arose in the court room and urged the",mob,"to hang the prisoner immediate ly ; that officers were there to protect him and more on the road . then followed a scene that baffles description . the officers closed around the prisoner bet were repulsed , the lights put out , and deputy sheriff betts and another tal"
1580,17419_0.txt,"Burlington free press (Burlington, Vt.)",1856,"all other like emanations , from the false doctrine , lately so much inculcated , teaching resistance and disobedience to law as rights of the citizen when in his private feels injured by them , whether it be properly styled the doctrine of higher law , or more properly ,",mob,"and lynch and with contempt all effort , of whatever party spurn combination , to shift these doctrines"
1581,17422_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,". , july 2 . - a special from purcell , i . t . , to the state capital late today stated that intense excitement pre- vails there over the report that the negroes of womack have armed themselves with the intention of shooting down mem- forbers of the",mob,"that lynched and burned will davis , a member of their race for assaulting the 14 year old daughter of a farmer named robertson . a heavily armed posse of business men and farmers left norman , okla . , noble , oklahoma city and purcell , i . t"
1582,17422_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"for assaulting the 14 year old daughter of a farmer named robertson . a heavily armed posse of business men and farmers left norman , okla . , noble , oklahoma city and purcell , i . t . , today for womack . three of the leaders of the",mob,"of white men are said to be marked | for assassination and further trouble of serious character is expected . judge dickerson of chicasha , has announced that he will immediately empanel a special grand jury to investigate lynching . the"
1583,17424_0.txt,"The Winslow mail. (Winslow, Ariz.)",1918,the bisbee incident has about run itself out as a political issue . after all the hullabaloo and noise the whole matter settles down to simply a,mob,"of outraged citizens rising up in their wrath and ridding the community of a gang of undesirable citizens . mob law under any circumstances is always a violation of the statutes , and is only justified when the action of the courts is too slow . a mob of citizens"
1584,17424_0.txt,"The Winslow mail. (Winslow, Ariz.)",1918,the bisbee incident has about run itself out as a political issue . after all the hullabaloo and noise the whole matter settles down to simply a mob of outraged citizens rising up in their wrath and ridding the community of a gang of undesirable citizens .,mob,"law under any circumstances is always a violation of the statutes , and is only justified when the action of the courts is too slow . a mob of citizens hung a brute in maricopa county a few months ago which was contrary to law , and on the same"
1585,17424_0.txt,"The Winslow mail. (Winslow, Ariz.)",1918,"simply a mob of outraged citizens rising up in their wrath and ridding the community of a gang of undesirable citizens . mob law under any circumstances is always a violation of the statutes , and is only justified when the action of the courts is too slow . a",mob,"of citizens hung a brute in maricopa county a few months ago which was contrary to law , and on the same basis of the bisbee incident the actors should be indicted and prosecuted . the bisbee affair differs because a lot of partisan politics was injected into it by"
1586,17425_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1918,texas first to reply on last friday there appeared striking headlines in most of the daily papers featuring president wilson's message on,mob,"law . the president's statement , which was addressed to "" my fellow countrymen "" , is thought to have been inspired by the numerous lynchings of which suspected pro- ger mans were the victims . in this message , the president ' points out that every lynching is a"
1587,17425_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1918,"as a democracy , stands . "" how shall we , "" he asks , "" commend democracy to the acceptance of other people if we disgrace our own by proving that it is , after all , no protection to the weak ? "" in this stirring denunciation of",mob,"rule and this plea to all americans "" to make an end of this disgraceful evil , "" the president placed the lynchers squarely on the side of germany by declaring that any man who even so much as countenanced mob action , is a betrayer of american democracy and"
1588,17425_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1918,"the weak ? "" in this stirring denunciation of mob rule and this plea to all americans "" to make an end of this disgraceful evil , "" the president placed the lynchers squarely on the side of germany by declaring that any man who even so much as countenanced",mob,"action , is a betrayer of american democracy and adopts the standards of the enemy of his country , whom he affects to despise . "" of the southern states , texas proudly claims the distinction of being the first to reply to this notable message of the president ."
1589,17425_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1918,"whom he affects to despise . "" of the southern states , texas proudly claims the distinction of being the first to reply to this notable message of the president . her reply was sent broadcast over the country the next day and read something like this : "" texas",mob,"hangs negro . "" any american white man in texas will tell you that he and his people stand squarely behind president wilson in waging this war for democracy , and yet they cannot refrain from lynching even at the request of the president . lynching has evidently become a"
1590,17425_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1918,"stand squarely behind president wilson in waging this war for democracy , and yet they cannot refrain from lynching even at the request of the president . lynching has evidently become a chronic disease in this country , and therefore require something a trifle stronger than a "" message on",mob,"law will "" to stop it ."
1591,17426_0.txt,"The Flagstaff sun-democrat (Flagstaff, Ariz...)",1897,"man , distrusting banks , hid the money in the hog pen . the hogs scented the greenbacks and succeeded in rooting them out , and , finding them palatable , devoured the whole $ 500 . the jail at jeffersonville , ga . , was broken open by a",mob,"of masked men and two negroes , william white and charles forsythe , implicated in the murder of mrs . rowland , were taken out hanged to a limb and their bodies and riddled with bullets . additional dispatches . fire partially destroyed the boys dormitory of the christian home"
1592,17426_0.txt,"The Flagstaff sun-democrat (Flagstaff, Ariz...)",1897,"distrusting banks , hid the money in the hog pen . the hogs scented the greenbacks and succeeded in rooting them out , and , finding them palatable , devoured the whole $ 500 . the jail at jeffersonville , ga . , was broken open by a mob of",masked,"men and two negroes , william white and charles forsythe , implicated in the murder of mrs . rowland , were taken out hanged to a limb and their bodies and riddled with bullets . additional dispatches . fire partially destroyed the boys dormitory of the christian home orphanage at"
1593,17426_0.txt,"The Flagstaff sun-democrat (Flagstaff, Ariz...)",1897,"distrusting banks , hid the money in the hog pen . the hogs scented the greenbacks and succeeded in rooting them out , and , finding them palatable , devoured the whole $ 500 . the jail at jeffersonville , ga . , was broken open by a mob of",masked men,"and two negroes , william white and charles forsythe , implicated in the murder of mrs . rowland , were taken out hanged to a limb and their bodies and riddled with bullets . additional dispatches . fire partially destroyed the boys dormitory of the christian home orphanage at council"
1594,17426_0.txt,"The Flagstaff sun-democrat (Flagstaff, Ariz...)",1897,"on the 24th , causing a loss of $ 425 , 000 . the firemen had great difficulty in getting water the plugs in the neighborhood being frozen . a negro named pierce taylor was taken from the jail at tallahassee , fla . , on the 24th by a",mob,"and hanged to a tree in the jail yard . he had been arrested for an attempted assault on a woman . eugene washington , a negro ar rested for assaulting a girl at bryan , tex . , was taken by an infuriated mob on the evening of the"
1595,17426_0.txt,"The Flagstaff sun-democrat (Flagstaff, Ariz...)",1897,"on the 24th by a mob and hanged to a tree in the jail yard . he had been arrested for an attempted assault on a woman . eugene washington , a negro ar rested for assaulting a girl at bryan , tex . , was taken by an infuriated",mob,on the evening of the 23d and hanged to a cottonwood on main street in that city . tree
1596,17427_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1895,"woman named anna adam writing from tucson that she was his wife . they formerly lived at pinal , in this county . last week adam shot and killed his father- in- law , judge j . l . baker , near madera , and the fol lowing day a",mob,"hung him to a tree . he was about to be prosecuted for bigamy . adam was of french nativity , having been born at strasburg in 1849 . he served in the french army in 1873 . he had the reputation of being a hard citizen wherever he lived"
1597,17428_1.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1900,"beat an english negro . rieters in new york may bring about international complications . new york , aug . 30 . - alfred akins , a british subject who was one of the victims of the",mob,"and later of police outrages , has appealed to the british consul for redress . akins is a carpenter , and while he was on his way home from the grand central station , ignorant of the race war then going on , he was beaten and almost killed by"
1598,17428_2.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1900,"texas lynchers sentenced . life imprisonment for a crime committed eleven years ago . palestine , tex . . aug . 30 . - joseph wilkerson , ex- of the peace , the leader of the justice",mob,that lynched the
1599,17429_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1900,"three negroes lynched . tunica , miss . , sept . 14 . - a",masked,"mob broke into the jail here this ing , taking out and hanging three morn ne"
1600,17429_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1900,"three negroes lynched . tunica , miss . , sept . 14 . - a masked",mob,"broke into the jail here this ing , taking out and hanging three morn ne"
1601,17431_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1903,"5 . - lewis jackson , a negro charged with having attempted to assault the three- year- old daughter of supt . r . e . ensey , of the govern- ment works at fort desota on mullet key last monday , was lynched near tampa night , by a",mob,of white men . last
1602,17433_0.txt,"The Dolores star (Dolores, Montez...)",1906,"the alabama democratic primaries show that hoke smith , former member of cleveland's cabinet , carried 118 counties of the state . this practically insures his election as governor . the jury in the case of doss gal braith , the alleged leader of the springfield , mo . ,",mob,"which hanged three negroes last april , failed to agree on a verdict and were discharged . finance minister kokovsoff has authorized the associated press to deny . the oft repeated reports that russia intends to enter the foreign market for a new loan this autumn . gen . quentin"
1603,17434_0.txt,"Bent County register. (Lamar, Colo.)",1886,"getting out the first issue of the register . mr . lauber has many old a quaintances in lamar who will regret to learn of the sorrow that has invaded his family . a dispatch received later , states that the blood thirsty murderer was taken out by a infuriated",mob,"and hanged without any seremonies , on wednesday last nov . 10 . ,"
1604,17435_0.txt,"The Idaho Springs siftings-news. (Idaho Springs, ...)",1912,"jail stormed ; negro lynched . cordelle , ga.- a",mob,"of 500 men stormed the jail where albert hamilton , the negro assailant of a white girl , was confined , took him forth and hanged him to a tree . trcops ordered here ailed to arrive in time to save negro's life . the girl identified the the negro"
1605,17435_1.txt,"The Idaho Springs siftings-news. (Idaho Springs, ...)",1912,foreign . two,unmasked,"men , armed with revolvers entered the hill crest branch of the royal bank of canada , at van- couver . is broad daylight , drove manager steaves and one of his clerks into the vault and escaped with $ 1,999 . the nationalists introduced in the duma a bill"
1606,17435_1.txt,"The Idaho Springs siftings-news. (Idaho Springs, ...)",1912,foreign . two,unmasked men,", armed with revolvers entered the hill crest branch of the royal bank of canada , at van- couver . is broad daylight , drove manager steaves and one of his clerks into the vault and escaped with $ 1,999 . the nationalists introduced in the duma a bill prohibiting"
1607,17435_2.txt,"The Idaho Springs siftings-news. (Idaho Springs, ...)",1912,"the worst rioting in the fortnight of the lawrence , mass . , textile strike , involving 20,000 persons , occurred when street cars were held up and stoned by",mobs,"which refused to let operatives go into the mills . one woman was struck and killed by a stray bullet , a patrolman was stabbed in the back , a militia captain i was badly cut by a brick and several others hurt by stones as well as by the"
1608,17436_0.txt,"The Idaho Springs siftings-news. (Idaho Springs, ...)",1919,"jose gonzales and santoz ortez , mexicans , who shot and killed police man jefferson evans in the pepper sauce bottoms , a negro and mexican settlement of pueblo , were taken from the city jail by a",mob,"and lynched at the fourth street bridge , near the city limits . none of the members of the mob was recognized , as all wore handkerchief masks and were garbed in blue overalls and blue jumpers plain blue overalls . or"
1609,17436_0.txt,"The Idaho Springs siftings-news. (Idaho Springs, ...)",1919,"who shot and killed police man jefferson evans in the pepper sauce bottoms , a negro and mexican settlement of pueblo , were taken from the city jail by a mob and lynched at the fourth street bridge , near the city limits . none of the members of the",mob,"was recognized , as all wore handkerchief masks and were garbed in blue overalls and blue jumpers plain blue overalls . or"
1610,17436_0.txt,"The Idaho Springs siftings-news. (Idaho Springs, ...)",1919,"in the pepper sauce bottoms , a negro and mexican settlement of pueblo , were taken from the city jail by a mob and lynched at the fourth street bridge , near the city limits . none of the members of the mob was recognized , as all wore handkerchief",masks,and were garbed in blue overalls and blue jumpers plain blue overalls . or
1611,17437_0.txt,"The Delta independent (Delta, Colo.)",1888,"franklin baker , the murderer of two anchmen near burlington , was taken from the sheriff at cheyer ne wells by",mob,of infuriated men and hanged . a
1612,17438_0.txt,"The new era. (Walden, Colo.)",1907,six men alleged to be the leaders of the,mob,"that lynched a negro at sterrett , i . t . , march 31 , have been ar rested united states marshals and held on by a charge of murder ."
1613,17439_0.txt,"The new era. (Walden, Colo.)",1907,the trial of george a . pettibone charged with conspiracy in the mur der of former gov . steunenberg of idaho has been set for october 1 . two of the alleged leaders of the,mob,"which lynched the negro , frank bailey , at osage , i . t . , have been held to the federal grand jury on a of murder . charge"
1614,17441_2.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1922,"of the bill are those who have prejudice in their hearts . "" this is not a race issue . this is a question involving the honor of the republic . the senate of the united states is republican and unless it obeys the mandate to protect human life from",mobs,", those in control of the re publicans are entitled to and deserve the condemnation of the people of america . "" at this meeting , t . g . nutter of the west virginia legislature gave a rousing description of the west virginia anti- lynching law and urged colored"
1615,17445_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,"of excuse can be found by the most rabid southern fire eater or most violent negro hater for the recent lynching in statesboro , georgia . in this case the negro criminals had been tried by the courts , found guilty , and sen- tenced to death . but the",mob,", in most flagrant defiance of law , attacked the jail or court house , utterly defled the militia who had been brought together , and lynched the prisoners . no southern journal has the shadow of a pretext for defending such an outrage as this and to their honor"
1616,17445_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,"mild reprimand . the governor had no other alternative aft- er the repor of the court inquiry in the case , which placed the responsibility upon the commanding officer and four of his subordinates , who cowardly shirked their plain duty , and were no doubt in sympathy with the",mob,". the report censures the officers , and the more so , because the force of men they had was wholly adequate to restrain the mob and rescue the prisoners . the officers actually mde no at- tempt at all at rescue , the report says . it exonerates the"
1617,17445_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,"the commanding officer and four of his subordinates , who cowardly shirked their plain duty , and were no doubt in sympathy with the mob . the report censures the officers , and the more so , because the force of men they had was wholly adequate to restrain the",mob,"and rescue the prisoners . the officers actually mde no at- tempt at all at rescue , the report says . it exonerates the enlisted men , as it appears they manifested a desire and readiness to do their duty in the case . one officer of the lot ,"
1618,17445_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,"readiness to do their duty in the case . one officer of the lot , lieutenant me- intyre , is wholly exonerated , as he begged at the time to be allowed to use his command to rescue the prisoners , but was refused . this most flagrant case of",mob,"violation of law , done with out shadow of excuse , must , if any thing can , awaken renewed sentiment and activity against lynching in the south , and in the north , too , for matter . that"
1619,17445_1.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,"church . good methodist the methodist church , which is strong in the southern states of our union , as it is most everywhere in this country . is not derelict as to taking a stand against",mob,"violence and lynchings , as is evidenced by action taken by the methodist church in statesboro , georg ia , regarding the recent lynching case there . 4 the southern methodist church , to its honor , takes the lead in condemnation and reprobation of these barbaric deeds of mobs"
1620,17445_1.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1904,"mob violence and lynchings , as is evidenced by action taken by the methodist church in statesboro , georg ia , regarding the recent lynching case there . 4 the southern methodist church , to its honor , takes the lead in condemnation and reprobation of these barbaric deeds of",mobs,". slavery , it has been said is a relic of barbarism , but this most recent lynching case is worse than barbarism . the new york inde pendent , in noticing editorially this recent lynching case remarks : "" we have observed that somehow it is the southern methodist"
1621,17449_0.txt,"Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1897,,mob,"law rules . reign of terror in indiana towns caused by desperate characters . versailles , ind . , nov . 2 . - since the announcement that gov . mount has abandoned hope of convicting members of the mob which lynched five men here some time ago , the"
1622,17449_0.txt,"Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1897,"mob law rules . reign of terror in indiana towns caused by desperate characters . versailles , ind . , nov . 2 . - since the announcement that gov . mount has abandoned hope of convicting members of the",mob,"which lynched five men here some time ago , the lawless element is becoming vindictive . the law is not enforced against the perpetrators of the robberies , barn burnings and highwaymen , and the farmers are again becoming very rest less . an uprising similar to that which swept"
1623,17451_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1897-1900",1898,"on the night of sept . 14 , 1897 : "" i was in the late war , saw men wounded , bleed and fall dead upon the battlefield , but this is the hardest task that has ever befallen me . while i believe that 200 men in the",mob,"are guilty of lynching the five men in the versailles jail , i must and do declare , according to testimony given in this case , that heze kiah hughes is not guilty . "" attorney general ketcham , after the decision , was at once driven to dills boro"
1624,17451_1.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1897-1900",1898,"deputies and dispersed three crowds of men who , he stated , were about to throw stones at men at work in the strippings . the next day he went to drifton and swore in a num ber of additional deputies . after re turning to hazleton he heard a",mob,"was marching to stockton and took a car thither with some deputies . he met the strikers and read his proclamation , eventually persuading them not to enter the city limits . they turned to crystal ridge , but he headed them off and with difficulty dispersed them . continuing"
1625,17451_1.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1897-1900",1898,"the city limits . they turned to crystal ridge , but he headed them off and with difficulty dispersed them . continuing his story , he told how , on the followin day ( thursday ) , he dispersed some strikers at cranberry . then he got word of a",mob,"at beaver meadow and went there . the mob charged on the deputies , and they had to push them away with their guns held like rails . the sheriff then added that one man fired upon the deputies as the crowd dispersed and made good his escape . friday"
1626,17451_1.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1897-1900",1898,", but he headed them off and with difficulty dispersed them . continuing his story , he told how , on the followin day ( thursday ) , he dispersed some strikers at cranberry . then he got word of a mob at beaver meadow and went there . the",mob,"charged on the deputies , and they had to push them away with their guns held like rails . the sheriff then added that one man fired upon the deputies as the crowd dispersed and made good his escape . friday afternoon he got a message that the strikers were"
1627,17451_1.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1897-1900",1898,"dispersed and made good his escape . friday afternoon he got a message that the strikers were marching through cranberry , bound for lattimer . he hur ried to west hazleton and met the strikers there . after a great deal of difficulty he persuaded them to scatter , the",mob,"cursing him all the time . they left the road , he said , and went over some lots . soon he heard they were go ing to lattimer . "" i hurried off with my deputies , "" he continued , "" to intercept them . i told them"
1628,17453_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1905,taken by,mob,"prisoner prisoner who assaulted woman has probably been lynched russellville , ky . , july 5 . - james lyon , who was charged with assault ing miss mary gladder , was taken from the jail by a mob of 100 men shortly before midnight and it is sup posed"
1629,17453_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1905,"taken by mob prisoner prisoner who assaulted woman has probably been lynched russellville , ky . , july 5 . - james lyon , who was charged with assault ing miss mary gladder , was taken from the jail by a",mob,of 100 men shortly before midnight and it is sup posed that he was lynched . when the mob reached the jail the other three men imprisoned on a simi iron lar charge had crawled up the railing and hid in the big water tank near the ceiling . when
1630,17453_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1905,"been lynched russellville , ky . , july 5 . - james lyon , who was charged with assault ing miss mary gladder , was taken from the jail by a mob of 100 men shortly before midnight and it is sup posed that he was lynched . when the",mob,"reached the jail the other three men imprisoned on a simi iron lar charge had crawled up the railing and hid in the big water tank near the ceiling . when the crowd got well inside john sacka , whose trial has been in progress since monday , dropped to"
1631,17453_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1905,"met the sheriff and his deputies , out side the jail yard and they ordered him to stop . he rushed on and they snot at him four times , wounding him twice . neither wound is thought to be fatal . the shooting ' near the square frightened the",mob,"in the jail and they hurried off with only one of the men , lyon , leaving two others in jail . these two , together with the wounded man , were taken away shortly afterwards to bowling green . it is supposed that lyon , who was taken away"
1632,17453_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1905,"jail and they hurried off with only one of the men , lyon , leaving two others in jail . these two , together with the wounded man , were taken away shortly afterwards to bowling green . it is supposed that lyon , who was taken away by the",mob,"was hanged in the outskirts of the town , ."
1633,17454_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1906,"bail fixed at $ 10,000 . bail- was la . june 8 . tallulah , dr f . yesterday for fixed at 10,000 $ lynched rob",mob,"which the leader of a . brown , who was alleged to be under in who is rogers and ert t . gro 4 murder charge of a on dictment lynching . the of out ing dr brown of announced that special term a furnished the bail . judge randall"
1634,17455_0.txt,"The Bridgeport evening farmer (Bridgeport, Con...)",1915,"home in brooklyn few curious gather before house where funeral will be held tomorrow . atlanta , ga . , aug . 19- governor harris planned to confer with the members of the state prison commis- relative to to be taken for the arrest and conviction of members of the",mob,"which lynched leo m . frank . this conference was to be the first actual step on the part of the state officials to place the blame for the hanging . all three members of the prison commission milledgeville at , were where the georgia prison farm is located ,"
1635,17455_0.txt,"The Bridgeport evening farmer (Bridgeport, Con...)",1915,", were where the georgia prison farm is located , on monday night , last , when frank was abducted . chairman r . e . davison has said he believes none of the officers at the farm are to blame for the loss of the prisoner , declaring the",mob,"was so well organized that they were powerless . under georgia law the governor can offer a maximum reward of $ 500 for each arrest and conviction . "" i probably will do this , "" said the governor . "" the abduction of the state's ward , and his"
1636,17455_0.txt,"The Bridgeport evening farmer (Bridgeport, Con...)",1915,"state ask- ing what action would be taken by the state and urging that a complete investigation be made . i . n . ragsdale , acting mayor of atlanta , has made the following state ment : the daily and weekly press of georgia is practically unanimous in condemning",mob,"law and urging the governor to take action in the frank case at once . he is investigating now and will probably offer a reward that will bring the guilty parties to justice . while a large percentage of our people believed frank guilty , yet they are law- abiding"
1637,17455_0.txt,"The Bridgeport evening farmer (Bridgeport, Con...)",1915,"action in the frank case at once . he is investigating now and will probably offer a reward that will bring the guilty parties to justice . while a large percentage of our people believed frank guilty , yet they are law- abiding and heartily prove the action of the",mob,". "" disap"
1638,17456_0.txt,Morning journal and courier (New Haven [Conn...),1890,taxation without representation ; to secure a more equitable distribution of sohool funds in those states where separate judge and a fury of our peers in to tial trial by all causes at law wherein we may be a party ; to resist by all legal and reasonable means all,mob,"and lynch law whereof we are the victime , and to insist upon the arrest and conviction of all such offenders against our cal ages of railroads all the , courts steamboats the tyrand other corporations where we are concerned . "" other articles were adopted which provided for establishment"
1639,17458_0.txt,Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury [Conn...),1907,"again referred to governor hughes , saying : "" let it be ever remembered that justice is essential , but constant shifting from one plan to another in search of ideal justice often defeats itself in purpose . justice is never secure while order and stability are destroyed . the",mob,"puts civilization back ; lynching is a step toward barbarism . many a bill needs executive veto , and in new york state it gets it . if the legislation was always wise , then the constitution is a mistake , for that attempts to confine legislation within certain limits"
1640,17465_0.txt,"Bellevue gazette (Bellevue City, ...)",1857,"poweshiek murderer lynched.- the person who was under arrest , on a charge of having perpetrated the cold- blooded murder in poweshiek county , a few months since , was yesterday taken out of the hands of the sheriff and deliberately hung by a",mob,"of 400 citizens . a change of venue had been asked for and granted . the granting of this application by judge stone was the signal for the seizure of the pris oner , and his execution in the immediate vicinity of the town of montezuma . the citizens ,"
1641,17466_0.txt,"Kenosha tribune & telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1857,"another in askaloosa thomas charged with the murder of mr . & . mrs . , castell , was taken from the custody of the sheriff by an armed",mob,"of 200 persons and hung , without even going through with the formalities of a mock trial . makes the seventh man hung by mobs in iowa during this the last eight weeks ."
1642,17466_0.txt,"Kenosha tribune & telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1857,"charged with the murder of mr . & . mrs . , castell , was taken from the custody of the sheriff by an armed mob of 200 persons and hung , without even going through with the formalities of a mock trial . makes the seventh man hung by",mobs,in iowa during this the last eight weeks .
1643,17467_0.txt,New-York dispatch (New York [N.Y.]),1857,"a day or two before- that much excitement had reigned in regard to it- that two men , named baines and guarles had been arrested , and their confessions had implicated an extensive band of depreda tors , and that baines and guarles were immediately after wards taken by the",mob,"and hung under lynch law . half a dozen others were under trial before the vigilance committee at the time of leaving of the advice , and the people had expressed their determination to hang more of them at all hazards . gov . walker and judge lecompte had been"
1644,17469_0.txt,"The western Democrat (Charlotte, N.C.)",1857,the,mob,"murders of iowa . shocking scenes . it is time that the lynchings which have recently taken place in iowa were called by the right names , and the legal tribunals of the state were setting about to vindicate the majesty of the law by the punishment of the wretches"
1645,17469_0.txt,"The western Democrat (Charlotte, N.C.)",1857,"was ever perpetrated by a midnight assassin . the oshkosh herald gives the the following additional particulars of the event : "" no sooner was the decision of the court given ( changing the venue , in order that he might have a fair trial ) than a regular organized",mob,"of about two hundred men proceeded to the old court- house , where the prisoner was confined , and demanded , and by force took thomas from the custody of the sheriff , and amid the terrific shrieks of the prisoner and the most hellish reveling of the mob ,"
1646,17469_0.txt,"The western Democrat (Charlotte, N.C.)",1857,"organized mob of about two hundred men proceeded to the old court- house , where the prisoner was confined , and demanded , and by force took thomas from the custody of the sheriff , and amid the terrific shrieks of the prisoner and the most hellish reveling of the",mob,", carried him away to a tree which they had previously prepared , in the suburbs of the town . here , without even adhering to the customs of lynch law , or abiding by the honor of mob force , they placed the rope around the prisoner's neck and"
1647,17469_0.txt,"The western Democrat (Charlotte, N.C.)",1857,"shrieks of the prisoner and the most hellish reveling of the mob , carried him away to a tree which they had previously prepared , in the suburbs of the town . here , without even adhering to the customs of lynch law , or abiding by the honor of",mob,"force , they placed the rope around the prisoner's neck and demanded a confession of the crime . the prisoner plead his innocence . the rope was drawn over a limb , and the pris- oner swung into the air after a few strug- . gles he was let down"
1648,17469_0.txt,"The western Democrat (Charlotte, N.C.)",1857,"limb , and the pris- oner swung into the air after a few strug- . gles he was let down , and again demanded to make confession . again he pleaded in- nocent of the crime . again he was hung up and a fire kindled beneath his feet.- the",mob,"threatened to burn him if he did not confess the murder . again he was let down . from the strangulation received , he had lost his strength and his voice.- the mob still demanded a confession . the prisoner , in the faintness of death , porsist- ed that"
1649,17469_0.txt,"The western Democrat (Charlotte, N.C.)",1857,"of the crime . again he was hung up and a fire kindled beneath his feet.- the mob threatened to burn him if he did not confess the murder . again he was let down . from the strangulation received , he had lost his strength and his voice.- the",mob,"still demanded a confession . the prisoner , in the faintness of death , porsist- ed that he was innocent . again he was hung up , where he remained until he was dead . "" the herald says that this makes the tenth victim of mob violence in iowa"
1650,17469_0.txt,"The western Democrat (Charlotte, N.C.)",1857,"his voice.- the mob still demanded a confession . the prisoner , in the faintness of death , porsist- ed that he was innocent . again he was hung up , where he remained until he was dead . "" the herald says that this makes the tenth victim of",mob,"violence in iowa since first of april- four in jacksou , five in the cedar and one in poweshiek ."
1651,17472_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1914,negro lynched on sunday .,mob,"in arkansas town pursues two others . newport , ark.- a mob lynched howard davis , a negro , here a few minutes , after davis had shot and killed city the marshal payne . two other negroes were pursued by a mob bent on lynch- ing them . payne"
1652,17472_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1914,"negro lynched on sunday . mob in arkansas town pursues two others . newport , ark.- a",mob,"lynched howard davis , a negro , here a few minutes , after davis had shot and killed city the marshal payne . two other negroes were pursued by a mob bent on lynch- ing them . payne attempted to arrest con- the three , who were disorderly . in"
1653,17472_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1914,"negro lynched on sunday . mob in arkansas town pursues two others . newport , ark.- a mob lynched howard davis , a negro , here a few minutes , after davis had shot and killed city the marshal payne . two other negroes were pursued by a",mob,"bent on lynch- ing them . payne attempted to arrest con- the three , who were disorderly . in a a revolver fight payne was killed and davis wounded . the crowd imme- dragged the crippled negro to diately a tree and hanged him ."
1654,17473_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1916,,mob,"of 1,000 hangs negro . parents of woman begged lynchers to stop . shreveport , la.- a mob of 1,000 took jess hammet , a negro , from the jail at vivian , 20 miles north of here , and hanged him to a telegraph pole . he was identified"
1655,17473_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1916,"mob of 1,000 hangs negro . parents of woman begged lynchers to stop . shreveport , la.- a",mob,"of 1,000 took jess hammet , a negro , from the jail at vivian , 20 miles north of here , and hanged him to a telegraph pole . he was identified by a white woman as the man who attempted an assault upon her , armed with a butcher"
1656,17473_0.txt,"Middletown transcript (Middletown, Del...)",1916,"at vivian , 20 miles north of here , and hanged him to a telegraph pole . he was identified by a white woman as the man who attempted an assault upon her , armed with a butcher knife . the woman's parents were among those who pleaded with the",mob,desist . to
1657,17474_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1898,nuggets of news . a,mob,"lynched james jones , colored , near macon , miss . , fer setting fire to the house of a woman . farmer john fitzgerald , of ogdens- burg , n . y . , hid $ 400 in his cellar and thieves carried it off . murderer martin thorn's"
1658,17475_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1900,"jail at belair and lynched , was at the county clerk's office , towson , yesterday , attending to some business . he is very much put out at the action of the inob which did the hanging . he said he would not have felt so indignant had the",mob,"confined its assault to the jai building , but he considered it a crimol , for its members to fire 17 shots into his private residence . all of the shots except two went through the transom over the door . one went through the door and one went through"
1659,17475_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1900,"that came near killing his daughter , sheriff kinhart said that a jail could eas ily be built to keep prisoners in , but it was a very hard thing to erect a building that would keep a mub out . it would be an easy thing now for a",mob,"to get in the jail , he says , and thore is no outside door to the building , the onelbattered in by the mob not having yot been replaced . ho said he did not know what the negro har . ris said after the mob got hold of"
1660,17475_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1900,"was a very hard thing to erect a building that would keep a mub out . it would be an easy thing now for a mob to get in the jail , he says , and thore is no outside door to the building , the onelbattered in by the",mob,"not having yot been replaced . ho said he did not know what the negro har . ris said after the mob got hold of him , and he asserted he would not believe any one in the mob on oath . he said the negro black , in baltimoro"
1661,17475_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1900,"now for a mob to get in the jail , he says , and thore is no outside door to the building , the onelbattered in by the mob not having yot been replaced . ho said he did not know what the negro har . ris said after the",mob,"got hold of him , and he asserted he would not believe any one in the mob on oath . he said the negro black , in baltimoro jail , accused of assaulting miss jessie bradfore near aber deen , would be allowed to remain in the baltimore jail and"
1662,17475_0.txt,"The Wilmington daily Republican. (Wilmington, Del...)",1900,"outside door to the building , the onelbattered in by the mob not having yot been replaced . ho said he did not know what the negro har . ris said after the mob got hold of him , and he asserted he would not believe any one in the",mob,"on oath . he said the negro black , in baltimoro jail , accused of assaulting miss jessie bradfore near aber deen , would be allowed to remain in the baltimore jail and would not be to belair for trial . taken"
1663,17476_0.txt,"Daily Republican ([Wilmington, De...)",1881,"near saltillo , indiana , on friday , john c . russel , arrested on the charge of stealing , was taken from an officer by a",mob,"and hanged up three times to extort a confession . the last time he was strung up blood gushed from his nose and month , and he was resuscitated with difficulty . he protested innocence all the time . his"
1664,17478_0.txt,"Daily Republican ([Wilmington, De...)",1882,"c . d . oweus , a young man who had stabbed a young woman nearly the to death , was taken from the jail at tampa , florida , on saturday , and lynched by a",mob,". he was hanged from a tree in the yard of the court house where the united pushed , states count was in session at the time . way lieut . danes , of the third u . s . artill- notes ery , ordered out the garrison to protect"
1665,17479_0.txt,"Daily Republican ([Wilmington, De...)",1883,". description of the was given negro to the jailer , who arrested him . the same night a large crowd of workmen employed on the river improvements visited the jail and demanded the prisoner . owing to the delicate condi of the jailer's wife at the time the ,",mob,"was persuaded to disperse . all this occurred on the 20th instant . on saturday night the mob revisited the jail , carried the jailer's wife to another house , then took the prisoner and hung him to a beam in the depot building and riddled his body with bullets"
1666,17479_0.txt,"Daily Republican ([Wilmington, De...)",1883,"a large crowd of workmen employed on the river improvements visited the jail and demanded the prisoner . owing to the delicate condi of the jailer's wife at the time the , mob was persuaded to disperse . all this occurred on the 20th instant . on saturday night the",mob,"revisited the jail , carried the jailer's wife to another house , then took the prisoner and hung him to a beam in the depot building and riddled his body with bullets the negro confessed . ."
1667,17480_0.txt,"Daily Republican ([Wilmington, De...)",1883,"deeds of violence . d . w . pressell , charged with having a girl , was taken from the jail at mayers- ville , louisiana , by a",mob,"and lynched on wednesday night mrs . marcia marthone , wife of a cigarmaker in new york , was fatally shot yesterday morning by joseph diaz , a she refused to abandon her husband for him . diaz was supported by the marthiones last winter and spring when he was"
1668,17484_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1892,"at edmonton , metcalf county , kentucky , friday , a",mob,"broke into the jail and shot to death john wilcoxsen , a young negro . who last july murdered james coffee , a young white farmer . a mob assembled three weeks ago to lynch the negro , but part of them wanted to lynch one john price , a"
1669,17484_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1892,"at edmonton , metcalf county , kentucky , friday , a mob broke into the jail and shot to death john wilcoxsen , a young negro . who last july murdered james coffee , a young white farmer . a",mob,"assembled three weeks ago to lynch the negro , but part of them wanted to lynch one john price , a white nurderer , also , but as they not agree , they dispersed . could"
1670,17485_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1891,"the coke regions strike bloodshed attends the eviction of the "" huns . "" women lead the fierce revolt the sheriff uses force to keep the",mob,"at bay . they attack the sheriff and his deputies and drive them back -- mrs . blassko shoots the sheriff and makes a desperate resistance -- the militia called out . uniontown , pa . , april 22 . - the coke strike yielded another pathetic murder this morning"
1671,17485_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1891,", april 22 . - the coke strike yielded another pathetic murder this morning . at frick's adelaide works , across the river in dunbar town ship , deputy sheriff crawford and a posse who sought to make a lot of evic- tions were stoned and driven back by a",mob,"of hungarian strikers . a subsequent requisition , through sheriff mccormick , brought company c , tenth regiment , with 50 men . then , with the military drawn up in line , the evictions proceeded to the end . about 4 o'clock one family re- entered a house ,"
1672,17485_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1891,"company c , tenth regiment , with 50 men . then , with the military drawn up in line , the evictions proceeded to the end . about 4 o'clock one family re- entered a house , and when the sheriff attempted to put them out a second time a",mob,"assembled and beat him and his deputies , the leader of the huns tapped his is shoot american ! "" the sheriff grappled with him and , deputy crawford coming to his assist- the head with his revolver . the hun now started to run , and the sheriff sped"
1673,17486_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1893,fought a bloody battle a a lynching,mob,"resisted by the officers . at least twenty- two killed deadly volleys of shots from both sides . a mob lynches a north carolina mur deres , after a gory conflict with the prison tinards --- the prison stormed- list of victims of the fierce fight . bakersville , n"
1674,17486_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1893,fought a bloody battle a a lynching mob resisted by the officers . at least twenty- two killed deadly volleys of shots from both sides . a,mob,"lynches a north carolina mur deres , after a gory conflict with the prison tinards --- the prison stormed- list of victims of the fierce fight . bakersville , n . c . , jan . 4 . - twenty two men were killed in a battle between officers and"
1675,17486_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1893,"a north carolina mur deres , after a gory conflict with the prison tinards --- the prison stormed- list of victims of the fierce fight . bakersville , n . c . , jan . 4 . - twenty two men were killed in a battle between officers and a",mob,"that attacked the jail here last night for the purpose of lynch ing calvin snipes , who had murdered isaac osborne last august . the battle was one of the bloodiest in the south since the war , armed and deter mined men facing each other , one party to"
1676,17486_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1893,"august . the battle was one of the bloodiest in the south since the war , armed and deter mined men facing each other , one party to uphold the law and the other to take the dispensation , of justice into its own hands . for two days the",mob,"has been gathering and the authorities had timely warning of its purpose , and prepared to resist . the leaders of the mob were known and made little effort to conceal their identity . all of monday night squads of 20 and 30 hung round the little back woods prison"
1677,17486_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1893,"other , one party to uphold the law and the other to take the dispensation , of justice into its own hands . for two days the mob has been gathering and the authorities had timely warning of its purpose , and prepared to resist . the leaders of the",mob,"were known and made little effort to conceal their identity . all of monday night squads of 20 and 30 hung round the little back woods prison to prevent the murderer from being spirited away . on tuesday the sheriff warned the mob to disperse , promising that justice should"
1678,17486_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1893,to resist . the leaders of the mob were known and made little effort to conceal their identity . all of monday night squads of 20 and 30 hung round the little back woods prison to prevent the murderer from being spirited away . on tuesday the sheriff warned the,mob,"to disperse , promising that justice should be fully satisfied when the trial came on . he declared that the prisoner would be protected until that time with all the power of oid north state . the"
1679,17487_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1893,"although at the same time deny- ing his guilt . he claimed he was home at 12 o'clock , but his mother- in- law states he was not home until between 3 and 4 o'clock this morning . great excitement prevailed when he was brought into town . a howling",mob,"demanded his body and a lynching was barely prevented . manfuid was secretly taken to a train and thence to pottsville , where he was committed to jail . manfuid's reputation is rather unsavory , and it is feared his object in entering his companion's home $ was for crime"
1680,17488_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1900,"maryland had another lynching , mon day , when a negro accused of having attempted to feloniously assault a young white woman was taken from jai ! by a",mob,"and hanged to a tree . there is , in nearly every instance , a deplorable element in lynching , and particularly so in this case , as the victim had not been positively identified . the feelings of the people , however , were intensified by a very recent"
1681,17489_0.txt,"Delaware gazette and state journal. (Wilmington, Del...)",1900,a maniac's frightful crime he killed two men and then shot a policeman .,mob,"threatened to lynch him his pursuers followed him for a mile . finally , the murderer found refuge in a prison , where the and his men kept the crowd at bay with winchesters until he was locked in a cell . new orleans , la . , june 25"
1682,17493_0.txt,"Delaware state journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1880,"light again the would jim higgins , the negro murderer , for cruelly tortured in tennessee the --a jersey family's iii luck ment to --bond , the sta tioner , dead . stories vice the oxford car works destroyed railroad by the porch torturing a negro . women a tennessee",mob,"apply lighted torches to a negroe's feet to extort carter to a confession of his having participated in a murder . "" nashville , sept . 16 . - in an interview crazy "" had with jim higgins , the negro who con "" fessed to having assisted in the"
1683,17493_0.txt,"Delaware state journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1880,"con "" fessed to having assisted in the murder of laprade , he gave the following account of been "" how he was punished in order to wring first from him his statement : he said that a few nights before the dray he lynching of bell and jamison a",mob,"came into the calaboose at sadlerville , where he the was incarcerated . they threw a blanket over his head and tied it to prevent him gordon from seeing , fastened his arms with a rope visitors him a horse . of the mob got on behind him , while"
1684,17493_0.txt,"Delaware state journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1880,"lynching of bell and jamison a mob came into the calaboose at sadlerville , where he the was incarcerated . they threw a blanket over his head and tied it to prevent him gordon from seeing , fastened his arms with a rope visitors him a horse . of the",mob,"got on behind him , while two others light she led the horse . they carried him he knew room not whither , and swung him to a limb of a tree for a few minutes , let him down , and except then told him if he did not"
1685,17495_0.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"lynching by respectab le men . he well knows that the attempt is not as great as the crime in this instance ; "" it is foolish to say that it is he "" hopes "" but he the does not know , that he is not in favor of",mob,"as law on a general scale , "" but , he adds , "" the end always justifies the means . "" he says what is not true when he declares that i have a great to er sympathy for the negro thau for the injured are family that the"
1686,17495_0.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"i am oppo - ed to lynching even negroes , that i am tinctured with black but i can tell him that i am tinctured with hu to manity , which is more than can be said of any of man who approves , palliates , excuses or apologizes for",mob-,"law . now for a few facts . if it was "" all perfectly right why dover "" has smyrna been shy of , so its during court week ? why has the grand jury of this been balked or in their investigation into this case ? why did men"
1687,17495_0.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"for any reason- much less for mere hatred to abolition iem , and "" niggers "" -to set aside the safeguards of law ? citizen "" says so , and it would not be charitable to say that he doesn't know . , but he is not in favor of",mob-,"law on a general the scale that is , when it is likely to injure citizen ; "" when it does not involve whites , but this extends only to blacks . it is "" all perfectly right "" wben it is in opposition to black republicanism . i say"
1688,17495_0.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"it does not involve whites , but this extends only to blacks . it is "" all perfectly right "" wben it is in opposition to black republicanism . i say it is never right . if it were , obedient and good citizens of smyrna might avenge upon the",mob,"the insult to the laws and the commission of a crime , worse in the eye of the law , ( for as tender is its regard for life ) than that for which hamilton was lynched . might never makes right . no good citizen will yield to it"
1689,17495_0.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"according to right and the laws of god . had hamilton dealt a death- blow to any of his persecutors the purest principles of self- defence and the first and highest instincts of self- preservation would have excused him . those who , like "" citizen , "" apologize for",mob,"1.00 law on a special scale , do so upon the ground and 1.00 upon no other , that should the law be left to deal with the offender , he would not get his deserts . 1.25 but in this special case , death was the highest 1.50 penalty"
1690,17495_0.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"break and enter into the dwelling house of another 00 person , with intent to commit murder , rape or 1.00 arson , whether such intent be executed or not , ho shall be deemed guilty of burglary and felony 1.00 and shall suffer death . "" 70 did the",mob,"know that , or was legal hanging 1.00 too good for the nigger ? "" who told them that the law would not hang hamilton , and what fee 2.50 did they pay for the advice ? somebody's conscience stings them- why thould "" citizen , ' 1.00 who writes"
1691,17495_0.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"that the law would not hang hamilton , and what fee 2.50 did they pay for the advice ? somebody's conscience stings them- why thould "" citizen , ' 1.00 who writes from nowhere , be their special cham 50 piou i have an interest as a citizen to oppose",mob,"law what 50 ; interest has he to wink at aud 50 favor it ? no doubt "" citizen "" is "" all perfectly 50 right for his skin is not black . "" 50 que word more . the wholesale persecution of the blacks in this state is disgusting"
1692,17495_0.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,""" "" tiuc under in tured with black republicanism . "" this may be "" citizen's "" law or smyrna law , but it is dollars neither human nor divine law . put this in your pipe , citizen , "" and smoke after it if writing in favor of",mob,"law eases your and . conscience or excuses the acts of your friends , by all means continue to enlighten us upon your day new code of ethics ; but take care that you don't the practice upon whites- that is , on a general scale , what you preach"
1693,17495_1.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"communicated . dover , october 31 , 1861 . a lay sermon on",mob,"law . the text will be found in the delaware gazette of last week , and is as follows : for the delaware gazette . "" me . editor : -i see some comments in the disjournal respecting the lynching of the negro . hamilton , at smyrus . he"
1694,17495_1.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"even a man violating , his daughter ; would he not shoot hang him or on the spot ; even for the is the attempt or not , attempt as great as the crime in this instance . we are , noue of us , i hope in favor of",mob,"law , on a general scale , but desperate cases require he seems to have great sympathy for the injured family , and yet a greater sympathy for the negro . i believe it was all perfectly right not because his skin black for i , was , would have"
1695,17495_1.txt,"Delaware State journal and statesman (Wilmington, Del...)",1861,"was all perfectly right not because his skin black for i , was , would have hung kent just as soon as a negro . of if we here are tinctured with negrophobia -- probably he is strongly tinctured with back republicanism now this means . simply to apologize for",mob-,
1696,17497_0.txt,"Delaware weekly Republican (Wilmington, Del...)",1856,"of those favorable to the repeal of the law , say , "" while it is the law , it ought to be obeyed and enforced . "" the violation of law is very wrong.- dangerous , bad oxample and precedent , -it perils order and safety , encourages the",mob,", -- threatens to lynch even the officer of justice , -and still they continue in its breach . patriotio , order- loving . iaw- abiding citizen , how , or why is it ? have intoxicating liquors been sold by the glass or quart so long , that the"
1697,17498_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1933,"be vindicators of the law . this is true when , acting upon their bare indictment of a neighbor , they unleash the boycott against it . if their conclusion is wrong , the action amounts to sheer lawlessness . if it is right , they are not unlike the",mob,that lynches the murderer its grip . within
1698,17499_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1933,"mississippi lynching details are lacking by the associated press . columbus , miss . , july 22 . - the lynching of a colored man by a",mob,"at caledonia , small town 15 miles north of here , was reported to authorities here this morning but officers said late today they were without details of the affair . what official action , if any , was planned , was not disclosed . deputy sheriff homer kilpatrick said"
1699,17501_0.txt,"Chicago daily press and tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1859,,mob,", and attempt to lynch in atlan would ta , georgia . , our the atlanta intelligencer of the 6th inst , an end brings an account of a mob and attempt to lynch petti- mr . choice , held in the jail of that city for the murder of"
1700,17501_0.txt,"Chicago daily press and tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1859,"mob , and attempt to lynch in atlan would ta , georgia . , our the atlanta intelligencer of the 6th inst , an end brings an account of a",mob,"and attempt to lynch petti- mr . choice , held in the jail of that city for the murder of mr . webb ; about 500 men assem obstruct law , bled at the guard house with ropes , and pre business parations were made to hang the prisoner from"
1701,17502_0.txt,"Chicago daily press and tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1859,lynching a negro burned alive . . horrible affair . the following account of the burning of a ne gro at the stake by a,mob,", for the murder of his master , is given by a correspondent of the maysville eagle . it took place at troy , ken tacky : on new years ' day the annual negro sales took place at troy , the county zeat , and there was quite a"
1702,17502_0.txt,"Chicago daily press and tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1859,"the stand , and there was a general shout given , and he led the way to the jail , and nine- tenths of the multitude followed . oa ar riving at the jail they found the sheriff and jail or , who did all they could to suppress the",mob,", but all to no purpose . they thén commenced with sledge hammers , crowbars and axes , and in about an hour entered the jail and brought forward their victim ( the negro murderer , ) they marched him to the centre of the jail yard , drove down"
1703,17505_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1920,"son of west hang slayer at poor farm prominent citizen , sentenced for life , victim of incensed neighbors . fayetteville , w . va . , july 26 . r . judge bennett and confessed murderer of his wife and unborn child . was lynched yesterday by a",mob,"of about 100 persons . bennett was ar- raigned thursday and created a sen the murder , sation by confessing which occurred june 17 . he was sentenced to life imprisonment . shortly after midnight saturday a number of men appeared at the jai and told the jailer the sheriff"
1704,17505_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1920,life imprisonment . shortly after midnight saturday a number of men appeared at the jai and told the jailer the sheriff wante him the jaller started for the sheriff's office . as soon as he left the jail : he was overpowered and his keys taken from him . the,mob,then went to the jail and took out bennet . they concealed bennett in a vacan store and waited until the sheriff and a posse started in pursuit . they the got into about twenty automobiles an went in an opposite direction frot taken by the sheriff and his that
1705,17505_1.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1920,"hanged at poor farm . arriving at the county poor farm , she",mob,hanged bennett to a beam supported by the forks of two oak trees . the lynching took place not far from the house in which bennett committed the murder . when the sheriff and his posse picked up the right trail they easily traced the mob to the spot of
1706,17505_1.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1920,"poor farm , she mob hanged bennett to a beam supported by the forks of two oak trees . the lynching took place not far from the house in which bennett committed the murder . when the sheriff and his posse picked up the right trail they easily traced the",mob,"to the spot of the the place was deserted lynching . when the posse arrived save for the body of bennett , which was swinging on the beam . the posse cut down the body and brought it to the house where bennett committed the murder . on june 17"
1707,17507_0.txt,"The World (Martinsburg, W....)",1892,"a black brute lynched . roanoke , v . , feb . 13 . - will lavender , the colored man who attempted to assault alice perry , a white girl , mon day night , was taken from officers and hanged to a tree . a",mob,"numbering 150 people searched the city over and finally located the man . he was guarded by three officers , who would not let the into the house they broke party . open the door and took him from the officers . he made a full confession . the crowd"
1708,17508_0.txt,"The World (Martinsburg, W....)",1893,hanged by a,mob,". augusta , ga . , april 26 . - john peter- son , colored , was lynched at denmark , s . c . , monday night by a mob . he wasing convicted of rape on a young white girl , by a vigilance committee organ ized for"
1709,17508_0.txt,"The World (Martinsburg, W....)",1893,"hanged by a mob . augusta , ga . , april 26 . - john peter- son , colored , was lynched at denmark , s . c . , monday night by a",mob,". he wasing convicted of rape on a young white girl , by a vigilance committee organ ized for the purpose . he was hanged on a pine tree near the scene of the outrage and shot to death . hundred citizens participated in the five lynch"
1710,17512_0.txt,"American union (Morgantown, Va....)",1856,". curred on the 14th ultimo . on the 16th mr . king died , and great excitement ensued . the old vigilance committee called a meeting , and pla . cards of an inflammatory nature was were posted about the city calling o on the citizens to take the",law into their own hands,". on sunday , the 18th , three thousand citizens , completely organized into di visions and companies , and armed with muskets , marched by three streets from the committee rooms . took possession of the jail , and from thence took casey and the gambler cora , and"
1711,17514_0.txt,"The Cheyenne daily leader (Cheyenne, Wyo.) 1887-1895",1889,"a fierce battle . laredo , nov . 8 . - news reached the commander of mexican troops at nuevo laredo of serious trouble at mier , mexico . last sunday a merchant named guteries was killed by two customs guards . citizens raised a",mob,and lynched the guards . a body of forty or fifty mexi- cans troops and fifteen or twenty customs guards came upon the scene and a battle ensued in which ten or fifteen were killed and wounded . reinforcements asked from matamoras . were
1712,17524_0.txt,"Shepherdstown register (Shepherdstown, ...)",1857,", a committee of full- grown feminines searched the thicket and found ike.placed very conveniently for peeping . to seize and strip him was the work of a few moments , and the hazel brushes which had formed his hiding place , became rods of in the hands of his",captors,. serv- justice ed him right . '
1713,17526_0.txt,"The weekly Minnesotian (Saint Paul, Min...)",1857,"the chippewas.- we had a talk with a half- breed from the upper mississippi yesterday . he says no more trouble need be ap the they feel contented , and wait the arrival of winter- "" hole- in- the- day "" is somewhat offended be cause the",mob,"hanged three bad men of his tribe without saying anything to him about it , aud feels that the pale- faces have offereda wanton offence to his dignity and importance by not taking pains to recognize his authority , but the chippewa nation is thoroughly imbued with peace , and"
1714,17535_0.txt,The daily dispatch (Richmond [Va.]),1858,,a party of,"school- boys were playing foot- ball on first street , when a negro picked up their ball , and started off with it , in jest . one of the lads threw a stone at the disturber of their sport , which struck door of a painter who rushed out"
1715,17547_0.txt,"The Saint Paul globe. (St. Paul, Minn.)",1898,"states , "" an alabama",mob,lynched the wrong man and they ' deeply regret it . ' they might do as a texas mob once did . they hanged a man for stealing a mustang and shortly afterward learned that he was innocent . after debating the question they decided that the captain should call
1716,17547_0.txt,"The Saint Paul globe. (St. Paul, Minn.)",1898,"states , "" an alabama mob lynched the wrong man and they ' deeply regret it . ' they might do as a texas",mob,once did . they hanged a man for stealing a mustang and shortly afterward learned that he was innocent . after debating the question they decided that the captain should call on the widow and apologize . riding up to the fence called her to the door and explained the
1717,17560_0.txt,"The leader (Brookhaven, Mis...)",1899,though quite a number are lynched . during past year seven colored women have the been lynched in the south . and lobbyists . a,mob,"lynched jack jolly , a saloon keeper and gambler , who was a terror to mining camps , at eagle city , alaska fire wiped out the business portion ."
1718,17564_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1898,"john grant , a negro who was in jail at wicona , under a death sentence , was forcibly removed from saturday night by a",mob,and hanged jail .
1719,17567_0.txt,"The Madison daily leader (Madison, S.D.)",1899,"alma , kan . , july 11 . - dick williams , a negro charged with the murder of two white men , was lynched here dur the afternoon by a",mob,of white the mob left the men . negro hanging
1720,17567_0.txt,"The Madison daily leader (Madison, S.D.)",1899,"alma , kan . , july 11 . - dick williams , a negro charged with the murder of two white men , was lynched here dur the afternoon by a mob of white the",mob,left the men . negro hanging
1721,17568_0.txt,"The times (Richmond, Va.)",1898,"they rushed to the scene . it was only by the most vigorous efforts that this lynch ing was prevented . one of the negroes was about to be drawn up on a limb , when young white man jumped forward and cut a the rope . the",mob,"then gave up ed . meriwether , the negro , was drawn up to a tree yesterday to be lynched , he confessed to the murder of the young white and said three other negroes , man chaney , jake glover and mary"
1722,17571_0.txt,"New Ulm review. (New Ulm, Brown ...)",1898,". , jan . 11 . -the medicine doctor who assaulted a 12- at - old girl at searsboro saturday and was threatened with lynching is safely behind the bars at montezuma civil was captured after midnight by the sheriff , who , with great difficulty , pre vented the",mob,from lynching him . lican doctor will not give his name . further trouble is feared . no
1723,17575_0.txt,"Orleans County monitor (Barton, Vt.)",1898,"sunday , may 29 . two negroes lynched by a north caro lina",mob,on suspicion of murdering a white woman . young arrested in
1724,17580_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1899,ties sent from meadville to last saturday to assist in preventing a,mob,from lynching one of the who took part in the shooting aff burglars : ay in
1725,17584_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1899,"columbia , s . c . ( special ) . - it was with difficulty that a",mob,"was prevented from s . w . reep , a merchant and a woman hanging at fort lawn , chester county ."
1726,17584_1.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1899,"peter louin and his fifteen- year- old son who were under arrest at electric , ala . . charged with shocting hall jordau , a respectable citizen were taken from jail oy a",mob,"of masked , men and killed ."
1727,17584_1.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1899,"peter louin and his fifteen- year- old son who were under arrest at electric , ala . . charged with shocting hall jordau , a respectable citizen were taken from jail oy a mob of",masked,", men and killed ."
1728,17588_0.txt,"Decorah public opinion. (Decorah, Winnes...)",1899,", a colored man , was burned to death at a stake on palmetto road , two miles from here , the for murdering alfred cran- to be still on the hunt for negroes and probably two more will be lynched fore the work has been finished . be the",mob,"which lynched strickland captured albert newell , a negro who expressed himself to the effect that death of every negro should be avenged the , palmetto , ga . , april 24 . - the body of lige strickland , the negro implicated by sam hose in the killing of"
1729,17594_0.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1901,"robert white , a negro lynched fare by a",mob,"near tallassee , ala . , yesterday . he and his brother july been accused of firing at a farmer had ."
1730,17595_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1899,"back and in wagons , and the balance by rail . he say hat when the",mob,"gathered to lynch dudley williamson on saturday night he and two deputies secretly removed the from jail , and , after hiding in the wood prisoner several"
1731,17596_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1899,"andrew schloss , a negro , was taken from the jail at courtland , ala . , by a and hanged to a tree on the outskirts",mob,of the town . he
1732,17596_3.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1899,"tom hayden , colored , was taken from officers by a",mob,"near fayette mo . , and hanged . hayden mur ,"
1733,17598_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1899,"expired last march , occurred in sidney . near newnan , ga . , sam hose , a negro who murdered alfred cranford and as salted mrs . cranford at their home was burned at the stake by a",mob,. be .
1734,17598_1.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1899,"lige strickland , a negro minister , who was implicated by sam hose in the killing of alfred cranford , was taken by a",mob,"and lynched at , ga . palmet"
1735,17601_0.txt,"The Red Cloud chief (Red Cloud, Webs...)",1899,"ity , but it had not been passed long a",mob,in northern ohio swung when up a man . his next of kin entered
1736,17605_0.txt,"The weekly Corinthian. (Corinth, Miss.)",1901,"a shameful story . writing of the carrollton lynch ing , the times- democrat corres condent says : "" they made these speeches to the",mob,before it reach led the jail ; they made them again on the way to the jail ; they even put their arms around the necks of the mob's leaders and implored them to halt . judge stevens and mr . hill appealed to them as tenderly as a mother
1737,17605_0.txt,"The weekly Corinthian. (Corinth, Miss.)",1901,"writing of the carrollton lynch ing , the times- democrat corres condent says : "" they made these speeches to the mob before it reach led the jail ; they made them again on the way to the jail ; they even put their arms around the necks of the",mob's,"leaders and implored them to halt . judge stevens and mr . hill appealed to them as tenderly as a mother would entreat her wayward children . steadily the mob kept on its way to the jail . "" to this the vicksburg herald adds : "" what a spectacle"
1738,17605_0.txt,"The weekly Corinthian. (Corinth, Miss.)",1901,made them again on the way to the jail ; they even put their arms around the necks of the mob's leaders and implored them to halt . judge stevens and mr . hill appealed to them as tenderly as a mother would entreat her wayward children . steadily the,mob,"kept on its way to the jail . "" to this the vicksburg herald adds : "" what a spectacle have we here ! the officer in whom the law lodges the power of sitting in judg . ment when the question is life and death , the district attorney"
1739,17606_0.txt,"The broad ax (Salt Lake City,...)",1899,"wrong committed against his wife , his trial and death by the composed of the very best chris",mob,
1740,17608_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1899,"25 . - charles galena , kan . , april williams , alias jones , colored , was shot death early today in the city jail by to a",mob,"of negroes . williams killed among the many similar occurences of the last few days . at smyrna , del aware , a mob made a midnight attack upon the of john seeney . he was driven home out by a rain of bullets ."
1741,17608_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1899,"charles galena , kan . , april williams , alias jones , colored , was shot death early today in the city jail by to a mob of negroes . williams killed among the many similar occurences of the last few days . at smyrna , del aware , a",mob,made a midnight attack upon the of john seeney . he was driven home out by a rain of bullets .
1742,17610_1.txt,"Free press (Hays, Kan.)",1899,"tie matters are broadly rumored . the public feeling over the killing became so intense that officers , to whom judge cannon had surrendered , hurried him away to calvert to avert",mob,lence . vio
1743,17611_2.txt,"Barton County democrat (Great Bend, Kan...)",1899,"one of the alleged assailants , and placed him in jail . a",mob,"is in pursuit of the other negro , and if caught will be killed . he"
1744,17617_0.txt,"The Hickman courier (Hickman, Ky.)",1900,"from tutwiler , miss . , states that a negro known as dago pete was lynched there thursday night by a",mob,composed of negroes . the assaulted a negro
1745,17618_1.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1900,printed . john bailey ( colored ) was lynched by a,mob,"at marietta , ga . , for severe ly a white woman . thomas beating pooley saloon keeper ,"
1746,17619_0.txt,"Richmond dispatch (Richmond, Va.)",1900,"flack . threats were aiso man named made to lynch a negro woman who had taken the gun to the murderer , and a",mob,"went in search of her . trouble arose over the theft of some the peaches by the negro . charlotte , n . c . , august was lynched at forest city , n . c . , negro this morning , for the murder of a white"
1747,17620_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1900,guilty horrible atrocities . the colorado lynching was unique among lynch ings the victim was captured and . made for his tak among the white people of the north . not long ago there was an organized negro hunt in new york upon small provocation . innocent colored people were,mobbed,"beaten , although there was an ample and"
1748,17621_0.txt,"Audubon Republican (Audubon, Iowa)",1899,a new york,mob,"tried to lynch three negroes , one of the intended vic- tims being a woman the great dif . and"
1749,17622_2.txt,"Santa Fe new Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)",1900,"the jail negro in lynching a tent upon charlette , n . c . , nov . 16 . - a",mob,", in"
1750,17625_0.txt,"The Norfolk weekly news. (Norfolk, Neb.)",1900,"the tribal rolls . sam hinson , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,"of white men , near custusha , miss . hinson was employed on the farm of mrs . eliza adams and ed to murder her . attempt"
1751,17626_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1899,the crime . 1 : 30 o'clock this ( wednesday ) morning he at was taken out by a,mob,and lynched .
1752,17627_0.txt,"Gardnerville record. (Gardnerville, N...)",1900,"city , and brought wagon , where he was taken from the officers by a",mob,and hanged to a tele graph . pole there
1753,17628_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1899,""" i find that all five of the italians at tallulah , madison parish , were subjects lynched of king humbert and miles from here , last night . the negro was captured this afternoon and a report has been received here that he was shot to death by a",mob,the scene of the crime . there was no doubt near as to his identity . he was
1754,17629_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1901,summary vengeance by,mob,"on old man and his sons charged with theft . bieber , cal . , may 31 . - details have been received here of the lynching of five men at lookout , modoc county , early this morning . the lynched were calvin hall , seventy- two years old"
1755,17629_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1901,", j . w . brown and s . goyette . the two former stood guard . till midnight and the two latter took their places after midnight . calvin hall was stopping at the hotel so as to be near his sons . this morning about 2 o'clock a",mob,", variously estimated at from thirty to fifty persons , made its appearance at the hotel , and , pointing guns at the two offlcers on guard , commanded them to ob serve silence , while they secured the five prisoners , placed ropes around their necks and dragged them"
1756,17629_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1901,"to ob serve silence , while they secured the five prisoners , placed ropes around their necks and dragged them toward the bridge which crosses pitt river . they compelled the two guards to accompany them . frank hall , it is reported , made such strong resistance that the",mob,"hanged him before it got to the main bridge , under a small bridge crossing a deep slough . the others were taken to the main bridge , and calvin hall , the father , was hanged on the north side , and yantis and the other hall boys were"
1757,17630_0.txt,"New Ulm review. (New Ulm, Brown ...)",1899,"01 ' ganizing posses and the outlaws will be given no rest . it is expected 200 will be engaged in the big man hunt men . colored man lynched by negroes . sardis , miss . , june 13 . simon brooks , colored , was lynched by a",mob,500 negroes near here having been of taken from jail some time between mid
1758,17634_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1901,"warne is in anaconda , having been taken there by private conveyance early last night when word reached the jail that a",mob,was forming to lynch him . it is likely he will not be brought back till ready for trial and possibly an effort will be made to move the case to another county . re
1759,17635_0.txt,"The Saint Paul globe. (St. Paul, Minn.)",1899,"alma , kan . , july 8 . - dick williams , a negro , charged with the murder of two white men , was lynched here this afternoon by a",mob,of white men . the mob left the negro hanging to a graph pole tele
1760,17635_0.txt,"The Saint Paul globe. (St. Paul, Minn.)",1899,"alma , kan . , july 8 . - dick williams , a negro , charged with the murder of two white men , was lynched here this afternoon by a mob of white men . the",mob,left the negro hanging to a graph pole tele
1761,17637_0.txt,"The Brunswick times (Brunswick, Ga.)",1899,jail will be put to the test tonight by an infuriated,mob,"determined to lynch the negro abel who attempted to sault mrs . egerten this morning as ,"
1762,17639_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1901,,mobs,"lynch three men . white man hanged in montana and two negroes in kentucky . helena , mont.- james edward bra dy , the man who assaulted a little girl named ida pugsley , in helena , was taken from the jail by a mob and hanged to a telegraph"
1763,17639_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1901,"mobs lynch three men . white man hanged in montana and two negroes in kentucky . helena , mont.- james edward bra dy , the man who assaulted a little girl named ida pugsley , in helena , was taken from the jail by a",mob,"and hanged to a telegraph pole in the haymarket square , about three blocks from the jail . the crowd was orderly , and after the man had been hanged it quickly dispersed . there were about 200 persons en gaged in the lynching , and all were masked ."
1764,17639_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1901,"a mob and hanged to a telegraph pole in the haymarket square , about three blocks from the jail . the crowd was orderly , and after the man had been hanged it quickly dispersed . there were about 200 persons en gaged in the lynching , and all were",masked,". . shelbyville , ky.- jimbo fields , six teen , and clarence garnett , eighteen . both colored , were lynched re for the alleged murder chart , a printer , who was s death recently . the boys were from the jail and swung from within 500 yards"
1765,17640_0.txt,"The Ocala evening star (Ocala, Fla.)",1909,,mob,of ruffians lynch a condemned criminal almost in the of the state capitol shadow
1766,17641_0.txt,"Santa Fe new Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)",1909,night we had to sleep in the moun a,mob,bent on lynching him . that
1767,17642_0.txt,"Mexico Missouri message. (Mexico, Audrain...)",1909,"while trying to arrest the negro , died here wednesday night mills was captured by a",mob,and lynched . .
1768,17645_0.txt,"The daily journal. (Salem, Or.)",1901,"negro nearly lynched . virginia , nev . nov . 13 . - word has just reached here of an out break of",mob,"violence which almost resulted in the death of henry ellis , a negro residing at fay , a new mining camp in lincoln county . a gang of men went to the cabin occupied by ellis , first attacked him and then dragged him out and held a mock trial"
1769,17645_0.txt,"The daily journal. (Salem, Or.)",1901,"a boarding house at fay . at the conclusion they searched his pockets and took all the money he had , after which a rope was was placed around his neck and he was drawn up three times to the limb of a tree . the limb broke and the",mob,decided not to hang the man who was marched out of town and released he que ceeded reaching the town of uvada in safety . in
1770,17648_0.txt,"The Columbus journal. (Columbus, Neb.)",1901,. another negro was cremated in his cabin . the houses of five negroes were burned down and thirty negro families before rifles seized at the state militia arsenal were driven from the place to refuge in the weeds and woods . and after fifteen hours of this work the,mob,"finds that it lynched an innocent man and that the negro who tallies with the description of the murderer is in jail across the border in indian territory . and so it proved once again , if that were necessary , that a mob , with im pulses all exaggerated"
1771,17648_0.txt,"The Columbus journal. (Columbus, Neb.)",1901,"fifteen hours of this work the mob finds that it lynched an innocent man and that the negro who tallies with the description of the murderer is in jail across the border in indian territory . and so it proved once again , if that were necessary , that a",mob,", with im pulses all exaggerated and distorted , cannot be depended on to do the swift justice which it always angrily boasts it can do . the mob spirit seems to be growing in recklessness , if that were possible . this is believed to be the third or"
1772,17648_0.txt,"The Columbus journal. (Columbus, Neb.)",1901,"across the border in indian territory . and so it proved once again , if that were necessary , that a mob , with im pulses all exaggerated and distorted , cannot be depended on to do the swift justice which it always angrily boasts it can do . the",mob,"spirit seems to be growing in recklessness , if that were possible . this is believed to be the third or fourth innocent man lynched in the last six months . if brutality and savagery do not deter from mob practices , will not the awful mistakes of killing innocent"
1773,17648_0.txt,"The Columbus journal. (Columbus, Neb.)",1901,"which it always angrily boasts it can do . the mob spirit seems to be growing in recklessness , if that were possible . this is believed to be the third or fourth innocent man lynched in the last six months . if brutality and savagery do not deter from",mob,"practices , will not the awful mistakes of killing innocent men have some effect ? the very exist ence of a mob , the very suggestion of a lynching , is a rank injustice to every of society.- omaha world- herald member ."
1774,17648_0.txt,"The Columbus journal. (Columbus, Neb.)",1901,"possible . this is believed to be the third or fourth innocent man lynched in the last six months . if brutality and savagery do not deter from mob practices , will not the awful mistakes of killing innocent men have some effect ? the very exist ence of a",mob,", the very suggestion of a lynching , is a rank injustice to every of society.- omaha world- herald member ."
1775,17649_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1909,"ada , okla . , april 20 . - four prominent cattlemen were taken from the city jail yesterday and lynched by a",mob,of one here hundred oitizens .
1776,17652_0.txt,"Martinsburg herald (Martinsburg, W....)",1909,"killed policeman walter marshall on citizens saturday night , a",mob,of caught mcdaniel's brother hiram and lynched him . the mob hanged him to telegraph pole on the spot where a marshall was shot .
1777,17652_0.txt,"Martinsburg herald (Martinsburg, W....)",1909,"killed policeman walter marshall on citizens saturday night , a mob of caught mcdaniel's brother hiram and lynched him . the",mob,hanged him to telegraph pole on the spot where a marshall was shot .
1778,17653_1.txt,"The Goodland republic (Goodland, Kan.)",1899,"peter louin and his 15- year- old son , who were under arrest at eclectic , ala . , charged with killing hall jordan were taken from jail by a",mob,"and lynched , ."
1779,17654_0.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1900,". oct . 18 . - last night at midnight the negro fratus war . - field , who attempted to outrage mrs - len penick , the wife of a promin . ent farmer near this city tuesday , was taken from the jail by a and hanged .",mob,
1780,17655_0.txt,"The Worthington advance (Worthington, Mi...)",1901,"at st . peter , la , , thomas jackson ( colored ) was lynched by a",mob,for alexander bourgeois and his murdering wife and two children .
1781,17661_0.txt,"Santa Fe new Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)",1901,two lynchers fatally wounded . a,mob,"makes an attack upon the jail at asheville . birmingham , ala . , aug . 22 . - the news staff corespondent at asheville wires that sheriff north and his deputies fired on a mob seeking to lynch jim brown , a negro rapist , who was today convicted"
1782,17661_0.txt,"Santa Fe new Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)",1901,"two lynchers fatally wounded . a mob makes an attack upon the jail at asheville . birmingham , ala . , aug . 22 . - the news staff corespondent at asheville wires that sheriff north and his deputies fired on a",mob,"seeking to lynch jim brown , a negro rapist , who was today convicted , and that walter blankenship and jamie blankenship , two members of the mob , were fatally wounded . a hundred shots were fired when the mob retreated , but were reforming to make another attack"
1783,17661_0.txt,"Santa Fe new Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)",1901,", aug . 22 . - the news staff corespondent at asheville wires that sheriff north and his deputies fired on a mob seeking to lynch jim brown , a negro rapist , who was today convicted , and that walter blankenship and jamie blankenship , two members of the",mob,", were fatally wounded . a hundred shots were fired when the mob retreated , but were reforming to make another attack . the sheriff is trying to get communication with the governor to secure protection . military"
1784,17661_0.txt,"Santa Fe new Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)",1901,"that sheriff north and his deputies fired on a mob seeking to lynch jim brown , a negro rapist , who was today convicted , and that walter blankenship and jamie blankenship , two members of the mob , were fatally wounded . a hundred shots were fired when the",mob,"retreated , but were reforming to make another attack . the sheriff is trying to get communication with the governor to secure protection . military"
1785,17664_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1911,"three escaped rope fate . shelbyville , ky , jan . 19 . - that the members of the",mob,"who lynched negroes here last sunday morning three are bers of the mob to justice . there is a uneasiness if west can be found an attempt will be made to lynch him , as all of members realize the seriousness of their the"
1786,17664_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1911,"three escaped rope fate . shelbyville , ky , jan . 19 . - that the members of the mob who lynched negroes here last sunday morning three are bers of the",mob,"to justice . there is a uneasiness if west can be found an attempt will be made to lynch him , as all of members realize the seriousness of their the"
1787,17665_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1912,en route to this city for safe keeping . early yesterday . six more negroes were,mob,lynching hanged a by were negroes from choctaw county says that three
1788,17666_0.txt,"The Appeal (Saint Paul, Min...)",1912,"while his abby williams , secretary bride's . name slipped from mind lincoln institute in every letter that you write us never they do some unheard- of thing that lewis g . gregory , financial secretary . fail to give your full name a",mob,"of infuriated georgians has annie e . grinage . plainly and address , smacks of having a little human feel- lynched an afro- american named written , post office , county and hen state . business jefferson city , missouri letters of all kinds must ing for their brothers in"
1789,17666_0.txt,"The Appeal (Saint Paul, Min...)",1912,"ur , mr . paper readers that it is the so- called terms between the was lacking . yet same night a environment strictly in advance afro- americans speaker- ur- mr . speaker from "" backwoods "" statesmen , who- a splendid intellectual atmosphere and are the whites , except",mob,"noted for honest - in took him to the city limits , hung wayback , and- ur- i want to and thorongh work . single single single copy copy , , six one months year . . . . . . . . . $ 1.10 2.00 the afro matter-"
1790,17668_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1912,georgia,mob,"hangs negro . americus , ga . , oct . 8 . - a race be tween a sheriff with a negro in an automobile and enraged citizens in ma chines ended when the mob overtook the sheriff and quickly lynched the ne sunday gro ."
1791,17668_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1912,"georgia mob hangs negro . americus , ga . , oct . 8 . - a race be tween a sheriff with a negro in an automobile and enraged citizens in ma chines ended when the",mob,overtook the sheriff and quickly lynched the ne sunday gro .
1792,17672_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1901,"married man and his family resides at vernal , utah . last thursday he met a fourteen- year- old girl near baggs , and assaulted and raped her , using a gun to accomplish his desire . he was captured by a posse and brought to rawlins , where a",mob,"gathered to lynch him . it is asserted that had caldwell been given a light sentence , citizens would have taken him from jail and him . hanged"
1793,17675_0.txt,"Evening times-Republican (Marshalltown, I...)",1912,"five hundred men break into jail at fort smith . fort smith , ark . , march 25 . - a",mob,broke into the city jail here saturday night and seized an unidentifed negro who previously had shot and probably fatally wounded deputy constable an drew carr . the black was dragged thru the principal business street in town to front of a hotel and hanged to a telephone in pole
1794,17679_1.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1901,"negro woman suspected of theft . near rome , tenn . , a",mob,lynched a
1795,17682_1.txt,"The Yale expositor. (Yale, St. Clair...)",1901,"mo doe county , cal . , early on the morning of the 31st . the men lynched had been suspected of stealing for some time , and recently they were arrested , and a search of their premises revealed the stolen plunder . on the day in question a",mob,", variously estimated at from 30 to 50 people , suddenly made their appearance at the hotel and , pointing their guns at the two officers on guard , commanded them to observe silence while they secured the five prisoners , placed ropes around their necks and dragged them to"
1796,17682_1.txt,"The Yale expositor. (Yale, St. Clair...)",1901,"guns at the two officers on guard , commanded them to observe silence while they secured the five prisoners , placed ropes around their necks and dragged them to a nearby bridge , and strung the entire bunch up . one of the prisoners made such strong resistance that the",mob,hanged him before it got to the main bridge . both of the guards were compelled to accompany the prisoners to the scene of the cution . exe
1797,17683_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1901,"captive negro was her such an act of forbearance by the victim of so brutal an outrage adds new lustre to the nobility of womanhood , and stands out in sharp contrast to the outrages against law and humanity that have been perpetrated in various parts of the country by",mobs,who have permitted their fury to get . the upper judgment hand of their .
1798,17683_1.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1901,"effective advocacy . ( detroit journal . ) "" yes , the",mob,"would certainly have lynched the negro if it hadn't been for colonel gadser . "" colonel taiked them out of it , i sup ? "" pose "" that's what he did . he can make people think black is white , you know , and , course , there"
1799,17684_1.txt,"Courier Democrat. (Langdon, N.D.)",1901,alleged assault on little girl cause for action of,mob,". helena , mont . , oct . 4 . james ed ward brady committed an unusually bruta ! assault upon five- year- old ida pugsley in helena tuesday , and early taken from yesterday morning was the jail by a mob and hanged to a telegraph pole in the"
1800,17684_1.txt,"Courier Democrat. (Langdon, N.D.)",1901,"assault on little girl cause for action of mob . helena , mont . , oct . 4 . james ed ward brady committed an unusually bruta ! assault upon five- year- old ida pugsley in helena tuesday , and early taken from yesterday morning was the jail by a",mob,"and hanged to a telegraph pole in the haymarket square , about three blocks from the jail . the crowd was orderly , and after the man had been hanged it quietly dispersed . there were about two hun men engaged in the affair and they dred were all masked"
1801,17684_1.txt,"Courier Democrat. (Langdon, N.D.)",1901,"mob and hanged to a telegraph pole in the haymarket square , about three blocks from the jail . the crowd was orderly , and after the man had been hanged it quietly dispersed . there were about two hun men engaged in the affair and they dred were all",masked,.
1802,17685_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1901,,mob,". off a stood against himself defended negro one men . white five twenty- birmingham . , aug . ala , 26 . - a with decatur says : special from henderson , enoch blade scythe a heights , moulton farmer of negro a twen mob of off stood a"
1803,17685_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1901,"mob . off a stood against himself defended negro one men . white five twenty- birmingham . , aug . ala , 26 . - a with decatur says : special from henderson , enoch blade scythe a heights , moulton farmer of negro a twen",mob,"of off stood a night last and men , masked white five ty- one of wounded fatally probably them . difficulty between because of a life the mob wanted henderson's man named white and a henderson noel graham several days ago struck on the head with a brick graham is"
1804,17685_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1901,"himself defended negro one men . white five twenty- birmingham . , aug . ala , 26 . - a with decatur says : special from henderson , enoch blade scythe a heights , moulton farmer of negro a twen mob of off stood a night last and men ,",masked,"white five ty- one of wounded fatally probably them . difficulty between because of a life the mob wanted henderson's man named white and a henderson noel graham several days ago struck on the head with a brick graham is in bed badly hurt , be negro . the thrown"
1805,17685_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1901,"- a with decatur says : special from henderson , enoch blade scythe a heights , moulton farmer of negro a twen mob of off stood a night last and men , masked white five ty- one of wounded fatally probably them . difficulty between because of a life the",mob,"wanted henderson's man named white and a henderson noel graham several days ago struck on the head with a brick graham is in bed badly hurt , be negro . the thrown by"
1806,17687_0.txt,"The Houston daily post (Houston, Tex.)",1901,"negro lynched in alabama . athens , ala . , june 16 . - joe harris , a negro , was hanged by a",mob,"in the north ern part of this , limestone county , last night . he was suspected of burning the barn of the farmer for whom he was working , his grievance being agalust farmhands . tellow"
1807,17688_1.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1901,won't arrest,mob,"leaders . the chief of police says alexander outraged a third girl . ( by the associated press . ) leavenworth , kansas , ajn . 16 . - chief of police cranston , when asked today it any effort would be made to arrest any one , said :"
1808,17688_2.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1901,taking a deep interest in the affair and was promptly arrested by the officers also on suspl- eion . that night he was questioned so closely and told so many conflicting stories that it was decided to carry him to inverness to the county jail . on the way a,mob,"of 50 or more over powered the officers and took the prisoner . he was taken back to the scene of the wreck and there confessed to the crime , implicating and describing the two others who have escaped , but are now being inted . after the confes- sion"
1809,17691_0.txt,"The Red Cloud chief (Red Cloud, Webs...)",1901,"policeman at topeka , kansas , kills a jointkeeper . patrolman hall , who is in jail at topeka , kan . , charged with killing a drunken man friday night , is in dan ger of",mob,"violence . he was arrested and placed in jail . jointkeepers and their sympathizers are trying to organize a mob to lynch hall , but it could not be recruited to a sufficient strength to make the attempt . head , the man killed , was a joint keeper and"
1810,17691_0.txt,"The Red Cloud chief (Red Cloud, Webs...)",1901,"a jointkeeper . patrolman hall , who is in jail at topeka , kan . , charged with killing a drunken man friday night , is in dan ger of mob violence . he was arrested and placed in jail . jointkeepers and their sympathizers are trying to organize a",mob,"to lynch hall , but it could not be recruited to a sufficient strength to make the attempt . head , the man killed , was a joint keeper and was arrested for disturbing a religious meeting . the prisoner re , hall struck him with his club sisted making"
1811,17693_0.txt,"The Paducah evening sun (Paducah, Ky.)",1910,by the sight of its night's work the,mob,"that lynched carl etherington a "" dry "" detective , today wilted away ,"
1812,17693_1.txt,"The Paducah evening sun (Paducah, Ky.)",1910,militia asked for . fearing that the,mob,"spirit would not be satisfied by one victim , sheriff linke immediately asked adjutant general leubrecht for troops to protect other "" dry "" raiders held in six hurried"
1813,17694_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1910,"marion , ark . , march 18 . - bob austin and charles richardson , negroes , were lynched early today in the court house square by a",mob,. the victims were charged aiding the jail delivery here monday with night .
1814,17695_0.txt,"The Big Sandy news (Louisa, Ky.)",1910,"a negro charged with attempted criminal assault was taken jail at dothan , ala . , by a",mob,. from his
1815,17695_1.txt,"The Big Sandy news (Louisa, Ky.)",1910,"two negroes were lynched at charlestown , mo . for the murder of a farmer . it took , the",mob,two
1816,17697_0.txt,"The Fargo forum and daily republican (Fargo, N.D.)",1910,"marion , arkansas , march 18 . both austin and charles richard son , negroes , were lynched in the courthouse square early today a",mob,of 300 men . the victims by
1817,17698_0.txt,"Oxford eagle. (Oxford, Lafayet...)",1911,"women . byville , ky.- a",mob,"composed s than 100 men seized and lynch ree negroes , two of whom were"
1818,17699_0.txt,"The Virginia enterprise (Virginia, St. L...)",1901,that georgia sheriff who risked his life to protect a negro prisoner from a,mob,"of lynchers is the hero of the hour like many another hero , however , his nobility is not recognized by his neigh bors on the contrary , they look upon him . as the meanest man they know ."
1819,17700_1.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1901,"administration , which resulted in the withdrawal of baron fava , the italian minister , from washington the italian embassy , for its governn ent , has filed with the state departmen : a formal protest against the lynching of two italians and the serious wounding of another by a",mob,"at erwin , miss . . recently , and asked for redress . the state department has communicated with the governor of mississippi on the subject , asking him to report the facts and take measures to punish lynchers . the"
1820,17701_0.txt,"The Salt Lake herald-Republican (Salt Lake City,...)",1909,"cairo , ill . , nov . 11 . - with two men lynched by an angry",mob,", another imminent danger and the streets filled with wild- eyed men , thirsty in of murder and riot , waited"
1821,17703_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,prisoner lynched from courtroom . trial of alleged assailant of a young woman is abrupt ly ended . girl's father leads,mob,". sheriff and deputies make desperate effort to protect the prisoner and are injured . smithville , tenn . , aug . 2- charles davis , on trial for criminal assault , was taken from the courtroom by a mob of the friends and relatives of the girl and lynched"
1822,17703_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,"young woman is abrupt ly ended . girl's father leads mob . sheriff and deputies make desperate effort to protect the prisoner and are injured . smithville , tenn . , aug . 2- charles davis , on trial for criminal assault , was taken from the courtroom by a",mob,"of the friends and relatives of the girl and lynched . the immediate cause of the lynching was the introduction of witnesses in an alleged effort to defame the giri's character . davis made an effort to jump from the second- story window , but was captured be fore he"
1823,17703_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,"effort to jump from the second- story window , but was captured be fore he escaped . excitement runs high . about 1.500 men being in town from the country . the sheriff , a deputy , a constable and the defendant's father were wounded in a clash with the",mob,". father appealed for vengeance . immediately after the trial the young woman's father mounted a bench and made an appeal to the crowd to help him take vengeance upon the asasilant of his daughter . the sheriff made his appearance with the prisoner , and a rush was made"
1824,17703_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,"deputies resisted and a terrific struggle took place for the posses sion of the prisoner . during the fight davis escaped and had gone some distance before the fact was dis covered . he was , however , soon captured by a constable , and started for the jail .",mob,took the prisoner . about a half mile from town the officer was met by the mob and was relieved of his charge . davis was then taken to a neighboring grove and swung to the limb of a tree . after hanging him the mob dispersed . the wounded
1825,17703_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,"the fight davis escaped and had gone some distance before the fact was dis covered . he was , however , soon captured by a constable , and started for the jail . mob took the prisoner . about a half mile from town the officer was met by the",mob,"and was relieved of his charge . davis was then taken to a neighboring grove and swung to the limb of a tree . after hanging him the mob dispersed . the wounded officers are sheriff j . d . odum , deputy bob odum and monehess . constable"
1826,17703_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,for the jail . mob took the prisoner . about a half mile from town the officer was met by the mob and was relieved of his charge . davis was then taken to a neighboring grove and swung to the limb of a tree . after hanging him the,mob,"dispersed . the wounded officers are sheriff j . d . odum , deputy bob odum and monehess . constable"
1827,17703_1.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,"murderer lynched . birmingham , ala . , aug . 2 . - with a rope around his neck and death before him , charley bentley , a negro , confessed to the murder of jim vann , alias williams , a white man , and was hanged by a",mob,"in leeds , st . clair county , ala . , to- day . the murderer's body was riddled with bullets and left hanging to the imb of tree . a"
1828,17705_0.txt,"The Salt Lake herald-Republican (Salt Lake City,...)",1909,"anniston , ala . , nov . 24 . - a",mob,"lynched roy boylston , a negro , here today for tacking mrs . w . c . cheatwood , wife of at a"
1829,17709_0.txt,"The Kinsley graphic (Kinsley, Kan.)",1898,"stepbrother and self . jun 3- at urbana , o . , soldiers guarding jail fired into",mob,"on lynching a colored prisoner , killing bent 2 ."
1830,17711_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1902-1910",1910,"helena , ga . , aug . 12 . -- jim tolero , a negro , was lynched at alamo , 77 miles from here , by a",mob,"of than a hundred men , for having more en"
1831,17714_0.txt,"Atlanta semi-weekly journal. (Atlanta, Ga.)",1910,"new madrid . mo . , may 31 . - a",mob,"avenged the insult of a negro striking a white man yesterday when they storm ed the jail , took the negro to the banks of mississippi river and lynched him the ."
1832,17717_0.txt,"The Evening standard (Ogden City, Uta...)",1910,"asbury park , n . j . , nov . 15 . - follow the attempts by a",mob,"to lynch thomas ing williams , the negro suspected"
1833,17720_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1901,three of them handled by a,mob,"over the kentucky line . for robbery and murder victim and mob as well as culprits of same race . cairo , ill . , sept . 12 . - news reached here to the effect that last night a moh broke into the jail at wickliffe , ky ."
1834,17720_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1901,three of them handled by a mob over the kentucky line . for robbery and murder victim and,mob,"as well as culprits of same race . cairo , ill . , sept . 12 . - news reached here to the effect that last night a moh broke into the jail at wickliffe , ky . , across the river from this city , and lynched three negroes"
1835,17723_0.txt,"The times (Richmond, Va.)",1901,slaughter were beaten with clubs . the trouble occurred over an attack on a colored man . a a small white boy by small- sized riot followed . finally the colored men were arrested and placed in the county jail . after midnight an attempt was made to organize a,mob,"to lynch the prisoners . a crowd gathered at the tunnel on olive street , but no one volunteered to lead the assault on the jail . if the attack had been made a loody battle undoubtedly would have occurred , as fifty armed col ore men were doing guard"
1836,17724_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,negro's disappearance . was taken from jail by,a party of,"masked men . georgetown , ga . , june 28 . - billy magru der , a negro , who had been arrested for trying to enter a young woman's bedroom here yesterday . was taken from jail last night by masked men . he has not heard of since"
1837,17724_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,negro's disappearance . was taken from jail by a party of,masked,"men . georgetown , ga . , june 28 . - billy magru der , a negro , who had been arrested for trying to enter a young woman's bedroom here yesterday . was taken from jail last night by masked men . he has not heard of since ."
1838,17724_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,negro's disappearance . was taken from jail by a party of,masked men,". georgetown , ga . , june 28 . - billy magru der , a negro , who had been arrested for trying to enter a young woman's bedroom here yesterday . was taken from jail last night by masked men . he has not heard of since . been"
1839,17724_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,". was taken from jail by a party of masked men . georgetown , ga . , june 28 . - billy magru der , a negro , who had been arrested for trying to enter a young woman's bedroom here yesterday . was taken from jail last night by",masked,men . he has not heard of since . been
1840,17724_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,". was taken from jail by a party of masked men . georgetown , ga . , june 28 . - billy magru der , a negro , who had been arrested for trying to enter a young woman's bedroom here yesterday . was taken from jail last night by",masked men,. he has not heard of since . been
1841,17727_0.txt,"Daily globe (St. Paul, Minn.)",1882,"and placed in jail , but within an hour he was taken out by a and hanged to a shade tree in the court",mob,"house , where the united"
1842,17730_0.txt,"Phillipsburg herald (Phillipsburg, K...)",1901,a negro lynched . a,mob,"shoots and burns bill hillard for assaulting a girl- traced to his home . , troy , ala . , sept . 4 . - bill fourney , alias bill hilliard , a negro , charged with assaulting miss wilson at chest nut grove , was shot and his body"
1843,17730_0.txt,"Phillipsburg herald (Phillipsburg, K...)",1901,"bill hillard for assaulting a girl- traced to his home . , troy , ala . , sept . 4 . - bill fourney , alias bill hilliard , a negro , charged with assaulting miss wilson at chest nut grove , was shot and his body burned by a",mob,"near the scene of his crime yesterday . the posse tracked the negro to his home , where he was found in bed . miss wilson is in precarious condition . a"
1844,17731_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1904,"was placed in jail here and given two trials in the circuit court of this coun ty , each of which resulted in a reversal in the court of appeals of kenutcky ; in july , 1903 , while awaiting his third trial thacker was dragged from jail by a",mob,"and lynched after barbarous treatment . since that time it was supposed by the people here that the matter was ended , and that neither civil or criminal proceedings would be instituted against the parties composing the mob . the civil action for damages is a great surprise , for"
1845,17731_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1904,"while awaiting his third trial thacker was dragged from jail by a mob and lynched after barbarous treatment . since that time it was supposed by the people here that the matter was ended , and that neither civil or criminal proceedings would be instituted against the parties composing the",mob,". the civil action for damages is a great surprise , for it will bring before the court some of the best people of this country on a serious charge . the thackers lived at noah , lewis but have county , for several years , within the last few"
1846,17733_0.txt,"The Somerset press (Somerset, Ohio)",1882,"lynching matinee . $ at la lunas , n . m . , chas . shelton , jno . redmond and harry french , three murderers to were taken from jail by a",mob,"and hanged . ,"
1847,17736_0.txt,National Republican. (Washington City...)),1875,"and unprotected , but highly esteemed by all the citizens . the excitement culminated last night in",a party of,disguised men going to the jail and taking thompson down near to the depot and hanging him . morning his body was out down by the sheriff this and interred .
1848,17742_0.txt,"Weekly graphic (Kirksville, Ada...)",1882,"ing prisoner and cries of "" hang him . "" they speedily overpowered his",captors,"and bore the struggling wretch to the bluff street bridge , where he was ed in short order notwithstanding hang his"
1849,17743_0.txt,"The Worthington advance (Worthington, Mi...)",1898,"m . r . todd , cashier of the wrecked bank at preston , minn . , was lodged in jail after a",mob,"had gathered to lynch him . his defalcations are now said amount to $ 115,000 . to"
1850,17744_0.txt,"The Ocala evening star (Ocala, Fla.)",1904,california in the lynch column a,mob,"at majove . cal . . lynched a colored person , accused of the usual . friday night . california is a effense republican state , too ."
1851,17746_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1898,"night , were received here today . ac cording to this information , the",mob's,"work is not yet finished and will only be completed when four more indians have been dealt in the same man ner as mcgeisey with and simpson . human beings , the remains of marcus mcgeisey and palmer simpson , the two seminole indians who , a few days ago"
1852,17746_1.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1898,"governor rogers , when seen today in regard to the lynching of chadwick marshall by the",mob,"at colfax day morning , said : satur"
1853,17747_0.txt,"The Saint Paul globe. (St. Paul, Minn.)",1898,"paris , feb . 12 . - there is little chance of the acquittal of emile zola , the",mob,"would be ready to lynch the jury , and the soldiers are much more excited than they appear to . dis like for secret trial , however be , is in"
1854,17748_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1898,and jailed at hills ville . monday morning about 2 o'clock a,mob,"entered the jail and took possession of howlett for the purpose of hanging him howlett , being a powerful man , ."
1855,17749_0.txt,"The central record. (Lancaster, Ky.)",1898,ago . a,mob,"about 300 strong hung a near mckinney four years ago negro for assaulting a little white girl . ers who died with their boots on in this county was taken from the jail / here and hung , by a mob about 34 years"
1856,17749_0.txt,"The central record. (Lancaster, Ky.)",1898,"ago . a mob about 300 strong hung a near mckinney four years ago negro for assaulting a little white girl . ers who died with their boots on in this county was taken from the jail / here and hung , by a",mob,about 34 years
1857,17753_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1903,the police dispersed the,mobs,"officers used their clubs freely in the melee attendant on the arrest of rioters . one negro was shot in the head- in another brawl a negro was shot in the stomach- others were injured . wilmington , del . , june 26 . - the excitement and disorder following"
1858,17753_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1903,made . a large gang of negroes which had been marching up and down ninth street were challenged by about 25 white men and in the battle that followed a hundred shots were exchanged . a squad of police under capt . ev ans and sergt . mcdermott charged the,mob,". the negroes and whites fled but the police captured two negroes , leander moore and joseph shockley . the policemen used their clubs freely and in the melee attendant on the ar rests mcdermott and patrolman green received slight wounds . one negro , james mercer , was shot"
1859,17755_0.txt,"Gloucester County Democrat. (Woodbury, N.J.)",1904,"race prejudice confined to the south . with- in the past ten days two negroes have been lynched in northen states , one in ohio and one in california . when it comes to pass that a southern governor takes field in per- son and rescues a negro from a",mob,", while negroes are lynched in the north , it is high time that those who seek to make the negro question a political one , subside . judge lyath knows no politics , and it seems me for the people to lay politics aside in this particular , and"
1860,17756_0.txt,"The Princeton union (Princeton, Minn...)",1898,"the terrible atrocity hampton roads , but , posted on the recently it is believed perpe patches . of completed torpedos . has come forward with notice that he maritime exchange announcing that trated by a",mob,of several hundred that their purpose is has an . raised exciting chase and equipped at his own ex the spanish battleship pelayo andi to shelter fire at elk river the paris bansan citizens s of giovanni cowardly williamsburg the salute of the pense a battery of artillery which he
1861,17757_0.txt,"The Hickman courier (Hickman, Ky.)",1882,a minnesota,mob,"did not lynch the man whom they had intended so to punish . he argued them a while , and then gave them with $ 5 to buy beer ."
1862,17758_0.txt,"Atlanta Georgian (Atlanta, Ga.)",1912,raymond dies . 10 . cumming,mob,lynches a gro . ne
1863,17762_0.txt,"Evening times-Republican (Marshalltown, I...)",1912,"alabama whites seek revenge for murder by blacks . meridan , miss . , aug . 5 . - one negro was lynched and a",mob,"was in pursuit another near halls station . ala . . of miles east of here , according to"
1864,17763_3.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1904,two negroes lynched . run down and shot for killing a planter,#NAME?,"after a third man memphis , tenn . , feb . 4 . - two negroes have been lynched for the murder of james eastland , one of the best known planters of sun flower county , miss . a posse of men with bloodhounds is hunting a third fugitive"
1865,17763_3.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1904,"shot killing eastland and the second his servant . posses at once started in pursuit . winters was the first to fall into the hands of the pursuers , and he was at once shot to death . watson was captured later in the day and was lynched by a",mob,of persons . 500
1866,17764_0.txt,"The Redwood gazette (Redwood Falls, ...)",1911,"crawfordsville , ga . , may 30 . - joe moore , a negro , who yesterday con fessed to having murdered henry googher , a wealthy farmer , saturday night , was taken from the jail here early morning and hanged to a tree by this a",mob,.
1867,17765_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1904,"dunham , a negro , wanted on the charge of attacking the 14- year- old daughter of john wilson , a white man , two weeks ago , and also three young women named dunn , was hanged in the public square at eudora , miss . , by a",mob,". the noose was placed about the negro's neck by the little wilson girl , who positively identified him as her assail- ant . the negro was then placed upon the back of a horse and at a signal from the leader of the mob the little wilson girl led"
1868,17765_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1904,"miss . , by a mob . the noose was placed about the negro's neck by the little wilson girl , who positively identified him as her assail- ant . the negro was then placed upon the back of a horse and at a signal from the leader of the",mob,"the little wilson girl led the horse from under him . over 3.000 persons , white and black witnessed the hanging . members of the mob declare the lynching as orderly as a legal execution . after being assured that the negro was dead the mob cut down the body"
1869,17765_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1904,"her assail- ant . the negro was then placed upon the back of a horse and at a signal from the leader of the mob the little wilson girl led the horse from under him . over 3.000 persons , white and black witnessed the hanging . members of the",mob,declare the lynching as orderly as a legal execution . after being assured that the negro was dead the mob cut down the body and turned it over to the tives for burial . rela-
1870,17765_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1904,"the leader of the mob the little wilson girl led the horse from under him . over 3.000 persons , white and black witnessed the hanging . members of the mob declare the lynching as orderly as a legal execution . after being assured that the negro was dead the",mob,cut down the body and turned it over to the tives for burial . rela-
1871,17768_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1903,"negro lynched for murder ripley , tenn . , dec . 19 . - a",mob,"of about 100 men last night took joe brake , a negro , from the county jail here hanged him to a tree near by , the negro and having been arrested for the"
1872,17769_0.txt,"The Dakota chief. (Gann Valley, Bu...)",1904,24- death of sir edwin arnold . . . . five lynched by,mob,"at st . charles , ark negroes ."
1873,17769_2.txt,"The Dakota chief. (Gann Valley, Bu...)",1904,16-,mob,"burns two negroes at stake in statesboro , ga . . . . . death of hon . hannah at traverse city , mich . perry"
1874,17773_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,"another lynching in kentucky is feared , and governor beckham has ordered troops to be in readiness . it is believed that the orities fear a",mob,will kill the negro at ville who thursday night police crumm slew
1875,17773_1.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,swift vengeance sought him out .,mob,"lynched confessed murderer of a business man in ok jahoma . ― wichita , kas . , april 12 . -t . h . pemberton , well- known business man of weatherford , ok . , was murdered last night while en route from his home to a drug store"
1876,17773_1.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1901,from his home to a drug store . he was struck down from behind with a heavy club and robbed of a large sum of money . his body was found to- day . four suspects were arre and placed jail . one suspect confessed to the crime and a,mob,"visited the , took him out and lynched him . jail"
1877,17774_1.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1903,"three negroes , garfield mccoy , george mckinney and wiley were taken from jail at newtown , ga . , a",mob,and for the murder of f . s . bullard hanged .
1878,17774_2.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1903,"andrew diggs ( negro ) was taken from jail at scottsboro ( ala . ) and lynched for attempted assault on a white girl , and the sheriff was wounded while the",mob,. resisting
1879,17775_0.txt,"The weekly pioneer and Democrat (Saint Paul, Min...)",1858,"murder new providence , tenn . , feb . 20 . - joseph harris , tobacconist , was murdered last , by one of his negroes . a",mob,"hung the night negro , to- day ."
1880,17777_0.txt,"Akron daily Democrat (Akron, Ohio)",1901,"be more generally employed than formerly , and produces horrors and agonies so much in ex cess of the lynching by rope and bullet that the latter tends necessarily to the character of the commonplace , neither startling to the country nor sufficiently agonizing to satisfy the savagery of the",mob,". but meantime the lynching by fire in turn drifts to ward the ordinary , and to such an ex tent , that the discovery on behalf of the mob of some new and more awful way of inflicting slow death and torture would seem to be demanded . when"
1881,17777_0.txt,"Akron daily Democrat (Akron, Ohio)",1901,"the character of the commonplace , neither startling to the country nor sufficiently agonizing to satisfy the savagery of the mob . but meantime the lynching by fire in turn drifts to ward the ordinary , and to such an ex tent , that the discovery on behalf of the",mob,"of some new and more awful way of inflicting slow death and torture would seem to be demanded . when some seven years ago a negro was burned at paris , tex . , the whole country was moved by the performance and the newspapers employed columns to describe the"
1882,17777_0.txt,"Akron daily Democrat (Akron, Ohio)",1901,no more attention in the news of the country than the recent lynchings by bullet and rope in mississippi which so worked upon the nerves of one in nocent colored man that he killed him self to escape the torturing fear that his turn at the hands of the white,mob,"might come next . is the country finally to come to the point of accepting in silence all that goes on in the way of expressing the deadly race prejudices of white mobs ? the north has been silenced , so far as the south is concerned , by recent"
1883,17777_0.txt,"Akron daily Democrat (Akron, Ohio)",1901,killed him self to escape the torturing fear that his turn at the hands of the white mob might come next . is the country finally to come to the point of accepting in silence all that goes on in the way of expressing the deadly race prejudices of white,mobs,"? the north has been silenced , so far as the south is concerned , by recent negro burnings of its own- in colorado , in kansas and in indiana . the alabama and georgia affairs of last week brought out a display of no greater savage fury or eagerness"
1884,17780_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1904,"the associated press . ) columbus , miss . , july 9 . a negre whose name is unknown , has been lynched at gordo , ala . , for makin insulting proposals to two white woj men the negro was taken from the jail . at gordo by a",mob,and hanged .
1885,17782_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1904,". the bandit will be taken to basin for trial . he will be accompanied by a strong posse , as it is feared an attempt may be made by his friends to rescue him during the trip across the owl creek mountains . there is no further danger of",mob,"violence . the robber is unknown here , and is believed to have been induced to at tempt the thermopolis crime by the success of the cody robbers in escaping . it is believed possibly he is one of the pair who shot cashier middaugh in the cody bank ."
1886,17783_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1904,tortured to death three negroes lynched last night by an infuriated,mob,"two of them murdered a statesboro , ga . , family- third denied implication . savannah , ga . . aug . 17 . - the report reached here this morning that handy bell , another negro implicated in the mur- der of the hodges family was burned , at"
1887,17783_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1904,"ga . , family- third denied implication . savannah , ga . . aug . 17 . - the report reached here this morning that handy bell , another negro implicated in the mur- der of the hodges family was burned , at the stake near slatesboro , by a",mob,"night , making three negroes burned . last"
1888,17783_1.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1904,"statesboro , ga . , aug . 16 . - with clothing satnrated with kerosene , writhing and twisting in their agony , screaming to heaven for the mercy that the",mob,"would not show , paul reed and will cato , negroes , two of the principals in the murder der and burning of henry hodges and wife and three of their children , six miles from statesboro , three weeks ago , were burned at the state today . the"
1889,17786_0.txt,"Perth Amboy evening news (Perth Amboy, N....)",1904,"lynchers after him . montgomery , ala . , nov . 1 . - it is reported here that a large",mob,"is pur suing with bloodhounds jim harden , a negro , who killed wilson davenport , a prominent contractor of maplesville , ala . if negro is caught a lynching is almost the a certainty ."
1890,17794_0.txt,"Jamestown weekly alert (Jamestown, Stut...)",1903,three strings up,mob,"taken from negroes trio of jail at newton , ga . , lynched . and man white killing a of accused quell row tried a to latter dance colored at a home . near his albany , ga . , june 27 . - three negroes , garfield mccoy ,"
1891,17794_0.txt,"Jamestown weekly alert (Jamestown, Stut...)",1903,"county , twenty one miles south of here , and lynched . the three men were in jail for killing f . s . bullard , a white man , who was called to quell a row at a negro dance near his house one night last week . the",mob,"went to the jailer and told him they had another prisoner to lodge in jail . when the jailer reached the jail doors with his keys the mob rushed upon him overpowered him . and the three negroes were taken a mile from town , hung a tree and riddled"
1892,17794_0.txt,"Jamestown weekly alert (Jamestown, Stut...)",1903,"man , who was called to quell a row at a negro dance near his house one night last week . the mob went to the jailer and told him they had another prisoner to lodge in jail . when the jailer reached the jail doors with his keys the",mob,"rushed upon him overpowered him . and the three negroes were taken a mile from town , hung a tree and riddled with bullets . to"
1893,17794_2.txt,"Jamestown weekly alert (Jamestown, Stut...)",1903,"strung up for assaulting landlord who rebuked him . brinkley , ark . , june 27 . - jack har ris , a negro , was hanged to the rafters of the porch of the american cotton company's office at clarendon thursday about fifteen",masked,"men com posed . the mob . on last sunday night the negro assaulted his landlord , john coburn , a white planter . coburn had rebuked the negro for having taken one of the mules from his stable without mission . per"
1894,17794_2.txt,"Jamestown weekly alert (Jamestown, Stut...)",1903,"strung up for assaulting landlord who rebuked him . brinkley , ark . , june 27 . - jack har ris , a negro , was hanged to the rafters of the porch of the american cotton company's office at clarendon thursday about fifteen",masked men,"com posed . the mob . on last sunday night the negro assaulted his landlord , john coburn , a white planter . coburn had rebuked the negro for having taken one of the mules from his stable without mission . per"
1895,17794_2.txt,"Jamestown weekly alert (Jamestown, Stut...)",1903,"strung up for assaulting landlord who rebuked him . brinkley , ark . , june 27 . - jack har ris , a negro , was hanged to the rafters of the porch of the american cotton company's office at clarendon thursday about fifteen masked men com posed . the",mob,". on last sunday night the negro assaulted his landlord , john coburn , a white planter . coburn had rebuked the negro for having taken one of the mules from his stable without mission . per"
1896,17794_3.txt,"Jamestown weekly alert (Jamestown, Stut...)",1903,threats of,mob,"violence . jealousy responsible for attempt at wholesale murder . stites , ida . , june 27 . - orin price , a stage uriver , shot and killed his two yea.cld baby , wounded his wife and each , a saw mill hand , at the de eu po"
1897,17794_3.txt,"Jamestown weekly alert (Jamestown, Stut...)",1903,"27 . - orin price , a stage uriver , shot and killed his two yea.cld baby , wounded his wife and each , a saw mill hand , at the de eu po here . jealousy is said to havej caused the shooting . . nere were threats of",mob,violence . price was taken to the county jan afte .
1898,17795_0.txt,"The daily banner. (Cambridge, Md.)",1922,negro,mob,"after negro baltimore policemen save girl's slay . er from his own race . baltimore , nov . 1 . - a policeman and an alleged negro murderer were stab hed in a disturbance near lexington and chestnut streets . about 1000 negroes attempted to take bishop hawkins , arrested"
1899,17795_0.txt,"The daily banner. (Cambridge, Md.)",1922,"alleged negro murderer were stab hed in a disturbance near lexington and chestnut streets . about 1000 negroes attempted to take bishop hawkins , arrested for the killing of ethel starling , colored , from a policeman . the negroes sought to lynch the alleged slayer . policemen dispersed the",mob,took the mounded men to a hospital and .
1900,17796_0.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1893,"the third fiend lynched . wayeross , ga . , august 10 . - ( special . ) jack chambers , colored , was lynched by a",mob,"last night five miles from this place , near waresboro . his body was riddled with bullets and was found hanging to a tree in a thicket this morning . officers spence and clayton were bring ing chambers from waresboro co this place and they were halted and forced to"
1901,17797_0.txt,"The Kimball graphic. (Kimball, Brule ...)",1894,"a lynchable negro . colored men , when lynched , are worth $ 2 each , according to the verdict of a salina , kan . , jury . henry adams sued the city for $ 5,000 damages for the loss of his son , who was hanged by a",mob,"in april . he claimed that the death of his son represented a pecuniary loss of that amount . the jury decided there had been no actual damage sustained by the plaintiff , but allowed $ 2 as "" nominal "" damages.- record . philadelphia"
1902,17798_0.txt,"St. Paul daily globe (Saint Paul, Min...)",1894,"owing to locality , there will be no protest in the republican newspapers over the lynching of a negro ravisher in ohio sunday . but if the",mob,"had done its work south of the ohio river , the country would resound with indignant invective against the semi- barbarism of the people and their inherent hatred of the colored race . the fact that the lynchers in this instance were northern men , and in all probability faithful"
1903,17803_1.txt,"The progress-advertiser. (Lexington, Miss...)",1903,"at bainbridge , ga . , andrew rainey , negro charged with theft , was beat- a en to death by a",mob,.
1904,17805_0.txt,"Lincoln County record (Pioche, Nev.)",1901,"victim is the fourteen year- old daughter of a ranchman living near baggs , wyo . caldwell met the child near the ranch and used a gun to compel her to submit to his desires . a posse arrested the fiend and he was taken to rawlins , where a",mob,"gath- ered to lynch caldwell . being assured that he would be severely punished if convicted , the mob permitted the law to take its course . it is asserted that had caldwell been given less than ten years he would have been taken from the officers hanged . and"
1905,17805_0.txt,"Lincoln County record (Pioche, Nev.)",1901,"child near the ranch and used a gun to compel her to submit to his desires . a posse arrested the fiend and he was taken to rawlins , where a mob gath- ered to lynch caldwell . being assured that he would be severely punished if convicted , the",mob,permitted the law to take its course . it is asserted that had caldwell been given less than ten years he would have been taken from the officers hanged . and
1906,17805_1.txt,"Lincoln County record (Pioche, Nev.)",1901,sheriff kills two men in defending pris oner against,mob,". walter blankenship was killed and his brother arthur fatally injured while leading a mob at ashville , n . c . , thursday , which attempted to take a negro from the sheriff and lynch him . the negro had been convicted of rape and sentenced to hang september"
1907,17805_1.txt,"Lincoln County record (Pioche, Nev.)",1901,sheriff kills two men in defending pris oner against mob . walter blankenship was killed and his brother arthur fatally injured while leading a,mob,"at ashville , n . c . , thursday , which attempted to take a negro from the sheriff and lynch him . the negro had been convicted of rape and sentenced to hang september 20 , tho prisoner was spirited to birmingham for safe keeping . the crime for"
1908,17806_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1901,ganizations .,mob,"avenges norris ' death doesn't wait for courts to dispose of george chevries at pocahontas . little rock , ark . , march 23 . - a gazette special from pocahontas says that george chevries , who day before yesterday shot and killed town marshal john norris of pocahontas while"
1909,17806_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1901,"at pocahontas . little rock , ark . , march 23 . - a gazette special from pocahontas says that george chevries , who day before yesterday shot and killed town marshal john norris of pocahontas while norris was executing his official duty , was taken from jail by a",mob,"of 200 men last night and hanged . the coroner's jury held chevries for mur der , but owing to the feeling against him the trial had been postponed until next week the members of the mob were masked . ."
1910,17806_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1901,"norris was executing his official duty , was taken from jail by a mob of 200 men last night and hanged . the coroner's jury held chevries for mur der , but owing to the feeling against him the trial had been postponed until next week the members of the",mob,were masked . .
1911,17806_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1901,"executing his official duty , was taken from jail by a mob of 200 men last night and hanged . the coroner's jury held chevries for mur der , but owing to the feeling against him the trial had been postponed until next week the members of the mob were",masked,. .
1912,17808_0.txt,"Shiner gazette (Shiner, Tex.)",1901,"alleged lynchers jailed . nashville , tenn . . august 26 . - guard by a posse of eight officers , six men , under arrest on a charge of be ing members of th",mob,"that lynched charles davis at smithville , tenn . , two weeks ago , were brought to nash ville saturday night and lodged in jail . the prisoners are john given , aaron hughes , john given , jr . , lon given , tom given and edgar clark ."
1913,17810_0.txt,"Evening times-Republican (Marshalltown, I...)",1901,"daily lynching takes place . richmond , va . , july 2 . - a negro who attempted a criminal assault upon a young lady in brunswick county a few days ago was taken from the jail lawrenceville sunday night by a at",mob,", and lynched ."
1914,17812_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,the leavenworth horror . the brutal lynching of the negro fred alexander by a,mob,in leavenworth is indefensible . even though it were ad alexander guilty of mitted that was the crimes of which he was suspected still the outrage can not be palliated ; that alexander asserted his innocence of the murder in the face of certain death adds to the horror of
1915,17812_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,"for the rude and coarse bad american indians of a century ago , but how much worse it becomes when it develops among the most enlightened people of the most enlightened nation on earth . it is a mistake to assume that the death penalty will put a stop to",mob,violence . the death penalty is in force in ohio and it has not been long since a scene similar to that enacted in leaven worth was enacted in the city of akrou which contains about the same population as topeka . in this case the vigi lance of the
1916,17812_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,leaven worth was enacted in the city of akrou which contains about the same population as topeka . in this case the vigi lance of the officers prevented the lynch ing but it was not until several unoffending citizens had been shot . the condemnation of the acts of the,mob,by the legislature reflects the true sentiment of the people of kansas . there are very few who will justify the acts of the mob . it is a disgrace to the state and to the advanced civilization marks the beginning of the which twentieth century .
1917,17812_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,the officers prevented the lynch ing but it was not until several unoffending citizens had been shot . the condemnation of the acts of the mob by the legislature reflects the true sentiment of the people of kansas . there are very few who will justify the acts of the,mob,. it is a disgrace to the state and to the advanced civilization marks the beginning of the which twentieth century .
1918,17812_1.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,"no arrests made although dozens of alexander lynchers are known . leavenworth , kan . , jan . 16 . - no ar rests of leaders of the",mob,"have been the fact that made , notwithstanding dozens of the men who participated in the coroner's affair are known . jury the sat on the case this afternoon ."
1919,17812_2.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,after another negro . leavenworth,mob,"tries to get woman insulter from jail . leavenworth , jan . 16 . - it was learned today that the city jail was visited late last night by a body of masked men on horseback who demanded of the jail to them charles er that he deliver letcher ,"
1920,17812_2.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,"after another negro . leavenworth mob tries to get woman insulter from jail . leavenworth , jan . 16 . - it was learned today that the city jail was visited late last night by a body of",masked,"men on horseback who demanded of the jail to them charles er that he deliver letcher , a negro whom they declared was guilty with alexander in the assault and murder of pearl forbes . letcher had been arrested for insulting sentenced to several women and been serve three months"
1921,17812_2.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,"after another negro . leavenworth mob tries to get woman insulter from jail . leavenworth , jan . 16 . - it was learned today that the city jail was visited late last night by a body of",masked men,"on horseback who demanded of the jail to them charles er that he deliver letcher , a negro whom they declared was guilty with alexander in the assault and murder of pearl forbes . letcher had been arrested for insulting sentenced to several women and been serve three months in"
1922,17813_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1901,there is no reason to despair over the reign of the lynchers in the south when a man is convicted by an alabama jury of murder in the first degree for being a member of a,mob,"that lynched a man , and the court sentences him to life imprisonment . and the man lynched was a negro and the man convicted was a man . surely the world does not white go backwards ."
1923,17813_1.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1901,"springfield republican . well , anyhow , that innocent missouri negro who was hanged by a",mob,"the other day , because a white girl had been found dead somewhere in his vicinity , "" is said to have admitted just before he was lynched that he had served a term in the penitentiary for criminal assault "" upon some other wo man . this important information"
1924,17814_0.txt,"The Butte inter mountain (Butte, Mont.)",1901,"press . ) shreveport , la . , june 20 . - frank smith , better known as "" prophet "" smith , and f . d . mcland , held at benton for complicity in the murder of john gray foster , were taken out of jail by a",mob,last night and strung to a tree . they were left dangling up side by side .
1925,17816_0.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1901,"lynchers to be arrested . kaleigh , n . c . , march 11 . - the arrest of five persons charged with being in the",mob,"which lynched james martindale , at carthage , is expected to be made today . there does not appear to have been any attempt at concealment . popular senti ment is entirely with the lynchers convictions are practically impossible . and"
1926,17817_0.txt,"The Kalispell bee (Kalispell, Mont...)",1901,"helena grand juries are plainly not of a success as investigators . they gouldn't find anything wrong with the legislators of 1898-9 , and now the",mob,that hanged seems to have escaped them . brady of
1927,17818_0.txt,"Reporter and farmer (Webster, Day Co...)",1901,"a negro who attempted a criminal assault upon a young lady in brunswick county , va . , a few days ago was taken from the jail at lawrenceville va . , by a",mob,"and lynched . ,"
1928,17820_0.txt,"Bryan morning eagle (Bryan, Tex.)",1901,"tried to lynch him . motor nan saved from an angry crowd by new york police , new york , aug . 22 . - a determined effort was made by a",mob,"late wednesday night to lynch julius seibel , a motorman , because his car had killed an nie emory , 9 years old , on madison ave nue . the car was coming down a steep grade when the child tried to cross , be came frightened and hesitated ,"
1929,17820_1.txt,"Bryan morning eagle (Bryan, Tex.)",1901,fires on a,mob,". sheriff wounds two of the mob and an other attack expected . birmingham , ala . , aug . 22 . - the news ' staff correspondent at asheville wires at 1 : 15 o'clock this afternoon that sheriff north and deputies fired on a mob seeking to lynch"
1930,17820_1.txt,"Bryan morning eagle (Bryan, Tex.)",1901,fires on a mob . sheriff wounds two of the,mob,"and an other attack expected . birmingham , ala . , aug . 22 . - the news ' staff correspondent at asheville wires at 1 : 15 o'clock this afternoon that sheriff north and deputies fired on a mob seeking to lynch jim brown , a ne gro rapist"
1931,17820_1.txt,"Bryan morning eagle (Bryan, Tex.)",1901,"fires on a mob . sheriff wounds two of the mob and an other attack expected . birmingham , ala . , aug . 22 . - the news ' staff correspondent at asheville wires at 1 : 15 o'clock this afternoon that sheriff north and deputies fired on a",mob,"seeking to lynch jim brown , a ne gro rapist , who was tried and convicted at that place , and two members of the mob were fatally wounded . their names are walter blankenship and jamie blankenship . one hundred shots were fired and the mob retreated , but"
1932,17820_1.txt,"Bryan morning eagle (Bryan, Tex.)",1901,"- the news ' staff correspondent at asheville wires at 1 : 15 o'clock this afternoon that sheriff north and deputies fired on a mob seeking to lynch jim brown , a ne gro rapist , who was tried and convicted at that place , and two members of the",mob,"were fatally wounded . their names are walter blankenship and jamie blankenship . one hundred shots were fired and the mob retreated , but were reforming to make another attack . the sheriff is trying to get in tion with the governor to secure communica the mil"
1933,17820_1.txt,"Bryan morning eagle (Bryan, Tex.)",1901,"fired on a mob seeking to lynch jim brown , a ne gro rapist , who was tried and convicted at that place , and two members of the mob were fatally wounded . their names are walter blankenship and jamie blankenship . one hundred shots were fired and the",mob,"retreated , but were reforming to make another attack . the sheriff is trying to get in tion with the governor to secure communica the mil"
1934,17821_1.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,"today he asserted that he had agree to plead guilty be cause he feared being burned at the stake at topeka , and that he preferred to spend a sentence in the state peniten . tiary than to the chances of losing his life at the take hands of a",mob,.
1935,17821_2.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1901,"negro and his friend lynched . lake charles , la . , feb . 21- thomas vital , a negro who criminally assaulted nora , the 13 year old daughter of estiev miller , was taken from his home near fenton last night by a",mob,"and lynch ed . samuel maddox , who attempted to defend vital was shot to death . vital had been previously shot in the leg by the girl's father and was not under arrest yet"
1936,17824_0.txt,"The Savannah morning news. (Savannah, Ga.)",1901,f new trial for williams . negro saved from carrollton,mob,"gets another chance . atlanta , july 19 . - ike williams , the negro who came near being lynched by a mob at carrolton , a little more than a month ago , will get a new trial . his case was passed on to this effect by the"
1937,17824_0.txt,"The Savannah morning news. (Savannah, Ga.)",1901,"f new trial for williams . negro saved from carrollton mob gets another chance . atlanta , july 19 . - ike williams , the negro who came near being lynched by a",mob,"at carrolton , a little more than a month ago , will get a new trial . his case was passed on to this effect by the supreme court to- day . the supreme court held that the evidence upon which williams was convicted was clearly circumstantial , and re"
1938,17824_0.txt,"The Savannah morning news. (Savannah, Ga.)",1901,"by the supreme court to- day . the supreme court held that the evidence upon which williams was convicted was clearly circumstantial , and re versed the lower court in its conviction . it is said that there was never any greater excitement in carroll county , than when the",mob,"attempted to lynch ike williams , by storming the jail at carrollton . 4x"
1939,17825_0.txt,"Reporter and farmer (Webster, Day Co...)",1901,a,mob,"at elkins , w . va . , lynched a who had mortally wounded the negro chief of police ."
1940,17826_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1901,died for her honor negro attempts to deffower a girl in ohio . in the struggle her throat is cut by the negro . a,mob,"organizing to lynch him . ( by the associated press . ) marietta , ohio , jan . 4 . - a brutal crime was committed this evening at hackney , morgan county , by which miss nellie mor ris , aged 19 , handsome and accomplished , lost her"
1941,17826_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1901,"was prominent in society in this city and parkersburg . weinstock was seized by a crowd , bound and removed to a building , where more than fifteen hundred men watched over him . officers at mcconellsville were senties for . there is talk of lynching him . to- night",mob,is being organized to hang weinstock a .
1942,17828_0.txt,"The Pacific commercial advertiser (Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands) 1885-1921",1901,kansas negro . a,mob,threatens to lynch another ar
1943,17830_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1901,,mob,"hangs a negro . nashville , te . , march 17 . - at tip tonville , in lake county , last night a mob hanged ike fitzgerald , a negro , to a tree near the courthouse . he was charged with assault on a white girl , miss"
1944,17830_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1901,"mob hangs a negro . nashville , te . , march 17 . - at tip tonville , in lake county , last night a",mob,"hanged ike fitzgerald , a negro , to a tree near the courthouse . he was charged with assault on a white girl , miss mina davenport , 19 years old , and a trial jury had just reported that they not agree and had been dis charged could ."
1945,17831_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1901,"been confirmed . a negro sent on for court by a magistrate on the charge of burning the stables of a mr . de jarnette , was taken by fifty unknown men from a constable who was taking him to the county seat and shot death . none of the",mob,could be identified to .
1946,17832_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1901,"for miles , and at last brought the burglar to bay . he was unarmed , except for the stolen pistol , and had emptied all the chambers early in the chase , so was easily taken prisoner . the man did not give his name , even when the",mob,"decided that he should hang . he was made to climb a tree , a rope was put about his neck fastened to a limb , and then he was and pushed off ."
1947,17834_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1901,"are brutes of any color or race there will be assaults upon women in unguarded houses or upon the highways . in other words , we doubt if courts can cure the devilish work any more than lynch ings have done so . but the wrong and violence of the",mob,"will be thus avoid ed , which is a good deal . but court trials or not , the people will be apt to hunt with the rifles the infernal devils who assault mothers and wifes and sisters and daughters , and in spite of governors and the northern press"
1948,17834_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1901,"mrs . martin . i am in favor of taking the criminals from the sheriffs . if it takes force of arms to do it . let ' er come , but never take the life of this any but the one that is wanted . can be done where",mobs,"are well organized and headed by the right man . and there will be more or less lynch ing so long as the nameles crime is committted , and it would be better for our officials to announce that they of surrender every guilty one would them to mobs when"
1949,17834_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1901,"where mobs are well organized and headed by the right man . and there will be more or less lynch ing so long as the nameles crime is committted , and it would be better for our officials to announce that they of surrender every guilty one would them to",mobs,"when they wanted them , and the brutes would not use the courts for a cloak of escape , as there would be no chance for them and less of the crime would be committed . "" if the brutes who roam and ravin shall know that the state is"
1950,17836_0.txt,"Emmons County record (Williamsport, D...)",1901,crimes and criminals . a,mob,"at elkins , w . va . , lynched a negro who had mortally wounded chief of police . the"
1951,17840_0.txt,"Richmond dispatch (Richmond, Va.)",1901,negro who confessed train- wreck hanged by a,mob,". ccala , fla . , january 16 . - norman mckinney ( colored ) has been lynched for wrecking the plant system . fast train near dunnell on sunday night , and the victim implicated two others who may share the same fate if they are caught . in"
1952,17840_0.txt,"Richmond dispatch (Richmond, Va.)",1901,"the affair , and was promptly arrested by the officers , also on suspicion . that night he was questioned so closely , and told so many conflicting stories , that it was decided to carry him to inverness and the county jail there . on the way , a",mob,"of fifty or more overpowered the officers and took the prisoner . he was taken back to the scene of the wreck and there confessed the crime , implicating and de scribing two others , who have escaped , but are now being pursued . after the confession , in"
1953,17841_0.txt,"Chicago eagle (Chicago, Ill.)",1901,,mob,"plays at lynching . charles herbert , a resident of mattea wan . n . j . , was hanged by a mob in an effort to make him confess that he had started a fire which destroyed the busi ness portion of the town on jan . 27 ."
1954,17841_0.txt,"Chicago eagle (Chicago, Ill.)",1901,"mob plays at lynching . charles herbert , a resident of mattea wan . n . j . , was hanged by a",mob,in an effort to make him confess that he had started a fire which destroyed the busi ness portion of the town on jan . 27 . her bert protested his innocence . he was string up a second time and when low ered again asserted that he was not
1955,17851_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1894,"in des moines , ia . . rev . samue : carter died at the age of 102 years . he was born a slave in virginia in 1792 . fire ruined the best portion of belle vue , mich . , causing a loss of $ 100,000 . a",mob,"lynched sam smith , a negro , near greenville , ala . he had shot and wounded e . l . harrison , who fatally was attempting his arrest . 000 . william gay and his son , john gay , and j . g . burton were lynched by"
1956,17851_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1894,"sam smith , a negro , near greenville , ala . he had shot and wounded e . l . harrison , who fatally was attempting his arrest . 000 . william gay and his son , john gay , and j . g . burton were lynched by a",mob,"at russell , kan . the mob were suspected of the murder of fred ning last july . din the death was announced of john carroll power , custodian of the lincoln monument at springfield , ill . , since its dedication in 1898 . a mob lynched sherman wagoner"
1957,17851_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1894,"greenville , ala . he had shot and wounded e . l . harrison , who fatally was attempting his arrest . 000 . william gay and his son , john gay , and j . g . burton were lynched by a mob at russell , kan . the",mob,"were suspected of the murder of fred ning last july . din the death was announced of john carroll power , custodian of the lincoln monument at springfield , ill . , since its dedication in 1898 . a mob lynched sherman wagoner , a wife murderer , near mitchell"
1958,17851_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1894,"lynched by a mob at russell , kan . the mob were suspected of the murder of fred ning last july . din the death was announced of john carroll power , custodian of the lincoln monument at springfield , ill . , since its dedication in 1898 . a",mob,"lynched sherman wagoner , a wife murderer , near mitchell , ind . in a hand- car accident near wood ward , ala . three men were killed and one fatally , hurt ."
1959,17851_1.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1894,three are lynched .,mob,"band vengeance of a kansas on a of murderers . russell , kan . , jan . 16 . - for two horses , a saddle , a watch , some clothes and $ 50 four lives have beeen given . the first was that of frederick dinning . whose"
1960,17851_1.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1894,"by lynch law sunday morning . these were : william gay , a settlef , aged 30 ; his son john , aged 80 , and - witted ; and j . g . burton , a bachelor and stock dealer living near lucas . ten miles northeast . a",mob,"of one hundred determined men entered the jail here between 2 and 3 o'clock sun day morning , took cut the three prisoners and hanged them to a small rail road bridge a short distance east of the depot in this city . the crime for which they were lynched"
1961,17852_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1901,,mob,"burns a pesthouse . omaha citizens object to the location of the structure . at a late hour the other night a mob of 500 citizens burned the pest house , situ ated in a remote section of omaha , neb . the inmates escaped into the adjacent residence district"
1962,17852_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1901,mob burns a pesthouse . omaha citizens object to the location of the structure . at a late hour the other night a,mob,"of 500 citizens burned the pest house , situ ated in a remote section of omaha , neb . the inmates escaped into the adjacent residence district . the fire department responded and laid a line of hose , but the mob leaders , though unmasked , stood their ground"
1963,17852_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1901,"at a late hour the other night a mob of 500 citizens burned the pest house , situ ated in a remote section of omaha , neb . the inmates escaped into the adjacent residence district . the fire department responded and laid a line of hose , but the",mob,"leaders , though unmasked , stood their ground and threatened violence if the water was turned on , and the build ing was consumed . this is the third pest house burned in omaha , the citizens jecting to the location . ob"
1964,17852_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1901,"the other night a mob of 500 citizens burned the pest house , situ ated in a remote section of omaha , neb . the inmates escaped into the adjacent residence district . the fire department responded and laid a line of hose , but the mob leaders , though",unmasked,", stood their ground and threatened violence if the water was turned on , and the build ing was consumed . this is the third pest house burned in omaha , the citizens jecting to the location . ob"
1965,17852_3.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1901,"were arrested they would necessarily have to undergo the first trial in leavenworth county , and on account of the present condition of public sentiment it would be absolutely useless to attempt to prosecute anybody there for the crime . "" the sentiment of the kansas legislature on the leavenworth",mob,"was reflected in chaplain morehead's prayer : "" we real ize we have been disgraced in the eyes of the world by the work of a mob . save us from lawlessness and make us law abiding citizens . "" within an hour after convening a joint resolution , introduced"
1966,17852_3.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1901,"be absolutely useless to attempt to prosecute anybody there for the crime . "" the sentiment of the kansas legislature on the leavenworth mob was reflected in chaplain morehead's prayer : "" we real ize we have been disgraced in the eyes of the world by the work of a",mob,". save us from lawlessness and make us law abiding citizens . "" within an hour after convening a joint resolution , introduced by senator carpenter , was passed by houses , denouncing the leavenworth both mob ."
1967,17852_3.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1901,"been disgraced in the eyes of the world by the work of a mob . save us from lawlessness and make us law abiding citizens . "" within an hour after convening a joint resolution , introduced by senator carpenter , was passed by houses , denouncing the leavenworth both",mob,.
1968,17853_0.txt,"The Salt Lake tribune (Salt Lake City,...)",1904,colorado,mob,"attempts lynching . colorado springs , colo . , aug . 21 . - a special to the gazette from vic tor , colo . , says a mob took a man and tried to lynch him this afternoon , but bell and deputies rescued him . sheriff no details"
1969,17853_0.txt,"The Salt Lake tribune (Salt Lake City,...)",1904,"colorado mob attempts lynching . colorado springs , colo . , aug . 21 . - a special to the gazette from vic tor , colo . , says a",mob,"took a man and tried to lynch him this afternoon , but bell and deputies rescued him . sheriff no details yet ."
1970,17855_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1904,". ( by the associated press . ) montgomer "" ala . , sept . 26 . - governor cunningham to- day received the report of the military court of inquiry appointed to investigate the conduct of company f . , alabama nationa guard , which was overpowered by thed",mob,"at huntsville , ala . . that lynched horace maples , a negro . the report , which is signed by cols onel t . s . fraser captain e . d . smith , and captain w . f . vaiden , recommends that company f . be mustered"
1971,17855_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1904,"the court found that captain r . l . hay had no definite plan of action . and that most of the men had no load in their guns though plenty of am munition was to be had , also that ong sentinel was overpowered and badly hurt by the",mob,. it was also found that members of the military company were cursed and assaulted by the mob after fire was set to the jail that they lost their military identity and in the crowds .
1972,17855_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1904,"that most of the men had no load in their guns though plenty of am munition was to be had , also that ong sentinel was overpowered and badly hurt by the mob . it was also found that members of the military company were cursed and assaulted by the",mob,after fire was set to the jail that they lost their military identity and in the crowds .
1973,17856_0.txt,"The Coalville times (Coalville, Utah)",1903,"the coroner's jury that investigated the lynching of the negro at joplin , mo . , found a verdict holding three men . the men are in jail , while seven or eight other men reported have been in the",mob,", have left the to city ."
1974,17858_1.txt,"The Butler weekly times. (Butler, Mo.)",1904,killed while trying to release prisoner,mob,"tries to force carbondale mar shal to open jail doors . carbondale , ill . : john chamness was shot three times and fatally wounded in a melee at creal springs wednes- day , in which city marshal john gulley was being forced by a mob to re lease frank"
1975,17858_1.txt,"The Butler weekly times. (Butler, Mo.)",1904,"trying to release prisoner mob tries to force carbondale mar shal to open jail doors . carbondale , ill . : john chamness was shot three times and fatally wounded in a melee at creal springs wednes- day , in which city marshal john gulley was being forced by a",mob,"to re lease frank chamness from the city bastile . the marshal , after placing frank chamness in jail , vent into alexander's drug store and the mob demanded the prisoner's release . tais the marshal refused to grant . he was surrounded , and was being bodily taken to"
1976,17858_1.txt,"The Butler weekly times. (Butler, Mo.)",1904,"fatally wounded in a melee at creal springs wednes- day , in which city marshal john gulley was being forced by a mob to re lease frank chamness from the city bastile . the marshal , after placing frank chamness in jail , vent into alexander's drug store and the",mob,"demanded the prisoner's release . tais the marshal refused to grant . he was surrounded , and was being bodily taken to the calaboose , when his son appeared on the scene and demanded his father's release . a wordy war en sued , and at least three shots were"
1977,17860_0.txt,"The Cairo bulletin. (Cairo, Ill.)",1904,bodies of the negroes reward is offered for who criminally assaulted mrs . biddle in new jersey- state militia join the with arms and assist in the,mob,"man hunt . burlington , n . j . , july 7 . - the three richest land owners here have noti fied the public that they will stand a bondsmen for any one who kills the negroes who attacked mrs . charles biddle , a white woman , on"
1978,17865_0.txt,"The Hartford republican. (Hartford, Ky.)",1901,"and 436 in the northern , 2 465 of the victims were males and fifty- one females ; 1,678 negroes , 801 were whites , twenty- one were indians , nine were chinese and seven were mexicans . the crimes are alleged crimes which caused the people to take the",law into their own hands,", came near exhausting the calendar . murder and rape head the list in point of number , but there is a total of 112 other offenses given as excuses for exercising lynch law . some of the crimes were of the most petty nature . for instance , one"
1979,17865_0.txt,"The Hartford republican. (Hartford, Ky.)",1901,"law . in 1888 the horse thieves were again given no mercy , ten of them paying the extreme penalty ; eight were lynched in this same year for arson . in 1889 it was the outlaws and desperadoes who suffered most , nineteen of them being strung up by",mobs,. in 1890 race prejudice claimed five victims and political prejudice three . the most sensational feature of 1891 was the summary execution of eleven italians in new orleans for alleged conspiracy to murder . in 1892 the crime of horse- stealing cost twenty more men their lives . in
1980,17867_1.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1904,"acquitted of lynching charge . huntsville , ala . , sept . 27 . - the jury in the case of benjamin hill , on trial here charged with participating in the lynching of howard maples , a negro executed by a",mob,", today returned a verdict of acquittal recently ."
1981,17868_0.txt,"The Goodland republic (Goodland, Kan.)",1894,a negro murderer lynched by a,mob,"near monet , mo.t monett , mo . , june 30 . - ulysses hayden , a negro , was taken from the sheriff of newton county at this place and hanged to a telegraph pole half a mile south of town at 9 o'clock last night by a mob"
1982,17868_0.txt,"The Goodland republic (Goodland, Kan.)",1894,"mob near monet , mo.t monett , mo . , june 30 . - ulysses hayden , a negro , was taken from the sheriff of newton county at this place and hanged to a telegraph pole half a mile south of town at 9 o'clock last night by a",mob,". hayden was arrested for shooting bots greenwood , a brakeman at this place june 20 and was being taken to cassville jail for safe keeping . the sheriff and prisoner were on the south bound train , which stopped by the mob . was"
1983,17868_0.txt,"The Goodland republic (Goodland, Kan.)",1894,"at 9 o'clock last night by a mob . hayden was arrested for shooting bots greenwood , a brakeman at this place june 20 and was being taken to cassville jail for safe keeping . the sheriff and prisoner were on the south bound train , which stopped by the",mob,. was
1984,17869_0.txt,"The Red Cloud chief (Red Cloud, Webs...)",1906,". - buukic richardson , a negro charged with the assault and murder of m : s . sarah smith here july 15 last , was forcibly taken from the jail here at an early hour this morning and hanged to a bridge across coosa river . twenty . four",masked,"men went to the jail , overpowered the sheriff and jailer and made short work of the prisoner . four negroes were charged with the crime against mrs . smith , one of the most fiendish ever committed in the state , two of whom have been legally executed ."
1985,17869_0.txt,"The Red Cloud chief (Red Cloud, Webs...)",1906,". - buukic richardson , a negro charged with the assault and murder of m : s . sarah smith here july 15 last , was forcibly taken from the jail here at an early hour this morning and hanged to a bridge across coosa river . twenty . four",masked men,"went to the jail , overpowered the sheriff and jailer and made short work of the prisoner . four negroes were charged with the crime against mrs . smith , one of the most fiendish ever committed in the state , two of whom have been legally executed . the"
1986,17871_0.txt,"The Tupelo journal. (Tupelo, Miss.)",1906,"another negro lynched south carolinians shoot him five hundred times . charged with attempting to enter the window of a white girl's home . columbia , 8 . s . c.- william spain , a negro , 21 years old , was shot to death by a",mob,"near st . george , dorchester county . this is the third lynching in south carolina within ten days . s . l . connor , manager of the dorchester lumber co . ' s store at bed- ham , was notified by a negro that he saw another negro"
1987,17871_0.txt,"The Tupelo journal. (Tupelo, Miss.)",1906,"of fifty men went to the sheriff , and , securing the keys to the jail , took the negro to the house of connor , where his 11- year- old daughter positively identified the ne gro as the one who had tried to climb through the window . the",mob,"then took the negro to a nearby oak three , strung him up to a limb and fired about 500 shots into his body , ."
1988,17873_0.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1904,"at laramie , wyo . , a",mob,"lynched a "" trusty "" who had attacked a white negro girl in the prison kitchen ."
1989,17873_1.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1904,"near portal , ga . , sebastian mcbride , a negro , was taken out of his house by a",mob,"of five men , carried to the woods , whipped severely and then shot , from effects of which he died soon after- ward the ."
1990,17873_2.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1904,"a negro , joseph bumpass , who at- tempted to assault miss topsy clay . aged 15 , a white girl , near hickman , ky . , was captured by a posse and lodged in jail . later he was taken from jail by a",mob,and lynched and his thrown into the river . body
1991,17874_0.txt,"The pioneer express (Pembina, Dakota...)",1906,"george estes , who shot and killed deputy sherifi sasely and wounded constable john bowers when the om cers at hales point , tenn . , raided a ticipating , was taken from a posse by an armed",mob,and hanged sherir's .
1992,17876_0.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1906,"opened fire and killed one of them , named ralph burns . the other as escaped . lewis surrendered , but was released . the lynching and burning of the three negroes sunday has attracted national attention and governor folk says that he will see that the leaders of the",mob,are hanged . there have twenty or more arrests and some well- known citizens involved . are
1993,17879_0.txt,"St. Landry clarion. (Opelousas, La.)",1906,a negro by the name of richard harvey had to be hurried to the par- ish jail at lake charles to avoid- being lynched by a jennings,mob,". he is charged with enticing a 12- year old white girl into a barn , and had succeeded in getting the child on a horse in an effort to flee when help arrived . a mob was being organized the oil field when the sheriff quickly at conveyed him"
1994,17879_0.txt,"St. Landry clarion. (Opelousas, La.)",1906,"par- ish jail at lake charles to avoid- being lynched by a jennings mob . he is charged with enticing a 12- year old white girl into a barn , and had succeeded in getting the child on a horse in an effort to flee when help arrived . a",mob,was being organized the oil field when the sheriff quickly at conveyed him to lake charles .
1995,17881_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1904,"dunham , a negro , wanted on the charge of attacking the 14- year- old daughter of john wilson , a white man , two weeks ago , and also three young women named dunn , was hanged in the public square at eudora , miss . , by a",mob,". the noose was placed about the negro's neck by the little wilson girl , who positively identified him as her assail ant . the negro was then placed upon the back of a horse and at a signal from the leader of the mob the little wilson girl led"
1996,17881_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1904,"miss . , by a mob . the noose was placed about the negro's neck by the little wilson girl , who positively identified him as her assail ant . the negro was then placed upon the back of a horse and at a signal from the leader of the",mob,"the little wilson girl led the horse from under him . over 3,000 persons , white and black , witnessed the hanging . members of the mob declare the lynching as orderly as a legal execution . after being assured that the negro was dead the mob cut down body"
1997,17881_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1904,"assail ant . the negro was then placed upon the back of a horse and at a signal from the leader of the mob the little wilson girl led the horse from under him . over 3,000 persons , white and black , witnessed the hanging . members of the",mob,declare the lynching as orderly as a legal execution . after being assured that the negro was dead the mob cut down body and turned it over to the rela tires the for burial .
1998,17881_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1904,"leader of the mob the little wilson girl led the horse from under him . over 3,000 persons , white and black , witnessed the hanging . members of the mob declare the lynching as orderly as a legal execution . after being assured that the negro was dead the",mob,cut down body and turned it over to the rela tires the for burial .
1999,17884_0.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,,mob,"kilis negro . larrmie , wyo . -- joe martin , colored , was lynched by a mob of 300 men in front of judge carpenter's house . martin was a trusty in the county jail . he attacked a white girl , della krause , in the jail kitchen"
2000,17884_0.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,"mob kilis negro . larrmie , wyo . -- joe martin , colored , was lynched by a",mob,"of 300 men in front of judge carpenter's house . martin was a trusty in the county jail . he attacked a white girl , della krause , in the jail kitchen and slashed her face and arms with knife . one man was injured by martin when entering the"
2001,17884_0.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,in the jail kitchen and slashed her face and arms with knife . one man was injured by martin when entering the jail to drag out the prisoner . after assaulting miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . at night a,mobient,of several hundred formed outside the jail . the first intimation sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two masked men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and with guns leveled at his head told him that there were 200 men waiting outside for the negro
2002,17884_0.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,jail to drag out the prisoner . after assaulting miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . at night a mobient of several hundred formed outside the jail . the first intimation sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two,masked,men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and with guns leveled at his head told him that there were 200 men waiting outside for the negro and that he had better not attempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another masked man ad entered
2003,17884_0.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,jail to drag out the prisoner . after assaulting miss krause with a razor martin was placed in a cell in the county jail . at night a mobient of several hundred formed outside the jail . the first intimation sheriff cook had of the contemplated lynching was when two,masked men,"appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and with guns leveled at his head told him that there were 200 men waiting outside for the negro and that he had better not attempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another masked man ad entered ,"
2004,17884_0.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,was when two masked men appeared in the kitchen of the jail house and with guns leveled at his head told him that there were 200 men waiting outside for the negro and that he had better not attempt to make any trouble for them . in the meantime another,masked,"man ad entered , and while the first two held the sheriff the third man took the keys of the jail from the sheriff's pocket and then the three started for the negro's cell . on the they encountered way myer , who had been summoned to dress the wounds"
2005,17884_0.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,"myer , who had been summoned to dress the wounds of martin , self- inflicted , with the same razor with which he had assaulted the girl and , turnkey jones . he was compelled to stand against the cage of the cells with his face turned away from the",mob,. the negro was then taken from his cell and hurriedly marched through the court house into the street . arriving at the lamp post a short distance from the hall the negro was quickly strung up to the post . during the entire proceedings he did not speak nor
2006,17884_0.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,then taken from his cell and hurriedly marched through the court house into the street . arriving at the lamp post a short distance from the hall the negro was quickly strung up to the post . during the entire proceedings he did not speak nor attempt to resist the,mob,. the lynching occur red at 8 o'clock and within an hour about the streets were deserted .
2007,17884_1.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,"them . then he was in formed that unless he resigned as sheriff he would be killed . he des murred , and a rope with a noose was shown him and he was informed that unless he resigned quickly the doors of the hall would be opened an the",mob,"permitted to enter and lynch him . he resigned in order to save his life . informations were filed before district judge lewis charging rev . t . s . leland , l . e . jenks and arthur parker with a conspiracy to murder sheriff underwood . these cases"
2008,17884_1.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,"were based on the shooting from mr . leland's house when sheriff bell demanded admittance . ball was fixed at $ 2,500 and the accused are still in jail . e . s . holden former secretary of engineers ' union no . 75 has been brutally beaten by four",masked,"men while on his was to vindicator mine , where he works . he was opposed to the strike in this district and be came identified with the non- union men , taking a mine- owner's last december . card"
2009,17884_1.txt,"Harrison press-journal (Harrison, Nebra...)",1904,"were based on the shooting from mr . leland's house when sheriff bell demanded admittance . ball was fixed at $ 2,500 and the accused are still in jail . e . s . holden former secretary of engineers ' union no . 75 has been brutally beaten by four",masked men,"while on his was to vindicator mine , where he works . he was opposed to the strike in this district and be came identified with the non- union men , taking a mine- owner's last december . card"
2010,17885_0.txt,"Reporter and farmer (Webster, Day Co...)",1904,a,mob,"at springfield , ohio , stormed the jail , secured possession of a murderer , and lynched him . negro"
2011,17886_0.txt,"The weekly Corinthian. (Corinth, Miss.)",1904,"the logic of lynching . ty the lynching of a white man at kershaw , s . c . , ought to be a warning to the people of the south . this is the first time that a south carolina white man has ever been execu- ted by a",mob,", but if the lynching of negroes is to be condoned or defended , the lynching of white men must follow as a matter of course . in the end lynch law will recog- nize neither race , coler nor previous condition of servitude . the spirit that brushes aside"
2012,17886_0.txt,"The weekly Corinthian. (Corinth, Miss.)",1904,"follow as a matter of course . in the end lynch law will recog- nize neither race , coler nor previous condition of servitude . the spirit that brushes aside constitutional processes will not make discrimina tions in color . not the rights of the negro alone are menaced by",mob,"rule , but the rights of white people as well . new york the world ."
2013,17888_0.txt,"The L'Anse sentinel. (L'Anse, L.S., M...)",1905,a negro was lynched by a,mob,"at belmont , mo . , for kidnaping the wife and child of county judge hess and them until paid a ransom of holding $ 600 ."
2014,17889_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1904,man attacks a girl stranger grabs eureka woman but flies-,mob,"may lynch him . ( special to the herald . ) sheriff eureka , june 15 . - deputy schooler , police officer larson and fifty men scoured the hills and trails about here this afternoon in search of a man who attempted an assault on the daughter of james"
2015,17890_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1906,"negro lynched . plaquemine , la . , march 18 . - willlam carr , a negro , was lynched at bayou plaquemine last night for stealing a cow . thirty- five",masked,"men over powered the constable who was taking carr to jail and the negro to a railroad bridge , hanged"
2016,17890_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1906,"negro lynched . plaquemine , la . , march 18 . - willlam carr , a negro , was lynched at bayou plaquemine last night for stealing a cow . thirty- five",masked men,"over powered the constable who was taking carr to jail and the negro to a railroad bridge , hanged"
2017,17891_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1904,negro suspects,mob,"lynches fifteen augusta , ga . , aug . 15 . - it is reported from statesboro this morn- ing that 15 negroes were lynched by a mob at 4 o'clock this morning . the negroes were accused of the murder of the hodges family which occurred three weeks ago"
2018,17891_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1904,"negro suspects mob lynches fifteen augusta , ga . , aug . 15 . - it is reported from statesboro this morn- ing that 15 negroes were lynched by a",mob,"at 4 o'clock this morning . the negroes were accused of the murder of the hodges family which occurred three weeks ago . the mob cut all the telegraph wires before the lynch- ing began , and no details can be secured . trainmen say two negroes brought to saturday"
2019,17891_0.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1904,"augusta , ga . , aug . 15 . - it is reported from statesboro this morn- ing that 15 negroes were lynched by a mob at 4 o'clock this morning . the negroes were accused of the murder of the hodges family which occurred three weeks ago . the",mob,"cut all the telegraph wires before the lynch- ing began , and no details can be secured . trainmen say two negroes brought to saturday night to be tried statesboro for the hodges murder , confessed , implicating thirteen oth ers and the wholesale lynching fol lowed , ."
2020,17891_1.txt,"The Tacoma times (Tacoma, Wash.)",1904,"augusta , ga . , aug . 15 . - a later report from statesboro says there was no lynching . the sheriff and two companies of state troops are holding the",mob,in check . a whole regiment is being rushed from savannah . the negroes have confessed to having a secret organization the object of which was the and robbing of the whites . murdering
2021,17892_0.txt,"Tulsa daily world (Tulsa, Indian T...)",1906,"the negro was lynched . ocala , fla . , june 8 . - james da vis , alias "" datgo "" negro , who , it was charged , murdered mr . russell and his negro servant at felicia on tuesday , was lynched at inverness last night by",masked,men . the mili- sent from brooksville to protect tia him arrived too late .
2022,17892_0.txt,"Tulsa daily world (Tulsa, Indian T...)",1906,"the negro was lynched . ocala , fla . , june 8 . - james da vis , alias "" datgo "" negro , who , it was charged , murdered mr . russell and his negro servant at felicia on tuesday , was lynched at inverness last night by",masked men,. the mili- sent from brooksville to protect tia him arrived too late .
2023,17893_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1904,,mob,"foiled in its attempt to lynch a murderer . brainbridge , ga . september 9- sheriff fordham today received a telegram from judge spence at camilla , ordering him to call out the militia to protect whitney williford , a negro under ar rest on the charge of murder ,"
2024,17893_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1904,"its attempt to lynch a murderer . brainbridge , ga . september 9- sheriff fordham today received a telegram from judge spence at camilla , ordering him to call out the militia to protect whitney williford , a negro under ar rest on the charge of murder , as a",mob,"from mitchell county was on the way . to brainbridge to lynch him . orders were given for the militia to hold itself in readiness to respond to a hurry call . meanwhile the prisoner was put on a train and hurried to tallahassee , fla . , whence he"
2025,17893_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1904,"orders were given for the militia to hold itself in readiness to respond to a hurry call . meanwhile the prisoner was put on a train and hurried to tallahassee , fla . , whence he will be returned to some un point in georgia tonight . thus the known",mob,has been foiled .
2026,17895_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1905,,mob,"lynches negro . man accused of trying to enter woman's room . elkton . oct . ky . . 12 . shortly after midnight a mob of about one hundred men , supposed to be from trenton , took frank leavell . a one legged negro , from jail here"
2027,17895_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1905,mob lynches negro . man accused of trying to enter woman's room . elkton . oct . ky . . 12 . shortly after midnight a,mob,"of about one hundred men , supposed to be from trenton , took frank leavell . a one legged negro , from jail here and lynched him in a nearby woods . leavell was arrested on the charge of attempting to enter the room of a woman at trenton last"
2028,17902_0.txt,"The Fargo forum and daily republican (Fargo, N.D.)",1906,"negro murderer lynched . hattiesburg , miss . , june 12 . - wood ambrose , a young negro was lynched at prentice , forty- five miles east of here . ambrose had been arrested and accused of the shooting of a white man . a",mob,into the jail and shot the negro broke to death .
2029,17904_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1906,"third storming . damage done to jail is estimated at one thousand dollars . chattanooga . jan . 27 . - the hamilton county jail . which , for the third time in its history , was stormed thursday night by a",mob,"intent on lynch ing a negro held for criminally assaulting a white lady , was damaged to the extent of $ 1.000 . a militia guard was on duty until 5 o'clock friday morning it was made up of men from troop b . cava ry , battery a and"
2030,17904_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1906,"duty until 5 o'clock friday morning it was made up of men from troop b . cava ry , battery a and companies a . k and m . third tennessee national guard , under command of captain fyffe of the cavalry . ed johnson , the man whom the",mob,"was after , had been taken away by sheriff shipp . . it was stated , to knoxville . a party was seen in a closed carriage in the country but nothing is known as its whereabouts . definite"
2031,17907_0.txt,"The Pensacola journal. (Pensacola, Fla.)",1906,"negro lynched in mississippi by associated press . meridian , miss . june 25 . - informa tion received to- day states that an un known negro was quickly lynched by an unknown",mob,"at dekalb , kemper county , for an attempt to criminally assault mrs . james young , the proprietor of a store . the negro darted behind the counter and rushed to wara mrs . young , when she drew a pistol the negro escaped but was captured . by"
2032,17907_0.txt,"The Pensacola journal. (Pensacola, Fla.)",1906,"dekalb , kemper county , for an attempt to criminally assault mrs . james young , the proprietor of a store . the negro darted behind the counter and rushed to wara mrs . young , when she drew a pistol the negro escaped but was captured . by the",mob,and lynched .
2033,17908_0.txt,"Times-promoter. (Hernando, DeSot...)",1906,"disabled in the fight pursued the negroes . four escaped , but six were put aboard a street car under the guard of the police and deputies and started for the county jail in the center of the town . as the car approached 491 crews street , a waiting",mob,"stopped the car . two of the prisoners , sam mcsaunder and wiley brooks , made a bold dash for liberty . the mob caught them in the yard of the home occupied at the above number by mrs . r . c . thompson , a highly respected white"
2034,17908_0.txt,"Times-promoter. (Hernando, DeSot...)",1906,"police and deputies and started for the county jail in the center of the town . as the car approached 491 crews street , a waiting mob stopped the car . two of the prisoners , sam mcsaunder and wiley brooks , made a bold dash for liberty . the",mob,"caught them in the yard of the home occupied at the above number by mrs . r . c . thompson , a highly respected white woman . the negroes were cut and beaten and left for dead . mrs . thompson , watching the exciting scene from the porch"
2035,17908_0.txt,"Times-promoter. (Hernando, DeSot...)",1906,"police and deputies and started for the county jail in the center of the town . as the car approached 491 crews street , a waiting mob stopped the car . two of the prisoners , sam mcsaunder and wiley brooks , made a bold dash for liberty . the",mob caught,"them in the yard of the home occupied at the above number by mrs . r . c . thompson , a highly respected white woman . the negroes were cut and beaten and left for dead . mrs . thompson , watching the exciting scene from the porch of"
2036,17910_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1906,work of,mob,"same as murder judge declares all members of lynching party guilty . mob's work is condemned . judge long , of rowan county court , very severe in denunciation of the infuriated mob that lynchd the negroes at salisbury . charlotte , n . c . , aug . 9"
2037,17910_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1906,work of mob same as murder judge declares all members of lynching party guilty .,mob's,"work is condemned . judge long , of rowan county court , very severe in denunciation of the infuriated mob that lynchd the negroes at salisbury . charlotte , n . c . , aug . 9 . - judge long called rowan court to order at salisbury at the"
2038,17910_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1906,"work of mob same as murder judge declares all members of lynching party guilty . mob's work is condemned . judge long , of rowan county court , very severe in denunciation of the infuriated",mob,"that lynchd the negroes at salisbury . charlotte , n . c . , aug . 9 . - judge long called rowan court to order at salisbury at the usual hour wednesday . barring the keeping of his engagement with it at this hour , it was an unnecessary"
2039,17910_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1906,"at the usual hour wednesday . barring the keeping of his engagement with it at this hour , it was an unnecessary session . the grand jury has not made a presentment of the case against george hall , who is known to be one of the men leading the",mob,to its death- dealing work of torture and mutilation . another arrest has been made and the evidence against a fellow by the name of cross is being worked up . solicitor hammer is being urged to proceed with his work against hall . the people wish to see an
2040,17910_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1906,"worked up . solicitor hammer is being urged to proceed with his work against hall . the people wish to see an example made of him , and his trial concluded while the military is here to protect him and the town . judge long was still harder on the",mob,wednesday . he said : the court is informed that a kins man of the murdered people plead with that band of cut- throats and murderers to let the law proceed . any man who aided and abetted in that lynching was guilty of murder in the first degree .
2041,17910_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1906,"in the first degree . any man who gave encouragement by word or presence , or took any part in it , was guilty of murder in the first degree . "" the question now . is simply whether the law shall be enforced by the courts or by a",mob,"and rowan , county should to a man take a stand on that proposition . when sifted to the bottom you will find , as i have said before , that no man of character and standing was in that mob . . i am going to perform my duty"
2042,17910_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1906,"shall be enforced by the courts or by a mob and rowan , county should to a man take a stand on that proposition . when sifted to the bottom you will find , as i have said before , that no man of character and standing was in that",mob,". . i am going to perform my duty as i see it , and have no fear . i said be- fore i had apprehended any trouble that the law of the lan dwas stronger than any local mob . i do not take that back , notwithstanding the"
2043,17910_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1906,"that no man of character and standing was in that mob . . i am going to perform my duty as i see it , and have no fear . i said be- fore i had apprehended any trouble that the law of the lan dwas stronger than any local",mob,". i do not take that back , notwithstanding the shots about my ears that night . the mills of the gods grind slowly , but they grind exceedingly fine . ' "" the honor and integrity of ro wan must be preserved . "" the grand jury then retired"
2044,17914_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1906,that maryland sheriff who got ahead of a,mob,"by hanging the negro first , certainly beat the mob ; but it would be know what the interesting to thinks about it . negro"
2045,17914_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1906,"that maryland sheriff who got ahead of a mob by hanging the negro first , certainly beat the",mob,; but it would be know what the interesting to thinks about it . negro
2046,17917_0.txt,"The champion. (Arcadia, Fla.)",1906,two negroes were hanged by a,mob,"near bartow last week . they had killed ed granger , a well known and highly respected white man in the employ of the mccon nell turpentine company near ft . meade . it seems the negroes were in the employ of the company and wanted to quit work and"
2047,17917_0.txt,"The champion. (Arcadia, Fla.)",1906,in the employ of the mccon nell turpentine company near ft . meade . it seems the negroes were in the employ of the company and wanted to quit work and mr . granger tried to stop them judge wall and prosecuting attorney will investigate the affair and puu the,mob,who hung the negroes if ish they can be identified .
2048,17918_0.txt,"The Worthington advance (Worthington, Mi...)",1906,a,mob,"of white men , mostly hoodlums , incensed because some negroes had made criminal assault upon white women in atlanta re centy , killed fifteen or more negroes and injured many others , all of whom probably were innocent of any offense . during the time the violence lasted it"
2049,17919_0.txt,"The Brookings register (Brookings, Broo...)",1906,negro lynched by a,mob,"hanged in shadow of home of victim- governor pleads in vain . columbia , s . c . , aug . 18 . - within the shadow of the home of his victim , miss jennie brooke , after having been identified by her , and after gov . hey"
2050,17919_0.txt,"The Brookings register (Brookings, Broo...)",1906,"c . , aug . 18 . - within the shadow of the home of his victim , miss jennie brooke , after having been identified by her , and after gov . hey . ward , who yesterday went to the scene of the trouble , had addressed the",mob,"who "" davis the in "" bob negro vain , , on monday murderously attacked miss brooke with intent to commit assault and who afterwards outraged a negro girl fourteen years old , was lynched at greenwood about 7 : 30 o'clock last evening . gov . heyward reached the"
2051,17919_0.txt,"The Brookings register (Brookings, Broo...)",1906,"was lynched at greenwood about 7 : 30 o'clock last evening . gov . heyward reached the scene shortly after the negro had been captured . a platform was erected in a fence corner on the premises of the victim's father , from which gov . hey ward addressed the",mob,"in an effort to prevent the lynching . the govern or beseechea the mob not to lynch da . vis , but in vain . at the conclusion of his speech the governor was vociferously cheered . the mob then rushed the prisoner from the view of the gov ."
2052,17919_0.txt,"The Brookings register (Brookings, Broo...)",1906,"heyward reached the scene shortly after the negro had been captured . a platform was erected in a fence corner on the premises of the victim's father , from which gov . hey ward addressed the mob in an effort to prevent the lynching . the govern or beseechea the",mob,"not to lynch da . vis , but in vain . at the conclusion of his speech the governor was vociferously cheered . the mob then rushed the prisoner from the view of the gov . distance of ernor and within a short home of his victim the negro was"
2053,17919_0.txt,"The Brookings register (Brookings, Broo...)",1906,"victim's father , from which gov . hey ward addressed the mob in an effort to prevent the lynching . the govern or beseechea the mob not to lynch da . vis , but in vain . at the conclusion of his speech the governor was vociferously cheered . the",mob,then rushed the prisoner from the view of the gov . distance of ernor and within a short home of his victim the negro was the riddled with bullets .
2054,17922_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1906,"white man "" for fun . "" - houston , tex . , jan . 10 . - ben harris , the negro charged with the assassination of ozro poulk at berings mili , monday night , and who was taken from officers last night at la salle by a",mob,", was lynched early today at moscow , tex . there were about seventy men in the mob . the negro , when asked why he killed polk , said at first that it was an accident later he said he killed polk "" for fun . "" ."
2055,17922_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1906,"ben harris , the negro charged with the assassination of ozro poulk at berings mili , monday night , and who was taken from officers last night at la salle by a mob , was lynched early today at moscow , tex . there were about seventy men in the",mob,". the negro , when asked why he killed polk , said at first that it was an accident later he said he killed polk "" for fun . "" ."
2056,17923_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1906,"he had promised $ 5,000 for the statement , and been had never received but $ 700 . hooe's confession , according to ray , was most sensational . in cross- examination detailed ray hooe's arrest and second confession , deny ing that he had told the prisoner that a",mob,"was waiting in allegheny to lynch him , and that he had promised to protect him if he said his first statement false . was"
2057,17926_0.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,hang two blacks on way to trial . mobile,mob,"takes a train to meet sheriff and prisoners from birmingham . mobile , ala . , oct . 6 . - two hundred masked men met sheriff powers with the two negroes charged with assault at reihardson switch , three miles north of mobile on the southern railway , took"
2058,17926_0.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,"hang two blacks on way to trial . mobile mob takes a train to meet sheriff and prisoners from birmingham . mobile , ala . , oct . 6 . - two hundred",masked,"men met sheriff powers with the two negroes charged with assault at reihardson switch , three miles north of mobile on the southern railway , took his prisoners from him and hanged them on the spot . no one else was harmed . the negroes had been taken to birmingham"
2059,17926_0.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,"hang two blacks on way to trial . mobile mob takes a train to meet sheriff and prisoners from birmingham . mobile , ala . , oct . 6 . - two hundred",masked men,"met sheriff powers with the two negroes charged with assault at reihardson switch , three miles north of mobile on the southern railway , took his prisoners from him and hanged them on the spot . no one else was harmed . the negroes had been taken to birmingham for"
2060,17926_0.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,"the southern railway , took his prisoners from him and hanged them on the spot . no one else was harmed . the negroes had been taken to birmingham for safekeeping and were being brought to mobile for trial on a train . at an early hour this morning the",mob,", styling itself a "" committee , ' left on a southern train to meet the sheriff and his prisoners . everything was done quietly , although no apparent effort was made to hide the formation of the committee . the committee met an early train on which , it"
2061,17926_0.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,"decided not to be disappointed again , and took the train to meet the sheriff . when the committee met the sheriff , the latter was powerless to hold his captives who were hanged on the spot . the sheriff several days ago took the prisoners away to foil a",mob,"and was bringing them back for trial , under the probable assumption that the public had cooled down meanwhile . the recent race riots , with the severe storm which struck the south , and the lynching today have left the popular mind in an excited condition and negroes are"
2062,17926_0.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,"to leave as quickly as they can . tremendous crowds surrounded railroad station during the morning and when the report of the lynching of the negroes was received , the greatest excite ment prevailed . the crowd was apparently dissatisfied with the method of lynching ( hanging ) and a",mob,"departed for the scene of the lynching with the declared intention of burning the bodies . the victims of the crime involved are ena may fowler , lillian lavall , ruth sossaman and others . the leaders of the lynching ordered the men , who were all armed with revolvers"
2063,17926_0.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,"was taken off the train until the rope was placed around his neck . neither of the men showed signs of fear , robinson saying all the time that he was going to heaven . when mount vernon was reached on the trip from birmingham , eight men wearing white",masks,boarded the train . five of them covered sheriff powers and deputy charles green with revolvers and told them that they had come for the prisoners . the revolvers of the sheriff and deputy were then taken from them . the conductor was asked to move all the people in
2064,17926_0.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,people in the first- class coach to the rear seats as some of the crowd were going to get on at plateau . the conductor complied with the request and some of the passengers were also placed in the sleeper . one of the men who guarded the train heavily,masked,said that the crowd which just boarded the train were all business men of mobile and that their action had been decided upon only careful consideration . after
2065,17926_1.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,,mob,"kills one negro . another wounded in argenta , ark . , when white is shot down from colored undertaker shop . argenta , ark . , oct . 8 . - following the killing of john lindsay sunday and the wounding of milton lindsay , his son , who"
2066,17926_1.txt,"Watertown weekly leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1906,"ark . , when white is shot down from colored undertaker shop . argenta , ark . , oct . 8 . - following the killing of john lindsay sunday and the wounding of milton lindsay , his son , who is a policeman , by negro undertakers , a",mob,"last night lynched h . blackburn , another negro . the lind- says were fired on as they were passing the colum bros . ' undertaking shop . the colums then barricaded themselves and defied the police . blackbuin , the negro lynched , is not believed to have been"
2067,17927_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1905,11 the prominent citizen . an arkansas,mob,"has lynched the wrong man again , but trifling mistakes like that never disconcert the "" prominent citizens "" who engage in the lynching business.- new york world 101 ."
2068,17929_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,"two negroes lynched . taken from an officer and hanged- had beaten a white man . silver city , miss . , sept . 3 . - arthur and talcum woodard , negro brothers , were taken from a train last night by a",masked,"mob and hanged to a tree half a mile out of town . . they were in custody of city marshal w . b . jackson of silver city , who was carrying them to the county farm to serve sentences of sixty days , imposed for assaulting andrew white"
2069,17929_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,"two negroes lynched . taken from an officer and hanged- had beaten a white man . silver city , miss . , sept . 3 . - arthur and talcum woodard , negro brothers , were taken from a train last night by a masked",mob,"and hanged to a tree half a mile out of town . . they were in custody of city marshal w . b . jackson of silver city , who was carrying them to the county farm to serve sentences of sixty days , imposed for assaulting andrew white with"
2070,17930_0.txt,"The Maui news (Wailuku, Maui, ...)",1906,"bloomfield ind . , may 25 . -the governor has ordered the militia to be in readiness to protect a negro murderer from by a",mob,. the mob is now besieging the jail . lynching
2071,17930_0.txt,"The Maui news (Wailuku, Maui, ...)",1906,"bloomfield ind . , may 25 . -the governor has ordered the militia to be in readiness to protect a negro murderer from by a mob . the",mob,is now besieging the jail . lynching
2072,17931_0.txt,"Griggs courier. (Cooperstown, Gr...)",1893,three negroes were lynched by a,mob,"at bearden , ark . , for the murder of jesse norman , a prominent business man of that place . young"
2073,17931_1.txt,"Griggs courier. (Cooperstown, Gr...)",1893,a,mob,"takes a murderer from the jall at bedford , ind . , and hangs him . seymour , ind . , may 15 . - about 1 o'clock saturday afternoon conductor louis f . price , of seymour , who had just left mitchell in charge of the eastbound local"
2074,17931_1.txt,"Griggs courier. (Cooperstown, Gr...)",1893,insisted and turley shot him dead . mr . price was about 28 years old and had been employed on the ohio & mississippi road for many years . turley was and placed in jail at bedford . arrested sunday night at 9 o'clock about 200 men heavily armed and,masked,"sur- rounded an engine that was ready to start for westport on the evansville & richmond road . two of the men with drawn revolvers jumped in the gang- way of the engine , and pointing their revolvers into the faces of the engineer and fireman forced them to dismount"
2075,17931_1.txt,"Griggs courier. (Cooperstown, Gr...)",1893,"an engineer and fireman and in a few minutes the cars were loaded with men and the train pulled out bedford , determined to lynch turley for . bedford , ind . , may 15 . , 3 . a.m.- at 2 : 10 o'clock a . m . a",mob,"of 100 men appeared before the jail here , forced the sheriff to give up the keys and took john tur- ley , who murdered conductor l . f . price at seymour from his cell and hanged him in the jail , yard . which it dispersed . be"
2076,17931_1.txt,"Griggs courier. (Cooperstown, Gr...)",1893,". which it dispersed . be not taken down until daylight , after turley begged for his life , but his ap- peale were met with silence . the lynching was conducted in the most orderly manner , turley's cries being the only sound heard . after lynching man the",mob,requested that the body their
2077,17933_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"that makes it necessary for this call , but owing to the fact that as citizens of one of the states of this great commonwealth , occupying the anomalous position of being without adequate protection for life or liberty , feeling that the too frequent resorting to lynch law and",mob,"violence in this state is as such we deem it absolutely and imperatively necessary to call together leading , or , at least , the representative men of the race from the various counties of the state for the purpose of devising some plan or way which our condition may"
2078,17937_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1904,"will be lynched if captured . montgomery , ala . . oct . 31 . - it is re ported here that a large",mob,"is pursuing with bloodhounds jim harden , a negro , who killed wilson davenport , a prominent contractor of mapleville , ala . if the negro is captured a ing is almost certain . lynch"
2079,17938_0.txt,"The Paducah sun (Paducah, Ky.)",1905,"alleged murderer lynched . conway , ark . , sept . 23 . - frank brown , a negro , was taken from the jail last night and hanged by a",mob,". brown was held for assaulting mrs . lawrence , killing her six- year- son and stabbing her baby daughter old ."
2080,17939_0.txt,"Adams County news (Ritzville, Wash...)",1905,"arthur woodward and talcum woodward , two negroes , were lynched recently at silver city , mass . , by a",mob,"of 50 persons . the negroes had assaulted andrew white , a well farmer , and seriously beat him known ."
2081,17942_0.txt,"The Butler County press (Hamilton, Ohio)",1922,"two brothers and four others , the attempted lynching of dewey by 250 cowboys and the dispatching of troops in a special train to rescue state dewey and his men dropped behind a sod fence and emptied their six guns . berry and his two sons were killed . a",mob,"of ranchers , attempting to lynch the chicagoan , were driven off by militiamen . the subsequent murder trials and suits cost dewey $ 100,000 . he was acquitted . the elder dewey dropped dead of apoplexy two later . years"
2082,17943_0.txt,"Gainesville daily sun. (Gainesville, Fl...)",1906,"early hour on sunday morning with dave moore , a negro , who is alleged to have criminally assaulted the daughter of jas hood , a well known white county farmer , las . friday afternoon . sheriff jackson told the officers that he had a narrow escape from the",mob,"of enraged white county citizens , as they hotly pursued him , and fired at least one hundred shots at him . he outran them , however , and got out of their way . moore was arrested sun day in white county , threats of lynching became very frequent"
2083,17944_0.txt,"The Rice belt journal. (Welsh, Calcasie...)",1906,,mob,"thought it was a funeral . mayfield , ky.- allen matthis , a young negro , was arrested and jailed on the charge of attacking a young girl . a mob gathered to lynch him . the sheriff , having a coffin in the jail for a white man who"
2084,17944_0.txt,"The Rice belt journal. (Welsh, Calcasie...)",1906,"mob thought it was a funeral . mayfield , ky.- allen matthis , a young negro , was arrested and jailed on the charge of attacking a young girl . a",mob,"gathered to lynch him . the sheriff , having a coffin in the jail for a white man who had just died , placed the negro therein , re moved "" remains "" to the paducah jail for the safe keeping ."
2085,17944_1.txt,"The Rice belt journal. (Welsh, Calcasie...)",1906,,mob,"balked by a sheriff boarded a steamer with the prisoner , the gallows and also the coffin . crisfield , md.- william lee , the colored youth who was sentenced to death in baltimore three weeks ago for assaulting two women in somerset county , and who had been threatened"
2086,17944_1.txt,"The Rice belt journal. (Welsh, Calcasie...)",1906,"to death in baltimore three weeks ago for assaulting two women in somerset county , and who had been threatened with lynching , was hanged by sheriff brown on smith's island , in the presence of his deputies and a few witnesses . the hanging was or deriy . the",mob,"that had threatened to burn lee at the stake was completely outwitted by the sheriff . to carry out this purpose sheriff brown went to baltimore and placed nis prisoner aboard a steamer of the maryland oyster navy , and immediately sailed down the bay . he took with him"
2087,17944_1.txt,"The Rice belt journal. (Welsh, Calcasie...)",1906,"immediately sailed down the bay . he took with him a gallows which had been borrowed from baltimore county and also a coffin , and was prepared to hang lee on the deck of the vessel after reaching the waters of somerset county , should there be any signs a",mob,on shore . of
2088,17946_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1906,guards sleep ; negro hanged alabama,mob,"quick to take advantage of opening at jail . robert clark , alias dan dive , a ne gro from kansas city , was hanged from a telegraph pole near the luce dale , ala . , depot of the mobile , jack son and kansas citly railroad by 300"
2089,17946_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1906,"quick to take advantage of opening at jail . robert clark , alias dan dive , a ne gro from kansas city , was hanged from a telegraph pole near the luce dale , ala . , depot of the mobile , jack son and kansas citly railroad by 300",masked,"men at an early hour sunday after being mysteriously spirited from the jail of jackson county , miss . the negro was arrested late friday night by a posse who followed him to within two miles of mobile from luce dale , where he had attempted to assault two white"
2090,17946_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1906,"quick to take advantage of opening at jail . robert clark , alias dan dive , a ne gro from kansas city , was hanged from a telegraph pole near the luce dale , ala . , depot of the mobile , jack son and kansas citly railroad by 300",masked men,"at an early hour sunday after being mysteriously spirited from the jail of jackson county , miss . the negro was arrested late friday night by a posse who followed him to within two miles of mobile from luce dale , where he had attempted to assault two white woman"
2091,17946_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1906,"luce dale , where he had attempted to assault two white woman and had stolen a horse and shotgun . the negro offered resistance and was shot in the shoulder . deputy sheriff hinton , of lucedale , took the prisoner from the posse and managed to evade a mississippi",mob,"bent on lynching him . hin ton placed the negro in the lucedale jail and with another deputy guarded him until early sunday morning , when both fell asleep . when they awakened the negro was missing and was subsequently found strung up to a telegraph pole a short distance"
2092,17946_0.txt,"Valentine Democrat. (Valentine, Neb.)",1906,"another deputy guarded him until early sunday morning , when both fell asleep . when they awakened the negro was missing and was subsequently found strung up to a telegraph pole a short distance from the jail . there is absolutely no clew the identity of any member of the",mob,to .
2093,17948_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1906,special train for,mob,"of lynchers louisiana crowd hangs white man who had secured retrial for murder . monroe , la . , may 29 . - a mob en- gaged a special train here last night and went to tallulah , where they forced the jail and hanged r . t . rogers"
2094,17948_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1906,"special train for mob of lynchers louisiana crowd hangs white man who had secured retrial for murder . monroe , la . , may 29 . - a",mob,"en- gaged a special train here last night and went to tallulah , where they forced the jail and hanged r . t . rogers , a white man , and alleged murderer of jesse brown , a prominent merchant at girrard . rogers was tried and found guilty ."
2095,17949_0.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1904,"lewis radford , a negro , was lynch ed at guthrie , ky . , by a",mob,"of negroes . radford had been arrested on the charge of killing priscilla frozell , also a negro . he confessed to having been in the woman's company and to assaulting her , denied that he killed her . but"
2096,17954_0.txt,"The Anaconda standard (Anaconda, Mont.)",1894,buchanan was lynched early this morn ing . the scene of the lynching is an hour's run from this . the,mob,", com posed of the farmers city of the vicinity , gath"
2097,17959_1.txt,Fair play (Ste. Genevieve ...),1903,a,mob,"lynched walter davis ( colored ) at marshall , tex . , for the of constable hayes . murder"
2098,17959_2.txt,Fair play (Ste. Genevieve ...),1903,"at oxford , o . , a deputy sheriff stood a",mob,as it was lynching louis spivey and off cut the victim from a tree to which he
2099,17961_0.txt,"The diamond drill. (Crystal Falls, ...)",1903,"congress . lynching of three negroes at fremont . o . , for the murder of otto mischke and wounding of albert gommoll was prevented by sheriff , who for two hours defied a mason",mob,at the jail doors .
2100,17962_0.txt,"The Hood River glacier. (Hood River, Or.)",1903,the jail by a,mob,"and hanged . asotin county , wash . , was taken from"
2101,17962_1.txt,"The Hood River glacier. (Hood River, Or.)",1903,them search . of,mob,is in pected a . did not produce the money they ex
2102,17963_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1903,"wilmington , del . , june 22 . - a north ern",mob,", led by a virginian , burned a gro at the stake tonight within a mile ne of"
2103,17966_0.txt,"Democratic messenger (Snow Hill, Md.)",1903,members of a,mob,charged with lynch | ing the allen small the night negro on
2104,17967_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1903,"across the river from here , was broken open to- night by a",mob,"of negroes , whose desire it was to lynch one of their color for an attempted negro assault on a"
2105,17968_3.txt,"Hot Springs weekly star. (Hot Springs, S....)",1903,st . louis negroes after a member of their own race . st . louis : a,mob,"of negroes made a desperate but unsuccessful attempt to lynch john davis , a negro , had just shot and killed his wife . who"
2106,17969_0.txt,"Marietta daily leader. (Marietta, Ohio)",1899,"brooksville , miss . . april 8 . - two negroes , forest jamison and mose anderson , were lynched thursday by",mob,for the murder of t . h . cleland a .
2107,17970_0.txt,"Barton County democrat (Great Bend, Kan...)",1899,"mex . , over the outbreak of yellow fever . simon brooks , colored , was lynched by a",mob,"of negroes near sardis , miss . , having 500 been taken from the jail"
2108,17970_1.txt,"Barton County democrat (Great Bend, Kan...)",1899,"sardis , miss . , june 13 . - simon brooks , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,of 500 negroes the near here . crime
2109,17974_0.txt,"The Greenville times (Greenville, Mis...)",1900,"aiken , s . c . , feb . 18 . - will burts , a negro , was lynched near baskett mills , eight miles north of aiken by a",mob,"of 250 men . last monday , burts at"
2110,17975_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1903,"caruthersville , mo . , may 4 . - the "" rev . "" d . m . malone and constable w . j . mooneyhon were killed by a",mob,"mooneyhon's home at wardell , twelve at"
2111,17977_0.txt,"The Spokane press (Spokane, Wash.)",1903,"tramps , a",mob,"assembled in this city yesterday , battered down the walls of the and lynched a negro tramp , thomas jail"
2112,17978_0.txt,"The progress-advertiser. (Lexington, Miss...)",1903,recently a,masked,mob lynched a rape fiend in illinois . it seems negro that geography has nothing to do
2113,17978_0.txt,"The progress-advertiser. (Lexington, Miss...)",1903,recently a masked,mob,lynched a rape fiend in illinois . it seems negro that geography has nothing to do
2114,17979_1.txt,"The Dickinson press. (Dickinson, Star...)",1903,the trouble originated in an attempt by the,mob,"lynch a negro named james wilson to , who confessed to a bru"
2115,17979_2.txt,"The Dickinson press. (Dickinson, Star...)",1903,"few moments . mayfield was taken from the police , after a battle in which several persons were badly wounded , and lynched . the",mob,"then started the original object of its search . the for metcalf , the negro who was killed burned saturday night , had lived and at evansville for the last two years"
2116,17980_0.txt,"Twice-a-week plain dealer. (Cresco, Howard ...)",1912,texas,mob,"lynches negro . dallas , march 25 . - a negro lynched at fort smith , ark . george was"
2117,17981_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1903,be put out of the way . the,mob,and the hysteria of the mob grew fiercer from friday to monday . by sunday riot ruled . monday night the county night jail was stormed . the
2118,17981_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1903,be put out of the way . the mob and the hysteria of the,mob,grew fiercer from friday to monday . by sunday riot ruled . monday night the county night jail was stormed . the
2119,17985_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1903,"man , but is on the trail of the real and promises to make amends culprit for the mistake.- washington post . a white wo assault upon negro for an a georgia",mob,lynched the wrong
2120,17988_0.txt,"The Madison daily leader (Madison, S.D.)",1903,"lowans surround and threaten to lynch alleged assaulter . farmington , ia . , july 28 . - a",mob,"of farmers are searching for a named clark , who is accused of negro hav"
2121,17990_0.txt,The Hawaiian star (Honolulu [Oahu]),1911,a,mob,"last night , and three negroes , with murder , were taken to the charged outskirts of the town and lynched ."
2122,17991_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1897-1900",1899,"put the hunt for negroes and that probably more will be lynched before the work two has been finished . land captured albert sewell , a negro who had declared that the death of negro should be avenged . and put every him to death . the",mob,"is sti'l on message from palmetto at 10 o'clock the mob which lynched strick says albert sewell , a negro the ravishing of his wife in the same locality , for which the negro , sam hose , was at the stake yester day , have stirred burned the people"
2123,17991_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1897-1900",1899,"more will be lynched before the work two has been finished . land captured albert sewell , a negro who had declared that the death of negro should be avenged . and put every him to death . the mob is sti'l on message from palmetto at 10 o'clock the",mob,"which lynched strick says albert sewell , a negro the ravishing of his wife in the same locality , for which the negro , sam hose , was at the stake yester day , have stirred burned the people of geor of palmetto by incendiaries , the lynch ing a"
2124,17992_0.txt,"Oxford eagle. (Oxford, Lafayet...)",1903,"22- horace shipman , at jefferson , ia . ; for assault miss . ; attempted . jul . 16- wm . ody ( negro ) , at clayton , 25- three negroes , at womelscorf , w . va . , by hunting for murderer of chief of police",mobs,"wilmoth . ( col mccauley arthur 28- john wise ( negro ) , near pembroke , ga . , chipley at ored ) , assault . near homer , la . ; aug . harry benton ( 17- yr.- old negro ) . 12- chas . salyers ( white )"
2125,17993_0.txt,"Dakota farmers' leader. (Canton, S.D.)",1903,into prison . this attempted murder cre ated much excitement and subsequently the would- assassin was dragged from prisou by a be,mob,and lynched .
2126,17994_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1903,"negro lynched in arkansas . memphis , tenn . , oct . 7 . -ed . mccollum , colored , was taken from the county jail at sheridan , ark . , last night by a",masked,", tied to a tree in the court house yard mob and riddled with bullets . he was placed"
2127,17994_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1903,"negro lynched in arkansas . memphis , tenn . , oct . 7 . -ed . mccollum , colored , was taken from the county jail at sheridan , ark . , last night by a masked , tied to a tree in the court house yard",mob,and riddled with bullets . he was placed
2128,17995_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1903,of whom are now in jail . a,mob,"to lynch the prison ers , but was threatened finally induced to disperse ."
2129,17996_0.txt,"Bismarck daily tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1903,at 12 : 30 a . m .,a party of,supposed white men overpowered the guard and took the negro away . later a mob of negroes was seen hunting for the party of whites and it is feared that serious trouble will follow if alexander lynched . is
2130,17996_0.txt,"Bismarck daily tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1903,at 12 : 30 a . m . a party of supposed white men overpowered the guard and took the negro away . later a,mob,of negroes was seen hunting for the party of whites and it is feared that serious trouble will follow if alexander lynched . is
2131,17997_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1900,"hinton , w . va . , may 11 . - william lee , colored , lynched here tonight by a",masked,crowd was of 100 men . he was
2132,17998_0.txt,The Intermountain Catholic. (Salt Lake City ...),1903,"oplin , mo . , april 15 . -- an infuriated",mob,"took an unknown tramp negro from the city jail tonight or hanged him to a telegraph pole at and the corner of second and wall streets , coroner . the lynching of the negro served to only temporarily satisfy the indignation of the mob , and later tonight hundreds rioted"
2133,17998_0.txt,The Intermountain Catholic. (Salt Lake City ...),1903,"april 15 . -- an infuriated mob took an unknown tramp negro from the city jail tonight or hanged him to a telegraph pole at and the corner of second and wall streets , coroner . the lynching of the negro served to only temporarily satisfy the indignation of the",mob,", and later tonight hundreds rioted of men again assembled and through the negro section of the city . and burning houses and stoning negroes , finally drove from the con negro fines of joplin every . the police were power"
2134,18000_0.txt,"Courier Democrat. (Langdon, N.D.)",1903,,mob's,"double hanging . vicksburg , miss . , may 5 . -- bob bryant and will morris , the assassins cf h . legg , were hanged to the yazoo w . bridge at haynes bluff just before"
2135,18001_0.txt,"The Norfolk weekly news-journal. (Norfolk, Neb.)",1903,"st . louis , july 24 . - a",mob,"made a desperate but unsuccessful effort to lynch john davis a negro who had just shot and killed , his wife . the"
2136,18003_0.txt,"The Sauk Centre herald. (Sauk Centre, St...)",1903,"richards , was forcibly taken from the asotin county jail shortly after mid night and lynched by a",mob,"of over men , which had been gathering all 1,000 all parts"
2137,18005_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1903,prevented a lynching . policemen with drawn revolver hold,mob,"at bay . new york , july 20 . - only by drawing their revolvers and threatening to shoot to kill did several brooklyn policemen prevent a mob from vengeance on frederick krizelmeyer wreaking ,"
2138,18005_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1903,"prevented a lynching . policemen with drawn revolver hold mob at bay . new york , july 20 . - only by drawing their revolvers and threatening to shoot to kill did several brooklyn policemen prevent a",mob,"from vengeance on frederick krizelmeyer wreaking ,"
2139,18007_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1903,a,mob,"in henderson , texas , released a negro after to lynch him . judge promised preparing that grand jury would"
2140,18008_0.txt,"Ottumwa semi-weekly courier (Ottumwa, Iowa)",1903,"derer of a sheriff . wrightsville , ga . , feb . 9 . - a",mob,"which lynched lee hall , a negro , off his ears and fingers and divided cut"
2141,18009_0.txt,"Highland recorder. (Monterey, Highl...)",1903,turned a joint indictment against 22 members of a,mob,charged with lynch the negro allen small on the night ing 24 . the defendants were
2142,18010_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1894,"want to lynch him . special to the leader . des moines , iowa , may 22- the",mob,"around the county jail which threatened to lynch the murderer of conductor redpath , last night was dispersed , but public sentiment is at high pitch and another assault may made tonight . be"
2143,18011_1.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1893,"j . j . brown , a prominent busi ness man of niohols , ga . , recently , and an other negro , who was quarrelling with brown when he was killed , were captured yesterday . as the police were taking them to douglass they were overpowered a",mob,and the prisoners were lynched . by
2144,18013_0.txt,"The Big Sandy news (Louisa, Ky.)",1893,"memphis , tenn . , oct . 16 . -g . w . me- legis mississippi the member of kie , a surren- county , marshall from lature sunday to escape the wrath of a",mob,"dered to the sheriff at holly springs of colored men bent on lynching him . wounded john fatally and mckie shot planta his employe on colored dean a , the saturday . difficulty in a tion , shooting enraged blacks the the in so desperate at made they a vicinity"
2145,18014_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1894,"ern states . for the murder of farmer william whitlock , of bullington , o . , louis la ferdetta , a tramp , was lynched",masked,men . by
2146,18014_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1894,"ern states . for the murder of farmer william whitlock , of bullington , o . , louis la ferdetta , a tramp , was lynched",masked men,. by
2147,18014_1.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1894,"edwin traughber was taken from his home , near adairville , kentucky , by a",mob,and lynched . the motive for known . the crime is not 1
2148,18015_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1893,"states circuit court to- day . the lynching of the italians on account of the assassination of chief of po lice hennessey occurred march 14 , 1891 . the relatives of nearly all the lynched brought suit for damages against the city of new orleans and the leader of the",mob,"who did the lynch ing . in the first case which came up judge billings decided that the plaintiff was an american , not an italian , citizen ; therefore the suit did not lie . there was no such dispute in the case on trial to- day . it"
2149,18015_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1893,"antonio abbagneto , generally known as bagnetto . the plaintiffs will endeavor to show that the dead italian was killed without justification in law , and that the city , having taken no steps to prevent his execution , is under the law responsible for the work done by the",mob,on that day . it is not expected that any new light will be thrown upon the occurrences in the parish prison or upon the identity of those who took a conspicuous part in the scenes within the prison . most of the witnesses who have been summoned were be
2150,18017_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1893,enjoyed two winters ago in lynching a number of italian citizens who had been acquitted of the charge of killing their chief of po- lice they will be strongly tempted to ask whether they really received the worth of their immedi money ately after the unfortunate . out break of,mob,"violence the relatives of seven of the victims began civil actions against the city government for damages accruing from its failure to protect the lives of the lynched men . in each case the sum demanded was $ 30,000 upon different specifications of injury . the verdict in the first"
2151,18018_0.txt,"The News-Herald (Hillsboro, High...)",1894,"being pushed aside , the building was overturned with rails gathered from neigboring fences . ready hands were laid on newland , who howled with terror , and fought savagely . he was knocked down and a rope placed about his neck . then , with wild yells , the",mob,"dragged him over the ground to a small cottonwood tree some distance away . one end was thrown over a limb , and the wretch was raised by the neck until he stood erect . a jury was drawn and a mock trial commenced , but it was abruptly terminated"
2152,18018_0.txt,"The News-Herald (Hillsboro, High...)",1894,"the ground to a small cottonwood tree some distance away . one end was thrown over a limb , and the wretch was raised by the neck until he stood erect . a jury was drawn and a mock trial commenced , but it was abruptly terminated , as the",mob,"was too impatient wait the doomed negro kept to . up an incessant groan and appeal for mer cy , and was only stopped when , with a sudden jerk , he was sent skyward . there he was held nntil dead . new land was an ex- convict ,"
2153,18021_0.txt,"Courier Democrat. (Langdon, N.D.)",1903,,mob,"who lynched thomas gilyard , a samuel mitchell , white , who led the"
2154,18021_1.txt,"Courier Democrat. (Langdon, N.D.)",1903,"john dennis , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,"of 200 men at greenvilie miss . the negro ,"
2155,18022_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"crowd , urging them to be temperate and orderly and not to fire into the body . he said that the country was opposed to lynch law and deplored the circum stances that sometimes made it neces for the protection of women and sary children . carolinians again take the",law into their own hands,". the victim a negro brute who at tempted to outrage a girl on her way home from school- he con fessed his guilt- senator irby said to have addressed the lynchers . columbia , s . c . , may 10 . - the third lynching in this state"
2156,18028_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1903,"marshal , tex . , oct . 2 . - last night a",mob,"of several hundred men forced their way through the brick wall of the city jail with the aid of sledge hammers and crowbars , took out walter davis , a negro , and marched to the west side of town , where he him was hanged ."
2157,18032_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1903,now the,mob,is trying to lynch negroes in massachusetts ! this is crowd ing the home of miss jewitt close . mighty
2158,18036_0.txt,"Baxter Springs news (Baxter Springs,...)",1894,sured . the trial of the members of the,mob,"who lynched six negroes near millington tenn . . august 31 , has been set for , october"
2159,18036_1.txt,"Baxter Springs news (Baxter Springs,...)",1894,"died for his friend . eday martin lynched because he would not peach on bill goods . princeton , ky . , nov . 1 . - news has reached here of the lynching of eddy martin in crittenden county , yester day morning , by a",mob,"variously estimated at from fifty to 100 men . the scene of the lynching is in a remote part of the county , and the details are hard to get . the best obtainable nformation is that martin was called upon at his home after midnight and asked to get"
2160,18036_1.txt,"Baxter Springs news (Baxter Springs,...)",1894,"raging in the neighbor- hood . opening the door he was seized by a dozen or more men who asked for information of bill goode . the lawless paupr commissioner of crittenden county . he was also asked about the latter's crimes , especially that of horse stealing . the",mob,"told him they had come to hang him , but if he turn state's evidence upon bill goode would he would be spared ."
2161,18037_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"sense of justice by taking human life without evidence of the guilt of the accused . resolved . that we believe that gov . till man , to whom the said john peterson applied for protection , in sending him unguarded to the scene of the outrage , where a",mob,"was known to be assembled , became , by said act , a party to the crime , and , therefore , together with the lynchers , merits the condemnation of all right thinking people . resolved . that in the more recent lynching of a colored man in williamsburg"
2162,18037_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"colored man in williamsburg county . another blot has been put upon the name of south carolina , which brings to her the greater shame when it is considered that notwithstanding the fact that the white peo ple control the entire machinery of justice in the state they resort to",mob,"violence instead of pursuing the course prescribed by law . resolved . that while we advise our people to be orderly and lawabiding citizens , to keep the case by earnest prayer before the great judge , we say also that the time is quite at hand for the men"
2163,18037_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,the negroes from barn well county and that an appeal will be made to the people that have the nature to contribute to aid the movement . only one newspaper in the state excuses the lynching of peterson and the action of the governor in sending him unguarded to the,mob,"that lynched him , and an overwhelming majority of the decent white people in the state condemn lynching . the"
2164,18038_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1903,and lynched by a,mob,". four negroes who were confined in the jail were also taken by the mob and beaten into sibility . insen negro is lynched by a mob . charles evans , colored , suspected of the murder of john l . phillips , was taken from the jail norway ,"
2165,18038_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1903,and lynched by a mob . four negroes who were confined in the jail were also taken by the,mob,"and beaten into sibility . insen negro is lynched by a mob . charles evans , colored , suspected of the murder of john l . phillips , was taken from the jail norway , s . c . , and lynched by a mob at . four negroes"
2166,18038_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1903,and lynched by a mob . four negroes who were confined in the jail were also taken by the mob and beaten into sibility . insen negro is lynched by a,mob,". charles evans , colored , suspected of the murder of john l . phillips , was taken from the jail norway , s . c . , and lynched by a mob at . four negroes"
2167,18038_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1903,"were also taken by the mob and beaten into sibility . insen negro is lynched by a mob . charles evans , colored , suspected of the murder of john l . phillips , was taken from the jail norway , s . c . , and lynched by a",mob,at . four negroes
2168,18038_1.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1903,have been made by the white men . four edwards county farmers wired gov . bailey for protection against threatened,mobbing,of negro harvesters by men . gov . bailey wired that they white must
2169,18039_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,the lynching . the,mob,"forced its way into the court room , overwhelming the officers by sheer weight of numbers . the leader seized the rope from the hands of mrs . sax and as the court attaches were powerless to interfere placed it about gustavason's neck in a twinkling . with a yell"
2170,18039_1.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"parted and the body dropped to the street below , and a rush was made for his possession . the police were the first to reach the body , and hastily throwing into farmer's it & wagon standing near by , drove rapidly to the jail , followed by the",mob,". the lynch- ers again demanded the body of gustava son , nor would they desist when told that the man was dead . a truce was patched up by the appointment of a committee , who examined the body , and pronounced life extinct . the mob then quickly"
2171,18039_1.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"by the mob . the lynch- ers again demanded the body of gustava son , nor would they desist when told that the man was dead . a truce was patched up by the appointment of a committee , who examined the body , and pronounced life extinct . the",mob,"then quickly and quietly dispersed , and the city is now as quiet as though no thought of the terrible affair of the after- noon had ever entered the minds of any citizen of the place . the little girl re mains in a precarious condition , with chances of"
2172,18040_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"in the south . it is true that negroes have been lynched for terrible crimes in the south , and one was burned in texas , but the southern people do not approve of lynch law . do the peo ple of new york approve of lynching negroes because a",mob,lynched a negro in an interior town of new york some months ago ? and how long has it been since a negro was shot death in indiana by a mob for a crime to of some sort ?
2173,18040_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,not approve of lynch law . do the peo ple of new york approve of lynching negroes because a mob lynched a negro in an interior town of new york some months ago ? and how long has it been since a negro was shot death in indiana by a,mob,for a crime to of some sort ?
2174,18041_0.txt,"Semi-weekly interior journal (Stanford, Ky.)",1893,"stretching on dec . 1 . -tom nelson , who murdered benjamin betts , negro , was lynched by a",mob,composed another entirely of colored
2175,18042_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1893,"peaceable negro lynched . rock , dec . 8 . - news is received here little of the lynching of henry freenwood , county , sunday cherry valley cress , colored , by a",mob,of white men near morning . the victim was a peaceable negro whom no charge of lawlessness had ever been preferred . during the excitement the leader lost his mask and he was rec by greenwood's wife . bob wil son ognized was the man . he was arrested andjre-
2176,18042_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1893,"here little of the lynching of henry freenwood , county , sunday cherry valley cress , colored , by a mob of white men near morning . the victim was a peaceable negro whom no charge of lawlessness had ever been preferred . during the excitement the leader lost his",mask,and he was rec by greenwood's wife . bob wil son ognized was the man . he was arrested andjre-
2177,18045_0.txt,"Alma record. (Alma, Mich.)",1894,one of the most determined,mobs,"that ever congregated in kansas lynched william mckinley and his son lewis , at springs , for the murder of sharon charles carley one week ago ."
2178,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,"a revolting record of barbarism this week . no less than nine negroes have been lynched in different places in mississippi , five shot in alabama , three hanged and one kicked to death in new orleans , while in virginia the militia shot down eight members of a lawless",mob,"who were attempting to lynch a negro . probably the worst case was that in new orleans where a desperate negro named julian shot the judge who was trying him for a trifling offence and then hid in a swamp back of the city . his mother , two sisters"
2179,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,"swamp back of the city . his mother , two sisters and three brothers , who had committed no offence , were arrested and put in jail . two of the brothers who were suspected of knowing where the fugitive was hiding , were taken from the jail by a",mob,", carried to a pasture and strung up . this done the mob returned to the jail , took the younger brother and hanged him , and then kicked to death a fourth negro who refused to tell , or did not know , where julian was hiding . the"
2180,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,"brothers , who had committed no offence , were arrested and put in jail . two of the brothers who were suspected of knowing where the fugitive was hiding , were taken from the jail by a mob , carried to a pasture and strung up . this done the",mob,"returned to the jail , took the younger brother and hanged him , and then kicked to death a fourth negro who refused to tell , or did not know , where julian was hiding . the whole trouble grew out of the bad feeling aroused in an election contest"
2181,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,"elected . the mississippi case was not less brutal and unjustifiable . a negro named jack son was suspected of putting poison in the well of a family at quincy , which made them violently ill and two children died . the negro was taken from the officers by a",masked,"mob and hanged . his wife and mother , who were examined by a jury and discharged , were also seized by the mob and hanged , and another negro man , who was said to have furnished jackson with the money to buy the poison , also became a"
2182,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,". the mississippi case was not less brutal and unjustifiable . a negro named jack son was suspected of putting poison in the well of a family at quincy , which made them violently ill and two children died . the negro was taken from the officers by a masked",mob,"and hanged . his wife and mother , who were examined by a jury and discharged , were also seized by the mob and hanged , and another negro man , who was said to have furnished jackson with the money to buy the poison , also became a victim"
2183,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,"well of a family at quincy , which made them violently ill and two children died . the negro was taken from the officers by a masked mob and hanged . his wife and mother , who were examined by a jury and discharged , were also seized by the",mob,"and hanged , and another negro man , who was said to have furnished jackson with the money to buy the poison , also became a victim of the mob's vengeance . at carrollton , ala . , four negro men and one woman were in jail , charged with"
2184,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,". his wife and mother , who were examined by a jury and discharged , were also seized by the mob and hanged , and another negro man , who was said to have furnished jackson with the money to buy the poison , also became a victim of the",mob's,"vengeance . at carrollton , ala . , four negro men and one woman were in jail , charged with burning a set of buildings . a mob took them all out and hanged them . robert smith , a negro , assaulted and nearly killed mrs . henry bishop"
2185,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,", who was said to have furnished jackson with the money to buy the poison , also became a victim of the mob's vengeance . at carrollton , ala . , four negro men and one woman were in jail , charged with burning a set of buildings . a",mob,"took them all out and hanged them . robert smith , a negro , assaulted and nearly killed mrs . henry bishop , the wife of a well- to- do farmer near roanoke , va . , wednesday . smith was arrested and placed in jail . during the evening"
2186,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,", the wife of a well- to- do farmer near roanoke , va . , wednesday . smith was arrested and placed in jail . during the evening a large crowd gathered about the jail . mayor trout ordered out the local militia to guard the jail . after the",mob,"had been refused admittance to the jail they began to shoot , and the mayor was wounded in the foot . the mayor then ordered the militia to re turn the fire , and a volley of 25 rifles was poured into the mob . eight men were killed and"
2187,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,"guard the jail . after the mob had been refused admittance to the jail they began to shoot , and the mayor was wounded in the foot . the mayor then ordered the militia to re turn the fire , and a volley of 25 rifles was poured into the",mob,". eight men were killed and a dozen wounded . during the excitement smith was taken from the jail and secreted by the officers . he was found by the mob early in the morning and lynched , and his body taken to the river bank and burned in the"
2188,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,"ordered the militia to re turn the fire , and a volley of 25 rifles was poured into the mob . eight men were killed and a dozen wounded . during the excitement smith was taken from the jail and secreted by the officers . he was found by the",mob,"early in the morning and lynched , and his body taken to the river bank and burned in the presence of infuriated mob of 1000 men . there is an still great excitement in roanoke ."
2189,18047_0.txt,"Vermont phœnix (Brattleboro, Vt...)",1893,"were killed and a dozen wounded . during the excitement smith was taken from the jail and secreted by the officers . he was found by the mob early in the morning and lynched , and his body taken to the river bank and burned in the presence of infuriated",mob,of 1000 men . there is an still great excitement in roanoke .
2190,18049_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1893,"she still lives . graham , va . april 6 . - the reported lynching of a , woman near this place tuesday night , as telegraphed from charleston , w . va . , is not true . the martine , but failed capture to her .",mob,chased the woman after lynching
2191,18050_0.txt,"The free press. (Poplarville, Mi...)",1893,"an italian named arata was lynched at denver , col . , on the 26 ult . two members of the",mob,"that stormed the jail were shot and severely wounded by the sheriff's posse . arata was hanged , riddled with bullets and otherwise lated . muti"
2192,18051_0.txt,"The comet. (Johnson City, T...)",1893,"jen kins , a negro , was lynched in clayton county , ga . , last night . he had confessed that he poisoned wm . burks family of seven , a few days before . tho constable , who was car rying him to jail was surprised by a",mob,"while passing through a slip of woods . the prisoner was taken by the mob and hanged . he had quarreled with his em burk , and put arsenic in the ployer meal ."
2193,18051_0.txt,"The comet. (Johnson City, T...)",1893,"last night . he had confessed that he poisoned wm . burks family of seven , a few days before . tho constable , who was car rying him to jail was surprised by a mob while passing through a slip of woods . the prisoner was taken by the",mob,"and hanged . he had quarreled with his em burk , and put arsenic in the ployer meal ."
2194,18052_0.txt,"The state chronicle (Raleigh, N.C.)",1893,"southern by associated press . 15 . - at 2 : 10 bedford , ind . , may o'clock this morning a",mob,"of 100 men appeared before the jail here , and forced the sheriff to give up the keys and took john terrell , who murdered conductor l . f . price at seymour from his cell and hanged in jail yard . rell begged for his life the ap peals"
2195,18052_0.txt,"The state chronicle (Raleigh, N.C.)",1893,". price at seymour from his cell and hanged in jail yard . rell begged for his life the ap peals met with silence . the lynching was conducted in the most orderly manner , terrell's cries being the only sound heard . after lynch ing their man , the",mob,"the body not be taken down requested untii daylight , after which it dispersed the mob hanged terrell to a tree in the jail yard within 12 feet of the railroad , so that persons on all passing trains this morning can see his body . he was dressed as"
2196,18052_0.txt,"The state chronicle (Raleigh, N.C.)",1893,"his life the ap peals met with silence . the lynching was conducted in the most orderly manner , terrell's cries being the only sound heard . after lynch ing their man , the mob the body not be taken down requested untii daylight , after which it dispersed the",mob,"hanged terrell to a tree in the jail yard within 12 feet of the railroad , so that persons on all passing trains this morning can see his body . he was dressed as though he had been expecting them . they completed the job 2 : 50 o'clock ."
2197,18052_0.txt,"The state chronicle (Raleigh, N.C.)",1893,"morning can see his body . he was dressed as though he had been expecting them . they completed the job 2 : 50 o'clock . there were43 men at at standing guard at different points mond ; f . i . o . horn , north caro- the jail",masked,", and about 50 or 60 shea , john wheelwright , rich-"
2198,18053_0.txt,"The Kimball graphic. (Kimball, Brule ...)",1893,"young mer chant of beardon , while standing in the rear of his was struck on the head with a spade and robbed by three negroes . james stewart , dick benson and abe crane , three negroes , were arrested and last night the three were lynched by a",mob,composed of about fifty men . each one of the negroes confessed to having a hand in the assault and robbery . young is unconscious and his death normar is ex
2199,18055_0.txt,"Idaho semi-weekly world (Idaho City, Ida...)",1893,"also an amateur dentist . when children were unruly he extracted their teeth as a punishment , threatening them with greater punishment if they should tell their parents . he extracted ten teeth from one italian boy , who told his parents . this was the direct cause of the",mob,"organizing to lynch the man . voorhis got wind of their coming and made his escape on horseback . ,"
2200,18057_0.txt,"Morning appeal (Carson City, Ne...)",1893,"on his employ- er's wife . he broke into her room at night when her husband was ab sent at a christmas party . she es caped by the rear of the house , gave the alarm and green was arrested . he confessed his design and was lynched by",mob,", among which a of the neighbor-"
2201,18058_0.txt,"Macon beacon (Macon, Miss.)",1893,"him . he gave pursuit , and , aided by friends , succeeded in capturing the two negroes and two others . lewis fox and adam gripson were identified as the men who had killed bastel . they were taken to the parish jail , and wednesday a gang of",masked,"white men night visited the prison , over court near the shed a beam in men to a powered the keeper and hanged both house ."
2202,18060_3.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,"dan edwards , a colored dwarf , was lynched by a",mob,"near salma ala . , june 23 , for an alleged assault on lelia , daughter of a white farmer woods . this note was pin-"
2203,18060_4.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,"follow the violation of women . it is a significant fact that of the of fenders who have been lynched this crime a majority were for negroes . negro named fields , who assaulted mrs . jack white , was lynched by the citizens on february 11 february 14 a",mob,"at chattano . near jellico , tenn . , february 25 , joe paine , a negro , was lynched for assaulting miss fanny cecil . negro confessed his guilt . miss the good family . "" abner anthony , a negro , was lynched near hot springs , va"
2204,18060_4.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,"a negro , was lynched near hot springs , va . , 27 , for an attempted assault february on mis newton williams . 16 , for an assault on mrs . charles senn . the lynchers were describ john peterson orderly , "" john peterson was lynched by a",mob,"of 500 men at denmark , s . c . , april 24 , on the supposition that he had assaulted a fifteen- year- old girl named bessie baxter . peter- erson strongly declared his innocence and lynching created a great deal of , comment at the time , the"
2205,18060_4.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,", the own race people by of his lynched james watson , a negro , was governor of the state being severely critized for having him sent to his doom at denmark . may 5 an unknown man , who had assaulted two little girls , was hanged by a",mob,"of miners at mountain iron , minn . may 9 heyward marksdale , a negro who had confessed to an assault on an eleven- year- old white girl , was hanged by a crowd of 600 near laurens lynching , s . c . , . ark at springs jefferson"
2206,18060_5.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,morgan was lynched by a,mob,"of april 3 , a negro desperado named his own color at graham , va . , for the murder of a young negro . april 7 jesus feun , a mexican who murdered citizens at san fernandino , cal two . , was lynched at"
2207,18060_6.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,"three negroes were lynched may 9 at blardon ark for the , . , murder of norman , a young merchant of jesse that place . mike crane , a negro , was lynch ed near cato , miss . . may 11 , by a",mob,"of masked men , who said that "" they believed he was doing the stealing in the neighborhood . "" he had always borne a good character john turley , who murdered con . ton leetch at durand , minn . , heard from his cell the shouts of a"
2208,18060_6.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,"three negroes were lynched may 9 at blardon ark for the , . , murder of norman , a young merchant of jesse that place . mike crane , a negro , was lynch ed near cato , miss . . may 11 , by a mob of",masked,"men , who said that "" they believed he was doing the stealing in the neighborhood . "" he had always borne a good character john turley , who murdered con . ton leetch at durand , minn . , heard from his cell the shouts of a mob more"
2209,18060_6.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,"three negroes were lynched may 9 at blardon ark for the , . , murder of norman , a young merchant of jesse that place . mike crane , a negro , was lynch ed near cato , miss . . may 11 , by a mob of",masked men,", who said that "" they believed he was doing the stealing in the neighborhood . "" he had always borne a good character john turley , who murdered con . ton leetch at durand , minn . , heard from his cell the shouts of a mob more than"
2210,18060_6.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1893,"of masked men , who said that "" they believed he was doing the stealing in the neighborhood . "" he had always borne a good character john turley , who murdered con . ton leetch at durand , minn . , heard from his cell the shouts of a",mob,more than a thousand people of who had come to lynch him . he
2211,18061_0.txt,"The farmers' union. (Memphis, Mo.)",1893,"lynching at bedford murderer terrell lynched . an associated press dispatch dated 3 am . monday , at bedford , ind . . says : at 2 : 10 o'clock this morning a",mob,"of 100 men appeared before the jail here , forced the sheriff to give up the keys and took john terrell , who murdered conductor seymour , ja f . price his cell and hanged him in from terrell begged for his life , the jail yard . but his"
2212,18061_0.txt,"The farmers' union. (Memphis, Mo.)",1893,". price his cell and hanged him in from terrell begged for his life , the jail yard . but his appeals were met with silence . the lynching was conducted in the most orderly manner . terrell's cries being the sound leard . after lynching only their man the",mob,"requested that the until not taken down day body be which it dispersed . the light . after in the terrell tree hanged to mob 2 jail yard within twelve feet of the railroad track , so that all passing trains this morn ing can see his body . he"
2213,18061_0.txt,"The farmers' union. (Memphis, Mo.)",1893,silence . the lynching was conducted in the most orderly manner . terrell's cries being the sound leard . after lynching only their man the mob requested that the until not taken down day body be which it dispersed . the light . after in the terrell tree hanged to,mob,"2 jail yard within twelve feet of the railroad track , so that all passing trains this morn ing can see his body . he was dressed as though he had been expecting them . they completed the job at 2 : 0 o'clock . there vere forty- three men"
2214,18061_0.txt,"The farmers' union. (Memphis, Mo.)",1893,"within twelve feet of the railroad track , so that all passing trains this morn ing can see his body . he was dressed as though he had been expecting them . they completed the job at 2 : 0 o'clock . there vere forty- three men at the jail",masked,"read about fifty or sixty standing guard at dt "" erent points over the city . . . tragedy in the little indiana city . record- breaking award of alimony at st . paul- churches are victims of a scran firebug- stupendous failures of a ton milwaukee house ."
2215,18065_0.txt,"Palatka daily news (Palatka, Fla.)",1922,"she screamed on finding him in the act of robbing the home of her aunt , miss pearl whom she winder , ga . , saunders of , sheriff taken from visiting was was , to winder late outside of camp just the limb and hanged on day by a",mob,"in spiriting the negro from the bar sheriff camp had been successful where winder a , jail in row county large mob had gathered and was in the act of taking the negro to atlan ta for safe keeping when the road was blocked and the negro taken the that"
2216,18065_0.txt,"Palatka daily news (Palatka, Fla.)",1922,"ga . , saunders of , sheriff taken from visiting was was , to winder late outside of camp just the limb and hanged on day by a mob in spiriting the negro from the bar sheriff camp had been successful where winder a , jail in row county large",mob,had gathered and was in the act of taking the negro to atlan ta for safe keeping when the road was blocked and the negro taken the that said is it sheriff . the from lynching was conducted in an orderly
2217,18066_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1922,"west 23d street . who was walking in eighth avenue with her mother . the shooting brought a large crowd and when the men and women heard that the wounded man was suspected of attacking miss quigley , they tried to lynch him . there were fully 500 in the",mob,". many shouted "" lynch him ! "" and tried to take him from the policemen . koch , and nenetz drove the back with their revolvers and finally crowd"
2218,18067_0.txt,"The Columbia evening Missourian (Columbia, Mo.)",1922,"service . macon , ga . , may 23 . - jim denson , 20- year- old negro , sentenced to hang on a charge of having attacked a 75- year old white woman last january , was taken from the jail at irvington , ga . , late last",mob,"and lynched according aight by a , to"
2219,18068_0.txt,"Martinsburg independent (Martinsburg, W....)",1893,"white murderer lynched . lewiston , ida . , jan . 5 . - at midnight a furious",mob,"of twenty- five or thirty masked men , armed and determined tc take the law into their hands , called upon deputy sheriff wright , who has rooms at the courthouse , and at the point of a revolver demanded him to deliver them the key to the cell of"
2220,18068_0.txt,"Martinsburg independent (Martinsburg, W....)",1893,"white murderer lynched . lewiston , ida . , jan . 5 . - at midnight a furious mob of twenty- five or thirty",masked,"men , armed and determined tc take the law into their hands , called upon deputy sheriff wright , who has rooms at the courthouse , and at the point of a revolver demanded him to deliver them the key to the cell of ak . bert roberts , who"
2221,18068_0.txt,"Martinsburg independent (Martinsburg, W....)",1893,"white murderer lynched . lewiston , ida . , jan . 5 . - at midnight a furious mob of twenty- five or thirty",masked men,", armed and determined tc take the law into their hands , called upon deputy sheriff wright , who has rooms at the courthouse , and at the point of a revolver demanded him to deliver them the key to the cell of ak . bert roberts , who murdered"
2222,18068_1.txt,"Martinsburg independent (Martinsburg, W....)",1893,"of quadraple murderer lynched . loudon , tenn . , jan 5 . - a",masked,"mob of fifty men overpowered the sheriff and took henry duncan , who was in jail without bail , charged with killing a man named stephens , with an ax , last friday , and hung him to a tree . duncan also accused of hav ing killed three was"
2223,18068_1.txt,"Martinsburg independent (Martinsburg, W....)",1893,"of quadraple murderer lynched . loudon , tenn . , jan 5 . - a masked",mob,"of fifty men overpowered the sheriff and took henry duncan , who was in jail without bail , charged with killing a man named stephens , with an ax , last friday , and hung him to a tree . duncan also accused of hav ing killed three was more"
2224,18071_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1903,"arrest been made . at the first serious move of this kind , there would have been a fusillade , the consequence of which would have been frightful , ending no man can tell where , for the police force in its entirety could not have coped with that surging",mob,"of 5,000 persons the situation was . recognized as being it is only too probable that many of these in the mobs of monday and last night and were tolerably certain that nearly all of"
2225,18071_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1903,"of which would have been frightful , ending no man can tell where , for the police force in its entirety could not have coped with that surging mob of 5,000 persons the situation was . recognized as being it is only too probable that many of these in the",mobs,of monday and last night and were tolerably certain that nearly all of
2226,18072_0.txt,"The progress-advertiser. (Lexington, Miss...)",1903,the,mob,"next found gorman , whose body was pierced by five bullets , and was presumab ' dead . he lingered left , however , un forenoon . shoulder and members of the mob then quickly procured two telephone poles and battered the jail doors down . they first came to"
2227,18072_0.txt,"The progress-advertiser. (Lexington, Miss...)",1903,"the mob next found gorman , whose body was pierced by five bullets , and was presumab ' dead . he lingered left , however , un forenoon . shoulder and members of the",mob,"then quickly procured two telephone poles and battered the jail doors down . they first came to walters , who was crouched in his cell piteously beg ging for mercy . no needless torture was resorted to . walters was instantly . shot"
2228,18076_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1899,"georgia state line yesterday morning . the negro element is excited , and a half broth er of the girl has organized a",mob,"to dcwns . lynch at shelbyville gib ray , a colored man . has been arrested , charged with assaulting mary mays . he was guarded there all night at the jail by a posse of officers . the sheriff slipped him out yesterday morning , and is going toward"
2229,18076_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1899,"ray , a colored man . has been arrested , charged with assaulting mary mays . he was guarded there all night at the jail by a posse of officers . the sheriff slipped him out yesterday morning , and is going toward lewisburg , and a is following .",mob,"negro , attempted to assault lillian clapp , years old . he escaped and the citizens four are scouring the country for him . louisville , ky . , says : mobs are chasing negroes in kentucky , tennessee and for assaulting wo men . at fulton georgia , ky"
2230,18076_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1899,"sheriff slipped him out yesterday morning , and is going toward lewisburg , and a is following . mob negro , attempted to assault lillian clapp , years old . he escaped and the citizens four are scouring the country for him . louisville , ky . , says :",mobs,"are chasing negroes in kentucky , tennessee and for assaulting wo men . at fulton georgia , ky . , matthew mcfall , a"
2231,18078_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn.) 1887-1895",1894,"strong city , kan . , may 14 . - george rose , who murdered assistant postmaster kuhn at cottonwood falls , kan . , on evening , was taken from jail by thursday a",mob,and lynched .
2232,18079_0.txt,"Fort Worth gazette (Fort Worth, Tex...)",1894,"the millington lynehers . memphis , tenn . , the trial of mem bers of the",mob,"who lynched six negroes near millington , tenn . , august 31 , has been continued until ber 5 . novem"
2233,18080_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1923,,mob,"lynched wrong man , according to report now current ( by the associated press ) mexico , mo . , july 6 . - reports were afloat today that james t . seott , a ne gro , was the innocent victim of a mob which hanged him at columbia"
2234,18080_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1923,"mob lynched wrong man , according to report now current ( by the associated press ) mexico , mo . , july 6 . - reports were afloat today that james t . seott , a ne gro , was the innocent victim of a",mob,"which hanged him at columbia , mo . , on april 29 . it is rumored that , the perpetrator of the assault on a white girl , for which scott lynched , is in jail here . was"
2235,18082_0.txt,"The monitor. (Omaha, Neb.)",1924,"it pays to fight information that must prove gratifying to all right- minded americans , and we believe them to be in the vast majority , is that which re lates to",mob-,"murder or lynching which is the crying disgrace of our country . the number of lynchings reported for the first six months of this year is five . this is an amazing reduction from that of former years . of course , this is five too many in any civilized"
2236,18082_0.txt,"The monitor. (Omaha, Neb.)",1924,"newspapers of this country which were the first , merely "" a voice crying in the wilderness "" to begin the agitation against lynching . among the outstanding services of the negro newspaper in the united states has been its persistent agitation and fight for forty years against lynching and",mob,violence . gradually its feeble voice was heard and here and there powerful daily raised its voice a against this iniquity . then came that
2237,18086_0.txt,"Daily tobacco leaf-chronicle. (Clarksville, Te...)",1892,here's another,mob,". don white . special to the leaf- chronicle . ] mountain city , tenn . , dec . 16 . mob is forming here to lynch -a irvin roberts , the murderer of lon"
2238,18086_0.txt,"Daily tobacco leaf-chronicle. (Clarksville, Te...)",1892,"here's another mob . don white . special to the leaf- chronicle . ] mountain city , tenn . , dec . 16 .",mob,"is forming here to lynch -a irvin roberts , the murderer of lon"
2239,18088_0.txt,"The Butte inter mountain (Butte, Mont.)",1903,prised and not a little chagrined over the action of the,mob,at hamilton in lynching jackson . he heard rumors but had not believed them had . he did everything pos
2240,18092_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1893,"roanoske , virginis , has had s bloody carnival . a",mob,"of 5000 men attempted to break in the jail and lynch's negro who had tried to mur der s woman . the mayor called out the local militis and the troops were charged by the mob in which ten persons . were killed and the nineteen wounded , among the"
2241,18092_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1893,"roanoske , virginis , has had s bloody carnival . a mob of 5000 men attempted to break in the jail and lynch's negro who had tried to mur der s woman . the mayor called out the local militis and the troops were charged by the",mob,"in which ten persons . were killed and the nineteen wounded , among the latter battle the during the mayor . the negro was spirited out of town , but the desperate mob found and lynched had to flee for his life and the mem him and buried his body"
2242,18092_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1893,"s woman . the mayor called out the local militis and the troops were charged by the mob in which ten persons . were killed and the nineteen wounded , among the latter battle the during the mayor . the negro was spirited out of town , but the desperate",mob,found and lynched had to flee for his life and the mem him and buried his body . the mayor trouble is not yet at an end . bers of the militis also fled . the
2243,18092_1.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1893,". a panic in a canton , ill . , theater caused the death of one person and the injury of many others . a race war is imminent in new or leans . it grows out of the lynching of three brothers , colored , for the a a",mob,which desired to lynch him for killing a judge the negroes are arm ing and an outbreak . is expected at
2244,18093_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1923,"no further trouble expected following lynching . by united press harrison , ark . , jan . 17 . - home guards , hastily organized to preserve peace between striking railroad em ployes and a",mob,"of citizens follow ing the lynching of e . gregor and the deportation of scores of others believed responsible for acts of sabotage , were disbanded early today . "" there will be no furthe trouble , "" citizens of harrison told governor mc rae , in asking that he"
2245,18094_0.txt,"Iuka reporter. (Iuka, Miss.)",1894,smith on the morning of september . smith was the 21 negro caughtà . by a,mob,"and lynched on account of his brutal treatment of an old lady , after the milita had fired upon and"
2246,18096_0.txt,"The Ohio Democrat. (Logan, O. [Ohio...)",1894,"memphis , sept . 3 . - six negroes , all members of an organized gang of incendiaries , were lynched by a",mob,"near millington , tenn . a small town on the chesapeake , ohio , and southwestern gulsh in jail memphis , sept . 4 . - the five men arrested on suspicion of being concerned friday's lynching are still in jail . in they are : w . s ."
2247,18103_0.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1894,"jan . 4- at bakersville , n . c . , in struggle to prevent lynching 11 of sheriff's posse and 11 of",mob,were a killed .
2248,18103_1.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1894,"killing their father last winter , opened fire on",mob,"which purposed to lynch them , killing five a of the men , in boone township , ind ."
2249,18103_2.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1894,"washington , ind . sep . 20- bent on hanging thomas smith , a ne gro prisoner at roanoke , . ,",mob,"and soldiery clashed , 11 of former being va killed ."
2250,18106_0.txt,"Staunton spectator (Staunton, Va.)",1894,"caught in cherry hollow woods . he fought desperately , but was overpowered and taken to palmer's island by a",mob,. a rope was obtained and murderer hanged to a tree until dead the .
2251,18110_1.txt,"Dakota farmers' leader. (Canton, S.D.)",1894,"chattanooga , tenn . , special : gov . turner intends to make it warm for the members of the",mob,"who lynched six alleged negro incendiaries at millington the , tenn . the governor pass"
2252,18111_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1894,reynolds by a,mob,"and hanged . the county , was taken from constable"
2253,18113_1.txt,"Abilene weekly reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1897,negroes lynched . three louisiana murderers hanged and riddled with bullets . 21 . - a,mob,"went to the jail here last night and , securing johnson and joiner , ne- accused of the murders of five groes members of the cotton family , and"
2254,18114_1.txt,"The Democratic advocate (Westminster, Md...)",1896,"in rockford , ill . , sunday , james french , wounded a man who tried to arrest hins , reet , a",mob,"at bay , shot himself in the head , kept and"
2255,18115_0.txt,"The Democratic advocate (Westminster, Md...)",1899,the riotous,mob,"in carterville which lynched the seven negroes did not hang them , as they do in the south , but riddled them with bullets as they fled . poor negroes did not commit criminal these as"
2256,18119_0.txt,"The Saint Paul globe. (St. Paul, Minn.)",1899,a . m . the troops are wanted to protect the sheriff and jail against the attack of a,mob,"that is after john williams , a ne who is charged with assault upon gro two white girls . williams entered their"
2257,18120_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1896,"fering $ 250 for the arrest and convie- tion of each , and all the owensboro",mob,that lynched any the negro holt .
2258,18121_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1938,"mississippians lynch negro 74- year- old woman says he choked , raped and robbed her wiggins , miss . , nov . 22 . -a",mob,""" quietly "" lynched a 24- year- old negro late yesterday for an attack upon an aged white woman . the negro , wilder mcgowan , choked to death as he swung from the limb of a tree near the home of his grandmother where he had sought refuge while"
2259,18121_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1938,"quietly "" lynched a 24- year- old negro late yesterday for an attack upon an aged white woman . the negro , wilder mcgowan , choked to death as he swung from the limb of a tree near the home of his grandmother where he had sought refuge while a",mob,"of 200 looked solemnly on . sheriff h . c . hinton said the 74- year- old woman , mother of a prominent wiggins physician , told him she was choked , raped and robbed . bloodhounds , after losing the trail once , led the mob to the ne"
2260,18121_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1938,"refuge while a mob of 200 looked solemnly on . sheriff h . c . hinton said the 74- year- old woman , mother of a prominent wiggins physician , told him she was choked , raped and robbed . bloodhounds , after losing the trail once , led the",mob,"to the ne gro while sherff hiinton was away running down a clue . sheriff hinton said he was not present at the lynching but "" understood "" that the mob carried the negro to a tree shortly after catching him , threw a noose over his neck and pulled"
2261,18121_0.txt,"The times-news (Hendersonville,...)",1938,"him she was choked , raped and robbed . bloodhounds , after losing the trail once , led the mob to the ne gro while sherff hiinton was away running down a clue . sheriff hinton said he was not present at the lynching but "" understood "" that the",mob,"carried the negro to a tree shortly after catching him , threw a noose over his neck and pulled him over the limb of a tree where he to death . choked"
2262,18122_0.txt,"The Chicago whip. (Chicago, Ill.)",1922,"saw . he was questioned by senator wat son . "" did you see hanging at is- sur tille ? "" senator watson asked . "" yes . "" "" what did they hang him to "" limb . "" "" before being lynched the negro was arrested by a",mob,"of white men , "" bell said . "" what did they arrest him for ? "" chairman brandegee asked . "" the only thing i know they ar rested him for was to kill him . "" pressed by the chairman , bell said the negro was lynched because"
2263,18124_0.txt,"The Washburn leader (Washburn, McLea...)",1899,"alma , kan . , july 11 . - dick williams , a negro charged with the murder to two white men , was lynched here yesterday afternoon by a",mob,of men . the mob left the negro hanging white
2264,18124_0.txt,"The Washburn leader (Washburn, McLea...)",1899,"alma , kan . , july 11 . - dick williams , a negro charged with the murder to two white men , was lynched here yesterday afternoon by a mob of men . the",mob,left the negro hanging white
2265,18125_1.txt,"The record-union (Sacramento, Cal...)",1899,route to fayette to be tried for his crime he was taken from the officers by a,mob,at steinmetz and to a tree . your correspondent had hanged a talk
2266,18127_1.txt,"Scott County kicker. (Benton, Mo.)",1911,ten indicted as,mob,"members . weston , w . va.- ten men have been indicted on a charge of attempt ing to lynch william orbes , a negro , under sentence of death for attacking flora anglin . a penitentiary sen itence is possible . is"
2267,18131_0.txt,"The Snyder signal. (Snyder, Tex.)",1911,georgia,mob,"lynches negro macon , georgia , oct . 5 . - a dispatch received here from dublin states that a negro chauffeur in the employ of a prominent dodge county woman was lynehed last night by a mob of masked men for attempting to criminally as the lady whose auto"
2268,18131_0.txt,"The Snyder signal. (Snyder, Tex.)",1911,"georgia mob lynches negro macon , georgia , oct . 5 . - a dispatch received here from dublin states that a negro chauffeur in the employ of a prominent dodge county woman was lynehed last night by a",mob,of masked men for attempting to criminally as the lady whose auto he sault drove .
2269,18131_0.txt,"The Snyder signal. (Snyder, Tex.)",1911,"georgia mob lynches negro macon , georgia , oct . 5 . - a dispatch received here from dublin states that a negro chauffeur in the employ of a prominent dodge county woman was lynehed last night by a mob of",masked,men for attempting to criminally as the lady whose auto he sault drove .
2270,18131_0.txt,"The Snyder signal. (Snyder, Tex.)",1911,"georgia mob lynches negro macon , georgia , oct . 5 . - a dispatch received here from dublin states that a negro chauffeur in the employ of a prominent dodge county woman was lynehed last night by a mob of",masked men,for attempting to criminally as the lady whose auto he sault drove .
2271,18132_0.txt,"The Cairo bulletin. (Cairo, Ill.)",1911,"texas negro lynched . farmersville , texas , aug . 11 . commodore jones , a negro , who , it is alleged , used insulting language in addressing a young white woman over the telephone , was hanged by",mob,tonight . a
2272,18136_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1911,two negroes lynched . georgia,mob,"takes law into its own hands . atlanta , ga . , june 27 . - tom allen , a young negro charged with attack ing a white woman in walton coun ty several weeks ago , was taken off a train near social circle , ga . , to"
2273,18136_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1911,"hands . atlanta , ga . , june 27 . - tom allen , a young negro charged with attack ing a white woman in walton coun ty several weeks ago , was taken off a train near social circle , ga . , to day and hanged by a",mob,. he was being returned from here to for trial . monroe
2274,18136_1.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1911,"second negro strung up . monroe , ga . , june 27 . - the same",mob,"which , early today lynched tom allen , the negro accused of attack ing a white woman in this county , stormed the jail here soon after noon today and lynched joe watts , another negro , who was being held on suspicion . no charge had been made against"
2275,18138_0.txt,"The broad ax (Salt Lake City,...)",1912,"some of the friends of cole blease , the south carolina anarchistic governor",mobbed,"and lynched a colored man in that rotten , because he refused to pay a dishonest debt . state"
2276,18141_0.txt,"Newark evening star and Newark advertiser (Newark, N.J.)",1912,,mob,"lynches negro jacksonville , fla . , nov . 19 . the second lynching aimed to avenge the murder of james berges and his granddaughter , mary stevenson , last week near mcintosh , was reported today when the body of a negro was found hanging to a tree near"
2277,18142_0.txt,Omaha daily bee. (Omaha [Neb.]),1911,"only one negro lynched at caruthersville caruthersville . mo . , oct . 12 . - officials of this city and of pemiscot county thus far have made no effort to identify members of the",mob,"which took two negroes from the jail early wednesday morning , lynched one of them and drove the other out of town . it is now claimed that the negro ben woods , known also as "" high pockets , "" arrested for annoying two young white women , did"
2278,18143_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1899,"two negroes , george call , alias toney . and john shaw , alias piglit , met death at the hands of a",mob,in lynchburg . tenn . there is clew to the identity of no the
2279,18145_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1899,"lynched for murder texarkana , ark . , march 21 . -- a negro named duckett was taken from the sheriff of little river county , arkansas , by a",mob,"today and hanged . he confessed the murder of james ton , a planter . stock"
2280,18146_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1903,"cottsboro , ala . , june 30 . - a",mob,"of fifty marched from larkin- + s ville last night and took andrew diggs , colored , from jail and + thence to the woods to be lynched . diggs had been for + arrested as"
2281,18147_0.txt,The Jersey City news. (Jersey City [N....),1899,headquarters on a charge of murder . it required the combined efforts of half a dozen policemen to prevent a,mob,from lynching reid . henry one of the most was
2282,18148_0.txt,"Crittenden press (Marion, Ky.)",1899,"negro ravisher lynched . o courtland ala nov . 3 . andrew , . , sloss , a negro , was taken from jail by a",mob,and hanged to a tree on here the outskirts of the town . he was
2283,18148_1.txt,"Crittenden press (Marion, Ky.)",1899,"dr . dowie , the alleged divine healer , rescued by the chicago police from was a",mob,that held him a prisoner .
2284,18154_0.txt,"The Butler weekly times. (Butler, Mo.)",1905,"troops guard alabama jail . gadsden , ala . , july 17 . - the soldiers are still guarding the jail to prevent ynching of the five negroes who are suspected of the murder of mrs . s . j . smith , a white woman . the",mob,"which surrounded the jail during the aight had not entirely dispersed mon- lay but had been driven back , and those who remained stood off at some listance in groups . no clash occurred during the night and no trouble expected at present . the authori- ies regard that they"
2285,18157_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1899,", mormon ellers escaped lysehing . jackson , ga . , july 28 . - the three mor , mon elders who were taken away from the home of william cunard wednesday night by a",mob,", escaped from their captors and are now safe near here . they are badly bruised . they swam down the creek , hotly pursued by the mob , finally escaping to the home of friends . it is not thought the mob intended to lynch them but only to"
2286,18157_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1899,", mormon ellers escaped lysehing . jackson , ga . , july 28 . - the three mor , mon elders who were taken away from the home of william cunard wednesday night by a mob , escaped from their",captors,"and are now safe near here . they are badly bruised . they swam down the creek , hotly pursued by the mob , finally escaping to the home of friends . it is not thought the mob intended to lynch them but only to escort them out of country"
2287,18157_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1899,". - the three mor , mon elders who were taken away from the home of william cunard wednesday night by a mob , escaped from their captors and are now safe near here . they are badly bruised . they swam down the creek , hotly pursued by the",mob,", finally escaping to the home of friends . it is not thought the mob intended to lynch them but only to escort them out of country . the"
2288,18157_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1899,"of william cunard wednesday night by a mob , escaped from their captors and are now safe near here . they are badly bruised . they swam down the creek , hotly pursued by the mob , finally escaping to the home of friends . it is not thought the",mob,intended to lynch them but only to escort them out of country . the
2289,18158_0.txt,"The Bon Homme County independent (Tabor, S.D.)",1905,"james m . thomas during a fight in a church on fraley creek last night . miller entered the church , according to report , and announced that he was the best man in the house . crees and thomas disputed this and the shooting fol , lowed . a",mob,was formed to lynch miller but the sheriff landed the oner safely in beattyville jail . pris
2290,18161_1.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,hawkins are represented by judge ensminger of topeka .,mob,"violence has been feared the hanging of trilby , and his body since was cut down by"
2291,18162_0.txt,"The Miller sun. (Miller, Hand Co...)",1904,"more trouble feared . alabama militiamen ordered out grand jury returns indictment . the grand jury at huntsville , ala . , returned an indictment against mayor smith and sheriff rodgers , charging dereliction of duty in not suppressing the",mob,which lynched horace aples a few mob which lynched horace maples a few days ago . ten members of the mob the announcement of the indictment has created wild excitement and further trouble is feared . the birmingham company of the militia has been ordered to huntsville state .
2292,18162_0.txt,"The Miller sun. (Miller, Hand Co...)",1904,"more trouble feared . alabama militiamen ordered out grand jury returns indictment . the grand jury at huntsville , ala . , returned an indictment against mayor smith and sheriff rodgers , charging dereliction of duty in not suppressing the mob which lynched horace aples a few",mob,which lynched horace maples a few days ago . ten members of the mob the announcement of the indictment has created wild excitement and further trouble is feared . the birmingham company of the militia has been ordered to huntsville state .
2293,18162_0.txt,"The Miller sun. (Miller, Hand Co...)",1904,"indictment . the grand jury at huntsville , ala . , returned an indictment against mayor smith and sheriff rodgers , charging dereliction of duty in not suppressing the mob which lynched horace aples a few mob which lynched horace maples a few days ago . ten members of the",mob,the announcement of the indictment has created wild excitement and further trouble is feared . the birmingham company of the militia has been ordered to huntsville state .
2294,18166_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1905,"negroes wanted to lynch white fiend atlanta , ga . , nov . 13 . -z . justice , a white man , was eaptured by a",mob,"of negroes here today , charged with the criminal assault of a negro girl justice was threatened with violence , and the mob increased to more than a thousand , demanding that he be lynched . a strong force of police res cucd justice and took him to headquarters ."
2295,18166_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1905,"negroes wanted to lynch white fiend atlanta , ga . , nov . 13 . -z . justice , a white man , was eaptured by a mob of negroes here today , charged with the criminal assault of a negro girl justice was threatened with violence , and the",mob,"increased to more than a thousand , demanding that he be lynched . a strong force of police res cucd justice and took him to headquarters . police"
2296,18170_0.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1905,,mob,"hangs negro assailant . smithville , tex . . feb . 18 . - a negrc charged with assaulting mrs . powell tiffany has been captured and shot to pieces by a mob . he made a full confession . while searching for the ne gro . the smithville mob"
2297,18170_0.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1905,"mob hangs negro assailant . smithville , tex . . feb . 18 . - a negrc charged with assaulting mrs . powell tiffany has been captured and shot to pieces by a",mob,. he made a full confession . while searching for the ne gro . the smithville mob found hanging to a tree the body of a mexican taken from officers at dale and by another mob . lynched
2298,18170_0.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1905,"mob hangs negro assailant . smithville , tex . . feb . 18 . - a negrc charged with assaulting mrs . powell tiffany has been captured and shot to pieces by a mob . he made a full confession . while searching for the ne gro . the smithville",mob,found hanging to a tree the body of a mexican taken from officers at dale and by another mob . lynched
2299,18170_0.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1905,assaulting mrs . powell tiffany has been captured and shot to pieces by a mob . he made a full confession . while searching for the ne gro . the smithville mob found hanging to a tree the body of a mexican taken from officers at dale and by another,mob,. lynched
2300,18171_0.txt,"Perth Amboy evening news (Perth Amboy, N....)",1906,3 necroes lynched hanged for murdering four whites,#NAME?,"shoots . salisbury , n . c . , aug . 7 . - a mob stormed the salisbury jail and se cured and lynched three of six negroes charged 4 with murdering four members of one family . the militia fired at the mob and fatally wounded one man"
2301,18171_0.txt,"Perth Amboy evening news (Perth Amboy, N....)",1906,"3 necroes lynched hanged for murdering four whites -mobs shoots . salisbury , n . c . , aug . 7 . - a",mob,"stormed the salisbury jail and se cured and lynched three of six negroes charged 4 with murdering four members of one family . the militia fired at the mob and fatally wounded one man , but it did not prevent the lynching . the lynched men were neace and john"
2302,18171_0.txt,"Perth Amboy evening news (Perth Amboy, N....)",1906,"hanged for murdering four whites -mobs shoots . salisbury , n . c . , aug . 7 . - a mob stormed the salisbury jail and se cured and lynched three of six negroes charged 4 with murdering four members of one family . the militia fired at the",mob,"and fatally wounded one man , but it did not prevent the lynching . the lynched men were neace and john gillespie and jack dillingham . they were strung to a tree a short distance from town and their bodies riddled with bullets . six negroes- neace and john gilles"
2303,18174_0.txt,"Dakota farmers' leader. (Canton, S.D.)",1905,"lynched . negro is rosetta , miss . : word has reached here that a negro named bees has been lynched by a",mob,"near the leake plantation . the negro was charged with an attempted criminal assault upon a girl , white"
2304,18177_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1904,", ga . , sept . 19- judge lynch held court in franklin county today , and as a result the riddled body of john ware , a negro , is swinging from the limb of a tree between here and carnesville . ware was done to death by a",mob,"for fatally shooting c . y . daniel , a son of george daniel , of dan ielsville , today . young daniel and the negro had some words over a trivial matter . it is said the negro , becoming greatly en raged , and syearing that no white"
2305,18177_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1904,"some words over a trivial matter . it is said the negro , becoming greatly en raged , and syearing that no white man should run over him , drew a pistol and shot daniel , the bullet inflicting a wound that will prove fatal . left church to join",mob,". the news of the shooting quickly spread , and a crowd began gathering . many leaving church to join in the chase for the negro . the negro was captured early in the afternoon , and while being hurried to carnesville by the sheriff , was over taken by"
2306,18177_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1904,"the news of the shooting quickly spread , and a crowd began gathering . many leaving church to join in the chase for the negro . the negro was captured early in the afternoon , and while being hurried to carnesville by the sheriff , was over taken by the",mob,". the negro was taken from the sheriff and deputies , seated on a horse , a noose fitted about his neck and the other end tied to a limb . the horse was then struck a sharp blow and dashed away , leaving the negro swinging to the limb"
2307,18177_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1904,"and the other end tied to a limb . the horse was then struck a sharp blow and dashed away , leaving the negro swinging to the limb . half a hundred shots rang out , and the body was riddled . the corpse swaying was left hanging by the",mob,.
2308,18180_0.txt,"Evening times-Republican (Marshalltown, I...)",1905,"lynch to attempt richard hosford , former lowan and graduate of the state university ,",mob,"is in almost lynched by a- . missouri in girl young jail for alleged betrayal of special to republican . times- dubuque , jan , 19 . - richard w . hos ford , whose wife yesterday secured a divorce in kansas city , it was learned here today ,"
2309,18180_0.txt,"Evening times-Republican (Marshalltown, I...)",1905,". hos ford , whose wife yesterday secured a divorce in kansas city , it was learned here today , was taken out of jail at liberty , mo . , for the betrayal of a young girl , at excelsior springs , by a wanted to lynch him but",mob,"which , from whom he was rescued . hosford is a graduate of law from the state university , and at his mother's death will inherit 200,000 . his father was prominent thruout $ the state ."
2310,18182_0.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1905,"500 balls fired into body of negro who assaulted white woman . of nashville , june 20 . - simon ford , a negro who assaulted a young white . widow sunday was arrested monday after being wounded three times . at a",mob,took him from the jail mon- day evening . after being identified five hundred balls were fired his body . into
2311,18182_1.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1905,to,mob,"hanged another negro . camden , ark . , june 20 . - this morning a mob took from the jail to here the negro who shot policeman - newman and carried him across the , river . soon after passengers on an incoming train saw the body of the"
2312,18182_1.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1905,"to mob hanged another negro . camden , ark . , june 20 . - this morning a",mob,"took from the jail to here the negro who shot policeman - newman and carried him across the , river . soon after passengers on an incoming train saw the body of the negro dangling from a tree on roadside . the"
2313,18186_0.txt,"The Marion daily mirror. (Marion, Ohio)",1910,a,mob,"threatens to lynch a negro by united press wire . asbury , park , n . j . , nov . 15 . - while an armed and determined mob stood in the sleet a few blocks from the jail yard today preparing to pre vent thomas williams a negro"
2314,18186_0.txt,"The Marion daily mirror. (Marion, Ohio)",1910,"a mob threatens to lynch a negro by united press wire . asbury , park , n . j . , nov . 15 . - while an armed and determined",mob,"stood in the sleet a few blocks from the jail yard today preparing to pre vent thomas williams a negro from , , being taken out of the town it was hoodwinked by coroner purdy . the mob had threatened to lynch williams , who is accused of having rav"
2315,18186_0.txt,"The Marion daily mirror. (Marion, Ohio)",1910,". , nov . 15 . - while an armed and determined mob stood in the sleet a few blocks from the jail yard today preparing to pre vent thomas williams a negro from , , being taken out of the town it was hoodwinked by coroner purdy . the",mob,"had threatened to lynch williams , who is accused of having rav ished and murdered maie smith , a nine- year- old girl . while police chief smith was making a speech to the crowd , an auto was rushed up to the rear of the jail and coroner purdy"
2316,18190_0.txt,"New Orleans daily crescent ([New Orleans, L...)",1854,". c . c . dennis , the superintendent of the buffalo and state line of railroad , was found guilty of kidnapping by an erie jury , on thursday . the charge arose from the late riot at harbor creek . during the erie railroad disturbance , when the",mob,"endeavored to lynch dennis , the cars were put in motion to protect him , and a harbor creek man named cooper , who was in train , was carried into new york state . the"
2317,18191_0.txt,"The daily Minnesota pioneer (St. Paul, Minn.)",1854,"great so much so that the court author- , ized the sheriff to summon a posse sufficient to quell any disturbance that migh : occur . tire excitement at the time , passed off ; but on saturday night , it appears , dire threats were rendered by an incensed",mob,"of some 60 or 70 men , who subsequently forced the jail , not withstanding the efforts of the sheriff and his deputies , and after securing the negro , placed a rope around his neck , and hung him up to the nearest tree until life became totally extinct"
2318,18197_0.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1872,"at covington , tenn . , thursday night a negro named mitchell . charged with rape , was from jail by a",mob,and hanged . taken
2319,18198_0.txt,"Memphis daily appeal (Memphis, Tenn.)",1872,the,mob,"still threatens to lynch john scannell , the murderer of thomas don oho , in new york . donoho was a peaceable , good , who had accidentally shot scannell's citizen brother ."
2320,18200_0.txt,"The Cheyenne daily leader (Cheyenne, Wyo.) 1870-1884",1872,"city , illinois , has been discovered . john s . os borne , a young married man , was arrested but waiyed a hearing and was taken to jail . the proofs of his guilt are so strong that the sheriff had great difficulty in rescuing him from a",mob,which had gathered to him . lynch
2321,18201_0.txt,"Wilmington daily commercial (Wilmington, Del...)",1874,"saturday between two factions of the republican party . while w . g . cox , colored , was speaking , an attempt was made to break up the meeting . a pistol shot was fired , and one of the assailing party , colored , fell dead . the",mob,"then tried to lynch cox , but he was pro and lodged in prison to await legai protected ceedings ."
2322,18203_0.txt,"The Pulaski citizen (Pulaski, Tenn.)",1874,"howe , formerly of morgan county , ala . , was lynched at courtland , ala . , friday night for at tempting to cut the throat of a little girl because she refused to marry him . he was first put in jail , but in the night a",mob,took him out and hung him to limb . a
2323,18206_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1896,"a negro lynched . nashville , tenn . , april 3 . - a telegram from tupelo , miss . , sixty miles south east of memphis , says that a young ne gro about 18 years old was taken from jail by a",mob,and lynched in front of the courthouse . the prisoner attempted to assault a prominent white lady plantersville about two weeks ago . at
2324,18211_0.txt,"The Butler County press (Hamilton, Ohio)",1923,"the missouri & north arkansas railroad . the committee was frankly told that the strike interfered with their business , and that law would not deter them from smashing the strike . this sentiment was behind the lynching of e . j . gregor , and sus- tains every other",mob,demonstration . state officials are in the face of this anarchy . silent
2325,18212_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1926,his photo shows a picture of an aged negro who was lynched by,mob,"on the pretext that he had attacked a white girl . when the negro was brought to the hospital , the girl declared that it was not him , nevertheless a mob of 75 took him from the deputy sheriffs and lynched him 20 miles from ocala , fla ."
2326,18212_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1926,"his photo shows a picture of an aged negro who was lynched by mob on the pretext that he had attacked a white girl . when the negro was brought to the hospital , the girl declared that it was not him , nevertheless a",mob,"of 75 took him from the deputy sheriffs and lynched him 20 miles from ocala , fla . his body was riddled with bullets of the mob . no arrests were made of members of the mob , tho many of them are well- known and have openly boasted of"
2327,18212_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1926,"white girl . when the negro was brought to the hospital , the girl declared that it was not him , nevertheless a mob of 75 took him from the deputy sheriffs and lynched him 20 miles from ocala , fla . his body was riddled with bullets of the",mob,". no arrests were made of members of the mob , tho many of them are well- known and have openly boasted of their part in the lynching . at present there is a bill before the senate introduced by two politicians which would make the state , county or"
2328,18212_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1926,"hospital , the girl declared that it was not him , nevertheless a mob of 75 took him from the deputy sheriffs and lynched him 20 miles from ocala , fla . his body was riddled with bullets of the mob . no arrests were made of members of the",mob,", tho many of them are well- known and have openly boasted of their part in the lynching . at present there is a bill before the senate introduced by two politicians which would make the state , county or city which a lynching took place pay a in fine"
2329,18215_0.txt,"Richmond planet (Richmond, Va.)",1926,"wytheville , va . , sept . 1 . -- the lynching of raymond bird here by a",mob,"from outside of this town has excited more attention outside than it seems to have caused here . colored people here are taking no outward action , but are watching with interest the action of the white folks . the richmond planet , which has been seen here is not"
2330,18217_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"john hughes was at sherman , texas , or as william rainey was at beaumont . four negro workers have been lynched in this state within the last seven months . one negro worker , jesse washington , is being held in a state prison in oklahoma , after a",mob,"failed to get him in sham rock , texas , last saturday . more than 50 negro workers and their families were driven from sham rock . a large number of negro were forced to flee from workers erick , oklahoma , last monday ."
2331,18218_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1930,north carolina,mob,"negro lynched by the men unlocked cell after cell until they found moore . the negro apparently realizing his fate , went to his death without a word . sheriff w . e . barden , notified as soon as the men drove off . went in search of the"
2332,18218_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1930,"until they found moore . the negro apparently realizing his fate , went to his death without a word . sheriff w . e . barden , notified as soon as the men drove off . went in search of the lynchers . he reached the negro's home after the",mob,had dispersed and found the body . watson said none of the men in the mob had been recognized . this the first lynching in north carolina was since 1921 .
2333,18218_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1930,"without a word . sheriff w . e . barden , notified as soon as the men drove off . went in search of the lynchers . he reached the negro's home after the mob had dispersed and found the body . watson said none of the men in the",mob,had been recognized . this the first lynching in north carolina was since 1921 .
2334,18221_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"how the bosses instigate and carry out the lynching of negro workers , how capitalist courts and police co- operate in delivering the victims over to the lynching",mobs,"or in railroading them through to a legal lynching , when that seems most feasible , is sharply exposed in the latest developments in connection with two of georgia's ten lynchings for the past nine months . ing for grant killed in cell in the case of george grant ,"
2335,18221_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"of george grant , one of the victims of the double lynching at darien , ga . , on september 8 , spectacular developments have occurred as a result of the militia and sheriff trying to pass the buck to each other . forced to admit that there was no",mob,"involved in the lynching of grant as war reported by the bosses ' news agencies , colonel neal , the commander of the militia detachment which was on guard at the time , supposedly to prevent a lynching , declares was killed in his cell . he further grant declares"
2336,18221_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"a damn , "" and adds further that "" if you want to know , ask the savannah national guard officers who were down here . "" one victim wrongly accused . out of this passing of the buck , two facts develop : 1 ) that there was no",mob,involved in the lynching of grant and 2 ) that the capitalist press deliberately created a mob in order to cover up the additional fact that the capitalist state officials not only hand over negro workers to the mobs but themselves participate in he bloody lynching terror of the bosses
2337,18221_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"savannah national guard officers who were down here . "" one victim wrongly accused . out of this passing of the buck , two facts develop : 1 ) that there was no mob involved in the lynching of grant and 2 ) that the capitalist press deliberately created a",mob,"in order to cover up the additional fact that the capitalist state officials not only hand over negro workers to the mobs but themselves participate in he bloody lynching terror of the bosses against the negro masses . grant , with another negro worker , willie bryan , was accused"
2338,18221_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,", two facts develop : 1 ) that there was no mob involved in the lynching of grant and 2 ) that the capitalist press deliberately created a mob in order to cover up the additional fact that the capitalist state officials not only hand over negro workers to the",mobs,"but themselves participate in he bloody lynching terror of the bosses against the negro masses . grant , with another negro worker , willie bryan , was accused or return ing the fire of police when the lat- tér opened up on them without ing "" because they looked like"
2339,18222_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1931,"marion , ind . , feb . 26 . - almost complete failure of witnesses to identify charles lennon as a mém ber of a",mob,"which lynched two negroes here aug . 7 , after removing them from the grant county jail , marked today's session of trial . his"
2340,18225_0.txt,"Hickory daily record (Hickory, N.C.)",1922,"by the associated press . texarkana , tex . , may 20 . - this city was quiet today following the lynching last night of hullen owens , a negro , by a",mob,"who took him from the county ail on the arkansas sid as the result of the shooting and death of r . c . choate , arkansas pe liceman . authorities have made no announcement concerning an investigation . owen had been arrested thursday on a charge of theft ,"
2341,18227_0.txt,"The monitor. (Omaha, Neb.)",1924,"( by the associated negro press ) cairo , ill . , aug . 15 . - nine members of the",mob,which sought to lynch three suspects of the murder of a young white woman have been indicted by the pulaski circuit court grand jury . if convicted after trial they are subject to penalties of one year in prison or a $ 1000 fine . two of the suspects hess
2342,18230_1.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1931,"in union city , tennessee , a boss",mob,"last night rode up in a swell automobile to the county jail and took george smith , a from his cell and lynched him . smith has been arrested on the usual charge of rape used by the bosses to get even with negro workers who insist on getting wages"
2343,18230_1.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1931,"george smith , a from his cell and lynched him . smith has been arrested on the usual charge of rape used by the bosses to get even with negro workers who insist on getting wages for their labor . on thesameday , in huntingdon , tenn . , a",mob,"sought to lynch henry mumford , a negro worker ccused of shooting a humboldt , tenn . officer who attempted to brutalize him . while the sheriff hid with the keys , his wife met the mob and told them thte prisoner had bee removed another jail . to"
2344,18230_1.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1931,"their labor . on thesameday , in huntingdon , tenn . , a mob sought to lynch henry mumford , a negro worker ccused of shooting a humboldt , tenn . officer who attempted to brutalize him . while the sheriff hid with the keys , his wife met the",mob,and told them thte prisoner had bee removed another jail . to
2345,18231_1.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1931,", mary you land , as well as others . that press reports do not show that you even mention the scottsboro case , al though you are well aware that this is the outstanding case of the present moment of legal lynching in a court house surrounded by a",mob,tained by a brass band . enter
2346,18233_0.txt,"The Northwest enterprise (Seattle, Wash.)",1931,"mentioning race prejudice as one of the causes of lynching , the chief advised that as added precautions against",mob,"law vengeance , every jail in the state should be equipped with tear bombs and sub gas- ma-"
2347,18233_1.txt,"The Northwest enterprise (Seattle, Wash.)",1931,"muskogee , okla.-g . w . skinner , white , one of the",mob,"leaders who helped lynch henry argo , a half- wit , here last may , was freed along with twenty- six other white men on charges of destroying united states property , in connection with the lynching . the mob burned an army truck used by artional guardsmen were to"
2348,18233_1.txt,"The Northwest enterprise (Seattle, Wash.)",1931,". w . skinner , white , one of the mob leaders who helped lynch henry argo , a half- wit , here last may , was freed along with twenty- six other white men on charges of destroying united states property , in connection with the lynching . the",mob,burned an army truck used by artional guardsmen were to disperse the mob who .
2349,18233_1.txt,"The Northwest enterprise (Seattle, Wash.)",1931,"helped lynch henry argo , a half- wit , here last may , was freed along with twenty- six other white men on charges of destroying united states property , in connection with the lynching . the mob burned an army truck used by artional guardsmen were to disperse the",mob,who .
2350,18234_1.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1931,"hungry workers tried to get food bycrus , ohio , jan . 25 . - more than 7,000 boss- minded persons are attempting to form themselves into a lynch",mob,to lynch three negro workers here who defended them selves from being brutalized by a local sheriff when they were accused of stealing food . one of three brothers was killed by a member of the mob . the workers saw that they were about to be lynched and one
2351,18234_1.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1931,"than 7,000 boss- minded persons are attempting to form themselves into a lynch mob to lynch three negro workers here who defended them selves from being brutalized by a local sheriff when they were accused of stealing food . one of three brothers was killed by a member of the",mob,. the workers saw that they were about to be lynched and one attempted in a desperate attempt to escape . a detective shot the negro worker railroad .
2352,18235_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1927,"negro killer kentucky in is lynched jenkins , ky . , nov . 30 . - ( ap ) - soaring flames mounting from the top of cumberland mountain signaled the death of leonard woods , who by a",mob,"of more 200 armed negro than men , early to-"
2353,18236_1.txt,"The Northwest enterprise (Seattle, Wash.)",1931,""" the nine boys were twice beaten in jail before trial to extract confessions and one broke down and turned state witness and was taken by the sheriff and deputies to a room and brutally beaten up and told that he swear guilty or be lynched by must the",mob,"waiting outside the jail . """
2354,18237_0.txt,"The Bourbon news (Paris, Ky.)",1911,,mob,", it is thought , eluded the lynchers sunday morning and made his escape . all the shelby county officials except one believe west was not killed . county judge ralph gilbert monday requested governor willson to offer a reward for the arrest and conviction of each member of the"
2355,18237_0.txt,"The Bourbon news (Paris, Ky.)",1911,", it is thought , eluded the lynchers sunday morning and made his escape . all the shelby county officials except one believe west was not killed . county judge ralph gilbert monday requested governor willson to offer a reward for the arrest and conviction of each member of the",mob,that lynched two of the three negroes . he also asked the governor to offer a reward for the apprehension of jim west . governor willson wednesday offered a reward of $ 500 for the arrest and conviction of each and every member of the mob which lynched two at
2356,18237_0.txt,"The Bourbon news (Paris, Ky.)",1911,each member of the mob that lynched two of the three negroes . he also asked the governor to offer a reward for the apprehension of jim west . governor willson wednesday offered a reward of $ 500 for the arrest and conviction of each and every member of the,mob,which lynched two at shelbyville early sunday morning.ulation nergoes
2357,18238_0.txt,"Albuquerque morning journal (Albuquerque, N....)",1911,alleged,mob,"leader on trial . newark , o . , feb . 14 . - oliver tim- mons , third of the alleged leaders of the mob which lynched a detective for the anti- saloon league here last summer to go to trial , faced judge c . w . criminal"
2358,18238_0.txt,"Albuquerque morning journal (Albuquerque, N....)",1911,"alleged mob leader on trial . newark , o . , feb . 14 . - oliver tim- mons , third of the alleged leaders of the",mob,"which lynched a detective for the anti- saloon league here last summer to go to trial , faced judge c . w . criminal court here today . aften stewart's ten jurors had been obta / ned ,"
2359,18239_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"here of george hughes , a negro , by a lynch gang friday aft ernoon connect more closely the texas rangers and the police the murder . with "" the crime for which the negro was lynched at sherman was a brutal and atricious one . the intimation of the",mob,by its act that he not have been speedily tried would and legally executed under the or
2360,18241_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,delaware's lynching was carried through not by a,mob,"with the tacit approval of the state as is customary , but by the state and differs from a mob lynching in that it is "" legal , "" according to the code of the capitalist oppressors of the negro masses this is . contribution to the wave of ing"
2361,18241_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"delaware's lynching was carried through not by a mob with the tacit approval of the state as is customary , but by the state and differs from a",mob,"lynching in that it is "" legal , "" according to the code of the capitalist oppressors of the negro masses this is . contribution to the wave of ing terror against the negro lynch work"
2362,18247_0.txt,"Richmond planet (Richmond, Va.)",1930,"the reported offense of the drunk en negro , "" uftering insulting re marks to two white women , "" was ag gravoting , but furnished no pretext for a",mob,"to usurp the place of the courts and violently execute the culprit . the hands of the law and securely in in jail . there is no justification for lynch law untill organized law has been destroyed , its forces disarmed , and the processes of anarchy and saga gery"
2363,18247_0.txt,"Richmond planet (Richmond, Va.)",1930,"in geogia and to have allowed a drivelling drink- demented negro to be lynched for a possibly unconscious impudence would hove been enormously greater crime than that an avenged in hate and fury . atlanta constitution the mayor , minister and leading men of bainbridge who persuaded an an gry",mob,"bent on lynching a negro to disperse and "" let the law take its dourse deserve the fullest praise and thanks of the state ."
2364,18248_0.txt,"The Key West citizen (Key West, Fla.)",1941,"1891- ( 50 years ago ) 11 italians acquitted of the murder of new orleans ' chief police , taken by",mob,from jail of and lynched .
2365,18249_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1930,"the home of the girl , who identified him . shortly after daylight he was taken before the girl who again said he was the one who attempted to attack her . it was after this second that officers sought to spirit him visit away , but were by the",mob,". accused by girl , 9 , mob lynches man 20- year- old georgia colored convict hanged , body dragged about town square . by the associated press . thomasville , ga . , september 25 ( ap ) . - willie kirkland , 20- year- old negro convict ,"
2366,18249_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1930,"him . shortly after daylight he was taken before the girl who again said he was the one who attempted to attack her . it was after this second that officers sought to spirit him visit away , but were by the mob . accused by girl , 9 ,",mob,"lynches man 20- year- old georgia colored convict hanged , body dragged about town square . by the associated press . thomasville , ga . , september 25 ( ap ) . - willie kirkland , 20- year- old negro convict , said to have been identified by a 9-"
2367,18251_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"self determination for the negroes . while united states senators , such as blease , are declaring "" to hell with the constitution "" if it is a barrier to lynching a negro , the communists are organizing defense corps of white and black workers fight against all lynch ing",mobs,. to
2368,18254_2.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1931,"frankford , w . va . , may 18 . because she objected to the white bosses of this town taking her daughter for "" joy rides , "" mrs . jane wise , 50- year- negro woman , was brutally lynched old by a boss",mob,on may 9 .
2369,18255_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1931,"worker , ellis smith , was arrested "" on suspicion "" of being the unidentified ne gro alleged to have entered the home of mrs . maribelle hatchell and at tempted to attack her . following their usual custom , the bosses and their press at once began inciting a",mob,lynching . to
2370,18259_0.txt,"The L'Anse sentinel. (L'Anse, L.S., M...)",1895,"s . loftin , a negro , charged with assaulting a white woman in lexington , tex . , was taken from the officers by",mob,"and lynched . a and sobriety . it developed that the negro bob haggard , who was lynched at ford . ky . charged with having outraged miss , elkin , was innocent of the crime"
2371,18259_1.txt,"The L'Anse sentinel. (L'Anse, L.S., M...)",1895,"( colored ) , about 65 years old , was lynched at meridian miss . it was thought that he concerned in a murder . was victor adams , who shot and killed justice boker , his father- in- law , at o'neils , cal . , lynched by a",mob,of sixty men . was
2372,18262_0.txt,The Jersey City news. (Jersey City [N....),1895,"a negro fiend lynched for many assaults on women . memphis , tenn . , oct . 16 , 1895 . - jeff ellis , the negro who committed an assault on miss prater , near braden , was lynched near the scene of his crime at midnight by a",mob,of citizens who formed by a procession and escorted nim scene of his crime to be forcibly identi tothe
2373,18263_0.txt,"Potosi journal. (Potosi, Mo.)",1895,a,mob,"lynched james powell ( col- ored ) near straussburg , aia . , for an attempted assault upon mary bussy the 15- year- old daughter of a farmer . ,"
2374,18263_1.txt,"Potosi journal. (Potosi, Mo.)",1895,a,mob,"lynched bill collins ( colored , in a swamp near mayo , fla . , for at tempted assault on jeanette allen a young white woman . ,"
2375,18264_0.txt,"The Pascagoula democrat-star. (Pascagoula, Mis...)",1895,an ohio,mob,"hung a negro to a free in broad daylight last week , and the lynch- ers made no attempt at concealment . human life , it seems . is no longer safe in that state . wonder it will stop south- ern emigration ! if"
2376,18265_0.txt,"The Kootenai herald (Kootenai, Idaho)",1895,the,mob,"during the process of lynch ing observed order ; none were allowed to fire at him except the one . a member of the mob made a brief speech , in which he said they were there with an unfortunate wretch , not in a spirit of malice , but"
2377,18265_0.txt,"The Kootenai herald (Kootenai, Idaho)",1895,the mob during the process of lynch ing observed order ; none were allowed to fire at him except the one . a member of the,mob,"made a brief speech , in which he said they were there with an unfortunate wretch , not in a spirit of malice , but to make an example of him and teach his race they must the women of frederick coun ty alone let ."
2378,18267_0.txt,"St. Paul daily globe (Saint Paul, Min...)",1895,"county . the sheriff left the train with his prisoner some distance from ful ton , and was proceeding with him in a carriage , when he was intercepted by a",mob,"of more than a hundred men , who forcibly took the and lynched him . a thousand negro or"
2379,18271_0.txt,"The L'Anse sentinel. (L'Anse, L.S., M...)",1895,"john frye , a dissolute young white man , was lynched at gretna , la . , by a",mob,burning the cabins of colored people for .
2380,18271_1.txt,"The L'Anse sentinel. (L'Anse, L.S., M...)",1895,"bill stokes ( colored ) , who attempted an assault on a white woman , was lynched by",mob,"in colleton coun ty , s . c . a"
2381,18273_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1894,"upon reaching the bridge rose was hanged and the lynching party quietly dispersed leaving the body suspended from the , bridge . another kansas lynching , george rose hanged by a",mob,"at cotton . wood falls for the murder of deputy postmaster kuhl . strong city , kan . , may 14 . - on fri day evening at 6 : 30 , karl kuhl , assist ant postimaster at cottonwood falls , twenty- two miles west of emporia , was"
2382,18276_0.txt,"Courier Democrat. (Langdon, N.D.)",1900,were con fined in the small jail . during the day there was suppressed excitement and it was evident that some of the negroes would be severely dealt with . last night the doors of the jail were broken open and the four negroes who had been selected by the,mob,"as the most guilty , were taken out and hanged to the limbs of a large oak tree which stands near the jail . the people of ponchatoula , both white and black , deplore the action of the mob , and both in mass meeting appointed a law races"
2383,18276_0.txt,"Courier Democrat. (Langdon, N.D.)",1900,"and the four negroes who had been selected by the mob as the most guilty , were taken out and hanged to the limbs of a large oak tree which stands near the jail . the people of ponchatoula , both white and black , deplore the action of the",mob,", and both in mass meeting appointed a law races and order committee ."
2384,18278_1.txt,"The midland journal. (Rising Sun, Md.)",1904,"meridian , miss . , ( special ) . - the kill ing of postal clerk stockton has caused much excitement . after paris , the alleged murderer , was placed in jail here a",mob,"gathered , and , fearing a lynching , the sheriff notified governor vardaman , who ordered out the local militia . birmingham , ala.- according to re ports received here by the officials of the alabama great southern railroad , the shooting of two postal clerks on a north bound"
2385,18279_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1904,"again . from the new york world . striking a policeman in the face with a tighted lamp is probably "" the usual crime "" in virginia . at least a negro was lynched at berkeley yesterday for this offense , and we are repeatedly assured by southern apologists for",mob,"law that lynching must continue as long as negroes commit "" the usual crime . "" to be sure , a study of lynch ing recently made by a yale graduate shows that of 1.872 negroes who were lynched only thirty- five per cent were charged with criminal assault ,"
2386,18283_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1900,"shout as the car neared 8th avenue that the negro ought to be lynched . a man with a clothes line appeared and the two ' negroes were pulled off the car . the rope was thrown around robinson's neck and , with fifty men and boys pulling , the",mob,started for a lamp post . a squad of po lice appeared before the mob had gone and with much clubbin gdispersed far the crowd . the two negroes got away .
2387,18283_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1900,"a man with a clothes line appeared and the two ' negroes were pulled off the car . the rope was thrown around robinson's neck and , with fifty men and boys pulling , the mob started for a lamp post . a squad of po lice appeared before the",mob,had gone and with much clubbin gdispersed far the crowd . the two negroes got away .
2388,18284_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1931,"marriage bureau wooer weakens under long grilling , after bodies of widow and four children are found .",mob,"threatens to lynch suspect woman and two girls hanged along wall garage basement , son struck of down with hammer . threatened by mob and it followed a night- long vigil in county jail here , where powers had been hustled hurriedly after a mob formed and threatened lynch him"
2389,18284_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1931,"marriage bureau wooer weakens under long grilling , after bodies of widow and four children are found . mob threatens to lynch suspect woman and two girls hanged along wall garage basement , son struck of down with hammer . threatened by",mob,"and it followed a night- long vigil in county jail here , where powers had been hustled hurriedly after a mob formed and threatened lynch him . to"
2390,18284_0.txt,The Indianapolis times (Indianapolis [I...),1931,"four children are found . mob threatens to lynch suspect woman and two girls hanged along wall garage basement , son struck of down with hammer . threatened by mob and it followed a night- long vigil in county jail here , where powers had been hustled hurriedly after a",mob,formed and threatened lynch him . to
2391,18286_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1904,"neglecting duty . chattanooga , tenn . , sept . 16 . - a spe cial from huntsville , ala . , says the spe- clal grand jury now investigating the maples lynching , which occurred horace a few days ago , indicted ten mem- bers of the",mob,"as well as mayor smith sheriff rogers , charging them with dereliction of duty is not sup pressing the mob . the wildest in that city . excite-"
2392,18286_0.txt,"Palestine daily herald (Palestine, Tex.)",1904,", ala . , says the spe- clal grand jury now investigating the maples lynching , which occurred horace a few days ago , indicted ten mem- bers of the mob as well as mayor smith sheriff rogers , charging them with dereliction of duty is not sup pressing the",mob,. the wildest in that city . excite-
2393,18288_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1903,"( by the associated press . ) albany , n . y . , july 15 . - james little , the negro who assaulted a little girl near new baltimore yesterday , and who was removed to the catskill jail for fear a",mob,"would lynch him , was taken back to new baltimore today and arraigned before a local justice . the negro was an abject wreck through fear , although he was guarded by an especially strong sheriff's posse in anticipation of trouble . at new baltimore a mob composed of farmers"
2394,18288_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1903,"for fear a mob would lynch him , was taken back to new baltimore today and arraigned before a local justice . the negro was an abject wreck through fear , although he was guarded by an especially strong sheriff's posse in anticipation of trouble . at new baltimore a",mob,"composed of farmers , striking molders from coxsackie and boat hands had gathered . among them was joseph cole , the father of the 11- year- old girl assaulted . cole was in an excited state , and as the boat docked drew a revolver . he was quickly disarmed"
2395,18288_1.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1903,"( by the associated press . ) maysville , ky . , july 15 . - enraged at the tardiness of the courts a",mob,"broke into the flemingsburg jail this morning and hanged william thacker , a white man , who had been given a life sentence for the murder of john gordon , two years ago . thacker in a quarrel with gordon at fox- port , shot and killed him and then"
2396,18289_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1904,a,mob,"which tried to lynch a man in a little village in new- jersey was led by a mother of nine children , who is a prominent member of a local church . fortunately , the effort to hang the man was unsuccessful . our sister state ought either to raise"
2397,18291_0.txt,"The Mitchell capital. (Mitchell, Dakot...)",1893,while the fight was going on atten tion was directed from the,mob's,"victim and almost before it was known hud son had been run off from the mob and placed in the national hotel , where he now closely guarded . the dispute among the members of the mob arose over the question of the prisoner's innocence . comparative quiet prevails ."
2398,18291_0.txt,"The Mitchell capital. (Mitchell, Dakot...)",1893,while the fight was going on atten tion was directed from the mob's victim and almost before it was known hud son had been run off from the,mob,"and placed in the national hotel , where he now closely guarded . the dispute among the members of the mob arose over the question of the prisoner's innocence . comparative quiet prevails . unless hudson's innocence is thoroughly established nothing can being lynched . prevent"
2399,18291_0.txt,"The Mitchell capital. (Mitchell, Dakot...)",1893,"while the fight was going on atten tion was directed from the mob's victim and almost before it was known hud son had been run off from the mob and placed in the national hotel , where he now closely guarded . the dispute among the members of the",mob,arose over the question of the prisoner's innocence . comparative quiet prevails . unless hudson's innocence is thoroughly established nothing can being lynched . prevent
2400,18291_2.txt,"The Mitchell capital. (Mitchell, Dakot...)",1893,"topeka , kan . . april 12 . - a",mob,"hung around the salina jail all night and was constantly increased by recruits from neighboring towns , who came in by the trainload to participate the lynching of hudson , the negro who ravished mrs . frost last week and murdered her infant child . witnesses swore that hudson was"
2401,18291_2.txt,"The Mitchell capital. (Mitchell, Dakot...)",1893,". frost's positive identification . the assault was finally made on the jail about 11 o'clock , so positive was mrs . frost that the prisoner was her assail ant . this attack was not successful , being resisted by the guards with little trouble . the mutterings of the",mob,grew as its increased . and the excitement numbers
2402,18292_0.txt,"Bismarck daily tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1904,the,mob,is growing in number and a lynching is feared at any moment . the riot call has been sounded in this city ( savannah ) for the to assemble . militia
2403,18294_1.txt,"St. Paul daily globe (Saint Paul, Min...)",1893,"marshal palm , of circleville , o . , who protected his brother's murderer from the",mob,"that was bent on lynching im , is made of the right metal for ue american . the"
2404,18295_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1893,raid made on the city prison . militia called out and a volley fired into the,mob,", killing seven people and wounding ten others , some of them mortally- excitement at fever heat and more bloodshed is feared . roanoke , va . , sept . 21 . - robert smith , a negro , assaulted and nearly killed mrs . henry bishop , wife of"
2405,18296_1.txt,"Griggs courier. (Cooperstown, Gr...)",1893,when the coroner had heard the children's story wednesday night he ordered neise under arrest . it was not long until the news spread abroad and the sheriff heard such reliable,mob,"rumors of 8 being formed to lynch the man that they re moved the prisoner . neise had an insurance policy on his wife's life for $ 3,000 . he acknowledged that he made no effort to get his wife and child out of the flames , as it was"
2406,18298_0.txt,"The Washburn leader (Washburn, McLea...)",1893,"years old , at tempted to outrage mrs . john tucker , a white woman at cornersville , twenty eight miles south of here , but his design was frustrated by the timely arrival of the woman's husband . the negro was captured and hanged to a tree by a",mob,", and his dangling body riddled with lets . bul"
2407,18299_0.txt,"Highland recorder. (Monterey, Highl...)",1895,him down before 6.30 this evening . the point where the lynching occurred is a cross- road called clifton summit . the,mob,"dispersel after doing its work . jeff e lis , on the afternoon of october 5 , criminally assaulted miss be : tie pra er in tho presence of her.w.ttle sisters . he escaped from a mob which had gathered to lynch him that ni ht , but he was"
2408,18299_0.txt,"Highland recorder. (Monterey, Highl...)",1895,"where the lynching occurred is a cross- road called clifton summit . the mob dispersel after doing its work . jeff e lis , on the afternoon of october 5 , criminally assaulted miss be : tie pra er in tho presence of her.w.ttle sisters . he escaped from a",mob,"which had gathered to lynch him that ni ht , but he was pursuel unremittingly until he was captured monday near he confessed to the mount pleasants , mi- s . assault upon miss prater , to the assault and murder of a mrs . wilcox , of the same"
2409,18299_0.txt,"Highland recorder. (Monterey, Highl...)",1895,"mount pleasants , mi- s . assault upon miss prater , to the assault and murder of a mrs . wilcox , of the same neighborhood , two years ago , and to an attempted upon a little girl in mississippi whilo assault he was trying to escape from the",mob,.
2410,18306_0.txt,"Western Kansas world (WaKeeney, Kan.)",1895,"negroes lynched for murdering a white man . camden , ark . , july 15 . - about 12 o'clock saturday night at hampton , 30 miles east of here , two negroes were",mobbed,"by seventy- fi e men . two weeks ago a white man by the name of martin was killed by three negroes . two of them were arrested and confined in jail . a mob gathered several nights ago , but were persuaded to desist . last night there was"
2411,18306_0.txt,"Western Kansas world (WaKeeney, Kan.)",1895,"o'clock saturday night at hampton , 30 miles east of here , two negroes were mobbed by seventy- fi e men . two weeks ago a white man by the name of martin was killed by three negroes . two of them were arrested and confined in jail . a",mob,"gathered several nights ago , but were persuaded to desist . last night there was another gather ing , and seventy- five determined men marched to the jail and demanded of the sheriff the surrender of the murderers . it was useless to resist such a force with but a"
2412,18306_0.txt,"Western Kansas world (WaKeeney, Kan.)",1895,"gather ing , and seventy- five determined men marched to the jail and demanded of the sheriff the surrender of the murderers . it was useless to resist such a force with but a handful of men to summon to his aid , so the keys were delivered to the",mob,". the culprits were carried to the neighboring forest and hanged to trees . the men were not masked , and made no effort to conceal their identity . two years ago a race riot occurred in calhoun county . negroes greatly outnumber the the whites , and further trouble"
2413,18306_0.txt,"Western Kansas world (WaKeeney, Kan.)",1895,"of the murderers . it was useless to resist such a force with but a handful of men to summon to his aid , so the keys were delivered to the mob . the culprits were carried to the neighboring forest and hanged to trees . the men were not",masked,", and made no effort to conceal their identity . two years ago a race riot occurred in calhoun county . negroes greatly outnumber the the whites , and further trouble is expected"
2414,18308_0.txt,"St. Paul daily globe (Saint Paul, Min...)",1895,"his life was not safe . a colored man and a colored boy had been lynched there , one for murder and the other for criminal assault , and he would be strung up by",mob,if taken back by deputy sheriff a perin .
2415,18312_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1895,bloomington bulletin : some fresh jay at danville telegraphed the pantagraph that the,mob,"lynched the ravishers , royce and halls , be cause they feared altgeld might par- don them . in the light of 50 years of lynching in illinois , not excepting bloomington this would be grat a , - uitious insult if it had brains in it . any"
2416,18315_0.txt,"The Durham daily globe. (Durham, N.C.)",1893,"lynched bottle of kemp's balsam for the throat a is about 8,000 , and we would say at least one half are troubled with some effection a story of appalling slaughter on the throat and lungs , as those com in plaints are , according to statistics , by a",mob,". some thirty- three men are dead happy and content is a home with "" the ro chester ; a lamp with the light of the morning . catalogues , write rochester lamp co . . new york five hundred masked men enter the . calvin snipes . johnson city"
2417,18315_0.txt,"The Durham daily globe. (Durham, N.C.)",1893,"plaints are , according to statistics , by a mob . some thirty- three men are dead happy and content is a home with "" the ro chester ; a lamp with the light of the morning . catalogues , write rochester lamp co . . new york five hundred",masked,"men enter the . calvin snipes . johnson city , tenn . , jan . 4 . - [ special to news and observer . ] - last night masked mob of 500 men entered the jail a jail at bakersville , and lynch impaired my health a prominent eitizen"
2418,18315_0.txt,"The Durham daily globe. (Durham, N.C.)",1893,"plaints are , according to statistics , by a mob . some thirty- three men are dead happy and content is a home with "" the ro chester ; a lamp with the light of the morning . catalogues , write rochester lamp co . . new york five hundred",masked men,"enter the . calvin snipes . johnson city , tenn . , jan . 4 . - [ special to news and observer . ] - last night masked mob of 500 men entered the jail a jail at bakersville , and lynch impaired my health a prominent eitizen of"
2419,18315_0.txt,"The Durham daily globe. (Durham, N.C.)",1893,"lamp with the light of the morning . catalogues , write rochester lamp co . . new york five hundred masked men enter the . calvin snipes . johnson city , tenn . , jan . 4 . - [ special to news and observer . ] - last night",masked,"mob of 500 men entered the jail a jail at bakersville , and lynch impaired my health a prominent eitizen of mitchell county , for more than two years . several offensive ulcers appeared on my legs , nothing to a dense forest about half a mile away seemed to"
2420,18315_0.txt,"The Durham daily globe. (Durham, N.C.)",1893,"with the light of the morning . catalogues , write rochester lamp co . . new york five hundred masked men enter the . calvin snipes . johnson city , tenn . , jan . 4 . - [ special to news and observer . ] - last night masked",mob,"of 500 men entered the jail a jail at bakersville , and lynch impaired my health a prominent eitizen of mitchell county , for more than two years . several offensive ulcers appeared on my legs , nothing to a dense forest about half a mile away seemed to give"
2421,18315_0.txt,"The Durham daily globe. (Durham, N.C.)",1893,a dense forest about half a mile away seemed to give permanent relief and until i took and lynched him . seven of the sheriff's tirely . posse were killed in their efforts to de fend the prisoner . about twenty five- of colonel harry bass with his pockets the,mob,"were killed , and among the full of north american eagles dead and wounded are some of the most new postage stamps . prominent men of the county . facts which led up to the terrible they are things of beauty and will go lynching the affray in bakersville ,"
2422,18317_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,a,mob,"get their man by overpower ing jailer best , formerly of this county . thomas blair was taken out of the jail at mt . sterling at 2 a . m . january 1st by a a mob and was hung near the town . last february captain j ."
2423,18317_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,"a mob get their man by overpower ing jailer best , formerly of this county . thomas blair was taken out of the jail at mt . sterling at 2 a . m . january 1st by a a",mob,"and was hung near the town . last february captain j . l . bomar , a gallant ex- federal soldier , was killed by h . c . turner , thomas blair and john mckenzie on the streets of mt . sterling . bomar had charged turner with debauch"
2424,18317_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,"to indict and they were discharged . blair left , and never returned until a few days ago . a few hours after he got back , he shot at a man in a disreputable house and was jailed . opinion is much divided as to the cause of the",mob's,"action , and many ex press the opinion that it was not the friends of bomar who did the hanging . the jailer , james best , formerly of this county , was overpowered by mob , who then took the keys . the"
2425,18317_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,"and was jailed . opinion is much divided as to the cause of the mob's action , and many ex press the opinion that it was not the friends of bomar who did the hanging . the jailer , james best , formerly of this county , was overpowered by",mob,", who then took the keys . the"
2426,18319_0.txt,"Bismarck weekly tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1895,ers were taken from the county jail by a,mob,"of 250 men and lynched . a band of citizens , fearing that the law would not be carried out , and angered over the atrocity of recent crimes , determined to take matters into their own hands . the lynching was the ghastly climax to the reign of lawlessness"
2427,18319_1.txt,"Bismarck weekly tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1895,"at 11 o'clock p . m . farmers from all the surrounding country began to drive into town , and by midnight the",mob,"was ready to march to the county jail . before taking a step , however , every precaution was taken to prevent the plans of the lynchers from being frustrated by the officers of the law . the sheriff and one of his deputies were decoyed to another part of"
2428,18319_1.txt,"Bismarck weekly tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1895,"county jail . before taking a step , however , every precaution was taken to prevent the plans of the lynchers from being frustrated by the officers of the law . the sheriff and one of his deputies were decoyed to another part of town by two members of the",mob,"who were engaged in the lynching and the fire bell was muffled to prevent an alarm being given in that way . when the mob reached the jail deputy sheriff radford opened the door and was immediately held up by the mob , who took the keys from him and"
2429,18319_1.txt,"Bismarck weekly tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1895,the officers of the law . the sheriff and one of his deputies were decoyed to another part of town by two members of the mob who were engaged in the lynching and the fire bell was muffled to prevent an alarm being given in that way . when the,mob,"reached the jail deputy sheriff radford opened the door and was immediately held up by the mob , who took the keys from him and entered the jail . having no keys to the different cells they were compelled to burst the locks with a sledge hammer which they proceeded"
2430,18319_1.txt,"Bismarck weekly tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1895,part of town by two members of the mob who were engaged in the lynching and the fire bell was muffled to prevent an alarm being given in that way . when the mob reached the jail deputy sheriff radford opened the door and was immediately held up by the,mob,", who took the keys from him and entered the jail . having no keys to the different cells they were compelled to burst the locks with a sledge hammer which they proceeded do at once . lawrence h . johnson , who to"
2431,18320_2.txt,"The news boy. (Benton, Scott C...)",1895,"at tiffin , ohio , sunday night , a",mob,"while attempting to lynch l . j . martin alias williams for the cold blooded murder of city marshal a . schultz , was fired into by the sher if's posse and two men killed . it was necessary to call out the militia found to restore order ."
2432,18323_1.txt,"Perrysburg journal. (Perrysburg, Woo...)",1895,"bob huggard , a mulatto accused of assault , was taken from the jail at winchester , ky . , a",mob,of 200 men and lynched . by
2433,18325_0.txt,"Turner County herald. (Hurley, Dakota ...)",1900,"in this city and lynched near the spot where his crime was committed . his body was riddled with bullets . sheriff ful ham defended his prisoner to the last , but a dense smoke from a combination of tar , feathers and fired by the oil , fre crazed",mob,", was too much for him and he was dragged from the jail and placed under a physician's care . will lam vining , who attempted to rush through the crowd and up the jail steps , was shot and dangerously ded . woun"
2434,18327_0.txt,"Richmond dispatch (Richmond, Va.)",1895,"the murder of august tiffin's popular city marshal , who was shot in cold blood by leander j . martin alias williams , a farmer , of hopewell township . last wednesday evening , two more victims were added to the tragic affair . at 1 : 30 o'clock a",mob,"of 150 intu riated men , many of whom were under the influence of liquor , attacked the jail , in an effort to secure martin and hang him . a volley from a half qozen winches met them , and two of the mob were ters killed . they"
2435,18327_0.txt,"Richmond dispatch (Richmond, Va.)",1895,"1 : 30 o'clock a mob of 150 intu riated men , many of whom were under the influence of liquor , attacked the jail , in an effort to secure martin and hang him . a volley from a half qozen winches met them , and two of the",mob,were ters killed . they are
2436,18329_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1900,"lynched for assault on a little girl sunday morning . corinth , miss . , aug . 13 . - jack betts , a negro , was lynched this morning . he is said to have assaulted a tetn- year- old white girl in the country sunday morning . a",mob,took him from the jail and hanged him to telegraph pole in public square . the
2437,18330_0.txt,"The morning times (Washington, D.C...)",1895,"negro lynched . paducah , ky . , nov . 25 . - the news of a lynching near oaks , marsham county , saturday night , reached the city today . a negro tramp was caught trying to wreck a train near calvert city and was pursued by a",mob,into the woods . he was overtaken and riddled with bullets and then hanged to a tree . the locality is a wilderness . the name of the negro is unknown . loeb hirsh are selling children's cloth ing at cost & .
2438,18331_0.txt,"Barton County democrat (Great Bend, Kan...)",1900,will offer no reward . gov . stanley announced that he would offer no reward for the arrest of members of the,mob,"that lynched the meeks brothers at fort scott . the governor said that , while lynch ings should not be tolerated , he see excuses for them . can"
2439,18332_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1900,"against the murderer would have to be produced . several negroes who happened to be in the neighbor hood of the scene of the murder were arrested and were released , as the evidence against them was weak . it seemed strongest against henry askew , and to prevent a",mob,from lynching he was taken from the biloxi to the mis him sissippi city jail .
2440,18333_0.txt,"The united opinion (Bradford, Vt.)",1900,a mississippi negro was lynched at by a,mob,that took him from jail corinth .
2441,18335_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1900,"the original trouble arose over an at tempted assault upon a white woman by a negro , who escaped capture by rapid flight , a",mob,"forming and threatening to lynch the offender . theodore gunsald , also a negro , added fuel to the flame by defend ing the fugitive , and he was pelted with stones and driven away . both whites and blacks then armed them selves and threats were freely made ."
2442,18338_0.txt,"St. Paul daily globe (Saint Paul, Min...)",1895,"lynchers threaten . bowlinggreen , ky . , april 6 . a report from readyville , ky . , the home of maj . hamilton , who was assassinated , reached here today that a",mob,"was being organized to lynch his alleged murderers , who are in jail at morgantown . the men are heavily guarded and will be moved to place for safe keeping . this"
2443,18343_0.txt,"Potosi journal. (Potosi, Mo.)",1900,"train at evanston , ill .",mob,"captured and lynched thomas reynolds , who escaped from the penitentiary at canyon city , col . , after murdering night capt . w . rooney c ."
2444,18344_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1900,double murderer lynched . florida,mob,"hanged a negro who killed white men . valdosta , ga . , march 11 . - word was ceived here to- night of a double murder and lynching near jennings , fla . two white men named carver were killed by a negro whose name could not be learned"
2445,18344_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1900,"ga . , march 11 . - word was ceived here to- night of a double murder and lynching near jennings , fla . two white men named carver were killed by a negro whose name could not be learned . the negro was captured by the sheriff . a",mob,"quickly gathered took the murderer away from the officers , and swung him up"
2446,18345_0.txt,"Richmond dispatch (Richmond, Va.)",1900,"lynching in kentucky . elkton , ky . , october 18 . - erastus warfield , a negro , was lynched here after midnight , by a",mob,", who took him from the county jail , where he had been placed for attempting to break into a farm- house , when the farmer's wife and child . little"
2447,18347_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1900,none of the,mob,"wore a mask . to all appearances men of every station in life took part in the lynching . not a shot was fired before or after the lynching . and except for the excited groups of men standing on the street corners , a stranger would have known nothing"
2448,18347_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1900,none of the mob wore a,mask,". to all appearances men of every station in life took part in the lynching . not a shot was fired before or after the lynching . and except for the excited groups of men standing on the street corners , a stranger would have known nothing of the tragedy"
2449,18347_2.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1900,"militia arrived at the seene of the lynching . indianapolis , dec . 17 . - gov . mount was advised tonight by the sheriff of spencer county that a",mob,"of 600 had started from rockport to booneville with the intention of lynching joe rolla . and another negro , arrested for complicity in the murder of hollle simons saturday night . the sheriff also notifled the governor that the local authorities would be powerless to resist the mob ,"
2450,18347_2.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1900,"a mob of 600 had started from rockport to booneville with the intention of lynching joe rolla . and another negro , arrested for complicity in the murder of hollle simons saturday night . the sheriff also notifled the governor that the local authorities would be powerless to resist the",mob,", and requested that a military company be sent at once to the scene . a message was at once sent to the jutant general by the governor ad"
2451,18348_0.txt,"The Black Hills union (Rapid City, Pen...)",1900,at forest city . had taken the and search of her .,mob,
2452,18350_0.txt,"The Mt. Sterling advocate. (Mt. Sterling, K...)",1900,"two negroes lynched . two negroes , accused of assaulting and killing a thirteen- year- old white of girl , were hanged by a",mob,"near biloxi , miss . , saturday night june 9th and their bodies were burned . ,"
2453,18352_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1900,"excitement over a shooting . nicholasville , ky . , feb . 8 . - the town is somewhat excited over the shooting of newton lane by one of his work hands on the fayette line . a",mob,"was organized here to lynch lane when he killed h . c . roden baugh and his son in versailles about four years ago . rodenbaugh was very popular here , where he had lived . at the request of mrs . rodenbaugh the mob dispersed . lane was arrest"
2454,18352_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1900,"the fayette line . a mob was organized here to lynch lane when he killed h . c . roden baugh and his son in versailles about four years ago . rodenbaugh was very popular here , where he had lived . at the request of mrs . rodenbaugh the",mob,dispersed . lane was arrest ed here about months ago for using abusive language nine to a negro .
2455,18353_1.txt,"Pullman herald (Pullman, W.T. [...)",1903,"a lynching occurred near village of thebes , ill . hanging was fol lowed by onslaught upon colony , which was burned negro thebes , ill . , april 28 . - an unknown negro , about 17 years old , was lynched by a",mob,"near the village of santa fe , a short distance from thebes , sunday afternoon for attempting to assault the 10 year old daughter of branson davis , a farmer . the lynching was followed by a general on slaught upon a colony of negroes ing in tents in a"
2456,18355_1.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1903,ing more bitterly than senator till man ; probably he might go to the ex tent of leading a,mob,"to lynch the speaker , so violent is he always in the discussion of this question . it is not good sense , good polities , or good manners for him to attempt the discussion of the question in any ern community . "" north"
2457,18356_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1903,"two killed , three hurt in arkansas race riot lake village , ark . , nov . 4 . - in a race warth's place yesterday a white man was killed two others were , injured , & gro was lynched by a",mob,", and a negress shot . the dead : frank anderson , lake village ; killed in fight ; harry johnson , negro , lynehed by raob . the wounded : r . vinson , a lawyer little rock ; joseph frame , lake village , , elle mcdowell ,"
2458,18358_0.txt,"Blue-grass blade (Lexington, Ky.)",1903,rope breaks at first and crowd's vic- tim falls to earth . is used while he chokes and knife later corpse is strung up . negro .,mob,lynches cuts his throat between times of hanging . of policeman at dance is murder avenged speedily .
2459,18358_1.txt,"Blue-grass blade (Lexington, Ky.)",1903,man . wrong lynches,mob,
2460,18359_0.txt,"The Owosso times. (Owosso, Mich.)",1903,"la . , july 27 . - informa tion reached shreveport today that the negress jennie steer , who administered poison in a glass of lemonade to lizzie dolan , the 16- year- old daughter of john dolan , from the effects of she died , was lynched by a",mob,which baturday night
2461,18359_1.txt,"The Owosso times. (Owosso, Mich.)",1903,"race riot in lorain , ohio . lorain , o . , july 29 . - a fierce riot , with a",mob,"of 500 whites chasing two colored men , threatening to lynch them , took place here last night . early in the evening two colored men , rob ert pleasant and charles hill , became involved in an altercation with a white daniel cronan . one of man named the"
2462,18359_1.txt,"The Owosso times. (Owosso, Mich.)",1903,"last night . early in the evening two colored men , rob ert pleasant and charles hill , became involved in an altercation with a white daniel cronan . one of man named the colored men drew a razor and cut cronan severely on the face and neck . a",mob,"immediately gathered and the negroes were chased over the entire outh end of the city , one of them tak ing refuge in a saloon , the entire front which was battered in with stones . of the negro , however , escaped ."
2463,18360_0.txt,"The Savannah morning news. (Savannah, Ga.)",1903,a negro brute paid to lynch ers for his attempt upon a little white girl . chesterfield county had its first lynching . south carolina,mob,"took a 19- year old negro from his captors- silently they strung him up- not a shot was fired , and neighbors did not know of the lynching until next day- body left hang ing for the coroner . columbia , s . c . , nov . 23 ."
2464,18360_0.txt,"The Savannah morning news. (Savannah, Ga.)",1903,a negro brute paid to lynch ers for his attempt upon a little white girl . chesterfield county had its first lynching . south carolina mob took a 19- year old negro from his,captors-,"silently they strung him up- not a shot was fired , and neighbors did not know of the lynching until next day- body left hang ing for the coroner . columbia , s . c . , nov . 23 . - news reached here late to- night of the"
2465,18364_1.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1900,"intended victim eludes lynchers , charlotte , n . c . , nov . 16 . - a",mob,"intent upon lynching a negro in jail at albemarle last night battered down a section of the jail wall , secured the and dragged him through the hole in the wall as the prisoner . soon as ne touched ground , he ran and escaped . the negro was accused"
2466,18365_1.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1900,"as soon as it was known that kimblern would be brought here last night , the",mob,"arranged details of the plan lynch him . guards were placed at the depots , and the greater part of the mob hastened to the outskirts of the city , where the train could be intercepted before reaching the thickly settled districts . as the train slowed down , hundreds"
2467,18365_1.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1900,"as soon as it was known that kimblern would be brought here last night , the mob arranged details of the plan lynch him . guards were placed at the depots , and the greater part of the",mob,"hastened to the outskirts of the city , where the train could be intercepted before reaching the thickly settled districts . as the train slowed down , hundreds of men elambored aboard the cars , and soon located the deputies and their prisoners . police officers were on hand ,"
2468,18365_1.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1900,", where the train could be intercepted before reaching the thickly settled districts . as the train slowed down , hundreds of men elambored aboard the cars , and soon located the deputies and their prisoners . police officers were on hand , but they were overpowered by the frenzied",mob,", who carried off the negro . a rope was put around kimblern's neck he was dragged to the corner of santa fe avenue and eighth street , and there he was strung up . his cries for mercy were not heard in the din of the mob , which"
2469,18365_1.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1900,"the frenzied mob , who carried off the negro . a rope was put around kimblern's neck he was dragged to the corner of santa fe avenue and eighth street , and there he was strung up . his cries for mercy were not heard in the din of the",mob,", which had gathered to mete out punishment to him . he begged and pleaded not to be hanged , saying he was innocent , and could prove it . missiles were thrown at him , and the crowd that followed tortured him . it was three blocks from the"
2470,18365_1.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1900,"tortured him . it was three blocks from the railroad station to the pole which furnished gibbet , and the crowd had plenty of chance a to harm him pueblo . colo . , may 23 . - calvin kim blern . a negro murderer , was lynched by a",mob,"of 1.500 citizens , who took him from a train in the outskirts of the city at 1 : 30 o'clock this morning . the sheriff's officers and the city authorities were helpless against the throng of infuriated men , and after a short resistance , realized the uselessness of"
2471,18366_0.txt,"Hot Springs weekly star. (Hot Springs, S....)",1905,"24 death of sir edwin arnold . . . . . five negroes lynched by at st . charles , ark .",mob,
2472,18366_2.txt,"Hot Springs weekly star. (Hot Springs, S....)",1905,"statesboro , ga . . . . . death of hon . perry 16-",mob,burns two negroes at stake in
2473,18368_0.txt,"Las Vegas daily optic (Las Vegas, N.M.)",1905,kentuck,mob,"lynches one legged negro midnight a mob supposed to have come from trenton , took frank lea- vell , a one- legged negro out of jail here and hanged him . leavell at to enter the room of a young tempted woman at trenton last saturday ."
2474,18368_0.txt,"Las Vegas daily optic (Las Vegas, N.M.)",1905,kentuck mob lynches one legged negro midnight a,mob,"supposed to have come from trenton , took frank lea- vell , a one- legged negro out of jail here and hanged him . leavell at to enter the room of a young tempted woman at trenton last saturday ."
2475,18369_0.txt,"The weekly true Democrat. (Tallahassee, Fl...)",1905,court session held on train . kentucky,mob,"which sought to lynch negro rapist outwitted in novel manner . on board the same train on which he was returned to the scere of his alleged crime , james fowlker , color . ed , charged with assault on a white woman at clinton , hickman county , kentucky"
2476,18370_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1905,"the earlier phases of their struggle were told in the herald a few weeks ago . just after the big bingham fire , chiavini , whose place was destroyed with all his belong ings , including clothing , was placed in jail to protect him from the violence of a",mob,that threatened to lynch him on suspicion that he started the fire . he was proven guiltless of this and came to salt lake city . here he was arrested for violation of the internal revenue laws and several days in jail and much importuning of friends succeeded in raising
2477,18371_0.txt,"Dakota farmers' leader. (Canton, S.D.)",1905,"negro lynched by negroes . bainbridge , ga . : news has just reach ed bainbridge of the lynching of a negro sunday , eight miles west of here , by a",mob,"of his own race . the negro had assaulted a negro girl and had attempted to assault another , who cut him in breast . the"
2478,18376_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1900,"man who shot the sheriff's wife at marshall hanged . republic special . marshall , mo . , april 28 . - one of the negroes who broke jail here thursday night and shot sheriff wilson's wife , was captured friday night and placed in the county jail . a",mob,took him from the jail at 11 o'clock to- night and hanged him to a tree in the courthouse yard . the mob forced an entrance to the jail and took the prisoner from his cell . the mob was quiet and orderly . the other negro has not been
2479,18376_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1900,"of the negroes who broke jail here thursday night and shot sheriff wilson's wife , was captured friday night and placed in the county jail . a mob took him from the jail at 11 o'clock to- night and hanged him to a tree in the courthouse yard . the",mob,"forced an entrance to the jail and took the prisoner from his cell . the mob was quiet and orderly . the other negro has not been caught . the negro lynched mingo , and the evidence is that he shot was the sheriff's wife ."
2480,18376_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1900,captured friday night and placed in the county jail . a mob took him from the jail at 11 o'clock to- night and hanged him to a tree in the courthouse yard . the mob forced an entrance to the jail and took the prisoner from his cell . the,mob,"was quiet and orderly . the other negro has not been caught . the negro lynched mingo , and the evidence is that he shot was the sheriff's wife ."
2481,18378_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1900,ruse foils a,mob,". prevents lynching of richard gardiner , though jail is entered . richard gardiner , the negro charged with the murder of 13- year- old ethel long in ross county , barely escaped be ing lynched by a mob at athens , ohio . the mob , consisting of over"
2482,18378_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1900,"ruse foils a mob . prevents lynching of richard gardiner , though jail is entered . richard gardiner , the negro charged with the murder of 13- year- old ethel long in ross county , barely escaped be ing lynched by a",mob,"at athens , ohio . the mob , consisting of over 500 men , came over from ross county and battered down the doors of the jail . judge wood appeared before the work was completed and urged the men to let the law take its course , saying also"
2483,18378_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1900,"ruse foils a mob . prevents lynching of richard gardiner , though jail is entered . richard gardiner , the negro charged with the murder of 13- year- old ethel long in ross county , barely escaped be ing lynched by a mob at athens , ohio . the",mob,", consisting of over 500 men , came over from ross county and battered down the doors of the jail . judge wood appeared before the work was completed and urged the men to let the law take its course , saying also that the prisoner was not in the"
2484,18378_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1900,"over 500 men , came over from ross county and battered down the doors of the jail . judge wood appeared before the work was completed and urged the men to let the law take its course , saying also that the prisoner was not in the jail . the",mob,"insisted on making sure of this last fact and the leaders examined every portion of the structure . in the meantime a carriage was driven the rear of the jail . the mob , thinking it contained gardiner , went in pursuit . all this time gardiner was a prisoner"
2485,18378_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1900,"law take its course , saying also that the prisoner was not in the jail . the mob insisted on making sure of this last fact and the leaders examined every portion of the structure . in the meantime a carriage was driven the rear of the jail . the",mob,", thinking it contained gardiner , went in pursuit . all this time gardiner was a prisoner in the court house , where he had been taken by sheriff porter , was warned of the mob's approach who and planned a ruse to"
2486,18378_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1900,"in the meantime a carriage was driven the rear of the jail . the mob , thinking it contained gardiner , went in pursuit . all this time gardiner was a prisoner in the court house , where he had been taken by sheriff porter , was warned of the",mob's,approach who and planned a ruse to
2487,18378_1.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1900,murderer is lynched by a,mob,". calvin kimblern , a negro murderer , was lynched by a mob of 1,500 citizens who took him from a train in the out skirts of pueblo , colo . the sheriff's officers and the city authorities were helpless . kimblern had killed two little girls at the fries"
2488,18378_1.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1900,"murderer is lynched by a mob . calvin kimblern , a negro murderer , was lynched by a",mob,"of 1,500 citizens who took him from a train in the out skirts of pueblo , colo . the sheriff's officers and the city authorities were helpless . kimblern had killed two little girls at the fries ' "" orphans ' "" home that city in an atrocious manner ."
2489,18379_0.txt,"The Bourbon news (Paris, Ky.)",1901,". , dec . 29 . - george fuller , a negro , was lynched near marion , perry county was he . charged with burning the barn of dennis cummings , of whom he had been a tenant . while fuller was being taken to marion a body of",masked,"men took him from the officers and hanged him to a tree . ful ler had a bad reputation , and more than once a convict . was"
2490,18379_0.txt,"The Bourbon news (Paris, Ky.)",1901,". , dec . 29 . - george fuller , a negro , was lynched near marion , perry county was he . charged with burning the barn of dennis cummings , of whom he had been a tenant . while fuller was being taken to marion a body of",masked men,"took him from the officers and hanged him to a tree . ful ler had a bad reputation , and more than once a convict . was"
2491,18381_0.txt,"Abilene weekly reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1904,lynching ne bent on how a,mob,"back turned . groes at lexington , ky . , was"
2492,18386_0.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1904,"in the past few days by rev . robert a . elwood , who is to be fried before the presbytery of new castle tuesday next for on his "" should the preaching sermon . murderer of miss bishop be lynched ? "" which is alleged to have incited the",mob,to storm the county workhouse and burn the negro murderer george white . the writers urge mr . elwood to present his side of the case without lenting in the least . re
2493,18387_1.txt,"The Paducah sun (Paducah, Ky.)",1904,"negro lynched . vance , miss . , may 24- a negro was lynched last night at belen , near here , by a",mob,". he was charged with the murder of robert logan , a saw mill man , and was taken from jail . he confessed and implicated another man who will probably be lynched tonight . ,"
2494,18388_0.txt,"The broad ax (Salt Lake City,...)",1904,"mies of the negro , at the same time he ordered the negro to stand aside to make room for that class of whites who were ever ready to",mob,and lynch him . he failed to speak out in thunderous tones in favor of the ly administration of justice and order the
2495,18390_0.txt,"The Cairo bulletin. (Cairo, Ill.)",1904,"by associated press . peisk , no . dak . , jan . 28 . - joseph rosen , shot and killed louis storum today as the latter was leaving his place of business . rosen was arrest ed . a",mob,"assembled about the jail threateneing to lynch rosen , but he had been taken to the jail at park river . shooting is said to have been the the outcome of an old graudge ."
2496,18391_0.txt,"Twice-a-week plain dealer. (Cresco, Howard ...)",1903,", o . , aug . 10 . - the sheriff of highland county arrived here saturday morning from hillsboro with a colored prisoner , maynard hudson , aged 18 , charged with assaulting a white girl , aged 12 . he will be held here for safekeeping as a",mob,threatens ing at hillsboro lynch
2497,18392_0.txt,"The Barre daily times. (Barre, Vt.)",1904,", but it was useless . the negro's body was riddled with bul lets , more than 500 shots being fired . jones was arrested today and identified as the assailant of mrs . banister , who lives near alatoona . he was taken away from sheriff maxwell by the",mob,late afternoon . this
2498,18393_0.txt,"Greene County herald. (Leakesville, Mi...)",1900,"the lynching of the negroes that took place at arcadia , miss . , on the 18th instant for the killing of a trading boatman by the name of thompson , his wife and child . as many as seventeen negroes are said to have been brutally slaughtered by the",mob,". a there is no telegraph nor telephone stations at arcadia , it was impossible to ascertain the details . a citizen three from arcadia said : negroes have been captured but only two , have been lynched , after they had to the killing of thompson , confessed his"
2499,18395_0.txt,"The broad ax (Salt Lake City,...)",1900,postmaster north of the mason and dixon line ; that under his two ad ministrations less negroes were,mob,bed and lynched and crimes against greatly decreased throughout all them parts of the country .
2500,18396_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1903,still in her teens . she is the daughter of the sheriff who was absent from home when a,mob,"came to secure and lynch a prisoner . here is the story of her heroism briefly told in the telegraphic account : "" the jail adjoined the sheriff's house , and he left the key with his daughter . the young woman was called to the front door about 10"
2501,18396_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1903,"here is the story of her heroism briefly told in the telegraphic account : "" the jail adjoined the sheriff's house , and he left the key with his daughter . the young woman was called to the front door about 10 o'clock . she found the yard full of",masked,"men . they declared they had come to hang moore . miss creech said she would bring the keys from her father's room . "" she was back at the door in half a min ute , but the moon fell on the barrel of a repeating rifle which was"
2502,18396_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1903,"here is the story of her heroism briefly told in the telegraphic account : "" the jail adjoined the sheriff's house , and he left the key with his daughter . the young woman was called to the front door about 10 o'clock . she found the yard full of",masked men,". they declared they had come to hang moore . miss creech said she would bring the keys from her father's room . "" she was back at the door in half a min ute , but the moon fell on the barrel of a repeating rifle which was leveled"
2503,18396_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1903,"come to hang moore . miss creech said she would bring the keys from her father's room . "" she was back at the door in half a min ute , but the moon fell on the barrel of a repeating rifle which was leveled . the girl ordered the",mob,"to scatter , and they scattered . "" there was no lynching . men intent upon taking the law in their hands were compelled to stop and think as they look ed into the determined eyes of that brave girl and looked down the barrel of her repeating rifle ."
2504,18398_0.txt,"The farmer and mechanic (Raleigh, N.C.) 18??-19??",1903,"is any danger that the criminals commit ting the crimes for which lynching is resorted to will escape just punishment at the hands of the law . the only re- quirement is that there shall be a reason able certainty of the guilt of the party , and even a",mob,engaged in lynching al ways assures itself of this fact before executing the prisoner in their hands . without this certainty execution either by the mob or by the law is revolting to any right sense of justice . if the punishment for the crimes not now punishable by death
2505,18398_0.txt,"The farmer and mechanic (Raleigh, N.C.) 18??-19??",1903,". the only re- quirement is that there shall be a reason able certainty of the guilt of the party , and even a mob engaged in lynching al ways assures itself of this fact before executing the prisoner in their hands . without this certainty execution either by the",mob,"or by the law is revolting to any right sense of justice . if the punishment for the crimes not now punishable by death under the law is inadequate it is within the competency of the legislature to make those punishments any thing short of death , and i suggest"
2506,18398_0.txt,"The farmer and mechanic (Raleigh, N.C.) 18??-19??",1903,"strongly urge upon your honorable body , the duty of devising some means for the efficient certain and speedy trial of crimes , and at the same time to make such provision as will protect every citizen , however humble , however vicious , however guilty , trial by the",mob,. against
2507,18399_0.txt,"Free press (Hays, Kan.)",1904,"unknown negro lynched . columbus , miss . , july 12- a negro , name unknown , has been lynched at gordo , ala . , for making insulting pro to two white women . the ne was taken from the jail at gordo gro by a",mob,and hanged .
2508,18400_0.txt,"The Minneapolis journal (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1903,"various . but he did not know why he did stories as one can find in any publication . things . he was impelled to new york : pearson publishing co . , 2-20 of abstention and self effacement florida . the influential person historically , but hav - adopted",mob,"brought upon it . the they are there in myriads . functions.do north there is little doubt that at them and did not reason about them at astor place . population , in supernatural , these states ing or polit there is increasing powers of great may on account the"
2509,18400_0.txt,"The Minneapolis journal (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1903,"of great may on account the be by piux ix . a whitlock no , in the at all . "" then irresistible path present influences seized time the movement photo- era ( boston , 170 summer street ) , ical changes which had taken place in of every american",mob,"from this time on , able . from charlotte , s . c . , for is consider- instance , rapidly makes , no and distinction unfortunately among is the one birds that . noticeable of the actual , too , resurrection is his view that of christ the power"
2510,18400_0.txt,"The Minneapolis journal (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1903,"christ the power , the wolf him and ancestors buck . returned evidently to , the as the life author of his for of a july fine quality is illustrated of the nation's chiefly with landmarks photos , dis italy , affecting the relations of the italian and may no",mob,"assemble to attack what for the north in one the slaughter is awful . brought eighty negroes left when thousands reality of the event , the says in the first part of the book , "" the such as independence hall , philadelphia , vatican . upon thousands of one"
2511,18400_0.txt,"The Minneapolis journal (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1903,"orchard , the griefswald , but yard and store the temporal power when it becomes known and understood the ster of the farm "" the exodus of the laborers , "" says tive paper on drapery , by alice percival the kind happened . everywhere that he who joins a",mob,"is robin , and even the bluebird is being shot tures , is the german stronghold of ortho lectures , the magazines doxy . cremer's dedication of his and one on "" men's photography "" d . until the by while holding to his predecessor's policy risking his life ,"
2512,18401_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1900,"nis wife and baby . they then robbed the boat and left after burning the craft to the water's edge . "" today the negroes were recognized by the property of the white family and ar rested . they and it is said were taken in confessed charge by a",mob,". """
2513,18402_0.txt,The Jersey City news. (Jersey City [N....),1906,to prosecute,mob,"leaders . columbia , s . c . , aug . 18 . - governor heyward returned from the scene of the lynching of the negro bob davis near greenwood . when asked for a statement concerning the lynching the governor said he had nothing to say further than that"
2514,18402_0.txt,The Jersey City news. (Jersey City [N....),1906,negro bob davis near greenwood . when asked for a statement concerning the lynching the governor said he had nothing to say further than that after a conference with solicitor cooper of the greenwood circuit he had instructed that officer to take immediate steps to prosecute known members of the,mob,. the
2515,18403_1.txt,"Goldsboro weekly argus (Goldsboro, N.C.)",1904,"and , having gone after the guilty negro , the communities , there seems to become blinded with - a species of race hatred hard to understand , and go in for the indiscriminate slaughter of every negro . who is so unfortunate as to cross the path of the",mob,". here lynchings , partake of the nature of executions ; . they are punishments for the guilty . there , they seem to spring from a kind of blind , unreasoning mania against a race of docile people . there is a vast difference . we can only hope"
2516,18404_0.txt,"Manchester Democrat (Manchester, Iow...)",1903,"hamilton , mont . , oct . 15 . - walter jackson , the convicted murderer of fonnie a six year old boy , was taken from the county jail here by",mob,and lynched . a
2517,18406_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1905,pays penalty for his crime.ening,mob,"of 700 men lynch louis all- white , the murderer of two women . memphis , tenn . , december 31 . - a commercial- appeal special to the from newport , ark . , says that louis allwhite , the alleged criminal assail ant and murderer of mrs ."
2518,18406_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1905,". memphis , tenn . , december 31 . - a commercial- appeal special to the from newport , ark . , says that louis allwhite , the alleged criminal assail ant and murderer of mrs . rachael was kinkannon and her daughter today at of the lynched the scene",mob,"of seven hundred crime by a men . newton , the 12 year old son of all- white . the self- confessed accessory to his father's alleged crime was not mo- lested by the jail stormers . the mob marched the elder all- white along the railroad for two miles"
2519,18406_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1905,"kinkannon and her daughter today at of the lynched the scene mob of seven hundred crime by a men . newton , the 12 year old son of all- white . the self- confessed accessory to his father's alleged crime was not mo- lested by the jail stormers . the",mob,"marched the elder all- white along the railroad for two miles and close by the kinkannon home , and hanged him from a tree . to the last , allwhite maintained a stoical demeanor . he steadfastly persisted his inno- maintained and cence of the murder of the two wom-"
2520,18409_0.txt,"The Roswell daily record (Roswell, N.M.)",1905,"of eight negroes in georgia yesterday . bt there is not a white man with real blood in his south , veins either north or , who would not under some circumstances shoot to kill- and where certain of become common , the general fenses sentiment may easily organize a",mob,
2521,18411_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1903,crowd anxious to lynch negroes,mob,"of men and boys searched woods for assailants of george nershey . hartford city , ind . , aug . 4 . - two who robbed and maimed negroes george nershey near here yesterday have not yet been captured and it is now thought that they have made good two"
2522,18411_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1903,"yesterday have not yet been captured and it is now thought that they have made good two hundred men and their escape . boys scoured the woods monday after noon until nightfall , vowing vengeance on the negroes . sheriff morigue with a detachment of deputies and police followed the",mob,to prevent lynching . nershey is in a serious condition but recover unless blood poisoning sets in will .
2523,18414_0.txt,"Las Vegas daily optic (Las Vegas, N.M.)",1905,"soldiers stand guard to prevent lynching gadsen , ga . , july 18 . - soldiers are still guarding the jail to prevent lynching of the five negroes who suspected of the murder of mrs . are s . j . smith , a white woman . the",mob,"which surrounded the jail during the night , had entirely dispersed today but had been driven back and those who remained stood off at some distance in groups . no clash occurred during the night and no trouble is expected at present . the think they have the situa authorities"
2524,18416_0.txt,"The labor world (Duluth, Minn.)",1905,"cormorant , miss . , says that henry young , the negro who shot and killed ed ward e . perry on the bass plantation near lake cormorant , last sunday , was taken from sheriff withers and deputy tonight and at the scene of his hanged by an armed",mob,. crime
2525,18417_0.txt,"The independent (Lincoln, Neb.)",1906,texas negro is lynched by,mob,"of his own race for attempting assault on girl ; another negro is killed in colored argenta , ark ."
2526,18417_1.txt,"The independent (Lincoln, Neb.)",1906,"young man , rejected by a school teacher of south euclid , a suburb of cleveland , kills her in the school room where her pupils are assembled , flees from",mob,which plans to lynch him and commits a suicide when the crowd
2527,18418_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1903,the trial of fourteen defendants has been on for four days . most of the defendants have tried to prove alibis or to prove that they were immocent by- stand- ers . sheriff whitlock and his deputies who defended the jail against the assault of the,mob,"by the use of shotguns and revolvers , thus saving a negro prisoner from being lynched , identified all those convicted . during the afternoon richard roberts turned state's esidence and identified five of the defedants as persons whom he saw in the mob . he identified bessie and said"
2528,18418_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1903,"jail against the assault of the mob by the use of shotguns and revolvers , thus saving a negro prisoner from being lynched , identified all those convicted . during the afternoon richard roberts turned state's esidence and identified five of the defedants as persons whom he saw in the",mob,". he identified bessie and said that she stood on a wagon and urged the mob to lynch sheriff whitlock . there are eight other men under indictment but they may not be tried , as those found guilty are said to be the ring- leaders . convicted persons are"
2529,18418_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1903,"saving a negro prisoner from being lynched , identified all those convicted . during the afternoon richard roberts turned state's esidence and identified five of the defedants as persons whom he saw in the mob . he identified bessie and said that she stood on a wagon and urged the",mob,"to lynch sheriff whitlock . there are eight other men under indictment but they may not be tried , as those found guilty are said to be the ring- leaders . convicted persons are subject to a the penitentiary sentence ."
2530,18422_0.txt,"Ottumwa semi-weekly courier (Ottumwa, Iowa)",1900,"after the shooting trying to escape from the building in which the shots were fired . three pis tols , none of which had been fired , were found on him . he loudly pro- tested his innocence , declaring he was a democrat and not a republican . the",mob,"threatened to lynch him , but a heavy guard of police escorted him jail . to"
2531,18423_0.txt,"The Taney County republican. (Forsyth, Mo.)",1900,four negroes lynched . they were suspected of burglary action of the,mob,"deplored by whites and blacks . ponchatoula , la . , sept . 21 . - four negroes were lynched last night who were suspected of burglarizing the residence of henry hatfielder , whose home is in tangipahoa parish . the victims are : isaiah rollins , aged 18 ."
2532,18423_0.txt,"The Taney County republican. (Forsyth, Mo.)",1900,"doors of the jail were broken open and four negroes were taken out and hanged to the limbs of a large oak tree which stands near the jail . both the people of ponchatoula , white and black , deplore the action of and both races , in mass the",mob,", yesterday , appointed a law meeting and order committee ."
2533,18425_0.txt,"Adams County news (Ritzville, Wash...)",1900,"aiken , s . c . , feb . 19 . - will burts , a negro , was lynched at burr basket mills , eight miles north of aiken , by a",mob,"of 250 men . last week burts attempted to assault mrs . c . l . weeks , a planter's wife . when burts was strung up the rope broke . the rope was tied and burts again swung up , the crowd emptying their guns into his body ."
2534,18426_0.txt,"The Somerset reporter (Skowhegan, Me.)",1900,of them have been sentenced to imprisonment for terms ranging from thirty days to five years and fourteen more are likely to re- ceive similar punishment . this will be likely to have a salutary effect upou who think its fine thing to be people a long to a murderous,mob,. enforce- of law is a good thing for law and ment order .
2535,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,,mob's,"terrible deed three negroes hanged and cre mated at springfield , mo . leaders of mob were not disguised , and worked in full glare of electric lights- militia on the scene . springfield , mo- a mob of 3,000 men on saturday night took two negroes , horace duncan"
2536,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,"mob's terrible deed three negroes hanged and cre mated at springfield , mo . leaders of",mob,"were not disguised , and worked in full glare of electric lights- militia on the scene . springfield , mo- a mob of 3,000 men on saturday night took two negroes , horace duncan and jim cope land , from the county jail , hanged them to the statue of"
2537,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,"mob's terrible deed three negroes hanged and cre mated at springfield , mo . leaders of mob were not disguised , and worked in full glare of electric lights- militia on the scene . springfield , mo- a",mob,"of 3,000 men on saturday night took two negroes , horace duncan and jim cope land , from the county jail , hanged them to the statue of the goddess of liberty on the courthouse and built a fire under them . the men were charged with attack ing mable"
2538,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,". the men were charged with attack ing mable edmondson , but it is said they were probably innocent . at 2 : 15 o'clock sunday morning william allen , a young negro , was taken from the county jail and lynch ed in the public square by the same",mob,"that two hours earlier had hanged horace duncan and james copeland . the body of allen later was burned to ashes as had been those of the other negroes , beneath the spot where they had been lynched . following the dispatch of duncan and copeland some one suggested that"
2539,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,"as had been those of the other negroes , beneath the spot where they had been lynched . following the dispatch of duncan and copeland some one suggested that allen and bus cain , two other negroes known to be in the jail , should also be lynched . the",mob,", now bloodthirsty and wrought up to the highest pitch of excitement , readily took up the cry and soon the charred bones of a third victim lay beneath the statue of the goddess of liberty . cain escaped . allen and cain were being held upon suspicion of having"
2540,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,"of a third victim lay beneath the statue of the goddess of liberty . cain escaped . allen and cain were being held upon suspicion of having murdered o . p . ruark , while duncan and copeland were accused of ed mondson . their work finally accomplished , the",mob,"quietly dispersed . but sunday crowds augmented by hundreds persons from surrounding towns , fillo4 the streets , making threats of further vengeance , and sunday night several companies of state militia ordered out by gov . folk , together with 200 deputy sheriffs patrol the streets . when the"
2541,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,"quietly dispersed . but sunday crowds augmented by hundreds persons from surrounding towns , fillo4 the streets , making threats of further vengeance , and sunday night several companies of state militia ordered out by gov . folk , together with 200 deputy sheriffs patrol the streets . when the",mob,"left the jail at mid night with copeland and duncan 14 prisoners escaped in the excitement . among them was cain . but allen was there yet , and the second mob found him hiding under a cot . he was dragged out , his hands were tied be hind"
2542,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,"ordered out by gov . folk , together with 200 deputy sheriffs patrol the streets . when the mob left the jail at mid night with copeland and duncan 14 prisoners escaped in the excitement . among them was cain . but allen was there yet , and the second",mob,"found him hiding under a cot . he was dragged out , his hands were tied be hind his back , a rope was put around his neck and he was marched down the street to the tower in the square and shared the same fate as his three companions"
2543,18428_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1906,street to the tower in the square and shared the same fate as his three companions . prosecuting attorney patterson and sheriff horner are said to have se cured the names of more than 100 men who took an active part in the lynch ing . the leaders of the,mob,"were not freighedssed , but worked in the full glare of the electric lights on the square . prosecuting attorney patter son will ask judge lincoln of the crim . inal court to summons a special grand jury at once and make a most thorough investigation into the ing ."
2544,18429_0.txt,"The Western news (Stevensville, M...)",1904,"john maynard , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,"at montgomery , tex . , march 21 for the murder and robbery of white workman . a"
2545,18432_2.txt,"The Washburn leader (Washburn, McLea...)",1899,"march 25 . , three miss jackson , .",mob,"near by lynched a were silver city , in yazoo county , last saturday morning . after being shot to death the bodies of the victims were weighted with bundles of cotton bale ties and thrown into the yazoo river . they were the ringleaders of the negroes in a"
2546,18433_0.txt,"The Saint Paul globe. (St. Paul, Minn.)",1900,"another negro lynched . he was charged with attempt to murder a white woman . meridian , miss . , may 16 . - parties ar riving here tonight bring the news of the lynching of a negro , sam hinson , by a",mob,"of white men near cuchusta . hinson was employed on the farm of mrs . eliza adams , and attempted to murder her . he was prevented by the arrival of neighbors , who heard mrs . adams scream . the negro fled , but pursued , captured and lynched"
2547,18436_0.txt,"The L'Anse sentinel. (L'Anse, L.S., M...)",1904,"springfield , o . , was guarded by six companies of militia , following a night of race rioting , caused by a negro lynch ing . a",mob,"invaded the colored district , fired volleys of shots through the and burned an entire block . houses"
2548,18436_1.txt,"The L'Anse sentinel. (L'Anse, L.S., M...)",1904,a,mob,"seeking to break into the jail at murphysboro , ill . , to lynch a ne gro prisoner was foiled by the sheriff . president roosevelt has fixed the sal arles of the isthmian commission ers at $ 12,000 . canal"
2549,18437_0.txt,"The Clay City times (Clay City, Ky.)",1902,"teaching the young ide , lynch is the latest fad in kentucky where",mob,lynched a negro in the yard a of a high school .
2550,18440_0.txt,"The Kalispell bee (Kalispell, Mont...)",1902,"conse , quently come to know that the law affords him no protection . granting this statement as correct page it may be that the women and child- the ren he includes among the disas the mon- trous total are very few and were for killed by accident by a",mob,", but of the balance very many were guilty sen- of the unspeakable crimes against en- white women and girls which always gemands the extreme penalty in the south . the respectable and virtuous short negroes , if any there be , do them the selves a gross injustice by"
2551,18440_0.txt,"The Kalispell bee (Kalispell, Mont...)",1902,"humanized fixed . before the appeals to the law of in civilized communities can be made , effective . these black beasts who have paid the penalty of their hellish board assaults upon white women and true children of the south , whether hung by jury or tortured by a",mob,", are they n t entitled to sympathy from their valua- own race more than from the white than people , unless that race as whole it is desires to endorse the criminal ac- tions of that infamous minority board ."
2552,18441_0.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1902,"agonized look upon his face told of the awful torture he was undergoing . finally his head fell forward upon his breast , and in a few minutes all was over . the flames were fed by the crowd until the body was burned to a crisp . then the",mob,dispersed and the town soon assumed normal condition . its
2553,18441_1.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1902,,mob,"law is so easy attempt to hang a man for alleged dis honest practices . marion , ind . , sept . 29 . - frank stech er , a former chicago attorney , who re moved recently to van buren , was threatened with lynching by a mob of"
2554,18441_1.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1902,"mob law is so easy attempt to hang a man for alleged dis honest practices . marion , ind . , sept . 29 . - frank stech er , a former chicago attorney , who re moved recently to van buren , was threatened with lynching by a",mob,of 400 infuriated oil workers and oth er citizens and the officers barely succeeded in saving his life . as it was he was badly hart . he was struck in the back with a stone and it is thought his spine is injured . stecher aroused the enmity of
2555,18441_1.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1902,"with a stone and it is thought his spine is injured . stecher aroused the enmity of the people of van buren , it is alleged , by questionable practices . the affair which caused the popular feeling to reach a climax and nearly ended in the attorney's death by",mob,"violence was the collection of a note for john blair , a feeble- mind ed boy . stecher refused to give the boy the money when he demanded it . a committee called on the lawyer and demanded a settlement . stecher gave the boy $ 10 , but the"
2556,18441_1.txt,"Rock Island Argus. (Rock Island, Il...)",1902,"feeble- mind ed boy . stecher refused to give the boy the money when he demanded it . a committee called on the lawyer and demanded a settlement . stecher gave the boy $ 10 , but the citizens refused to allow the boy to be imposed on formed a",mob,to lynch stecher . and
2557,18443_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1902,it is to be hoped that the three negroes in jail at henderson charged with the murder of roadmaster stevers will not be lynched . let the law take its course . nothing can be gained by,mob,law . it will only bring a stigma upon the county of vance and the entire state . we are sorry to see that it be came necessary to call out two companies of the state guard to protect the men friday night . their crime was a terrible one
2558,18443_2.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1902,"sheriff smith wants protection i a rapist in florida . pensacola , fla . , august 27 . - sheriff smith has wired to governor jennings asking for a detail of the state troops to protect the negro thompson , who assaulted aged mrs . dixon on sunday . a",mob,formed last night and at 3 o'clock this morning sent a message to sheriff smith that if thompson was not tried today he would be lynched . judge reeves is out of the state and it is impossible to have the trial now . the mob is thoroughly organized and
2559,18443_2.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1902,on sunday . a mob formed last night and at 3 o'clock this morning sent a message to sheriff smith that if thompson was not tried today he would be lynched . judge reeves is out of the state and it is impossible to have the trial now . the,mob,"is thoroughly organized and it is feared will attack the jail tonight . sheriff smith has several special deputies , thoroughly armed , on guard at the jail until he receives authority for the militia to aid him and will protect negro at all costs , the"
2560,18444_0.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1902,,mob,"hangs negro . alleged murderer dies at lynch burg , tenn . nashville , tenn . , feb . 6 . - euless whittaker , colored , charged with the murder of john doster , was taken from the jail at lynchburg , tenn . , last night and hanged"
2561,18444_0.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1902,"negro . alleged murderer dies at lynch burg , tenn . nashville , tenn . , feb . 6 . - euless whittaker , colored , charged with the murder of john doster , was taken from the jail at lynchburg , tenn . , last night and hanged by",mob,. a
2562,18445_0.txt,"The Laclede blade. (Laclede, Mo.)",1906,alleged,mob,"leader sane . j . hill gooch , who is under indict ment as one of the leaders of the mob which in april last hanged three negroes in the public square in springfield , has been declared by the county court to be sane . the affidavit alleging insanity"
2563,18445_0.txt,"The Laclede blade. (Laclede, Mo.)",1906,"alleged mob leader sane . j . hill gooch , who is under indict ment as one of the leaders of the",mob,"which in april last hanged three negroes in the public square in springfield , has been declared by the county court to be sane . the affidavit alleging insanity was filed with the county court by his father , t . t . gooch , and his mother , hattie"
2564,18446_0.txt,"The Nebraska advertiser. (Nemaha City, Ne...)",1902,the,mob,"hanged two . at lexington , mo . , a white man and negro were swang from the same tree for murder . --- lexington , mo . , aug . 12 . - at 1 : 30 o'clock this morning a mob number . ing about 150 masked men"
2565,18446_0.txt,"The Nebraska advertiser. (Nemaha City, Ne...)",1902,"the mob hanged two . at lexington , mo . , a white man and negro were swang from the same tree for murder . --- lexington , mo . , aug . 12 . - at 1 : 30 o'clock this morning a",mob,"number . ing about 150 masked men battered down the doors of the jail , located in the court yard here , and secured therefrom charles salyers , white , and harry gates , colored , who one week ago murdered george w . john son , and hung them"
2566,18446_0.txt,"The Nebraska advertiser. (Nemaha City, Ne...)",1902,"the mob hanged two . at lexington , mo . , a white man and negro were swang from the same tree for murder . --- lexington , mo . , aug . 12 . - at 1 : 30 o'clock this morning a mob number . ing about 150",masked,"men battered down the doors of the jail , located in the court yard here , and secured therefrom charles salyers , white , and harry gates , colored , who one week ago murdered george w . john son , and hung them to a tree a short distance"
2567,18446_0.txt,"The Nebraska advertiser. (Nemaha City, Ne...)",1902,"the mob hanged two . at lexington , mo . , a white man and negro were swang from the same tree for murder . --- lexington , mo . , aug . 12 . - at 1 : 30 o'clock this morning a mob number . ing about 150",masked men,"battered down the doors of the jail , located in the court yard here , and secured therefrom charles salyers , white , and harry gates , colored , who one week ago murdered george w . john son , and hung them to a tree a short distance south"
2568,18446_0.txt,"The Nebraska advertiser. (Nemaha City, Ne...)",1902,"jail , located in the court yard here , and secured therefrom charles salyers , white , and harry gates , colored , who one week ago murdered george w . john son , and hung them to a tree a short distance south of town . it took the",mob,"some 30 minutes to cut through the steel doors of the jail . salyers was taken first , then gates . salyers made a statement to the mob , in which he said gates had done the shooting , he having fired three shots , and when the last was"
2569,18446_0.txt,"The Nebraska advertiser. (Nemaha City, Ne...)",1902,"george w . john son , and hung them to a tree a short distance south of town . it took the mob some 30 minutes to cut through the steel doors of the jail . salyers was taken first , then gates . salyers made a statement to the",mob,", in which he said gates had done the shooting , he having fired three shots , and when the last was fired gates had hold of johnson one ."
2570,18449_0.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1902,,mob,"forming to lynch negro slayer shot and killed policeman wilmot at womersdorff , w . va . cumberland , md . , july 23 . - police officer a . w . wilmot , of womersdorf , w . va . , a last night , when the negro pulled"
2571,18449_0.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1902,"- police officer a . w . wilmot , of womersdorf , w . va . , a last night , when the negro pulled a revolver and shot the officer , killing him instantly . a posse pursued the colored man and he was arrested this morning . a",mob,"is forming in womersdorff and there are threats of lynching . the negro is being taken to the jail at parsons , but it is that violence will occur before feared he is behind the bars ."
2572,18452_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1904,down in mississippi this week the militia was called out to prevent the nching of a negro by a,mob,"made #p of members of his own race . the white people of the south are jealous of their rights , and will not permit the one of doing all the lynching be infringed upon . to"
2573,18453_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1900,"a pleasing manner , and he was en joying himself in the throng at the walton on tuesday afternoon when he dropped the remark . "" a few days ago , "" continued he , "" i reprinted a paragraph from a washington paper reflecting on the conduct of a",mob,"that conducted a lynching in georgia , and five hundred ' crackers ' waited on me at my house and intimated that there'd be ' some doing , as you say up here , if i didn't move thing away . """
2574,18454_0.txt,"The Superior times (Superior, Wis.)",1893,", march 20 . - jesse jones , who shot and killed sheriff john burnett , of campbell county , on a knoxville & ohio train , was taken from the jail at jacksbcro and swung to a gate post . there were not over a dozen men in the",mob,", and the lynching was done quietly that the citizens knew noth so ing of it until this morning ."
2575,18455_0.txt,"The diamond drill. (Crystal Falls, ...)",1895,"john coleman , a negro who lived near jacksonville , fla . , who shot and mortally wounded his wife because she did not make soup to suit him , lynched by a",mob,". was own head off . the sixth negro was lynched in but county , ala . , for the murder of young ler watts murphy ."
2576,18456_1.txt,"The copper country evening news (Calumet, Mich.)",1896,"hatched at a ball game . the plan for the lynching was hatched at a ball game which took place at hill top , the scene of the murder , friday after noon . the lynching party met shortly before midnight . all were",masked,"and about fifteen wore women's dresses . they awoke an old colored man , washington burch , who had charge of the jail . he the made some show of resistance but finally delivered over the cocking , who had been aroused by the noise , was taken from the"
2577,18456_2.txt,"The copper country evening news (Calumet, Mich.)",1896,there was great excitement and the old ill feeling of the people of this section st . showed itself . a,mob,"of about two hun- in dred women quickly gathered and sur rounded the car , shrieking at the motor man and conductor and threatening to lynch them . the conductor sought safe ing ty in flight , but the motorman was hemmed in and drew a revolver , with which"
2578,18461_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1900,"negro lynched in west virginia . hinton , w . va . , may 11 . - william lee , colored , was lynched here to- night by a",masked,"crowd of 100 men . he was taken from the jail at 11 : 15 o'clock . on wednesday he attempted to assault mrs . h . h . diefenbach , a chesapeake and ohio telegraph operator at sandstone seven miles west of this city . he confessed the ,"
2579,18469_0.txt,"Marietta daily leader. (Marietta, Ohio)",1900,,mob,law in virginia . the governor of virgania yesterday made a feeble attempt to save his state from the disgrace of a resort to mob law by preventing the lynching of a negro who was charged with the murder of two white men . but his excellency seems to have
2580,18469_0.txt,"Marietta daily leader. (Marietta, Ohio)",1900,mob law in virginia . the governor of virgania yesterday made a feeble attempt to save his state from the disgrace of a resort to,mob,"law by preventing the lynching of a negro who was charged with the murder of two white men . but his excellency seems to have lacked the necessary backbone to carry out his good intention , for he allowed the troops to be withdrawn in the face of warning as"
2581,18469_0.txt,"Marietta daily leader. (Marietta, Ohio)",1900,"as to what was certain to follow . as a result the negro was speedily taken from jail , hung to a tree and his body riddled with bullets by an infuriated mab of "" good citizens . "" then , to add to the horrors of the affair a",mob,"of colored citizens assembled and lynch- with the ed a white man who was negro when the murders were committed . there seems to be no doubt that the vicitms of these mobs were guilty and deserved their fate , but that does not excuse the mobs nor remove the"
2582,18469_0.txt,"Marietta daily leader. (Marietta, Ohio)",1900,"of "" good citizens . "" then , to add to the horrors of the affair a mob of colored citizens assembled and lynch- with the ed a white man who was negro when the murders were committed . there seems to be no doubt that the vicitms of these",mobs,"were guilty and deserved their fate , but that does not excuse the mobs nor remove the disgrace from the state . these lynchings are object lessons in crime , and they have the effect of destroying popular respect for law , which will some day bear fruit in ways"
2583,18469_0.txt,"Marietta daily leader. (Marietta, Ohio)",1900,"the affair a mob of colored citizens assembled and lynch- with the ed a white man who was negro when the murders were committed . there seems to be no doubt that the vicitms of these mobs were guilty and deserved their fate , but that does not excuse the",mobs,"nor remove the disgrace from the state . these lynchings are object lessons in crime , and they have the effect of destroying popular respect for law , which will some day bear fruit in ways little expected by those who are for them.- columbus dis- responsible patch ."
2584,18470_0.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1900,"the negro was taken from sheriff free man , of lincoln eounty , while being conveyed from denver to hugo , lincoln's county seat , by sixteen men , who boarded the train at limon and left it with their prisoner at lake , three miles further cn . the",mob,"which witnessed the lynching numbered about 400 . r . w . frost , the father of the murdered girl , applied the match to the pile of oil- soaked boards on the negro stood chained to an up which right iron rail ."
2585,18471_0.txt,"The new North-west (Deer Lodge, Mon...)",1894,,mob,"lynches a negro . he had assaulted a woman in a help . less condition . greensboro , ga . , april 15 . - friday afternoon a negro giving his name as blilie anderson went to the home of dan chambers , four miles east of here , dur"
2586,18473_0.txt,"The Austin weekly statesman. (Austin, Tex.)",1893,"cincinnati , nov . 29 . - the afro american council resumed its session this morning . after the appointment of committees on the",mob,"and lynch ing resolutions , address to the american people , memorial to congress , em- igration , lecturing and organization and national protective association , attention was given miscellaneous mat- ters among these was a letter from . judge albion tourgee , president of the citizens ' national rights"
2587,18475_0.txt,"St. Paul daily globe (Saint Paul, Min...)",1895,"in the mar ket house . but the negro was a fel low of great nerve and while his tongue was protruding from his mouth and his eyes bulging from their sockets he made a violent struggle , broke the cord which bound his arms , and be fore the",mob,"realized what he was do ing he whipped out a big knife from his pocket , cut the rope around his neck , dropped to the ground and ran like a deer . he was overtaken , but he turned with his big knife and the crowd wavered , the"
2588,18476_0.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1899,"ing . the negro element is excited , and a half- brother the girl has organized a",mob,"to lynch downs of . mary hays . he was guarded there all night at the jail by a posse of three officers . the sheriff slipped him out , yester day morning , he is going toward lewisburg and and a mob is following . a well- armed posse"
2589,18476_0.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1899,"half- brother the girl has organized a mob to lynch downs of . mary hays . he was guarded there all night at the jail by a posse of three officers . the sheriff slipped him out , yester day morning , he is going toward lewisburg and and a",mob,"is following . a well- armed posse of farmers in sul- livan county , tennessee , are close on the trail of an unknown negro who has been followed from near the hamlet piney flats , to a point in the mountains of near saulting women . at fulton ,"
2590,18477_0.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,cent and asked protection . about 3 o'clock a,masked,"mob captured policemen hatton and french , battered down the jail doors and hung the murder er to the pole from which it was he shot . his body was filled with thought bullets"
2591,18477_0.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,cent and asked protection . about 3 o'clock a masked,mob,"captured policemen hatton and french , battered down the jail doors and hung the murder er to the pole from which it was he shot . his body was filled with thought bullets"
2592,18477_1.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,"alma , kas . , oct . 31 . - ( special . ) richard williams , alias "" trilby , "" alias "" snowball , "" who was hung here by a",mob,"sey- eral weeks ago , cut down by the city marshal before he but died , and james ren-"
2593,18478_0.txt,"Little Falls weekly transcript. (Little Falls, M...)",1894,rapist . an ohio,mob,"would lynch a colored columbus , oct . 17 . - a special to the state journal from washington court house says a mob of several thousand people surrounded the jail there , threatening to lynch jasper dolby the , colored man who raped mrs . mary c . boyd"
2594,18478_0.txt,"Little Falls weekly transcript. (Little Falls, M...)",1894,"rapist . an ohio mob would lynch a colored columbus , oct . 17 . - a special to the state journal from washington court house says a",mob,"of several thousand people surrounded the jail there , threatening to lynch jasper dolby the , colored man who raped mrs . mary c . boyd of parretts station . dolby was lodged in the jail during the morning and was identified later by mrs . boyd . the mob"
2595,18478_0.txt,"Little Falls weekly transcript. (Little Falls, M...)",1894,"mob of several thousand people surrounded the jail there , threatening to lynch jasper dolby the , colored man who raped mrs . mary c . boyd of parretts station . dolby was lodged in the jail during the morning and was identified later by mrs . boyd . the",mob,became so demonstrative that the militia was ordered out by the sheriff and the crowd dispersed at the the militia is point the bayonet . guarding of the jail .
2596,18479_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1899,"miami county , has ordered one company of the light infantry and ten members battery a to prevent a",mob,from lynching of
2597,18479_1.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1899,"one negro killed , two flogged . amite city , la . , aug . 9 . - adolphus , alias echo . brown , colored , was shot and killed last night , and edgar and edward barr severely flogged by a gang of armed men ten of the",mob,", armed with shotguns and ."
2598,18481_0.txt,"The weekly Corinthian. (Corinth, Miss.)",1903,"little girl . assault a tempting to , florida",mob,hangs a negro for at
2599,18482_0.txt,"The Madison daily leader (Madison, S.D.)",1894,an indianapolis policeman rescued from a,mob,"of lynchers . indianapolis , june 19 . -- patrolman king of the city police force shot and fatally wounded jerry o'neil , a popular irishman , living in the west end , at 6 o'clock p . m . the officer had become engaged in an altercation with a"
2600,18484_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,"the grand jury at mt . sterling has indicted charles e . sledd , son of wm . sledd , sheriff of the county . he is charged with being a member of the",mob,"that hanged tom blair . young , james roach and dick foreman are sledd the only parties indicted charged"
2601,18487_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,"in an adjoining room , came to her aid . the negro , hearing mr . pipken com ing , escaped through the window . the negro was chased wednesday and arrested , with three companions . guards started with the four negroes to bartow , but were met by",masked,"men , who took the negroes into the woods . three of the negroes have not been seen since . the fourth was it is beaten and ordered to leave . supposed that the three negroes lynched . were"
2602,18487_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,"in an adjoining room , came to her aid . the negro , hearing mr . pipken com ing , escaped through the window . the negro was chased wednesday and arrested , with three companions . guards started with the four negroes to bartow , but were met by",masked men,", who took the negroes into the woods . three of the negroes have not been seen since . the fourth was it is beaten and ordered to leave . supposed that the three negroes lynched . were"
2603,18488_0.txt,"The Dalles times-mountaineer (The Dalles, Or.)",1895,hanged by a,mob,". a california murderer lynched by a mob . fresno , cal . , july 27 . - word was received here this afternoon that vic lor adam , who murdered justice i . l . baker in cold blood at o'neal's , tues day morning last , met death"
2604,18488_0.txt,"The Dalles times-mountaineer (The Dalles, Or.)",1895,hanged by a mob . a california murderer lynched by a,mob,". fresno , cal . , july 27 . - word was received here this afternoon that vic lor adam , who murdered justice i . l . baker in cold blood at o'neal's , tues day morning last , met death yesterday afternoon at the hands of a mob"
2605,18488_0.txt,"The Dalles times-mountaineer (The Dalles, Or.)",1895,"mob . fresno , cal . , july 27 . - word was received here this afternoon that vic lor adam , who murdered justice i . l . baker in cold blood at o'neal's , tues day morning last , met death yesterday afternoon at the hands of a",mob,"of 60 citizens , friends of the dead justice . adam was captured about 30 miles above o'neal's yesterday morning by a brother of the murdered man and two other men , friends of the judge . they were returning with their prisoner to o'neal's , and when within three"
2606,18489_0.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1895,,mob,"law is carried to extremes when a lynching party stops six times to be photographed , as was the case in texas when henry hilliard , the negro fiend , was being taken to his place of tion . execu"
2607,18489_1.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1895,"burglars entered the state bank at alpha , ill . , and secured $ 4,700 . at ailey , ga . , prof . perdue , a white school teacher 60 years old , charged with assaulting miss willie grady , lynched by a",mob,. was
2608,18489_2.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1895,"near bryan , tex . , a negro accused of riding a horse over a little girl , inflict ing serious injuries , was lynched by a",mob,", but later developments showed that the mob got hold of the wrong negro . it was announced that john tod , of cleveland , had been appointed receiver of the new , pennsylvania & ohio railroad company york ."
2609,18489_2.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1895,"near bryan , tex . , a negro accused of riding a horse over a little girl , inflict ing serious injuries , was lynched by a mob , but later developments showed that the",mob,"got hold of the wrong negro . it was announced that john tod , of cleveland , had been appointed receiver of the new , pennsylvania & ohio railroad company york ."
2610,18490_0.txt,"The Mt. Sterling advocate. (Mt. Sterling, K...)",1899,"alma , kan . , july 10 . - dick williams , a negro charged with the murder of two white men was lynched here sun day afternoon , by a",mob,of white men .
2611,18492_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,"awaited their arrival , but again the posse cheated the",mob,"of its prey by getting sufficient warning to land the gang in jail . this was last night , and the town was kept in an uproar all night by the attempts to lynch the indians and the efforts of the business men to prevent mob violence . the mob"
2612,18492_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,"the posse cheated the mob of its prey by getting sufficient warning to land the gang in jail . this was last night , and the town was kept in an uproar all night by the attempts to lynch the indians and the efforts of the business men to prevent",mob,"violence . the mob was finally quieted long enough to allow of a third escape of the posse and on a train for fort smith . prisoners they were taken to okmulgee , where a mob of citizens , bent on lynching them , surrounded the officers , but the"
2613,18492_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,"mob of its prey by getting sufficient warning to land the gang in jail . this was last night , and the town was kept in an uproar all night by the attempts to lynch the indians and the efforts of the business men to prevent mob violence . the",mob,"was finally quieted long enough to allow of a third escape of the posse and on a train for fort smith . prisoners they were taken to okmulgee , where a mob of citizens , bent on lynching them , surrounded the officers , but the officers with their prisoners"
2614,18492_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,"attempts to lynch the indians and the efforts of the business men to prevent mob violence . the mob was finally quieted long enough to allow of a third escape of the posse and on a train for fort smith . prisoners they were taken to okmulgee , where a",mob,"of citizens , bent on lynching them , surrounded the officers , but the officers with their prisoners to musco escaped gee . another mob , with ropes and rifles , wagoner , i . t . , aug . 11 . - with the exception of one the of"
2615,18492_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,"allow of a third escape of the posse and on a train for fort smith . prisoners they were taken to okmulgee , where a mob of citizens , bent on lynching them , surrounded the officers , but the officers with their prisoners to musco escaped gee . another",mob,", with ropes and rifles , wagoner , i . t . , aug . 11 . - with the exception of one the of indians who , gang have committed a series of diabolical crimes since july 30 in the territory were captured near okmulgee last thursday , after"
2616,18492_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,", gang have committed a series of diabolical crimes since july 30 in the territory were captured near okmulgee last thursday , after a desperate fight , and started for the fort smith , ark . , jail to avoid being lynched . news has been received here that a",mob,"of muscogee citizens has gone across the country to fort gibson to intercept the missourt pacific train carrying the fiends and their , for the pur pose of dealing out summary captors justice . desperate citizens well nigh go wild in the effort to lynch the scoundrels after their capture"
2617,18492_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,"smith , ark . , jail to avoid being lynched . news has been received here that a mob of muscogee citizens has gone across the country to fort gibson to intercept the missourt pacific train carrying the fiends and their , for the pur pose of dealing out summary",captors,"justice . desperate citizens well nigh go wild in the effort to lynch the scoundrels after their capture , but their lives are spared for the time being- the energetic and successful pursuit by officers and citizens- their terrible record of and deeds of unparalleled deviltry crimes ."
2618,18494_2.txt,"The News-Herald (Hillsboro, High...)",1894,outlaw lynched . wonderful nerve displayed in the face of the,mob,". minden , la . , sebt . 10 . - link wag goner , the noted outlaw and murderer , was killed in jail here by a mob of armed men who forced their way in . he showed pluck to the last and faced the crowd , cursing"
2619,18494_2.txt,"The News-Herald (Hillsboro, High...)",1894,"outlaw lynched . wonderful nerve displayed in the face of the mob . minden , la . , sebt . 10 . - link wag goner , the noted outlaw and murderer , was killed in jail here by a",mob,"of armed men who forced their way in . he showed pluck to the last and faced the crowd , cursing them with his last he was shot in all thirteen breath . times . waggoner was accused of half a dozen murders . he had considerable following in webster"
2620,18494_2.txt,"The News-Herald (Hillsboro, High...)",1894,"there last fall and brought back to the minden jail , where he has been since confined . after being captured about a year ago , he was brought to homer , in clai borne , and put in jail . while there , an attempt was made by a",mob,"to kill him . but single handed , having in some unaccountable manner obtained pos session of a pistol , he kept the mob at bay until assistance arrived whole ."
2621,18494_2.txt,"The News-Herald (Hillsboro, High...)",1894,"ago , he was brought to homer , in clai borne , and put in jail . while there , an attempt was made by a mob to kill him . but single handed , having in some unaccountable manner obtained pos session of a pistol , he kept the",mob,at bay until assistance arrived whole .
2622,18496_0.txt,"The Butler weekly times. (Butler, Mo.)",1896,"florida negroes lynched . savanah , ga . , july 1 . -- jake williams of , a negro , 20 years age , morning yesterday early lynched was by a",mob,"of seventy five men , who him from an officer while on the took way to jail ."
2623,18497_0.txt,"The L'Anse sentinel. (L'Anse, L.S., M...)",1895,"in a race war at brookside coal mines , 20 miles from birmingham , ala . . deputy sheriff joel baxter , sheriff wood and three negroes were killed and george hill and charles jenkins ( both colored ) were lynched a",mob,. by
2624,18499_0.txt,"The Austin weekly statesman. (Austin, Tex.)",1895,"sept . 21 . -wm . smith , colored , who , on the morning of ber 2 , entered the caboose and murdered septem- tony podone , the banana agent of the ! illinois central railway , at amita city , was taken from the officers here tonight by",mob,and lynched . a -0
2625,8127_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1912,,mob,"lynches negro woman who murders mistress by the united press . pinehurst , ga . , june 25 . - a mob took ann boston , a negro cook , from county officials who were guard ing her and had the woman from a tree today . the boston woman"
2626,8127_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1912,"mob lynches negro woman who murders mistress by the united press . pinehurst , ga . , june 25 . - a",mob,"took ann boston , a negro cook , from county officials who were guard ing her and had the woman from a tree today . the boston woman was accused of the murder of her mistress , mrs . r . f . jordan , wife of a wealthy planter"
2627,8137_0.txt,"Ladysmith news-budget (Ladysmith, Rusk...)",1913,,mob,"hangs two negroes lynches tramps accused of killing a policeman . cornelia , ga . , march 2 . - two un identified negro tramps , charged with killing policeman john gibby , were taken from a posse and lynched near here by a mob of masked men . they"
2628,8137_0.txt,"Ladysmith news-budget (Ladysmith, Rusk...)",1913,"mob hangs two negroes lynches tramps accused of killing a policeman . cornelia , ga . , march 2 . - two un identified negro tramps , charged with killing policeman john gibby , were taken from a posse and lynched near here by a",mob,of masked men . they were hanged to a telegraph pole . the tramps came into cornelia on a freight train and were arrested by the policeman . as gibby was hand cuffing one of them the other snatched the officer's pistol and gibby twice . shot
2629,8137_0.txt,"Ladysmith news-budget (Ladysmith, Rusk...)",1913,"mob hangs two negroes lynches tramps accused of killing a policeman . cornelia , ga . , march 2 . - two un identified negro tramps , charged with killing policeman john gibby , were taken from a posse and lynched near here by a mob of",masked,men . they were hanged to a telegraph pole . the tramps came into cornelia on a freight train and were arrested by the policeman . as gibby was hand cuffing one of them the other snatched the officer's pistol and gibby twice . shot
2630,8137_0.txt,"Ladysmith news-budget (Ladysmith, Rusk...)",1913,"mob hangs two negroes lynches tramps accused of killing a policeman . cornelia , ga . , march 2 . - two un identified negro tramps , charged with killing policeman john gibby , were taken from a posse and lynched near here by a mob of",masked men,. they were hanged to a telegraph pole . the tramps came into cornelia on a freight train and were arrested by the policeman . as gibby was hand cuffing one of them the other snatched the officer's pistol and gibby twice . shot
2631,8149_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1908,"first of the new year . negro taken from officers in mississippi and lynched . brook haven , miss . , jan . 2 . - the first lynching of 1908 occurred here today , when a",mob,"in broad daylight took a negro away from police officers and shot him . the negro , whose name was kan , was accused of killing a policeman at oak vale , miss . , on tuesday night . the ne gro had been arrested as a suspicious person ,"
2632,8149_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1908,"kan , was accused of killing a policeman at oak vale , miss . , on tuesday night . the ne gro had been arrested as a suspicious person , but he came to brook haven looking for medical treatment for a gun shot wound in the abdomen . the",mob,"got him away from the po lice by using a lasso , which was thrown over the negro's neck as the officers hur ried him to jail . after the lynching a negro who saw the body said it was that of coot aulman , accused of a policeman in"
2633,8153_0.txt,"The Waco evening news (Waco, Tex.)",1893,"a negro lynched bad negro lynched and burned by associated press to the news . roanoke , va . , sept . 21 . the negro , thomas smith , who assaulted mrs . henry bishop last night , was lynched this morn ing . he was found by the",mob,"where the authorities had secreted him and dragged to his death . not content , the infurated mob carried his body to the river and there in the presence of a throng of thou sands of wildly people , the negro's body was excited incinerated ."
2634,8153_0.txt,"The Waco evening news (Waco, Tex.)",1893,". , sept . 21 . the negro , thomas smith , who assaulted mrs . henry bishop last night , was lynched this morn ing . he was found by the mob where the authorities had secreted him and dragged to his death . not content , the infurated",mob,"carried his body to the river and there in the presence of a throng of thou sands of wildly people , the negro's body was excited incinerated ."
2635,8153_1.txt,"The Waco evening news (Waco, Tex.)",1893,"another account . a squad of men hanged a negro in the residence portion of the city at 5 o'clock this morning , then rid died the body with bullets and placed a placard on it saying , "" this is mayor trout's friend . "" after an inquest the",mob,"seized the body , dragged it through the to the river . the body ' n piles of brushwood and wood on the leavi the head bare . the pile was saturated with coal oil and a match was ap plied . the body was consumed within an hour ."
2636,8153_1.txt,"The Waco evening news (Waco, Tex.)",1893,body ' n piles of brushwood and wood on the leavi the head bare . the pile was saturated with coal oil and a match was ap plied . the body was consumed within an hour . the cremation was witnessed by several thousand people . at one time the,mob,"threatened to bury the negro in mayor trout's yard . there is much indignation against the mayor and militia . many threats of vengeance have been openly made . captain bird , commander of the militia , has left town . mayor trout , despite his wound , also dis"
2637,8155_0.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1893,isaac harper ( colored ) was lynched by a,mob,"at calera va . , for assault on a white woman . ,"
2638,8155_2.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1893,"tom preston and will thompson , negro boys , were tortured to death by a",mob,"at gaston , s . c . they guilty of criminal assault . were"
2639,8155_3.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1893,a,mob,"lyuched handy kaigler , the third and last of the negroes who assaulted the young wife of sightler at gaston , s . c . archie"
2640,8166_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1893,"eight of the rioters were killed and twenty- five wounded by the militia at roanoke , va . the negro was finally secured by the",mob,", hanged , shot and burned with the usual horrible dents . inci"
2641,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,joe coe hanged to a trolley wire by an infuriated,mob,"this morning , story of the assault on the jail . determination of the self appointed avengers of little lizzie yates . would not be balked nor hindered . words of counsel from cool men were not listened to . city authorities were powerless . wild clamor for a fiend's"
2642,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"and in the down . to resorts all the early part of the even ing knots of men collected and talked about the awful crime of the negro . there seemed to ve but one opinion , and that was that the negro must hang at the hands of a",mob,". a hundred or so curious ones hung about the jail and talked tho matter over , but there did not seem to be anyone to organize the mob and lead it . at 8 : 30 a crowd collected around the city jail and a delegation went below to"
2643,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"there seemed to ve but one opinion , and that was that the negro must hang at the hands of a mob . a hundred or so curious ones hung about the jail and talked tho matter over , but there did not seem to be anyone to organize the",mob,and lead it . at 8 : 30 a crowd collected around the city jail and a delegation went below to see if sinith was confined there . jailor havey assured the committee that the prisoner had been taken to the county jail and the crowd started for the brick
2644,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"we'll tear him limb from limb , "" and the cries drowned the governor's voice . then the big battering ram was taken up and a few thrusts at the door given . councilman morearty graboed hold of the bars over the window of the jailer's office and urged the",mob,on . morearty started the ball to rolling by thrusting his cane through the bars and breaking the windows . this act was met by applause and the councilman continued until every pane of glass in the two windows was shattered . battering at the door . a couple of
2645,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"of a leader as any one , said he would go and started to climb into the window , but was met by jailer lynch , who held a heavy colt's revolver at the old man's head and told him to keep out . the leader backed down and the",mob,"hissed . plank then a twenty- foot was brought up and shoved into the room clear ing it of its occupants , who retreated into the hall . again the old man stood up and was cheered . this time be went in , fol lowed by the mob ,"
2646,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"the mob hissed . plank then a twenty- foot was brought up and shoved into the room clear ing it of its occupants , who retreated into the hall . again the old man stood up and was cheered . this time be went in , fol lowed by the",mob,", who crawled through the little aperature as fast as possible , while the crowd swarmed up like a pack of hungry wolves . while this was going on governor boyd endeavored to dissuade the mob from any acts of violence , but his council was opposed by councilman morearty"
2647,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"and was cheered . this time be went in , fol lowed by the mob , who crawled through the little aperature as fast as possible , while the crowd swarmed up like a pack of hungry wolves . while this was going on governor boyd endeavored to dissuade the",mob,"from any acts of violence , but his council was opposed by councilman morearty , who shouted to the crowd to come on and waved his cane and hat frantically in the air . this sort of talk was all the crowd wanted and they pushed through the window as"
2648,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"attempt to do anything . the crowd was constantly receiving acces sions , and by this time there were about 10,000 people collected . the hill about the jail was literally black with people , and har ney street from eighteenth to sixteenth was filled with a howling , surging",mob,". it was a good- natured mob , however , but it was determined to carry its point . the several policemen in the crowd suddenly conceived the idea of forcing their way to the open win dow and proceeded to put the idea into effect . they had not"
2649,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"was constantly receiving acces sions , and by this time there were about 10,000 people collected . the hill about the jail was literally black with people , and har ney street from eighteenth to sixteenth was filled with a howling , surging mob . it was a good- natured",mob,", however , but it was determined to carry its point . the several policemen in the crowd suddenly conceived the idea of forcing their way to the open win dow and proceeded to put the idea into effect . they had not gone raore than a few feet when"
2650,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"in this door i will kill you . "" that kind of talk , coming from a man of cormack's caliber and backed by his reputation as a man of nerve and a dead shot , was too much for the crowd , so they swarmed back and joined the",mob,"on the lawn . at the side , between the jail and the north court house people in like sardines were packed in a box . the blows of the hammer on the steel cell recently occupied by neal came floating out through the window and nearly every blow was"
2651,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"by the papers this afternoon is still alive and doing well . "" that was all the chief managed to say , for his voice was once more drowned in the balel of sounds . they made the run , at twenty- five minutes past 12 the leaders of the",mob,called to the crowd to give them room to get out of the window of the jail office . with a blood curdling yell the crowd gave way for the leaders and the doomed man . several men sprang out of the window . with the in rope their hands
2652,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"the crowd gave way for the leaders and the doomed man . several men sprang out of the window . with the in rope their hands , others shoved the half dead brute out of the window and then the most fearful work ever witnessed at the hands of a",mob,in omaha was performed amid the piercing yells of thousands of desperate men . no pity for the brute . the rope was grasped by fully a hundred men and they ran down the declining roadway to the corner of seventeenth and harney streets . the black brute was dragged
2653,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,rope was grasped by fully a hundred men and they ran down the declining roadway to the corner of seventeenth and harney streets . the black brute was dragged by the neck all the way and must have been nearly dead before he had been dragged 100 feet . the,mob,"rushed upon him , kicking and jumping upon him as he was jerked down over the rough pavement , his clothing being almost entirely torn from his body , and the skin and flesh bruised and bleeding in a shocking manner . it is about seventy yards from the jail"
2654,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,the skin and flesh bruised and bleeding in a shocking manner . it is about seventy yards from the jail window to the corner of the court house square . this run of death was made in less time than it takes to tell it . policemen struggle with the,mob,". the officers struggled manfully to save the doomed man , but they were absolutely help less in the midst of the yelling , frenzied crowd of determined men . the leaders in the rope brigade made for a telegraph pole at the southwest corner of harney and seventeenth ,"
2655,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,a determined effort was made by the police to rescue coe . a back had been driven through the crowd and the corner of the street . stopped near toward this hack the police officers made a rush with the doomed man and a few of the leaders of the,mob,". all efforts to save him vain . the struggle was that of giants . the officers had the good sense not to draw their clubs or revolvers . if they had there would have been terrible bloodshed . they succeeded in getting the culprit into a hack , but"
2656,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"of giants . the officers had the good sense not to draw their clubs or revolvers . if they had there would have been terrible bloodshed . they succeeded in getting the culprit into a hack , but the horses were quickly unhitched and the officers overpowered . again the",mob,"was in possession of the doomed man . but the officers made one more determined effort to save the almost dead inan from the hands of the mob . they rushed toward another hack , but the crowd turned it upside down and actually smashed it to pieces . then"
2657,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"succeeded in getting the culprit into a hack , but the horses were quickly unhitched and the officers overpowered . again the mob was in possession of the doomed man . but the officers made one more determined effort to save the almost dead inan from the hands of the",mob,". they rushed toward another hack , but the crowd turned it upside down and actually smashed it to pieces . then the leaders , who had hold of the rope , made a rush for the northeast corner of the street dragging the dead and mutilated body after them"
2658,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,corner of the street dragging the dead and mutilated body after them . one of the lynchers climbed up the pole and threw the rope over several telephone wires that stretch along harney street . dangling in the air . soon the end of the rope was returned to the,mob,"below and in the twinkling of an eye the body of the black villain was dangling in the air as limp and lifeless , apparently , as a rag . the muscles of one arm twitched convul sively , but aside from that not a sign of life appeared to"
2659,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,the court house cam pus gazing upon the last dreadful scene in the tragedy . no tragedy ever to be enacted in the theatre just across the street will thrill an audience with horror as did that spectacle . swinging limp and lifeless . beneath the dangling body stood the,mob,", looking up at the object of their fearful re venge , their faces gleaming in the eiectric light and their voices filling the air with the cries of a vengeance fully satisfied . from a distance the body looked so limp and lifeless that many supposed it was a"
2660,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,the remains of coe as they lay in the undertaking rooms at heafey's . he stated that the man's neck was broken and that life was extinct when the body was cut down . the inquest will be held at 3 o'clock this afternoon . in the midst of the,mob,", the crush and press of the crowd was something fearful as it swayed back and forth . after coe was brought down to the jail office and while the crowd was wait ing for those who knew him to make sure of his identification , the crowd made a"
2661,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"was it the case , but is easily explained , as the sheriff was abducted . he hastily made his way to the north door of the jail , and at once passed out , hardly had he stepped upon the pavement before he was surrounded by a score of",masked,"men . the sheriff reached for his revolver and was in the act of drawing it from his pocket , when his arms were pinioned from behind . he was lifted up bodily and carried down the stone driveway , and then walked to the rear of the high school"
2662,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"was it the case , but is easily explained , as the sheriff was abducted . he hastily made his way to the north door of the jail , and at once passed out , hardly had he stepped upon the pavement before he was surrounded by a score of",masked men,". the sheriff reached for his revolver and was in the act of drawing it from his pocket , when his arms were pinioned from behind . he was lifted up bodily and carried down the stone driveway , and then walked to the rear of the high school building"
2663,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"was lifted up bodily and carried down the stone driveway , and then walked to the rear of the high school building , where he was kept a prisoner until 1 o'clock this morning . the sheriff , in speaking of the incident , stated that , owing to the",masks,"that the men wore , he was unable to recognize any of them . while he was held a prisoner he was fully informed of how things were going on at the jail , as his captors were well organized , having a number of couriers who traveled back and"
2664,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,", in speaking of the incident , stated that , owing to the masks that the men wore , he was unable to recognize any of them . while he was held a prisoner he was fully informed of how things were going on at the jail , as his",captors,"were well organized , having a number of couriers who traveled back and forth between the two points . judge doane pleaded for order . at 10 : 45 judge doane appeared upon the scene . he crowded his way through the mob until he reached a point midway be"
2665,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"on at the jail , as his captors were well organized , having a number of couriers who traveled back and forth between the two points . judge doane pleaded for order . at 10 : 45 judge doane appeared upon the scene . he crowded his way through the",mob,until he reached a point midway be tween the steps at the south of the court house and the jail . then he stopped and in a loud clear tone of voice that was heard above the din of sledge hammer blows that were being deait upon the cage in
2666,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"the steps at the south of the court house and the jail . then he stopped and in a loud clear tone of voice that was heard above the din of sledge hammer blows that were being deait upon the cage in which coe was confined , peaded with the",mob,"to use reason and proceed slowly . he urged that the law should be allowed to take its course and that justice would be meted out . the mob . listened , but only for an instant . again the sledge hammer blows were renewed , while the judge crowded"
2667,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"din of sledge hammer blows that were being deait upon the cage in which coe was confined , peaded with the mob to use reason and proceed slowly . he urged that the law should be allowed to take its course and that justice would be meted out . the",mob,". listened , but only for an instant . again the sledge hammer blows were renewed , while the judge crowded his way through the mob and succeeded in gaining entrance to the main corridor . there he stopped and pleaded with those inside . as he was talking ,"
2668,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"proceed slowly . he urged that the law should be allowed to take its course and that justice would be meted out . the mob . listened , but only for an instant . again the sledge hammer blows were renewed , while the judge crowded his way through the",mob,"and succeeded in gaining entrance to the main corridor . there he stopped and pleaded with those inside . as he was talking , coe , more dead than alive was drawn down the long corridor and into the office . once more judge doane . lifted his voice in"
2669,8173_0.txt,NA,1891,"late , as before he had concluded his remarks coe was pushed through the window and was being dragged down over the cruel rocks in the direction of the southeast corner of the court house grounds . coe was married . coe , the man who was lynched by the",mob,", was married . he had a wife and one child , who reside in the alley between eleventh and twelfth streets , in the rear of the wells , fargo express office . notwithstanding the terrific jam , no seri ous accidents occurred , though several per sons were"
2670,8176_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1891,"a murderer lynched . covington , la . , oct . 30 . - jack par ker , colored , was taken from his cell by a",mob,"of negroes during the night and hanged to a tree in the jail yard , for the murder on oct . 8 , of joe handy at springs . alita"
2671,8180_0.txt,"The Hope pioneer (Hope, N.D.)",1892,a,mob,"lynched allen parker ( colored ) new monroeville , ala . , for burning at a cotton gin ."
2672,8183_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1889,reward for white caps . governor gordon of georgia has offered a reward for the arrest of,another party of,"white caps , whose victim was a negro . the offense was committed in mitchell county . reuben mitchell , a negro , was killed in the house of willis bird , on the plantation of mr . b . a . culpepper . the deceased was in willis bird's"
2673,8183_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1889,", the ball entering near the nipple and lodging under the skin coroner on the backbone t . owen . a rendered jury summoned a verdict that the deceased came to his death by a pistol shot from the hands of anknown . parties a double lynching . the a",mob,"of a hundred men broke open the jail at morganton , n . c . , took out franklin stack , a white man , and david boone , a negro , and hanged them . stack ambushed robert parker , a student at college , who killed stack's brother"
2674,8186_0.txt,"The enterprise (Wellington, Ohi...)",1893,"down . shot men a terrible riot takes place at roanoke , va . militia called out by the mayor to protect a prisoner in jail- a",mob,"attacks the jall and the militia kill seven men and wound many others . roanoke , va . , sept . 21 . - robert smith , a negro , yesterday assaulted and nearly killed mrs . henry bishop , wife of a well- to- do farmer of bote tourt"
2675,8186_0.txt,"The enterprise (Wellington, Ohi...)",1893,"and the streets in the immedi- ate vicinity cleared . about dark they were increased by a hundred men from the vicinity of the womans ' home , headed by mrs . bishop's son , a fireman on the norfolk & western railroad . at 8 o'clock portions of the",mob,"battered at the side door of the jail , where the militia and mayor trout had retired . the shooting was commenced by the mob and the mayor was shot in the foot . the militia were then ordered to return the fire and a volley from about twenty- five"
2676,8186_0.txt,"The enterprise (Wellington, Ohi...)",1893,"' home , headed by mrs . bishop's son , a fireman on the norfolk & western railroad . at 8 o'clock portions of the mob battered at the side door of the jail , where the militia and mayor trout had retired . the shooting was commenced by the",mob,"and the mayor was shot in the foot . the militia were then ordered to return the fire and a volley from about twenty- five rifles was poured into the mob . seven men were killed by this fire and as many wounded , some of them fatally . during"
2677,8186_0.txt,"The enterprise (Wellington, Ohi...)",1893,"of the jail , where the militia and mayor trout had retired . the shooting was commenced by the mob and the mayor was shot in the foot . the militia were then ordered to return the fire and a volley from about twenty- five rifles was poured into the",mob,". seven men were killed by this fire and as many wounded , some of them fatally . during the excitement caused by the volley the negro was taken from the jail by an officer and secreted . the dead and wounded were removed to a drug store and the"
2678,8187_0.txt,"Arizona republican (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1892,"lynching as an epidemic . the colored population of louisiana be ing properly decreased . shreveport , la . , jan . 14- news was received last night of the lynching by a",mob,"of fifty men of the negro nathan andrews , who yesterday morning shot and wounded william driscoll , mana er of the cash point plantation in caddo of driscoll occurred in the same neighborhood in which about three weeks ago the negro patterson kiad two white men , firs wife"
2679,8188_0.txt,"The intelligencer (Lexington, Mo.)",1890,"within her borders oc- curred . the deadly work of the day was begun just before daylight that morning , by william waters , who butchered mr . e . f . parker , a merchant of mayview , in a most horrible manner , and was himself hung by",a party of,"indignant citizens . following this terrible crime and only few hours before the avenging , as far as human hands could , of merchant parker's death , came the brutal murder of mr . a . s . liggins , one of lafayette's oldest and most respected citizens , by"
2680,8188_0.txt,"The intelligencer (Lexington, Mo.)",1890,"door , and admitted the murderously- in- clined negro . a lamp was lighted and the negro and his victim went into the store room . the first article asked for by waters was cigars and while parker was getting them waters , according to the statement made to his",captors,", watched for a chance to strike him down with corn- knife which he had brought along with him for the purpose of executing his murderous plans . the opportunity to strike did not present itself while parker was getting the cigars and waters deferred his bloody work until the"
2681,8188_0.txt,"The intelligencer (Lexington, Mo.)",1890,"in front of the counter stood a young colored man he recognized as will waters . he thought at the time it was strange for waters to be in town at such an early hour , but made no inquiry . this much was learned by 9 o'clock , and",a party of,"men , mounted and on foot , at once started for shier's farm . they reached there in about half an hour , but neither shier nor the negro hand was there . mrs . shier stated that they had gone to lexington for corn , and the party started"
2682,8188_0.txt,"The intelligencer (Lexington, Mo.)",1890,". there was a strong disposition on the partyeers of the crowd to hang him then and there , but cool counsel prevailed . "" what did you kill mr . parker with ? "" was asked . "" a corn knife , "" was the answer.and he led his",captors,"to a clump of weeds about a quarter of a mile away and got the instrument of butchery . the crowd started toward mayview with it and their prisoner , but half way there they heard that officers from lexington were waiting for them to take the prisoner . a"
2683,8188_0.txt,"The intelligencer (Lexington, Mo.)",1890,"the remainder of the day . the latter was bound hand and foot . long before nightfall a confession had been extracted from the wretch , who fully realized the fearful fate that was impending for him . the confession , as it was afterward related by several of the",captors,", was as follows : "" yesterday , thursday , i was at the higgins ville fair . i met mr . parker . he had a big roll of money and i felt like taking it away from him , but i would be caught . i thought i"
2684,8188_0.txt,"The intelligencer (Lexington, Mo.)",1890,", called at the home of waters ' parents , opposite the residence of mrs . sarah ball , on main street , monday , and had a long talk with the mother she keenly felt her son's disgrace , and , naturally , very much regretted the fact that",a party of,"citizens had taken the law into their own hands , but she condemned no one . she believes that if her son her been given a trial it would have been found that someone else was implicated in the crime . she gave her son's age as seventeen years and"
2685,8188_0.txt,"The intelligencer (Lexington, Mo.)",1890,"' parents , opposite the residence of mrs . sarah ball , on main street , monday , and had a long talk with the mother she keenly felt her son's disgrace , and , naturally , very much regretted the fact that a party of citizens had taken the",law into their own hands,", but she condemned no one . she believes that if her son her been given a trial it would have been found that someone else was implicated in the crime . she gave her son's age as seventeen years and seven months and thought it quite improbable that one"
2686,8189_0.txt,NA,1887,"residents of that county . nobody doubts that . they are refugees and exiles . nobody doubts or questions that . among the facts that they allege is the fact that three colored men , election officers that county , were taken from the jail and in hung by a",mob,"without trial when an application for habeas corpus was depending on the ground that they were imprisoned without right or without lawful charge ; and the senator from texas admits that so far as the hanging of these men without right was concerned , his information is that it was"
2687,8192_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1887,"another fiend less . atlanta , ga . , july 27 . - a",mob,"at redan , to- day , lynched reuben j . hudsen ( colored ) . he had outraged the person of mrs . james bush yester day.-"
2688,8194_0.txt,NA,1887,"a colored crook and desperado named george grant was shot by an officer at kansas city on the 9th , falling dead near the spot where , five years ago , he killed policeman jones . for the latter an innocent negro was lynched by a",mob,crime .
2689,8196_0.txt,NA,1887,"fair grounds , where the cyclone played such fearful havoc some time ago , are many trees bent by the storm and making excellent gallows . to one of these the body of betters was found hanging this ( monday ) morning , cold and dead . whether by the",mob,or by his own hand cannot hung be determined .
2690,8204_0.txt,"The Cheyenne daily leader (Cheyenne, Wyo.) 1887-1895",1888,"barrington , mass.- the berk shire woolen company of great barring ton suspended this afternoon and work was shut down . the resources and liabilities are yet unknown . in 1876 the company failed for $ 400,000 . nashville.- henry jones , a negro murderer , was lynched by a",mob,"at woodland mills last night . new york . the total registration in this city for the four days was 285,547 . pena , tex.- the pena & rio grande stage was robbed twenty miles from here this morning by highwaymen armed with rifles who secured , a few hundred"
2691,8215_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1912,"method of administering justice . sheriff stahl , commissioned to arrest a negro who was wanted for stealing a gun worth $ 60 , pursued the man for thirty miles with a small squad of deputies before catching him . he then had of the deputies round up a """,mob,""" of one framed up a neighboring farmers and framed up a fake lynching party , with a well staged attack by the outraged people and a pretended preparation to take the prisoner's life . the rope was around the man's neck when he decided to confess . . this"
2692,8215_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1912,"the outraged people and a pretended preparation to take the prisoner's life . the rope was around the man's neck when he decided to confess . . this was what the sheriff was after , and as soon as the thief had acknowledged his guilt the officer dismissed the """,mob,""" with fervent thanks for its assistance in ex- tracting the truth : the court to which this sheriff reports should admonish him that in appealing to a mob , however fictitious or actually peaceful its purpose , he was violating one of its most solemn precepts . police officers"
2693,8215_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1912,"what the sheriff was after , and as soon as the thief had acknowledged his guilt the officer dismissed the "" mob "" with fervent thanks for its assistance in ex- tracting the truth : the court to which this sheriff reports should admonish him that in appealing to a",mob,", however fictitious or actually peaceful its purpose , he was violating one of its most solemn precepts . police officers should not regard it as their chief duty to obtain confessions . this is the evil of the so- called third degree , the ex- istence of which has"
2694,8220_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1897,old . two more lynchings . louisiana and alabama,mobs,"string up negro fiends . new iberia , la . , july 21 . - about 7 : 30 o'clock this morning , at baldwin , in st . mary's parish , a negro , jack davis , alias "" buddy jack , "" was hanged by the citizens of"
2695,8222_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1890,"black brutes lynched . macon , ga . , oct . 31 . - near valdosta , yesterday afternoon , a negro named palseo committed a brutal assault on miss hardee , daughter of a prominent planter . last night the negro was taken from the officers by a",mob,and jynched .
2696,8226_0.txt,"Western Kansas world (WaKeeney, Kan.)",1889,"further hearing . charles ide and miss landon were drowned at lake harriett , minn . , sunday p . m . , by their boat capsizing a few rods from the shore , and in sight of thousands of spectators . they were to have been married soon .",a party of,"125 teachers of the north carolina teachers ' association , have chartered the steamer state of for a europe . the party will visit glasgow , bel- fast , edinburgh and paris and return on august 20 . the first car of wheat , crop of 1889 , from dickinson"
2697,8237_0.txt,NA,1897,"ray county grand jury making an investigation- confession ramors . liberty , mo . , feb . 6 . - there is considerable excitement in the western part of ray county over the report that a business man of orrick has con fessed that he was a member of the",mob,"that lynched winner and nelson . a large number of witnesses have been subpoenaed this weck to appear before the grand jury . judge e . j . broaddus , in his charge to the grand jury when court convened at rich mond , was very emphatic and denounced the"
2698,8240_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1900-1911,1910,"charleston , mo . ,",mob,lynches two negroes confessed they murdered planter . who page 2
2699,8241_0.txt,"Semi-weekly interior journal (Stanford, Ky.)",1886,"-d . p . wallace , the murderer of the logan family of 5 persons- tather , mother and 3 children- was taken from the jail at steeleville , mo . , by a",mob,and lynched . it seem to an outsider that the cause would was sufficient for the summary action .
2700,8242_0.txt,NA,1909,lynch negro who shot georgia man kentucky,mob,"breaks down jail door to get prisoner who had wounded b . c . bowers , circus man . ( by associated press . ) june 3 . - john frankfort , ky . , maxey , a negro , who shot b . c . bowers , a circus"
2701,8242_0.txt,NA,1909,"associated press . ) june 3 . - john frankfort , ky . , maxey , a negro , who shot b . c . bowers , a circus man , last night , was taken from jail here early today and lynched . the jailer showed resistance to the",mob,"but with little effort the door was bro taken out and negro ken down , the hanged to the saint clair street bridge . the action of the mob created intense excitement among the lawabiding citizens of the capital city who were apprised of the hanging this morning . b"
2702,8242_0.txt,NA,1909,"man , last night , was taken from jail here early today and lynched . the jailer showed resistance to the mob but with little effort the door was bro taken out and negro ken down , the hanged to the saint clair street bridge . the action of the",mob,"created intense excitement among the lawabiding citizens of the capital city who were apprised of the hanging this morning . b . c . bowers , the wounded man , is still in a critical condition at the king's daughters ' hospital . the bowels were evi- dently penetrated by"
2703,8242_0.txt,NA,1909,"shouting , "" lynch him ! "" and in a moment a noose was around the negro's neck ; the loose end of the rope was thrown over a tree and the crowd was about to draw the negro up when two policemen interfered , took the negro from the",mob,"and hurried him to the county jail . but for cool heads in the crowd in the main tent there would have been a panic , with perhaps many persons injured , as a result of the shooting . the tent was well filled , all of the white section"
2704,8244_0.txt,NA,1909,", nick no lan , henry pudgett and william mayes of the same city monday after noon began to serve terms of imprisonment imposed a few hours before by the supreme court of the united states . shipp and gibson had been found guilty of failing to protect from a",mob,"ed johnson , whose legal execution for rape had been stayed by the supreme court , until it could review the case . the others had been stayed by the supreme court , in the lynching of a federal prisoner . shipp , williams and nolan each were sentenced to"
2705,8245_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1890,"which wild bill was killed by mccaull . though a popular man , bill was a dead shot , and mccaull could not have killed him if he had not approached him treacherously . mccaull was imme- diately locked up , but the excitement be came so great that a",mob,"assembled for the purpose of trying , convicting and lynching him . while the proceedings were in progress the clatter of hoofs was heard and a man on horseback appeared riding at full speed with his reins in his teeth and with a rifle in one hand and an indian's"
2706,8245_1.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1890,"in smith throwing a rock at albright and his skull was fractured . this morning smith's body was found hanging to the bridge across black river , riddled with bullets . after the trouble of yesterday smith arrested and placed was in jail at 1 : 30 this morning a",masked,"mob broke down the outer door of the jail , battered the steel door to the prisoner's cage in , and in spite of the man's plea for mercy took him across the river and lynched him . the coroner's jury returned a verdict that the deceased came to his"
2707,8245_1.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1890,"smith throwing a rock at albright and his skull was fractured . this morning smith's body was found hanging to the bridge across black river , riddled with bullets . after the trouble of yesterday smith arrested and placed was in jail at 1 : 30 this morning a masked",mob,"broke down the outer door of the jail , battered the steel door to the prisoner's cage in , and in spite of the man's plea for mercy took him across the river and lynched him . the coroner's jury returned a verdict that the deceased came to his death"
2708,8248_2.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1884,"was acquitted . april 24 , a",mob,at devil's killed the two ward brothers . at union lake james nutt killed dukes
2709,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"witnessed a spectacle perhaps unequaled in the history of this or any other state . a brutal negro named james committed a nameless crime upon the person of a 5- year- old white girl , was arrested and incarcerated in the county jail . rumors of the organization of a",mob,"to lynch the criminal reaching the ears of the officers , james was secretly conveyed to the penitentiary for safe- keeping . the mob organized early in the evening and , proceeding to the jail , demanded that the prisoner be turned over to them for summary punishment . the"
2710,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"upon the person of a 5- year- old white girl , was arrested and incarcerated in the county jail . rumors of the organization of a mob to lynch the criminal reaching the ears of the officers , james was secretly conveyed to the penitentiary for safe- keeping . the",mob,"organized early in the evening and , proceeding to the jail , demanded that the prisoner be turned over to them for summary punishment . the leaders were in formed that he was not in the jail . a search confirmed this statement . in some manner the enraged mob"
2711,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"mob organized early in the evening and , proceeding to the jail , demanded that the prisoner be turned over to them for summary punishment . the leaders were in formed that he was not in the jail . a search confirmed this statement . in some manner the enraged",mob,ascertained that james had been placed in the penitentiary . by this time their ranks had been swelled to about a thousand men they at once repaired . to the penitentiary and demanded the prisoner . their demand was prompt- ly refused . the penitentiary buildings were supposed to be
2712,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,ascertained that james had been placed in the penitentiary . by this time their ranks had been swelled to about a thousand men they at once repaired . to the penitentiary and demanded the prisoner . their demand was prompt- ly refused . the penitentiary buildings were supposed to be,mob,"proof but in - , , fact , it afforded but a flimsy barrier to the determined men who had taken it upon themselves to avenge the greatest crime that can be inflicted upon society . the penitentiary officials little under stood the temper of the mob . heavy sledgehammers"
2713,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"supposed to be mob proof but in - , , fact , it afforded but a flimsy barrier to the determined men who had taken it upon themselves to avenge the greatest crime that can be inflicted upon society . the penitentiary officials little under stood the temper of the",mob,". heavy sledgehammers were procured and the massive gates , under the influence of the tremendous blows dealt by strong arms , went down like pasteboard . the prisoner was quickly found and secured and led forth for identification . this done , he was dragged to the corner of"
2714,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"pole , adjusted about the trembling culprit's neck and he was jerked into the air . hundreds of bul lets perforated his body , and another was added to the long list of judge lynch's victims . these lynchings will increase in proportion as the crime for which james was",mobbed,increases . it is not a pleasant duty to record such transactions- far from it . this paper is in favor of law and order under most circumstances ; but the terrible increase in the crime of rape calls for a prompt and sharp remedy . whether lyuching affords the
2715,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"committed by negroes . why this is true we cannot say , but that it is true no one will deny . a remedy must be found- and found speedily- or there is no telling to where it will lead . if the courts cannot cope with it , then",mobs,"will certainly take the matter in hand ; and if mob law can overcome the evil , then let us have the mobs . anything , in the name of heaven , to put a stop to the infernal crime . st . francis county has only had one case"
2716,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,", but that it is true no one will deny . a remedy must be found- and found speedily- or there is no telling to where it will lead . if the courts cannot cope with it , then mobs will certainly take the matter in hand ; and if",mob,"law can overcome the evil , then let us have the mobs . anything , in the name of heaven , to put a stop to the infernal crime . st . francis county has only had one case of this character within the knowledge of the writer , and"
2717,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"remedy must be found- and found speedily- or there is no telling to where it will lead . if the courts cannot cope with it , then mobs will certainly take the matter in hand ; and if mob law can overcome the evil , then let us have the",mobs,". anything , in the name of heaven , to put a stop to the infernal crime . st . francis county has only had one case of this character within the knowledge of the writer , and the offender was hanged by operation of law in 1879 . he"
2718,8250_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"knowledge of the writer , and the offender was hanged by operation of law in 1879 . he was a colored man and a preacher . fortunately our county is inhabited by a better class of colored citizens , and we hope never to be called upon to witness the",mobbing,"of one of their num- just so ber for this heinous crime . surely as rape is committed in this community , just so surely will the culprit swing for it , be he white or black . hisness color will cut no figure in the case . is time"
2719,8250_1.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,little rock lynching . the governor takes a hand in making arrests and 18 hustled by the,mob,". penry james , a young mulatto , assaulted a little five year old girl , the adopted child of mr . and mrs . c . p . johnson , in little rock one day last week . it was a cruel , and the fellow made his escape"
2720,8250_1.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"five year old girl , the adopted child of mr . and mrs . c . p . johnson , in little rock one day last week . it was a cruel , and the fellow made his escape , but was captured and jailed . friday night a large",mob,"went to the jail but were disappointed in finding their man gone . they continued the search and succeeded in locating the victim in penitentiary . the the mob gathered in large numbers , forced the prison gates , and took james to this done they sought a good telegraph"
2721,8250_1.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"was a cruel , and the fellow made his escape , but was captured and jailed . friday night a large mob went to the jail but were disappointed in finding their man gone . they continued the search and succeeded in locating the victim in penitentiary . the the",mob,"gathered in large numbers , forced the prison gates , and took james to this done they sought a good telegraph pole and found it in front of the k . of p . building , corner of fifth and main , where they strung him up . no sooner"
2722,8250_1.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,a pistol shot was fired . then his body was riddled with bullets . at the close of this part of the exercises gov . and mrs . eagle came along on the midnight street car on their return home from memphis . the governor having heard rumors of a,mob,"and seeing the crowd and hearing pistol shots proceeded to he investigate . pushed his way through the crowd to where the body was hanging and personally arrested the man who fired the last shot , the governor seeing the shot fired . the governor took his prisoner a short"
2723,8250_1.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1892,"crowd and hearing pistol shots proceeded to he investigate . pushed his way through the crowd to where the body was hanging and personally arrested the man who fired the last shot , the governor seeing the shot fired . the governor took his prisoner a short way when the",mob,"set upon him , knocked him down and took the prisoner away.otic the men who did this deny that they knew it was the governor . the governor was helped to his feet by friends and protected from further injury by men who happened to know it was the governor"
2724,8252_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,". after the double lynching negroes leave charleston charleston , mo . , july 4 . - an exodus in the negro population of charleston is reported to be in progress , following the double lynching on yesterday , when robert coleman and sam fields were hanged by an infuriated",mob,"for the murder of william fox , a mississippi county farmer . an investigation of the affair at the re quest of governor hadley will be made by the prosecuting attorney today . sheriff gulp and his deputies , whom he has sworn in after the ' lynching , threats"
2725,8252_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,"of the jail were many wom en and children and the officers feared on that account to resort to shooting . on the outskirts of the crowd were several automobiles , their occupants standing on the seats , the better to watch the attack on the jail . seemingly the",mob,waited only for a leader . about 4 o'clock in the afternoon a man seemed to take charge and the crowd rushed forward . a concerted rush was made at the jail and in a moment the front fence of the yard was trampled down . heriff and his men
2726,8252_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,"heriff and his men were brushed aside . there was no turning back then , even had the leaders been so inclined for the hundreds in the rear were pushing forward , shouting for the lives of the negroes . a railroad tie was shoved fora battering ram . the",mob,"ward as shouted with increasing rage as door went down and the crowd pushed the into | the building . another door was in the way . this was smashed in a second and the crowd surged upstairs to the second floor , where the two negroes were confined ."
2727,8252_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,"over a limb . the negro was jerked up and soon swung clear of the crowd . while coleman dangled an other body of men rushed from the jail , the other sam dragging and pulling negro , fields . a rope was placed around his neck , and the",mob,", shouting , started west along court street . the negro said he would show the men where he and coleman had hidden the revolver they had used in shooting wil liam fox , whose death the crowd avenged . the men in charge , after a short párley ,"
2728,8252_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,"had hidden the revolver they had used in shooting wil liam fox , whose death the crowd avenged . the men in charge , after a short párley , decided to take the negro to find the revolver , the rope still about his neck and drawn tightly by his",captors,", fields was thrown into a carriage . followed by the mob on foot , in car- raints and automobiles , the vehicle containing fields started to the scene of the shooting half a mile south of town . after going part of the way the negro told the captors"
2729,8252_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,", whose death the crowd avenged . the men in charge , after a short párley , decided to take the negro to find the revolver , the rope still about his neck and drawn tightly by his captors , fields was thrown into a carriage . followed by the",mob,"on foot , in car- raints and automobiles , the vehicle containing fields started to the scene of the shooting half a mile south of town . after going part of the way the negro told the captors "" he guessed after all "" he couldn't find the pistol ."
2730,8252_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,"captors , fields was thrown into a carriage . followed by the mob on foot , in car- raints and automobiles , the vehicle containing fields started to the scene of the shooting half a mile south of town . after going part of the way the negro told the",captors,""" he guessed after all "" he couldn't find the pistol . a stop was made then and fields was jerked out of the carriage wit any preliminaries , the rope was thrown over the limb of a tree and fields was strung still this morning his body was up"
2731,8252_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1910,"the rope was thrown over the limb of a tree and fields was strung still this morning his body was up . swinging . the body of the other negro was cut down by several persons , who wanted pieces of the rope as souvenirs . the crime which a",mob,avenged by lynch law was committed about 10 o'clock saturday night . the motive of the at tack was robbery . * * * * 0 * * * * * * * *
2732,8253_0.txt,"The Magnolia gazette (Magnolia, Miss.)",1892,", three degro men john johnson , joe gray and john williams , were arrested on suspicion and placed in the mcomb city jail where they remained till saturday afternoon . then johnson was taken to the sceze of the crime and hanged at 6 : 30 o'clock by a",mob,". gray and williams were given in custody of capt . a . a , boyd , sheriff , who hastened to magnolia and placed them in the county jail . he then return- ed in the hack to mccomb leaving the jail in charge of deputy sheriff , c"
2733,8253_0.txt,"The Magnolia gazette (Magnolia, Miss.)",1892,"to magnolia and placed them in the county jail . he then return- ed in the hack to mccomb leaving the jail in charge of deputy sheriff , c . d . miller . when he reached lenoir's bridge , capt boyd met a man who told him that the",mob,"had hung john johnson and in tended to come to magnolia and get williams and gray . the man was told to convey the news to mr . miller , and the sheriff hurried on to mecomb to see if he could not prevent the mob from coming.tly mr ."
2734,8253_0.txt,"The Magnolia gazette (Magnolia, Miss.)",1892,"told him that the mob had hung john johnson and in tended to come to magnolia and get williams and gray . the man was told to convey the news to mr . miller , and the sheriff hurried on to mecomb to see if he could not prevent the",mob,"from coming.tly mr . miller received the message a few minutes before the mob arrived on a train ( which they took from the yard in me comb , ) and immediately unlocked the jail doors and took the prisoners out he chained them together , and , ac companied"
2735,8253_0.txt,"The Magnolia gazette (Magnolia, Miss.)",1892,"to magnolia and get williams and gray . the man was told to convey the news to mr . miller , and the sheriff hurried on to mecomb to see if he could not prevent the mob from coming.tly mr . miller received the message a few minutes before the",mob,"arrived on a train ( which they took from the yard in me comb , ) and immediately unlocked the jail doors and took the prisoners out he chained them together , and , ac companied by mr d . c . wright , jr . ran to the cemetery"
2736,8253_0.txt,"The Magnolia gazette (Magnolia, Miss.)",1892,"train monday and has been highly complimented for his gallant condnet . the coroners jury is still in session , and we trust will leave no stone un turned in the effort to ascertain who killed mr . calquhoun . it said by some that the negro hung by the",mob,"confessed that he and the two others now in jackson , did the awful deed , while others say that he declared that he was innocent to the very last , and did not know who did it . the gazette would not knowingly do injustice to any one and"
2737,8254_0.txt,"The Mankato free press (Mankato, Blue E...)",1892,"wounded lyncher dead . nashville , may 3 . - charles rear , who was shot during the attack made by the",mob,"on the jail friday night in the effort to lynch eph grizzard , the negro who assaulted the misses bruce at goodlettsville , is dead . judge ridley , of the criminal court , has instruct ed the grand jury that every member of the mob was guilty of murder"
2738,8254_0.txt,"The Mankato free press (Mankato, Blue E...)",1892,"attack made by the mob on the jail friday night in the effort to lynch eph grizzard , the negro who assaulted the misses bruce at goodlettsville , is dead . judge ridley , of the criminal court , has instruct ed the grand jury that every member of the",mob,was guilty of murder and should be indicted . he appealed to the to do its duty in bringing the jury lynchers to justice .
2739,8254_1.txt,"The Mankato free press (Mankato, Blue E...)",1892,"oshkosh , wis . , may 3 . - a",mob,entered the barber shop of frank j . vic toris about 9 p . m . and tarred and feathered him . for several weeks the chicago sunday sun has been sold in this every issue city . contained a scurrillous letter in which scandalous charges were made against some
2740,8254_1.txt,"The Mankato free press (Mankato, Blue E...)",1892,"for several weeks the chicago sunday sun has been sold in this every issue city . contained a scurrillous letter in which scandalous charges were made against some of the best known and influential people of this city . about a dozen of the injured persons , heading a small",mob,", visited his shop and forced him to confess . they then stripped him and put on the tar and feathers . he made no resistance . the crowd numbered several hundred but were quiet and the did not interfere . police"
2741,8256_1.txt,NA,1892,some trouble in getting mount- ed . several of the posse quickly mounted and pursued the escaping bandits . em- mitt dalton's horse was no match for the fresher animals of his pursuers . as they closed on him he turned suddenly in his saddle and fired upon his wouldbe,captors,. the latter answered with a volley and emmitt toppled from his horse hard hit . he was brought back to town and died late this afternoon . he made an ante- mortem statement confessing to the various crimes committed by the gang . allie ogee is still at large
2742,8257_0.txt,NA,1886,"club , and then robbed him . vincent's son , who witnessed the murder , gave the alarm , and a posse soon had the murderer in jail , whith er a large crowd of infuriated citizens flock . ed , and demanded the life of the prisoner . the",mob,"was soon quieted , however , and there are no fears now that gray will be . lynched fish"
2743,8258_0.txt,"People's voice (Wellington, Sum...)",1893,"triple lynching . albuquerque , n . m . , may 7 . - antonio martinez , antonio jose barelas and victoriano aragon , three murderers , were taken from jail at las lunas last night by",masked,"men and lynched . the first two murdered an old woman , mrs . manuela mierels , after first assaulting her and horribly mutilating her body aragon was the self- con- . murderer of mrs . beatriz aragon , fessed his cousin ."
2744,8258_0.txt,"People's voice (Wellington, Sum...)",1893,"triple lynching . albuquerque , n . m . , may 7 . - antonio martinez , antonio jose barelas and victoriano aragon , three murderers , were taken from jail at las lunas last night by",masked men,"and lynched . the first two murdered an old woman , mrs . manuela mierels , after first assaulting her and horribly mutilating her body aragon was the self- con- . murderer of mrs . beatriz aragon , fessed his cousin ."
2745,8259_0.txt,NA,1892,villain hanged by a,mob,". will lavender , the colored man who at tempted to assault alice perry , a white girl , at roanoke , va . . was taken from offcers and hanged to a tree by a mob of about he made a full 150 people confession . ."
2746,8259_0.txt,NA,1892,"villain hanged by a mob . will lavender , the colored man who at tempted to assault alice perry , a white girl , at roanoke , va . . was taken from offcers and hanged to a tree by a",mob,of about he made a full 150 people confession . .
2747,8262_0.txt,NA,1892,"ar monroeville , ala . , a",mob,"took from jail burrell jones and his son moses , with two accomplices , who were charged with murdering richard johnson and his daughter , and hanged l . them ."
2748,8262_1.txt,NA,1892,a,mob,"lynched phil young , the negro who shot walter glass ( white ) , at myra , va . pal"
2749,8263_0.txt,NA,1892,"a that gang participated in the massacre of mcmillan's fam- ily in choctaw county and who was captured near demopolis , ala . , two weeks ago , was sent to the choctaw county jail at butler thursday last last night the negro was taken from the jail by a",mob,"and hanged to the tree on which bob sims , thomas savage and two sons con savage of were hanged . it is said he made a confession implicating other parties . the goods from mcmillan's store were found in hinton's house . neal sims , a brother of bob"
2750,8264_0.txt,"The Washington bee (Washington, D.C...)",1887,"see by our able contemporary the evening star of this city , that 500 men assembled in front of the louisville , ky . , jail for the purpose of lynching two unarmed negroes , and it was as much as the city authorities could do to keep the white",mob,from carry- into execution their brutal act . we would like to see some white mob in the district of columbia attempt to lynch a negro . we are confident that a warm recep tion would it . let greet americans attend to their own business and great britan its
2751,8264_0.txt,"The Washington bee (Washington, D.C...)",1887,"in front of the louisville , ky . , jail for the purpose of lynching two unarmed negroes , and it was as much as the city authorities could do to keep the white mob from carry- into execution their brutal act . we would like to see some white",mob,in the district of columbia attempt to lynch a negro . we are confident that a warm recep tion would it . let greet americans attend to their own business and great britan its business . own
2752,8264_2.txt,"The Washington bee (Washington, D.C...)",1887,"served him right . the burley white man who raped a colored lady last night in virginia , was taken from the jail by",masked,colored men and hung to a tree . over the mans hand large ingerintion is the 21st . centuary .
2753,8268_0.txt,NA,1884,"local news . --mr . kittle , the young man who has raised such a hub bub about the howard",mob,", has now very wisely concluded to let the whole malter drop , and we can only hope that he will not find himself in the position of the man who , having caught a good hold of a red- hot poker , couldn't let go again . mr ."
2754,8268_0.txt,NA,1884,"acted entirely by himself in this whole mat ter , and that his object was blackmail . he went to justice ried monday morning last , all by himself and perfectly sober , and made an affidavit to the effect that he had personal knowledge of those who composed the",mob,"that hung nelson howard , but mentioning the name only of alex . mil burn as one of the party . he swore out a warrant for milburn's arrest , had himself appointed a deputy sheriff and came down here to arrest milburn . when he served his warrant milburn"
2755,8269_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1890,"farmers lynch a cheat . he had paid them for cattle with worthless checks . cincinnati , o . , march 20 . - a cynthiana , ky . , dispatch says that benjamin grewell was lynched at robinson station last night by a",mob,"of about twenty persons . two years ago grewell defrauded farmers in that locality by buying stock and paying for it with bogus checks . he then fled to the mountains , but ventured back recently thinking his evil deeds had been forgotten . ,"
2756,8272_0.txt,"The Democratic advocate (Westminster, Md...)",1886,"john aroher , martin archer and thomas were from jail at west shoals , ind . , at 12.30 o'clock wednesday morning by a",mob,and hanged to on trees in front of the courthouse .
2757,8273_0.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1901,"an adjoining cell to oakley , and indignation is running high in the county . col . tom 0 . smith , commander of the third regiment , alabama national guard , has sent one thousand rounds of ammunition to the jasper rifles , to be used in case a",mob,attempts to lynch the two men . there are indications that there may be trouble today and tomorrow . sheriff moore and the captain of the jasper ri fies are keeping in close touch with one another and in case of emergency the jasper rifles will be called out .
2758,8274_0.txt,"St. Johnsbury Caledonian (St. Johnsbury, ...)",1901,"in the lynching of a negro recently , was found guilty of murder in the first degree , friday , and the penalty fixed at a life sentence in the penitentiary . the trial occurred at wetumpka and lasted but one day . howard was charged with being one of",a party of,"white men who recently lynched robert white , a negro , for shooting and wound- ing a white man . howard made a full confession in court , telling how he and twelve others waylaid the officer , took the negro , and hanged him to a tree in a"
2759,8280_0.txt,"St. Paul daily globe (Saint Paul, Min...)",1887,his house were put under arrest and schneider was taken home half dead from fright . the boy will live . schaeffer cannot satisfactorily explain why he fired the pistol or whether shooting was accidental . the an innocent citizen of jersey city comes very near being by an infuriated,mob,lynched .
2760,8288_0.txt,NA,1900,two men lynched in kansas . george and ed meeks taken from jail by a,mob,"at fort scott . . fort scott , kan . , jan . 23 . - a mob of saturday night lynched 400 men george and ed meeks , alias smith , two kansas city criminals , who were convicted of the murder of leopold elin ger , a young"
2761,8288_0.txt,NA,1900,"two men lynched in kansas . george and ed meeks taken from jail by a mob at fort scott . . fort scott , kan . , jan . 23 . - a",mob,"of saturday night lynched 400 men george and ed meeks , alias smith , two kansas city criminals , who were convicted of the murder of leopold elin ger , a young farmer of bates county , missouri . the same mob was prevent ed from hanging amos phillips ,"
2762,8288_0.txt,NA,1900,". , jan . 23 . - a mob of saturday night lynched 400 men george and ed meeks , alias smith , two kansas city criminals , who were convicted of the murder of leopold elin ger , a young farmer of bates county , missouri . the same",mob,"was prevent ed from hanging amos phillips , an old bates county farmer , who was convicted of the same crime , by a deter mined stand taken by the sheriff and his deputies , assisted by conservative citizens . the lynching was immediate ly induced by a murderous assault"
2763,8288_0.txt,NA,1900,"on account of the darkness , participated , followed their attempt to get out . one officer was wounded , and george meeks was shot in the leg . thirty shots were fired in the jail . ed meeks declared that phillips and george meeks did the killing , but",mob,would not let him finish his statement the .
2764,8289_0.txt,NA,1917,""" butte , august 1- frank little , a member of the executive committee of the i.w . w . , who took a prominent part in the recent labor troubles in arizona , was taken from his boarding house and hanged from a railroad trestle by a band of",masked,"men this morning . in arecent speech here lit tle referred the federal soliders as "" uncle sam's to seabs in uniform . """
2765,8289_0.txt,NA,1917,""" butte , august 1- frank little , a member of the executive committee of the i.w . w . , who took a prominent part in the recent labor troubles in arizona , was taken from his boarding house and hanged from a railroad trestle by a band of",masked men,"this morning . in arecent speech here lit tle referred the federal soliders as "" uncle sam's to seabs in uniform . """
2766,8290_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1899,"lynched in his cell . jackson , tenn . . april 18 . -a . h . larue , the murderer of john young , was lynched at henderson , tenn . , today . the sheriff was overpowered by",masked,"men , who killed larue in his cell . be fore his death the victim said he recognized two of the lynchers , one of them a brother of young , and warrants out for their arrest . are cell his in lynched murderer a"
2767,8290_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1899,"lynched in his cell . jackson , tenn . . april 18 . -a . h . larue , the murderer of john young , was lynched at henderson , tenn . , today . the sheriff was overpowered by",masked men,", who killed larue in his cell . be fore his death the victim said he recognized two of the lynchers , one of them a brother of young , and warrants out for their arrest . are cell his in lynched murderer a"
2768,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,"prisoner take two from officer and then hang him hired man assaults daughter of his employer in baker county penalty follows on heels of crime - """,mob,""" of two takes him at point of gun from officer ; deliberately hang him - baker , ore . , july 17 . - coroner west arrived at whitney about noon today to hold an inquest over the body of the unidentified man lynched thursday by two masked men"
2769,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,""" mob "" of two takes him at point of gun from officer ; deliberately hang him - baker , ore . , july 17 . - coroner west arrived at whitney about noon today to hold an inquest over the body of the unidentified man lynched thursday by two",masked,"men following an at tempted criminal assault on grace old of bart hardman , a rancher of audrey . the district attorney and two deputy sheriffs were at audrey today at tempting to find a clue to the identity of the lynchers , but with slight chances of success ."
2770,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,""" mob "" of two takes him at point of gun from officer ; deliberately hang him - baker , ore . , july 17 . - coroner west arrived at whitney about noon today to hold an inquest over the body of the unidentified man lynched thursday by two",masked men,"following an at tempted criminal assault on grace old of bart hardman , a rancher of audrey . the district attorney and two deputy sheriffs were at audrey today at tempting to find a clue to the identity of the lynchers , but with slight chances of success . the"
2771,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,", but with slight chances of success . the settlers of the dis triet are in sympathy with them , and will not divulge any information that might lead to their apprehension . it was learned today that tom tureman , another rancher , was with hardman when the two",masked,"men intercepted him on the highway and took possession of the prisoner , at the points of revolvers . 17 . - little hope was entertained by sheriff kand of apprehending the two masked men who seized an unidentified man , apparently a tramp , being brought to baker by"
2772,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,", but with slight chances of success . the settlers of the dis triet are in sympathy with them , and will not divulge any information that might lead to their apprehension . it was learned today that tom tureman , another rancher , was with hardman when the two",masked men,"intercepted him on the highway and took possession of the prisoner , at the points of revolvers . 17 . - little hope was entertained by sheriff kand of apprehending the two masked men who seized an unidentified man , apparently a tramp , being brought to baker by j"
2773,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,"was learned today that tom tureman , another rancher , was with hardman when the two masked men intercepted him on the highway and took possession of the prisoner , at the points of revolvers . 17 . - little hope was entertained by sheriff kand of apprehending the two",masked,"men who seized an unidentified man , apparently a tramp , being brought to baker by j . b . hardman , after he had confessed that he had attempted to criminally assault hardman's eight- year- old daughter , grace , and hung him to a tree in a canyon"
2774,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,"was learned today that tom tureman , another rancher , was with hardman when the two masked men intercepted him on the highway and took possession of the prisoner , at the points of revolvers . 17 . - little hope was entertained by sheriff kand of apprehending the two",masked men,"who seized an unidentified man , apparently a tramp , being brought to baker by j . b . hardman , after he had confessed that he had attempted to criminally assault hardman's eight- year- old daughter , grace , and hung him to a tree in a canyon between"
2775,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,"in the upper burnt river country . so silently and methodically did the grim avengers work that not the least clue to their identity was left behind . hardman and his prisoner were rid ing on horseback toward whitney late yesterday to entrain for baker , when confronted by the",masked,"men , similar ly mounted . they secured possession of the prisoner despite hardman's plead 0ings that the law be allowed to take its course , and galloped away . silent but swift work . reaching the lonely canyon , they placed a rope about the man's neck , threw"
2776,8292_0.txt,NA,1914,"in the upper burnt river country . so silently and methodically did the grim avengers work that not the least clue to their identity was left behind . hardman and his prisoner were rid ing on horseback toward whitney late yesterday to entrain for baker , when confronted by the",masked men,", similar ly mounted . they secured possession of the prisoner despite hardman's plead 0ings that the law be allowed to take its course , and galloped away . silent but swift work . reaching the lonely canyon , they placed a rope about the man's neck , threw one"
2777,8293_0.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1886,"being palm sunday the cathedral was more than usually thronged by worshippers , and when the fearful work of the priest was realized a furious",mob,"followed the carriage in which he was conveyed to prison by gendarmes , whose presence alone prevented the lynching of the would murderer . the mo tive for the crime was be revenge ."
2778,8293_1.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1886,"april 18 . recently the oak hill church near mc dade was destroyed by fire and circumstances pointed to arson . a man named christian was arrested for the offense , tried and acquitted . last night while going home in with his wife christian was met by company a",mob,and riddled with bullets .
2779,8297_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1893,"lively times in denver , leader of the lynching",mob,"of wednesday night arrested . colorado troops guard a bank- 400 men seize a train . denver july 28 . - at midnight last night the streets were deserted and everything was quiet . lynched the itallan murderer , has just hat been arrested ."
2780,8298_0.txt,"The Iowa plain dealer (New Oregon, How...)",1891,"at reno , nev . , louis ortiz , a well known desperate character , was lynched by a",mob,for fatally officer nash . shooting
2781,8298_1.txt,"The Iowa plain dealer (New Oregon, How...)",1891,"anton o . sieboldt , who murdered james meehan a week ago , was taken from the county jail at darlington wis . , by a",mob,"and lynched . ,"
2782,8301_0.txt,NA,1891,"new capital offense . denver , colo . , may 5 . - at 10 o'clocking saturday night the police were . summoned hastily to west denver , where a",mob,"was in the act of lynching a china man named wing lee . the neighbor hood has been unhealthy of late , and an examination was made of the cellars occupied by celestials . the filth and stench was several frightful , and this so en raged the people that"
2783,8303_1.txt,"The Globe-republican (Dodge City, Kan...)",1891,"john rose and john edwards , convicted of a double murder , were shot to death by",masked,"men , who broke the jail at zealandi , wash . into"
2784,8303_1.txt,"The Globe-republican (Dodge City, Kan...)",1891,"john rose and john edwards , convicted of a double murder , were shot to death by",masked men,", who broke the jail at zealandi , wash . into"
2785,8304_0.txt,NA,1887,the nebraska city lynching . denver republican . a,mob,"at nebraska city has lynched shel lenberger , who was convicted of murdering his own child . although mob law is always wrong , there are times when it assumes such phases as to make it almost excusable . such a case was that of shellenberger , if he was"
2786,8304_0.txt,NA,1887,"the nebraska city lynching . denver republican . a mob at nebraska city has lynched shel lenberger , who was convicted of murdering his own child . although",mob,"law is always wrong , there are times when it assumes such phases as to make it almost excusable . such a case was that of shellenberger , if he was indeed guilty of the crime of which he was convicted in view of the fact that there was danger"
2787,8305_1.txt,"New Ulm weekly review (New Ulm, Minn.)",1891,avenged the murderers of chief hennessy are shot by indignant citizens new orleans . of,mob,"of over three thousand headed by prominent men of city do the job . the new orleans , march 16- new orleans struck the mafia a death blow to- day . it rose in its might almost at midday and wreaked a terrible vengeance upon the sicilian assassins who relentlessly"
2788,8305_1.txt,"New Ulm weekly review (New Ulm, Minn.)",1891,"death at the hands of the enraged ulace : pop manuel polietz , pietro monastro , antonio scaffedi , joseph p . macheca , antonio marchesi , bagnetto , frank romero , jim caruso , antonio rocco gerachi , charles trahine and comitez . it was not an unruly midnight",mob,". it was simply a sullen , determined body of citizens who took into their hands what justice had ignominously failed own to do . last night a body of cool- headed men , lawyers , doctors , merchants and political leaders- all persons of influence and social standing- quietly"
2789,8305_1.txt,"New Ulm weekly review (New Ulm, Minn.)",1891,"was produced . then the leader called for some one who knew the right men , and volunteer responded and the door was thrown open . the gallery was deserted , but an old woman , speaking as fast as could , said the men were up stairs . she",a party of,"seven or eight quickly ascended the stair case , and as they reached the landing the assassins filed down at the other end . half a dozen followed them . scarcely a word was spoken . it was time for action . the filled with lead . deadly rain of"
2790,8305_1.txt,"New Ulm weekly review (New Ulm, Minn.)",1891,"the reports of the murderous bang weapons and a poured into the ching figures . manuel polietz and antonio bagnetto , were hanged and their bodies riddled with bullets , the rest of the assassins were shot . as soon as the bloody work was done the leaders addressed the",mob,"and asked disperse . them this they consented to do with a ringing shout , but first they made a rush for park erson , and , litting him bodily , supported him on their shoulders while they marched up the street . the avengers came back in body to"
2791,8305_1.txt,"New Ulm weekly review (New Ulm, Minn.)",1891,"orleans , going from his of fice to his home was waylaid and shot to pieces by a band of italian assassins , armed with such blunderbusses as could only have been made and used for the purpose of sassination . as the indignation and the excitement was such that",mob,"law and lynching were about to be resorted to . to allay excite ment and to assist the constituted authorities , the mayor of the city appointed a committee of fifty representative citizens to take charge of the investigations and to aid the trial and conviction of the assassins measure"
2792,8308_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1889,"man of 17 years , assisted the vigilantes , even pulling on the which sent his father rope into eternity . after the rope around olsen's was first placed neck he told that his life was would be spared if he would leave the county . probably thinking that his",captors,"were only trying to frighten him , olsen was obstinate and his only reply was a volley of oaths . a prominent farmer is said to have been the and leader of the mob , which organizer numbered about 100 in all ."
2793,8308_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1889,"life was would be spared if he would leave the county . probably thinking that his captors were only trying to frighten him , olsen was obstinate and his only reply was a volley of oaths . a prominent farmer is said to have been the and leader of the",mob,", which organizer numbered about 100 in all ."
2794,8314_0.txt,"The Chanute times (Chanute, Kan.)",1897,"william andrews , a negro , was convicted of assault and sentenced to death maryland . a",mob,took him from the in officers and killed him .
2795,8321_0.txt,NA,1912,double murderer lynched north dakota,mob,"takes man jail and hangs him . from steele , n . d . , nov . 9 . - george baker , imprisoned in the kidder county jail here on a charge of murder , was taken from prison by an infuriated mob and lynched . this was the"
2796,8321_0.txt,NA,1912,"double murderer lynched north dakota mob takes man jail and hangs him . from steele , n . d . , nov . 9 . - george baker , imprisoned in the kidder county jail here on a charge of murder , was taken from prison by an infuriated",mob,and lynched . this was the first in the state in a decade . lynching
2797,8328_0.txt,"The Globe-republican (Dodge City, Kan...)",1898,". this is the tragie denouement of the assassination of john t . orr , a wealthy merchant , a few nights ago . the wife died from a dose of poison , self- administered , while the negroes , her associates in crime , were strung up by a",mob,"of citizens . miss morris , the jewess implicated in the assasination , was not hanged , she having disappeared . the lynched are : manse castle , dennis ricord , ella weaver , susie jacobs , will saunders . late saturday night john t . orr was assassinated ."
2798,8330_0.txt,"The daily morning Astorian (Astoria, Oregon)",1889,"were missing , threatened to burn and plunder the town . quick work in kentucky . owensboro , ky . , dec . 19 . - last night doc jones , a negro barber , while drunk , shot john westerfield ( white ) dead . early this morning a",mob,"took jones from jail and lynched him . the montana muddle . helena , mont . , dec . 19 . - little transpired in either house of the legislature this morning . after the roll call the senate took a recess tíll 2 p . m . , and"
2799,8331_0.txt,"Democratic Northwest (Napoleon, Ohio)",1889,"a negro burglar lynched . new 20 . - the times democrat's monroe , la . , special says that a negro burglar belonging to a gang that have been robbing residences around columbia was captured friday night , and while being taken to jail was captured by a",mob,and lynched . he fessed his guilt . con
2800,8332_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,"s . c . , jan . 9 . - simon cooper , the negro outlaw who murdered three mem bers of the wilson family and a colored servant , was lynched near here . cooper was captured by the sheriff's posse and was being taken to sumter when the",mob,"decided to hang him . the deputy sheriff , aided by two men , resisted . the lynchers , but were overpowered . a rope was thrown over the limb of a tree , and as the man swung upward the body was pierced by more than 150 bullets ."
2801,8332_1.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,"mr . turbeville of florence , and the party started for town . the crowd of nearly 100 men fol lowed . there were mutterings of lynch ing , but the trouble did not culminato un til green swamp was reached , about two miles from sumter . then the",mob,"demanded cooper's surrender . the officers were overpowered and the negro lynched as related . the coroner's jury returned a verdict that , cooper "" came to his death at the hands of a mob whose members are known to the jury . "" un"
2802,8332_1.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,"un til green swamp was reached , about two miles from sumter . then the mob demanded cooper's surrender . the officers were overpowered and the negro lynched as related . the coroner's jury returned a verdict that , cooper "" came to his death at the hands of a",mob,"whose members are known to the jury . "" un"
2803,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,,mob,"strings up murderers at yreka , california . bad lot , if guilty farmers of the vicinity take an active part . jail is entered by strategy prisoners taken out and hanged separately . garland seemler remembers his mother- no time for statements or anything but hanging- old- time scenes"
2804,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,"jail is entered by strategy prisoners taken out and hanged separately . garland seemler remembers his mother- no time for statements or anything but hanging- old- time scenes . — yreka , cal . , aug . 26 . - four murderers were taken from the county jail by a",mob,"of 250 men at o'clock this morning and lynched . a band of citizens , fear- ing that the law would not be carried out and angered over the atrocity of re cent crimes , determined to take matters into their own hands . the lynching was the ghastly climax"
2805,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,"back louis moreno and garland seemler , who are supposed to have killed george sears and casper meirerhans at bailey hill on august 5 were also hanged . at 11 o'clock last night farmers from all of the surrounding country began to drive into town , and by midnight the",mob,"was ready to march to the county jail . before taking a step , however , every precaution was taken to prevent the plans of the lynchers being frustrated by the officers of the law . the sheriff and one of his deputies were de toyed to another part of"
2806,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,"county jail . before taking a step , however , every precaution was taken to prevent the plans of the lynchers being frustrated by the officers of the law . the sheriff and one of his deputies were de toyed to another part of town by two members of the",mob,"who were engaged in a sham fight and the fire bell was muffled to prevent an alarm being given in that way . when the jail was reached a number of the men , all of whom were masked , awakened under sheriff radford and demanded the keys from him"
2807,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,"toyed to another part of town by two members of the mob who were engaged in a sham fight and the fire bell was muffled to prevent an alarm being given in that way . when the jail was reached a number of the men , all of whom were",masked,", awakened under sheriff radford and demanded the keys from him . he positively refused to open the door or give the keys up , telling them that if they broke in the doors he would blow their brains out . finding that radford was determined not to give them"
2808,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,"the jail since the commitment of so many murderers , thinking some one was escaping from the jail , fired two shots out of the win dow to alarm city marshal parks and deputy sheriff radford . he then open ed the doors and was immediately held up by the",mob,"who took the keys from him and entered the jail . having no keys to the different cells they were compelled to burst the locks with a sledge hammer , which they proceeded to do at once . lawrence h . johnson , who brutally stabbed his wife to death"
2809,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,"they were compelled to burst the locks with a sledge hammer , which they proceeded to do at once . lawrence h . johnson , who brutally stabbed his wife to death at etna on sunday evening , july 28 , was the first to receive the attention of the",mob,". they broke the lock from the door of his cell and placing a rope around his neck , led him out of the jail and across the street to where an iron rail was laid between the forks of two locust trees . johnson pleaded for mercy but the"
2810,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,"across the street to where an iron rail was laid between the forks of two locust trees . johnson pleaded for mercy but the silent gathering gave no heed to his ap peals and he was quickly strung up , dying from strangulation in a few min utes . the",mob,"returned to the jail and next broke into the cell of william null , who shot henry hayter at callahan's on april 21 in a dispute over a mining property . null desired to make a state ment , but time was too valuable to per mit any such preliminaries"
2811,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,", arrived on the scene and , starting for the jail door , was commanded to halt , the command being em hasized by the display of several revolvers . he was told that the "" job had been done . "" by this time the greater part of the",mob,"had dispersed , leaving only about thirty or forty men on guard , who soon left after the sheriff arrived . the bodies were taken down by cor oner schofield and marshal parks , who removed them in a wagon to an engine house , where they were laid side"
2812,8335_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1895,"oner schofield and marshal parks , who removed them in a wagon to an engine house , where they were laid side by side . the coroner has summoned a jury to hold an inquest . yreka is a little mining town and yars ago was frequently the scene of",mob,violence . the sumary manner in which justice was meted to the four murderers this morning reminded the pioneers of similar scenes during the gold excite- ment forty years ago when it was not an uncommon spectacle to awaken in the morning and see the body of a notorious criminal
2813,8336_0.txt,"Daily inter mountain (Butte, Mont.)",1901,"leavenworth , kan . , jan . 15 . - crowds still surrounded the walls of the state penitentiary at lansing today , bent on lynching fred alexander , the negro charged with attempted assault , in case the officials should start with him for leavenworth for trial . a",mob,stood about the penitentiary last night and hooted speechmakers who counselled that the law be permitted to take its course . sheriff everhard and his deputies started to the penitentiary shortly after noon to bring alexander to the county jail . if this step is taken it is believed that
2814,8339_1.txt,"The Paducah daily sun (Paducah, Ky.)",1896,"the unenviable record the state of kentucky has so rapidly made recently , is to be deeply deplored by all good citizens . the contagion of",mob,violence seems to have spread with most alarming rapidity . the lynching the negro holt at owens boro is in of many of its features with
2815,8340_0.txt,NA,1901,"three years . smithville , tenn . , aug . 4 . - the first lynching in the annals of dekalb coun ty took place yesterday morning when charley davis , who was charged with criminal assault on miss kate hues , was taken from the court house by a",mob,of about twenty- five friends and relatives of the young lady and hanged about a quarter of a mile from town . the assault on miss hues was committed last sunday evening and mon day morning davis was taken before a magistrate . he submitted his case and the trial
2816,8340_0.txt,NA,1901,"shots were fired in the crowd before he and davis was captured could jump . the sheriff and one of his who were constable , deputies and a trying to prevent the lynching , together with the father of the defendant , severely injured in a clash with the were",mob,.
2817,8342_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1896,general news . a,mob,"lynched two men at glencoe , minn , on saturday . they had killed a farmer and were pursued by sheriff rogers and a deputy . the men resisted arrest and the sheriff was shot they had their trial last week and were found guilty of murder in the second"
2818,8350_0.txt,"The Adair County news (Columbia, Ky.)",1908,"down the republican majority in adair county . less get busy and keep moving until the november election . four negroes were lynched at , russellville last saturday morn ing . they were taken from jail , a charged with being implicated in the killing of a white man .",mob,"law should be condemned by all good citizens . when accused are in custody they should be of given the benefit of a fair trial . a fireman on the steamer horda , was taken to the swinburne island hospital at new york in suffering from yellow fever . the"
2819,8351_0.txt,"The Paducah daily sun (Paducah, Ky.)",1897,"murderer to the jail , but was kept at bay by the officers . a",mob,"is now forming for the purpose of lynching the negro strikers . glaim gains . members of the mob that lynched sullivan yesterday before daylight . the action of the mob is , however , approved . generally williamsburg , ky . , aug . 23 ."
2820,8351_0.txt,"The Paducah daily sun (Paducah, Ky.)",1897,"murderer to the jail , but was kept at bay by the officers . a mob is now forming for the purpose of lynching the negro strikers . glaim gains . members of the",mob,"that lynched sullivan yesterday before daylight . the action of the mob is , however , approved . generally williamsburg , ky . , aug . 23 ."
2821,8351_0.txt,"The Paducah daily sun (Paducah, Ky.)",1897,"murderer to the jail , but was kept at bay by the officers . a mob is now forming for the purpose of lynching the negro strikers . glaim gains . members of the mob that lynched sullivan yesterday before daylight . the action of the",mob,"is , however , approved . generally williamsburg , ky . , aug . 23 ."
2822,8355_1.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1908,"middleton , tenn . , july 14th . -members of a",mob,"of 100 or more fought among themselves for four hours as to whether to lynch a negro , hugh jones , or bring him on to middleton and turn him over to the officers . outnumbered , the adherents of law and order were routed , and at daylight jones"
2823,8356_0.txt,"Red Lodge picket (Red Lodge, Mont...)",1897,"women and two children , and the fiend shot them down and left them dead where they fell . he also shot at six other negroes , who narrowly escaped . as soon as the bloody work of sibley was discovered the most intense excite ment prevailed , and a",mob,"was organized to lynch the murderer . sibley took to the woods , carrying his shotgun with him , and at last accounts the mob had surrounded him and a bloody fight imminent was ."
2824,8356_0.txt,"Red Lodge picket (Red Lodge, Mont...)",1897,"negroes , who narrowly escaped . as soon as the bloody work of sibley was discovered the most intense excite ment prevailed , and a mob was organized to lynch the murderer . sibley took to the woods , carrying his shotgun with him , and at last accounts the",mob,had surrounded him and a bloody fight imminent was .
2825,8357_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1898,john becker lynched . murderer of a girl meets death at hands of a,mob,". at great bend , kan . , in the public square a murderer was lynched the other evening by a mob of probably 500 persons . the victim was john becker , a white man , 50 killed myrtle huffmeister , the 16- year- old daughter of william huffmeister"
2826,8357_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1898,"john becker lynched . murderer of a girl meets death at hands of a mob . at great bend , kan . , in the public square a murderer was lynched the other evening by a",mob,"of probably 500 persons . the victim was john becker , a white man , 50 killed myrtle huffmeister , the 16- year- old daughter of william huffmeister , a farm er , living near there . becker was taken from the jail at hutchinson to great in bend for"
2827,8357_0.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1898,", a white man , 50 killed myrtle huffmeister , the 16- year- old daughter of william huffmeister , a farm er , living near there . becker was taken from the jail at hutchinson to great in bend for preliminary examination . the early part of the evening the",mob,"was swarming around the jail . evidently believing that he could outwit the lynchers by flight , the sheriff rushed becker from the jail to his buggy , but he had no sooner done so than he and his men and the prisoner were surrounded . seizing the murderer ,"
2828,8357_1.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1898,"river review . o . b . moon , publisher . eagle river , . . wisconsin . negroes strung up . five murderers lynched in alabama . the slayers of three aged people feel the vengeance of a",mob-,"favorable view of present commercial conditions taken by bradstreet's . soldiery arrived too late . the men who murdered mr . carden and his wife and an old man named carlee , near wetumpka , ala . , have been lynched . gov . johnston received a message from the"
2829,8357_1.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1898,"present commercial conditions taken by bradstreet's . soldiery arrived too late . the men who murdered mr . carden and his wife and an old man named carlee , near wetumpka , ala . , have been lynched . gov . johnston received a message from the sheriff that a",mob,"was assembling . he feared his prisoners would be taken from him , and so asked for troops . the governor soon got together about ninety men of the montgomery militia and sent them to wetumpka on a special train . before they reached there , however , the mob"
2830,8357_1.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1898,"mob was assembling . he feared his prisoners would be taken from him , and so asked for troops . the governor soon got together about ninety men of the montgomery militia and sent them to wetumpka on a special train . before they reached there , however , the",mob,"had secured the prisoners- five in number and taken them to the scene of the murder . four of the negroes confess ed to having participated in the crime , and one of them told where he had hid the money . he was compelled to find it , and"
2831,8357_1.txt,"Eagle River review (Eagle River, Wi...)",1898,"one of them told where he had hid the money . he was compelled to find it , and in a few minutes , near the scene of the crime , all five were swung up and their bodies riddled with bullets . the militia was unable to follow the",mob,", as the men were all well mounted and no means of conveyance was at hand to take the soldiers after them . in the morning efforts were made to find the negroes , and about 11 o'clock news came over the telephone from wetumpka that they had been found"
2832,8358_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1891,doubtful if mckinley's achievement is striking enough to vindicate his policy or to ad vance his claims to a presidential nomination . it may be taken for granted the result will thrust into the background the united states government's policy of bullying chile . murdered his child . a topeka,mob,"thirsting for an inhuman father's blood . topeka , kan . , nov . 4 . - frank mc lain , a scavenger , is under arrest for the murder of his nine- months- old son . the child died yesterday . mclain has three daughters who told in school"
2833,8358_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1891,"the body was bruised in several places , and the left leg was broken . the coroner's jury decided that death was the result of wilful , malicious , inhuman treatment at the hands of mclain . as soon as the result of the inquest was generally known , a",mob,"began to collect around the city jail , clamoring for the murderer's life . the officers assured the leaders that mclain was not confined there . a committee searched the jail and reported that the prisoner was not to be found . the mob then made a search of the"
2834,8358_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1891,"inquest was generally known , a mob began to collect around the city jail , clamoring for the murderer's life . the officers assured the leaders that mclain was not confined there . a committee searched the jail and reported that the prisoner was not to be found . the",mob,"then made a search of the courthouse . the sheriff assured them that he was removed be beyond their reach . it is believed that mclain ie secreted in the insane asylum and the mob may determine to search that place . at midnight the mob dispersed , hav ing"
2835,8358_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1891,searched the jail and reported that the prisoner was not to be found . the mob then made a search of the courthouse . the sheriff assured them that he was removed be beyond their reach . it is believed that mclain ie secreted in the insane asylum and the,mob,"may determine to search that place . at midnight the mob dispersed , hav ing concluded it was useless to make further search for the murderer . outgrew their capital . w . r . strong & co . , fruit shippers , forced to assign . sacramento , nov"
2836,8358_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1891,be found . the mob then made a search of the courthouse . the sheriff assured them that he was removed be beyond their reach . it is believed that mclain ie secreted in the insane asylum and the mob may determine to search that place . at midnight the,mob,"dispersed , hav ing concluded it was useless to make further search for the murderer . outgrew their capital . w . r . strong & co . , fruit shippers , forced to assign . sacramento , nov . 4 . -w . r . strong & company ,"
2837,8358_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1891,". it is thought that private parties will buy the course and put it on a firmer basis . a double lynching . bastrop , la . , nov . 4 . -w . s . felton and j . t . smith were taken from jail here by a",mob,"and hanged . the parties were accused of having murdered j . dykus some months ago . a surprise party . philadelphia , nov . 4 . - roger conner and dan richardson , of the new york league team , today signed a three years ' contract with the"
2838,8360_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1892,negro murderers lynched . seven hundred vicksburg citizens execute,mob,"law . local light artillerymen refuse to defend the jail . iry associated press . 1 vicksburg , miss . . july 6 . - smith tooley and john i . . adams , allas totch , were hanged about 12.20 o'clock this morning in the courthouse yard by a"
2839,8360_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1892,"law . local light artillerymen refuse to defend the jail . iry associated press . 1 vicksburg , miss . . july 6 . - smith tooley and john i . . adams , allas totch , were hanged about 12.20 o'clock this morning in the courthouse yard by a",mob,"of fully 700 white citizens . the warren light artillery declined to defend the jail and the crowd had no resist- ance . tooley was found alone in his cell and was knocked down and taken out into the street in front of the jall , where he was cross-"
2840,8360_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1892,"lynching in west virginia . by associated press . 1 wheeling , w . va . , july 6 . - edgar jones , colorea , who murdered michael tierney mon day night , was taken out of jail at weston lewis county , at 2.30 this morning by a",mob,and hanged . large
2841,8361_0.txt,"Grant County herald (Lancaster, Wis.)",1891,"iron works at new- castle were gutted by fire and 800 hands were thrown out of employment . loss , $ 300,000 . john bennett , who criminally assaulted two 18- year- old girls- nola smith and jennie stockdale- at sel- lersburg . ind . . was lynched by a",mob,". a fire in quebec destroyed twenty- nine houses . in the national league the percent ages of the baseball clubs for the week ended on the 12th were : chi cago , . 627 : boston , . 589 ; new york , . 568 ; philadelphia , 517"
2842,8364_0.txt,NA,1893,"been caused by the copeland murder . as she was retiring a man struck her in the face with a hammer , and it was several hours before she recovered and gave the alarm . -isaac harper , a negro . was lynched by a calera . ala . .",mob,"of enraged white and colored people . harper broke into the house of h . m ender and assaulted his wife . ender is a railroad man . the negro was in his employ and was discharged and took this mode of revenge . -a : seattle , wash ."
2843,8366_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1897,"capturing johnson and letaining him on suspicion the order also gives credit to detectives weedon and lacey , who secured the evidence which led johnson to confess and which would probably have convicted him had he re fused to tell the story . make short work of bonner . texas",mob,"lynches a negro who confessed to rape . belleville , tex . , aug . 26 . - at 2 o'clock this morning a mob of 200 men took a young negro named bonner from jail , where he was incarcerated charged with criminal assault upon mrs . zachon ,"
2844,8366_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1897,"to confess and which would probably have convicted him had he re fused to tell the story . make short work of bonner . texas mob lynches a negro who confessed to rape . belleville , tex . , aug . 26 . - at 2 o'clock this morning a",mob,"of 200 men took a young negro named bonner from jail , where he was incarcerated charged with criminal assault upon mrs . zachon , an aged white woman , near milheim , and lynched him in the woods half a mile from town , after he had confessed the"
2845,8366_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1897,"took a young negro named bonner from jail , where he was incarcerated charged with criminal assault upon mrs . zachon , an aged white woman , near milheim , and lynched him in the woods half a mile from town , after he had confessed the crime . the",mob,"had first to intimidate the sheriff to get the keys . the same negro was suspected of three other crimes of like nature . charged with criminal assault . ridgeway , ill . , aug . 26 . - joe wade , a brother of bill wade , who killed"
2846,8368_0.txt,"The World (Martinsburg, W....)",1891,"child come no . out every man , acting on a common impulse , rushed angrily upon the chinaman , who stood like a guard at the door . he realized his danger . hastily opening the door he jumped inside and closed it again in the face of the",mob,". detective john o'rourke , of the sixth precinct , and detective- sergt . john o'brien , of the central office , were standing on the corner of mott street . they saw the child , too . o'brien walked up to her quickly and asked her what she had"
2847,8368_0.txt,"The World (Martinsburg, W....)",1891,"they saw the child , too . o'brien walked up to her quickly and asked her what she had been doing in the basement store . she was frighten ed and began to cry . o'brien turned her over to a policeman to take to the station house . the",mob,"that had gathered in front of the place had worked itself up to a frenzy of excitement . mad efforts were made to burst open the door , which had been barricaded within . the glass windows were shattered . o'rourke entered . o'brien turned in the doorway and faced"
2848,8368_0.txt,"The World (Martinsburg, W....)",1891,"one of the chinamen . again the cries of "" lynch them ! "" went up and one man who carried a rope with a noose in the end threw it like a lasso at one of the prisoners . the rope struck o'rourke . the police then charged the",mob,", which was becoming dangerous , and succeeded in holding it back until the chinamen were safe within the station house , detective o'brien and another officer remained in charge of the base ment at . the police station the prisoners a town , improve the streets of the town"
2849,8371_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1894,"grand jury , judge j . g . cooper issued a bench warrant for assistant jailer will cox on a charge of perjury . cox , who was in the ante- room waiting to appear before the grand jury , was arrested and jailed . it is reported that the",mob,"which shot the negroes did not consist of over ten people . ten men would not have made the attack , unless they had had an understanding with richardson . the whole plot will be laid bare , at least , that is what the officers say . to thank"
2850,8371_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1894,"purpose purpose of publicly thanking gov . turney , judge cooper and the white citizens of memphis for the determination they have shown to bring the millington lynchers to justice . funds will also be raised for the widows and orphans of the six negroes who were murdered by the",mob,". the plot laid bare . the whole plot of the kerrville lynch is now laid bare . before many hours elapse , it is thought every one who had anything to do with the affair , or the majority of them , will be behind the bars . bob"
2851,8371_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1894,"lynching in louisiana . a desperado riddled and a bloody feud thought possible . minden , la . , sept . 9 . - link waggoner , a noted desperado of north louisiana and eastern texas , was shot to death in his cell in the parish jail by a",mob,"last night at 1 o'clock . waggoner , for the past five years , had been a terror in that country . innumerable mur ders are laid at his door , and his robberies most daring were . he was captured about two months ago at nacogdoches , tex ,"
2852,8371_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1894,brought to homer in clayborne county and tried on a charge of murder . the case was not proven against him and he was sent to the jail here for safe keeping to await trial on other charges against him . while at homer an attempt was made by a,mob,"to kill him , but single- handed- having in some unaccountable manner obtained possession of a pistol- he kept the whole mob at bay until assistance arrived . last night the jail here was broken into by a mob of seventy- five , who shot him dead in his cell"
2853,8371_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1894,"he was sent to the jail here for safe keeping to await trial on other charges against him . while at homer an attempt was made by a mob to kill him , but single- handed- having in some unaccountable manner obtained possession of a pistol- he kept the whole",mob,"at bay until assistance arrived . last night the jail here was broken into by a mob of seventy- five , who shot him dead in his cell and then dispersed waggoner has . three brothers in nacogdoches , and it is believed they will make an attempt to avenge"
2854,8371_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1894,"him . while at homer an attempt was made by a mob to kill him , but single- handed- having in some unaccountable manner obtained possession of a pistol- he kept the whole mob at bay until assistance arrived . last night the jail here was broken into by a",mob,"of seventy- five , who shot him dead in his cell and then dispersed waggoner has . three brothers in nacogdoches , and it is believed they will make an attempt to avenge his death . the desperado had a good many friends in this section of the country and"
2855,8373_0.txt,NA,1896,"and land were at the bottom of the present troubles in the transvaal and elsewhere . the two men who murdered cashier dorsey of the city national bank in wachita falls , tex . , on tuesday , and then looted the bank , were taken from jail by a",mob,"wednesday night and lynched to a telegraph pole . a conference of leading silver men of iowa was held in des moines wednesday . there is said to be a strong prospect that boies will be put forward as the choice of the silver party for president , as an"
2856,8375_0.txt,"Reporter and farmer (Webster, Day Co...)",1896,"while she was on her way to school . gaston and anna pelessier of detroit , mich . , arrested at toronto , can . , on the charge of theft , waived extradi- tion in the police court and will go back to michigan to stand trial . the",mob,"which hung and killed the procters at russellville , ky . , if reports are true , are determined to rid the county of a number of worthless and dangerous characters . a bloody battle was fought at a dance given at the home of david williams , in letcher"
2857,8378_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1915,"4151 , no . 4151 whitehall bldg . n . y . city has been inued te this paper . tuesday aug . 17 , 1915 shame added to shame . eo m . frank , alleged slayer of mary phagan , has l been taken from prison by a",mob,"and lynched . georgia's measure of shame has been filled to over flowing . her officials , who permitted such a crime to be committed , are the objects of the nation's condemna . tion and contempt . a large majority of the people of the united states believed honestly"
2858,8382_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1900,to the ground . nebraska,mob,"is outwitted . attempt to lynch the slayer of rulo's towa marshal fails . town marshal wake of rulo , neb . , was shot and instantly killed by a drunk en man whom he had placed under arrest , and the lynching of the murderer was averted only by"
2859,8382_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1900,"to lynch the slayer of rulo's towa marshal fails . town marshal wake of rulo , neb . , was shot and instantly killed by a drunk en man whom he had placed under arrest , and the lynching of the murderer was averted only by the outwitting of a",mob,"by the authorities , who hurried him secretly away from the town . william hunt was the man's name , and when marshal wake arrested him for drunkenness he resisted , and , pulling his revolver , shot the officer twice in the breast . he confessed to the crime"
2860,8382_0.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1900,", who hurried him secretly away from the town . william hunt was the man's name , and when marshal wake arrested him for drunkenness he resisted , and , pulling his revolver , shot the officer twice in the breast . he confessed to the crime and a determined",mob,"quickly formed and advanced on the jail where hunt was confined . the authorities received warning in time and hustled the man off to falls city , county seat . the"
2861,8382_1.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1900,sheriff outwits armed,mob,". a mob numbering 500 armed men congregated at the brazil . ind . , fair grounds and planned to raid the county jail and lynch samuel harmon , who murdered young charles reynolds . sheriff kling ler heard of the coming of the mob and spirited the prisoner away"
2862,8382_1.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1900,sheriff outwits armed mob . a,mob,"numbering 500 armed men congregated at the brazil . ind . , fair grounds and planned to raid the county jail and lynch samuel harmon , who murdered young charles reynolds . sheriff kling ler heard of the coming of the mob and spirited the prisoner away to the county"
2863,8382_1.txt,"Vernon County censor (Viroqua, Wis.)",1900,"sheriff outwits armed mob . a mob numbering 500 armed men congregated at the brazil . ind . , fair grounds and planned to raid the county jail and lynch samuel harmon , who murdered young charles reynolds . sheriff kling ler heard of the coming of the",mob,and spirited the prisoner away to the county jail . vigo
2864,8383_0.txt,"The Waxahachie daily light (Waxahachie, Tex...)",1911,"alleged lynchers are placed under arrest . grand jury recommends the arrest of four men at coalsville . associated press special . coalsville , pa . , sept . 20 . war rants charging two alleged members of the",mob,"which lynched a negro near here on august 20 with mur der , and two policemen with invoi untary manslaughter , were issued judge butler on recoin today by mendation of grand jury . read the daily the light want ads"
2865,8385_0.txt,"The Maui news (Wailuku, Maui, ...)",1908,haas an ex- convict whom he had exposed during the last reuf trial . the bullet struck him in the head but did not penetrate the brain . he will recover . the trial was postponed until monday and ruef was taken jail to prevent his being lynched by the,mob,. to
2866,8386_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1913,"negro who scared woman , caught by",mob,"and lynched louisville , miss . , sept . 23 . - hanging by the neck from a blackjack limb , the body of henry crosby was found in a wood near here this morning by officers who were searching for the black with the intention of arresting him ."
2867,8386_0.txt,"Americus times-recorder (Americus, Ga.)",1913,"the kitchen of mrs . carroll , who was pre paring dinner . frightened nearly into hysterics by the negro's strange ac tions , she ran from the house with her infant in her arms , to the home of a neighbor and told him of the affair . a",mob,is said to have formed immediately the negro was captured after a chase . and lynched .
2868,8399_0.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1873,", in aroostook as well as in southern counties , are accessible to all , and the criminal would have had to pay the penalty for his deed which the law provides , even to hanging had he been found guilty . how much better is the act of the",mob,than that of the murderer ? they justify themselves by pleading that the assassin deserved death ; he perhaps may have had real or fancied wrongs which he believed a suffi- cient justification for taking life . the law of the mob is wicked and dangerous . there is no
2869,8399_0.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1873,how much better is the act of the mob than that of the murderer ? they justify themselves by pleading that the assassin deserved death ; he perhaps may have had real or fancied wrongs which he believed a suffi- cient justification for taking life . the law of the,mob,"is wicked and dangerous . there is no limit to the evil which it may inflict . no community with a proper re- gard for the rights ef life and property , where the courts are accessible , will re- sort to lynching . this act will be a blight"
2870,8399_0.txt,"Daily Kennebec journal (Augusta, Me.)",1873,"cul len's house in mapleton , wednesday morn ing , but mrs . cullen declared her husband was not in . search was made , however , and he was found secreted in the cellar . he was dragged from his place of concealment , securely bound , and his",captors,"started to bring him into presque isle . on their way they were met by a party from that village , who took possession of the prisoner , led him under a tall tree , gave him a few minutes for prayer , put a noose over his neck with"
2871,8400_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1884,"them with threats . two of the jurors had to be taken out through the jail tunnel . the lynching of the four murderers in jail and the berner jury is suggested everywhere , to night , and it is believed that there would be but little resistance to a",mob,"by the increased force of guards in the jail building . everybody is advocating lynching , but there is no noisy talk and no visible preparation for it . but nobody would be surprised if the deed done before morning . was"
2872,8402_0.txt,"Shenandoah herald (Woodstock, Va.)",1868,lynch law in indiana . four men hanged by a,mob-,"desperate struggle of one of the victims . a telegraphic dispatch in yesterday's paper mentioned the hanging of four men in indiana by a vigilance committee . the following particulars are taken from the yesterday papers of : louisville , ky , december 12 . - a vigilance committee ,"
2873,8402_0.txt,"Shenandoah herald (Woodstock, Va.)",1868,"albany to lynch the express robers . additional particulars . louisville , dec . 12- additional ticulars of the tragedy at new albany par have been received . about 3 o'clock this morning luther whitten , of the outside guards at the jail , was met at the entrance by",a party of,"men , who presented pistols at him , demanding silence or death . whitten shouted , how ever , but was seized , knocked down , and imformed if another shout was uttered he should die . by this time the jail office was filled with men searching for the"
2874,8402_0.txt,"Shenandoah herald (Woodstock, Va.)",1868,"room , where his wife lay in bed , and demanded the jail keys of her , which she refused to give ; but they found them concealed in a drawer . thomas matthews , of the inside guard , was compelled to open the cells of the men the",mob,"had determined to hang . frank and wm . reno were the first victims . they were dragged out and hung along side of each other on the same pillars.-- simon keno was then brought out , but he fought the mob with great desperation , knocking one or two"
2875,8402_0.txt,"Shenandoah herald (Woodstock, Va.)",1868,"to open the cells of the men the mob had determined to hang . frank and wm . reno were the first victims . they were dragged out and hung along side of each other on the same pillars.-- simon keno was then brought out , but he fought the",mob,"with great desperation , knocking one or two down before he was over- powered , and left suspended between the ceiling and the floor . charles anderson was the last victim . he was heard to beg for the privilege of praying , but this request was refused , and"
2876,8402_0.txt,"Shenandoah herald (Woodstock, Va.)",1868,"ceiling and the floor . charles anderson was the last victim . he was heard to beg for the privilege of praying , but this request was refused , and he was hung at the southwest corner of the jail . after further threats to kill the sheriff , the",mob,"proceeded to town , carrying with then the jail keys . from the jail to the train armed men stood guard to prevent any alarm being given . at 4 o'clock the train , with the entire party , consisting of from seventy five to a hundred men , start"
2877,8405_0.txt,"Chicago tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1867,"kentucky the reports of outrages , hangings ,",mob,"law and violence of every kind , that come to us from kentucky , are the fit accompaniment of the news that the democracy have elected every congressman in the state . it is true that one of the congressmen elect bas since committed suicide by blowing out his brains"
2878,8405_0.txt,"Chicago tribune (Chicago, Ill.)",1867,"per mit him to do nothing but harm to the country . who could expect anything but a copper head victory in a state where one day we are informed that a whole county is in urmed insurrection against the officers of the law , and the next that a",mob,"has broken into a jail , and , dragging forth a prisoner , hung him to a convenient tree- where offl cers are shot by stealth in the discharge of their duty ? where detachments of united states soldiers are attacked and driven off ? and where , in short"
2879,8408_0.txt,The New York herald (New York [N.Y.]),1879,"considerable suffering , he got as far as parkers burg . just in time . there on saturday last he was captured and the fayette authorities notified just in time to save the life of another negro , believed to be lee . who was in the hands of a",mob,"down in the county , and who would otherwise have been hanged monday . in fact & great crowd was already in attendance awaiting the event . lee was put under the custody of an officer and sent from parkersburg to huntington by an ohio river steamer . his move"
2880,8408_0.txt,The New York herald (New York [N.Y.]),1879,"a coal mining centre , lee was escorted from the train and met by a thousand or more miners , who seemed to know the design of the escorting party , and who were ready to co- operate in avenging their outraged country woman . lee was taken by the",mob,", if so orderly and methodical a party of west virginia gentlemen can properly be so designated , some distance from station and hanged . it is said on one hand that the his prayers hanged . it is said on one hand that his prayers for mercy were piteous"
2881,8408_0.txt,The New York herald (New York [N.Y.]),1879,"escorted from the train and met by a thousand or more miners , who seemed to know the design of the escorting party , and who were ready to co- operate in avenging their outraged country woman . lee was taken by the mob , if so orderly and methodical",a party of,"west virginia gentlemen can properly be so designated , some distance from station and hanged . it is said on one hand that the his prayers hanged . it is said on one hand that his prayers for mercy were piteous indeed , and that he be sought the lynchers"
2882,8408_0.txt,The New York herald (New York [N.Y.]),1879,"somewhat reticent in the presence of newspaper men , but the long and short of the matter is , the oftence was a most barbarous one , the punishment was swift , terrible and deserved , and while there are some who lament the necessity for the people taking the",law into their own hands,", all agree that if ever mob violence was pardonable at all it was so in this instance . lee's father and mother are said to in richmond , near the jeff davis mansion . reside"
2883,8408_0.txt,The New York herald (New York [N.Y.]),1879,"long and short of the matter is , the oftence was a most barbarous one , the punishment was swift , terrible and deserved , and while there are some who lament the necessity for the people taking the law into their own hands , all agree that if ever",mob,"violence was pardonable at all it was so in this instance . lee's father and mother are said to in richmond , near the jeff davis mansion . reside"
2884,8412_0.txt,NA,1946,". from a political point of view today's lynching figures tell a story that must cause progressive americans seriously to think and also to act in self- defense . time favors reaction . in less than two months , four teen known lynchings of negro citizens have occurred ; two",mob,"actions inspired by white supre- macists are known ; a host of other sadistic acts of terror have taken place . this terror is not being confined to the south . new york , illinois , missouri , califor- , texas and in the north east and north west are"
2885,8413_0.txt,"Twin-City herald (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1934,st . joseph grand jury hits by indictments,mobs,"returned for eleven secret indictments st . joseph , mo . , jan . 3 . - the buchanan county grand jury last fri- day returned eleven secret indictments in connection with the lynching here recently of lloyd warner , 19 year- old youth accused of having at tacked a"
2886,8416_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"ruling class seeking to burn the boys in the electric chair , but against the mass defense movement and its leader , the communist party . it directly justified the lynch- action against the boys with the provocative declaration : "" it is more likely , however , that if",mobs,"break out in alabama and these eight boys are taken from the jail and lynched it would probably be due to the nonsensical activities of the communists , who , by their misguided energies , are finally driving the citizens of alabama to the point of desperation . "" the"
2887,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,""" we stopped their lynching , "" young negro woman tells relates how negro croppers and white workers in south carolina dispersed lynch",mob,"by determined resistance an interview by boris israel "" it was my brother , "" she tells me in a husky low tone , which carries in itself a whole world of bottled up determination . "" that's how i know this so well . "" she is a young"
2888,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"stops meetings "" if maybe three or four of us women would stand and talk together on the street they'd come up and ask us what kind of meeting we was holding , and what we was talking about . "" any meeting in a house was raided by these",mobs,", led by the police and the cotton mill overseers . then the leaders would be taken miles away from the town , clubbed and beaten and left in the ditch . "" anyways , we kept growing and building the organ- ization , "" this comrade says , simply"
2889,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"the white bosses was fixing to do . "" we decided we was going to stop this here lynching . we said even if some of us do get killed we was sure to defend ourselves . "" they went the home of the young prospective to victim of the",mob,"and hid him some where else . "" it was about thirty- five of us . it was twenty- eight men and two women . they crowded into the small , two room home and each took what he or she could for a weapon . "" we had chair"
2890,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,", two room home and each took what he or she could for a weapon . "" we had chair backs and pieces of wood and hoes and the woman of the house , she had a shot gun in bed with her . "" if they come in to",mob,"us , we're going to fight till we die , "" they decided . comrade welch gave instructions . she explained that they could get guns from some of the mob . defend ourselves "" when the fight starts . just don't start nothing . but we can sure de"
2891,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"the house , she had a shot gun in bed with her . "" if they come in to mob us , we're going to fight till we die , "" they decided . comrade welch gave instructions . she explained that they could get guns from some of the",mob,". defend ourselves "" when the fight starts . just don't start nothing . but we can sure de fend ourselves . "" they waited . in that stifling cabin , packed in with a space about the door and papers tacked over the windows , they waited . cars"
2892,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"just don't start nothing . but we can sure de fend ourselves . "" they waited . in that stifling cabin , packed in with a space about the door and papers tacked over the windows , they waited . cars drove into the street and stopped . the klan",mob,"was out in force . there were between thirty and thirty- five autos , according to a count made . two of the white mob leaders , a policeman one of them , threw open the door . "" they was surprised to see us there . they thought they"
2893,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"a space about the door and papers tacked over the windows , they waited . cars drove into the street and stopped . the klan mob was out in force . there were between thirty and thirty- five autos , according to a count made . two of the white",mob,"leaders , a policeman one of them , threw open the door . "" they was surprised to see us there . they thought they was just going to take that young boy out alone , beat up his mammy and papa and string him up to a tree ."
2894,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"a tree . they wanted to know what was we doing there . "" they started searching the men folks but the man of the house he wouldn't let them search him for his pistol . there was a little bit of a rumpus . then the rest of the",mob,"men came up there . i pushed back "" i jumped to the him door and pushed , the first of them back and told them they better stay out cause we in tended defending ourselves . they looked at the comrade in the bed with the shotgun raised up"
2895,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"at the comrade in the bed with the shotgun raised up at them and then they saw another comrade through the door and he had a gun , too , so they ran back to their autos . "" every one of us stood our ground . "" the two",mob,""" leaders "" begged to be allowed to leave , they begged for mercy , for their lives , they promised . they left . "" they couldn't get out of there fast enough , "" mary welch says , a quick , flickering smile turning her lip- corners up"
2896,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"again the way they had been doing . she tells me of a perhaps even more significant incident in charlotte , north carolina , just this year . the organizer for the young communist league , a young negro worker , was accused of insulting a white girl and a",mob,"was forming . ten white mill workers heard of the plan and spread the word . ten white mill workers in the south spread the word : "" lynching . a lynch ing is scheduled . they're going to lynch the y . c . l . organizer . """
2897,8418_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"white mill workers heard of the plan and spread the word . ten white mill workers in the south spread the word : "" lynching . a lynch ing is scheduled . they're going to lynch the y . c . l . organizer . "" and when the lynch",mob,"formed they were faced with workers , white and black , who told them : "" you don't lynch him before you lynch us . "" he wasn't lynch he wasn't lynched . mary welch explains . "" those men that carry you out and beat you up or hang"
2898,8418_1.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"conclusively that nine negro boys are innocent of the crime with which they are charged , the white lynch rulers of the south are determined that they shall be legally lynched by the government of alabama . not only that there is every evidence that the ruling class is organizing",mobs,"to lynch the negro boys during or immediately after the trial . this trial , like the increased lynchings that have taken place in the last years and more so in the last months , is a brutal attempt on the part of the ruling class to stop the rising"
2899,8422_0.txt,"The Cairo bulletin (Cairo, Ill.)",1874,lynch law kansas . how an innocent man was hung by a,mob,". [ leavenworth correspondence of the cincin- cinnati commercial . ] many of the oldest citizens of illinois will remember thomas ford , one of the old lawyers of that state , who was elected governor some time back in gov . ford was reckoned one of the big men"
2900,8422_0.txt,"The Cairo bulletin (Cairo, Ill.)",1874,". at first he could get no satisfaction , but at length he was in formed that he was arrested for horse stealing . of the horror of his sitnation then forced of itself upon the young man . he realized - that he was in the hands of a",mob,"who knew no law but that of judge lynch , in whose court they were jurors , judge , witnesses , attorneys , and executioners . though a thousand times innocent , he knew he would die if he could not fully convince these men of his innocence . he"
2901,8422_0.txt,"The Cairo bulletin (Cairo, Ill.)",1874,"the men examined his poekets , and found letters and papers proving his identity , and also proving his innocence the villains had literally . hung their man first and heard his defense afterward . one of them expressed the fear that they had been engaged in a bad bad",mob,"mob . . the the fiets facts of of the the murder murder came came out , nearly or quite as above detailed , and occasioned little feeling in the vicinity . no"
2902,8422_0.txt,"The Cairo bulletin (Cairo, Ill.)",1874,"men examined his poekets , and found letters and papers proving his identity , and also proving his innocence the villains had literally . hung their man first and heard his defense afterward . one of them expressed the fear that they had been engaged in a bad bad mob",mob,". . the the fiets facts of of the the murder murder came came out , nearly or quite as above detailed , and occasioned little feeling in the vicinity . no"
2903,8424_1.txt,Cleveland morning leader (Cleveland [Ohio...),1858,"mariposs in law lynch banged by was thieves , horse gang of of one a anderson , mr .",mob,.
2904,8424_2.txt,Cleveland morning leader (Cleveland [Ohio...),1858,caught and hanged by the,mob,". john cowen of jack gilkey , a young american , has been been has american , county on the 28th ult . one of the murderers"
2905,8426_0.txt,"Montgomery County sentinel (Rockville, Md.)",1875,"to go for ward and see the conductor , the governor following , when both came up to mr . brown and the governor desired him to stop the train , explaining the reason . mr . brown de- murred , but the governor insisted that there would be a",mob,"and lynching if the man was not taken on the train , and he ( the governor ) i would stand between the conductor and the company , and , as executive of the state , he ordered the train to go back . brown replied if he took that"
2906,8434_0.txt,"Wood River times (Hailey, Idaho)",1884,""" buck "" basil's murderer lynched . chas . deterlie , the murderer of "" buck "" basil , weiser city , last christmas , was taken from the jail by a",mob,", last saturday evening , shot and dragged over half a mile to a slaughter- house where he was hung to the windlass used by the butchers killing cattle . in"
2907,8436_0.txt,NA,1884,", on the 30th of march . a planter of that vicinity , named jose maria da costa , had been killed by some of his slaves a few days previous , and three of them were lodged in jail at rezende . on the morning of the 30th a",mob,"of some five hundred armed men entered the town , surrounded the jail , and demanded the delivery of the assassins . the guard , composed of an officer and eight soldiers , demurred , when a shot was fired which slightly wounded the officer . the guard immediately fled"
2908,8436_0.txt,NA,1884,"of the assassins . the guard , composed of an officer and eight soldiers , demurred , when a shot was fired which slightly wounded the officer . the guard immediately fled . the keys were next demanded of the jailer , who at once delivered them up . the",mob,"then entered the jail , crying : kill the assassins ! "" and threw themselves upon the three helpless slaves . pistol- shots , blows of bill- hooks , and knife- thrusts followed in quick succes- sion . two the slaves were killed outright , while the third lived some"
2909,8436_0.txt,NA,1884,"ner- cutting of their ears , slashing their heads and faces with hatchets and knives and other fiendish every outrage that their savage impulses , could devise . one of the bodies was literally cut in twain with hatchets . a more savage , remorseless butchery never occurred . the",mob,"then paraded the streets , giving cheers for justice , "" for the liberal and con- servative parties , "" for "" order "" and inlaw , "" and god knows what else ! a more shameless burlesque on the institutions of civilized society was never acted even by savages"
2910,8440_0.txt,"Edgefield advertiser (Edgefield, S.C.)",1854,,mob-,"law violence . dave thomas , who was found guilty of murder in the second degree by the court of caroline county , maryland , was forcibly taken from jail , ou saturday night by the indignant populace of denton , and hung until he was dead . the baltimore"
2911,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,"rally for unity of black and white eports from shelbyville , tennessee , re indicate a town crazed with lynch hysteria and violence against the negro population . the savagery of the",mob,is a terrible re minder that lynch terrorism and violence are rising rapidly against the negro masses throughout the south . this terrorism is not something apart from the general increase in violence against the whole working class . it is an intensified part of this rising fascist reaction whose
2912,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,in violence against the whole working class . it is an intensified part of this rising fascist reaction whose source is none other than the capitalist state with the roosevelt administration at its head . three lynch leaders were actually killed and several others wounded by shots fired into the,mob,"by national guardsmen , and lieutenant- colonel john r . stark , in command of the troops , hastens to assure the lynchers that "" every shot that was fired by the guardsmen was fired in self- defense . "" it would be a pitiful illusion to imagine that the"
2913,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,"hastens to assure the lynchers that "" every shot that was fired by the guardsmen was fired in self- defense . "" it would be a pitiful illusion to imagine that the sending of troops was an act in defense of the negro prisoner or the negro people . the",mob,"was allowed to wreak its fury on the negro section of the town , firing a negro hotel and indiscriminately beating up men , women and children . the unrestrained fury of the mob in its attack on the guardsmen and the courthouse was more than the lynch- inciting press"
2914,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,"troops was an act in defense of the negro prisoner or the negro people . the mob was allowed to wreak its fury on the negro section of the town , firing a negro hotel and indiscriminately beating up men , women and children . the unrestrained fury of the",mob,in its attack on the guardsmen and the courthouse was more than the lynch- inciting press had bargained for . the only reason that the troops were ordered to fire on the lynchers was that the bloodthirstiness and savagery of the mob had reached such un bridled fury that the
2915,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,and children . the unrestrained fury of the mob in its attack on the guardsmen and the courthouse was more than the lynch- inciting press had bargained for . the only reason that the troops were ordered to fire on the lynchers was that the bloodthirstiness and savagery of the,mob,had reached such un bridled fury that the whole prestige of the govern ment as well as the interests of property had be come involved . there is no doubt at all that the capitalist court would have carried through a swift and merciless legal lynching of the framed negro
2916,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,un bridled fury that the whole prestige of the govern ment as well as the interests of property had be come involved . there is no doubt at all that the capitalist court would have carried through a swift and merciless legal lynching of the framed negro . what the,mob,"wanted was a speedier and more gruesome murder . and this is the only difference between the court and the lynch mob . it was the "" dignity of the law "" that was protected- the negro quarters were left completely at the mercy of the mob . proof that"
2917,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,. there is no doubt at all that the capitalist court would have carried through a swift and merciless legal lynching of the framed negro . what the mob wanted was a speedier and more gruesome murder . and this is the only difference between the court and the lynch,mob,". it was the "" dignity of the law "" that was protected- the negro quarters were left completely at the mercy of the mob . proof that the "" protection "" demanded against the mob was not a protection in the interests of the negro population is given by"
2918,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,". what the mob wanted was a speedier and more gruesome murder . and this is the only difference between the court and the lynch mob . it was the "" dignity of the law "" that was protected- the negro quarters were left completely at the mercy of the",mob,". proof that the "" protection "" demanded against the mob was not a protection in the interests of the negro population is given by the latest reports from shelbyville , which tell of the proposed forma tion of "" vigilante "" committees of the best citizens "" to """
2919,8443_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,"murder . and this is the only difference between the court and the lynch mob . it was the "" dignity of the law "" that was protected- the negro quarters were left completely at the mercy of the mob . proof that the "" protection "" demanded against the",mob,"was not a protection in the interests of the negro population is given by the latest reports from shelbyville , which tell of the proposed forma tion of "" vigilante "" committees of the best citizens "" to "" restore the processes of the law . "" this is the"
2920,8445_0.txt,Savannah morning news (Savannah),1884,a,mob,"foiled . a plucky jailer and his sons guard the keys . mt . sterling , ky . , april 25 . - at an early hour yesterday morning between forty and fifty men went to the residence of the jailer and demanded admittance , the leader stating that he"
2921,8445_0.txt,Savannah morning news (Savannah),1884,"yesterday morning between forty and fifty men went to the residence of the jailer and demanded admittance , the leader stating that he was the sheriff of breathitt county with a prisoner the . jailer was on the point of admitting them when he discovered the party to be a",mob,"intent upon hanging a prisoner named william osborne , sentenced for five years for killing henry thomas . the leader of the mob told the jailer that unless he sur rendered the keys the mob would batter down the doors . this was done , but the jailer and his"
2922,8445_0.txt,Savannah morning news (Savannah),1884,"was the sheriff of breathitt county with a prisoner the . jailer was on the point of admitting them when he discovered the party to be a mob intent upon hanging a prisoner named william osborne , sentenced for five years for killing henry thomas . the leader of the",mob,"told the jailer that unless he sur rendered the keys the mob would batter down the doors . this was done , but the jailer and his two sons , who were in the second story well armed , defied the mob to ascend the stairs . after searching the"
2923,8445_0.txt,Savannah morning news (Savannah),1884,"was on the point of admitting them when he discovered the party to be a mob intent upon hanging a prisoner named william osborne , sentenced for five years for killing henry thomas . the leader of the mob told the jailer that unless he sur rendered the keys the",mob,"would batter down the doors . this was done , but the jailer and his two sons , who were in the second story well armed , defied the mob to ascend the stairs . after searching the lower part of the house for the keys the jail the mob"
2924,8445_0.txt,Savannah morning news (Savannah),1884,"killing henry thomas . the leader of the mob told the jailer that unless he sur rendered the keys the mob would batter down the doors . this was done , but the jailer and his two sons , who were in the second story well armed , defied the",mob,to ascend the stairs . after searching the lower part of the house for the keys the jail the mob left the premises . of
2925,8445_0.txt,Savannah morning news (Savannah),1884,"mob would batter down the doors . this was done , but the jailer and his two sons , who were in the second story well armed , defied the mob to ascend the stairs . after searching the lower part of the house for the keys the jail the",mob,left the premises . of
2926,8447_0.txt,NA,1897,troops fired on the,mob,". urbana , o . , mob lynches a negro after troops kill two citizens . "" click "" mitchell , a colored man who assaulted mrs . t . m . gaumer at ur bana , o . , was brought before that lady and readily identified . when"
2927,8447_0.txt,NA,1897,"troops fired on the mob . urbana , o . ,",mob,"lynches a negro after troops kill two citizens . "" click "" mitchell , a colored man who assaulted mrs . t . m . gaumer at ur bana , o . , was brought before that lady and readily identified . when his guilt became known about the town"
2928,8447_0.txt,NA,1897,seven or eight more . when the results of the firing be came known the local militia refused to act further and the sheriff wired the governor for more troops . the spring field guards were ordered out and ar rived at 7 : 10 a . m . the,mob,"steadily increased and hundreds of women the urged the men on . mob was constantly abusing the troops and pelting them with mud , so that the situation finally became so strained that another clash and the sacrifice of many lives was feared . this led mayor ganson to order"
2929,8447_0.txt,NA,1897,known the local militia refused to act further and the sheriff wired the governor for more troops . the spring field guards were ordered out and ar rived at 7 : 10 a . m . the mob steadily increased and hundreds of women the urged the men on .,mob,"was constantly abusing the troops and pelting them with mud , so that the situation finally became so strained that another clash and the sacrifice of many lives was feared . this led mayor ganson to order the guards to return to the depot , but no sooner had they"
2930,8447_0.txt,NA,1897,"the troops and pelting them with mud , so that the situation finally became so strained that another clash and the sacrifice of many lives was feared . this led mayor ganson to order the guards to return to the depot , but no sooner had they gone than the",mob,"made an attack the upon jail in force . inside of three minutes they had a rope around mitchell's neck and were leading him out , but as they came down the steps mitchell slipped and fell . in an instant the crowd was upon him kicking and pounding him"
2931,8448_0.txt,"Abilene weekly reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1895,"murderer lynched the county jail at kingston , mo . , raided by a",mob,". & colored wife murderer shot . a santa fe passenger wrecked at pitts . burg , kan . , and three persons injured - an actress shot- three children suffocated . hamilton , mo . , feb . 18 . - about o'clock yesterday morning a mob of forty"
2932,8448_0.txt,"Abilene weekly reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1895,"by a mob . & colored wife murderer shot . a santa fe passenger wrecked at pitts . burg , kan . , and three persons injured - an actress shot- three children suffocated . hamilton , mo . , feb . 18 . - about o'clock yesterday morning a",mob,"of forty or fifty men raided the jail kingston , seized and bound the jailer , sheriff goldsworthy , and upon his refusal to open the cell door where the prisoners were confined , they fired several shots through openings in the grat ing , killing the legless colored man"
2933,8448_0.txt,"Abilene weekly reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1895,"six other prisoners were in the same cell , but they were not molested . all the circumstances go to show that colored men , the most of them living in this place , did the work.gree while the citizens in this county are law- abiding and are opposed to",mob,"law , yet the sentiment is that a good job was done and the community well wathrial of a brutal murderer and desperate tracy was on charge of shooting his wife while in bed in this city about a month ago , and the evidence taken before the coroner made"
2934,8450_0.txt,NA,1895,"opelousas that night to swing the murderers , and the sheriff to avoid trouble , sent the prisons to the alexandria jail on the evening train . we are no advocate of lynch law , but we say openly that had these red- handed assassins been strung up by a",mob,"the perpetrators would have met no condemnation at the hands of the clarion . the negroes were brought back wednesday , and it is the sincere hope of the community that a speedy trial will take place , and justice meted out to them . no legal technicality can save"
2935,8451_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1890,a cowardly murder a tramp kills a father in his daughter's presence . justice is meted out to him by a,mob,"of indignant citizens- the villain regretted having killed the whole not family . the murderer lynched . blair , neb . , aug . 15 . - special tele gram to the herald- shortly before midnight a mob of between three and four hundred men went to the washington county"
2936,8451_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1890,"his daughter's presence . justice is meted out to him by a mob of indignant citizens- the villain regretted having killed the whole not family . the murderer lynched . blair , neb . , aug . 15 . - special tele gram to the herald- shortly before midnight a",mob,"of between three and four hundred men went to the washington county jail to- night , overpowered the sheriff , frank harrimann , and his fifteen deputies , and taking charles pratt , the murderer of farmer towne from bis cell , hung him to a tree about a mile"
2937,8451_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1890,"as many others . arriving at the jail which was guarded by the sheriff , and more than a dozen deputies , they demanded the keys . the sheriff refused to give them up but he and his deputies were quickly overpowered and pratt was in the hands of the",mob,. he made no outery and offered no resistance . he was driven in a wagon to the outskirts of the city . harry towne was given the privilege of putting the rope around his neck . he was then asked if he had anpth . to say and when
2938,8453_1.txt,"Orleans County monitor (Barton, Vt.)",1898,"were , . okla woman maud in burned , to two indians , accused of killing a white death by a",mob,.
2939,8457_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1898,a,mob,"lynched sidney johnston ( col ) at coaling , ala . , for assaulting ored mrs . lilly hodges , a widow ."
2940,8457_1.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1898,"a double lynching . little rock , ark . , july 15 . - a double lynching in which jim redd and alex johnson , two negroes , were the vic- tims , occurred at monticello , ark . , thursday . a",mob,"of men broke down the the doors of the jail and entering , of shots into cell room poured a volley , the cages where the men were con fined johnson is dead and redd is fatally . wounded ."
2941,8457_2.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1898,a,mob,"killed john durrett ( colored ) at coaling , ala . , for trying to provoke trouble between the whites and blacks in omaha . , cudahy's and swift's"
2942,8458_0.txt,NA,1897,". wednesday night near bryan , texas , while gambling , a negro named chetham was stabbed and killed . another negro , tom sweet , was arrested for the crime . while being conveyed to town he taken from his guards and strung up . was work of a",mob,". three indians are lynched in north dakota . twenty- five masked men took the law into their own hands sunday morning at the county jail in williamsport , emmons county , north dakota . they left the bodies of three men , who had been accused of murder ,"
2943,8458_0.txt,NA,1897,"negro named chetham was stabbed and killed . another negro , tom sweet , was arrested for the crime . while being conveyed to town he taken from his guards and strung up . was work of a mob . three indians are lynched in north dakota . twenty- five",masked,"men took the law into their own hands sunday morning at the county jail in williamsport , emmons county , north dakota . they left the bodies of three men , who had been accused of murder , swaying in the wind as a testimonial of the completeness of their"
2944,8458_0.txt,NA,1897,"negro named chetham was stabbed and killed . another negro , tom sweet , was arrested for the crime . while being conveyed to town he taken from his guards and strung up . was work of a mob . three indians are lynched in north dakota . twenty- five",masked men,"took the law into their own hands sunday morning at the county jail in williamsport , emmons county , north dakota . they left the bodies of three men , who had been accused of murder , swaying in the wind as a testimonial of the completeness of their revenge"
2945,8458_0.txt,NA,1897,"stabbed and killed . another negro , tom sweet , was arrested for the crime . while being conveyed to town he taken from his guards and strung up . was work of a mob . three indians are lynched in north dakota . twenty- five masked men took the",law into their own hands,"sunday morning at the county jail in williamsport , emmons county , north dakota . they left the bodies of three men , who had been accused of murder , swaying in the wind as a testimonial of the completeness of their revenge . the men were paul holytrack ,"
2946,8458_0.txt,NA,1897,"who was aroused by a light tap on the outer door of the jail . thinking that it was a sum mons from some of his friends , who were accustomed to call at night to talk with him , he opened the door , to give entrance to a",mob,"of masked men , who presented a revolver at his head and demanded that he open the door to the cells in which the prisoners were confined . kelly saw it was useless to resist and opened the doors and the three men were dragged from their beds , ropes"
2947,8458_0.txt,NA,1897,"aroused by a light tap on the outer door of the jail . thinking that it was a sum mons from some of his friends , who were accustomed to call at night to talk with him , he opened the door , to give entrance to a mob of",masked,"men , who presented a revolver at his head and demanded that he open the door to the cells in which the prisoners were confined . kelly saw it was useless to resist and opened the doors and the three men were dragged from their beds , ropes were fastened"
2948,8458_0.txt,NA,1897,"aroused by a light tap on the outer door of the jail . thinking that it was a sum mons from some of his friends , who were accustomed to call at night to talk with him , he opened the door , to give entrance to a mob of",masked men,", who presented a revolver at his head and demanded that he open the door to the cells in which the prisoners were confined . kelly saw it was useless to resist and opened the doors and the three men were dragged from their beds , ropes were fastened about"
2949,8458_0.txt,NA,1897,"gibbet . two of the men were partly un conscious from the effects of the dragging , but their bodies were speedily raised into . the air and the three forms were left to dangle in the moonlight . the crime for which the men were thus executed by the",mob,"was the murder of six members of the spicer family , near winona , last winter . the bodies of thomas spicer , his wife , his daughter , mrs . rouse , and her twin children , and of mrs . ellen waldron , his mother- in law ,"
2950,8459_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,,mob,"at crystal springs , miss . , disposes of a negro murderer . taken from jail and hanged befcre the state troops arrived . the crime for which the negro was strung up was a most cowardly one he brained an aged farmer and then robbed the body . jackson"
2951,8459_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,"negro murderer . taken from jail and hanged befcre the state troops arrived . the crime for which the negro was strung up was a most cowardly one he brained an aged farmer and then robbed the body . jackson , miss . , june 26- the crys tal springs",mob,"which assembled to hang william mosley , colored , for the murder of john h . strong , white , got its man at 9 : 45 friday morning and lynched him . acting gov . jones was found at 8 o'clock friday and wired adj . gen . henry"
2952,8459_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,"8.55 worth of tomatoes . he crawl ed into the wagon , brained the old man with a stick , robbed the body , took to the woods and let the team go home with the corpse . after three days ' search the murder er was captured . the",mob,"was small , and , had the troops been ordered thursday night , it could have been thwarted easily . but neither the governor nor lieutenant governor could be reached day night . thurs"
2953,8459_1.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,"key west , fla . the city virtually in the hands of a ne gro",mob-,"one white man killed . key west , fla . , june 26 . - this city was virtually in the hands of a negro mob thursday night and a white citizen was killed by the mob . at 4 p . m . thursday , silvanus johnson , charged"
2954,8459_1.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,"key west , fla . the city virtually in the hands of a ne gro mob- one white man killed . key west , fla . , june 26 . - this city was virtually in the hands of a negro",mob,"thursday night and a white citizen was killed by the mob . at 4 p . m . thursday , silvanus johnson , charged with assault on a white woman , mrs . margaret atwell , was conducted to the courthouse for a hearing . the courtroom was crowded ,"
2955,8459_1.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,", fla . the city virtually in the hands of a ne gro mob- one white man killed . key west , fla . , june 26 . - this city was virtually in the hands of a negro mob thursday night and a white citizen was killed by the",mob,". at 4 p . m . thursday , silvanus johnson , charged with assault on a white woman , mrs . margaret atwell , was conducted to the courthouse for a hearing . the courtroom was crowded , and c . b . pen dleton , a well- known"
2956,8459_1.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,"hang the negro ? "" there was a chorus of "" yes , "" and the crowd closed in on the prisoner . the sheriff and his deputies drew their revolvers and held the crowd at bay while johnson was at once hurried . back to jail . a big",mob,"gathered in front of the building , and one of the negroes cried out to lynch pendleton , and a rush was made for him . through the efforts of himself and his friends , pendleton made his escape in a carriage . the negro mob then gathered again about"
2957,8459_1.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,"jail . a big mob gathered in front of the building , and one of the negroes cried out to lynch pendleton , and a rush was made for him . through the efforts of himself and his friends , pendleton made his escape in a carriage . the negro",mob,"then gathered again about the jail building to prevent the lynching of johnson , and often threats were made by them to kill any white man that might come to the jail . about 11 o'clock friday night , wm . gardner , a white man , was sitting in"
2958,8459_1.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1897,"lynching of johnson , and often threats were made by them to kill any white man that might come to the jail . about 11 o'clock friday night , wm . gardner , a white man , was sitting in front of the courthouse , when several of the negro",mob,"approached him and ordered him to move on . he arose to obey , and as soon as his back was turn ed there rang out the crack of a num ber of rifles , and gardner received a mortal wound , from which he died two hours later ."
2959,8460_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1897,"two miles , but failed to catch him . hoffman , whose offense was robbery , "" narrowly escaped lynching , "" ac cording to the chronicle . the unfortunate tramp of thursday , who could not run so fast as hoffman , and therefore fell a victim to the",mob,", was not accused of the "" usual crime , "" but of robbery and beating a woman . his offense was dastardly , it is true ; but his murder was not a "" justifiable killing , "" as the times- herald asserts , any more than the killing"
2960,8460_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1897,"not accused of the "" usual crime , "" but of robbery and beating a woman . his offense was dastardly , it is true ; but his murder was not a "" justifiable killing , "" as the times- herald asserts , any more than the killing by a",mob,"of a fugitive negro rapist in the south is a "" justifiable killing . "" indeed , the preponderance of mitigating circumstances is in the latter case . the chicago "" posse "" was a mob , pure and simple . the members of it , armed with shotguns and"
2961,8460_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1897,""" as the times- herald asserts , any more than the killing by a mob of a fugitive negro rapist in the south is a "" justifiable killing . "" indeed , the preponderance of mitigating circumstances is in the latter case . the chicago "" posse "" was a",mob,", pure and simple . the members of it , armed with shotguns and revolvers , and lacking a warrant for the arrest of the fugitive , pursued him , not with the intention of making an arrest , but of do ing precisely what was done- killing him ."
2962,8460_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1897,". the members of it , armed with shotguns and revolvers , and lacking a warrant for the arrest of the fugitive , pursued him , not with the intention of making an arrest , but of do ing precisely what was done- killing him . seeing the heavily armed",mob,"in pursuit , the fugitive made an attempt to defend his life , and was riddled with bullets . lynching , therefore , is not only practiced in the north , but is excused and justined by leading journals ; and in the instance under consideration it is excused and"
2963,8460_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1897,"how differently would the story have read had the lynching occurred in the south ! the narrative would have been "" featured "" in the northern papers ; all the details of last prayers and dying groans would have been worked in ; it would have been asserted that the",mob,"was made up of "" leading "" and "" most prominent citizens , "" and that the "" community approved the deed . "" it is to be admitted- the greater is the pity- that southern newspaper correspond ents are often much to blame for the sensational and untrue lynching"
2964,8460_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1897,"that section of the country is coming to . it is bad enough when there are lynchings "" for the usual crime , "" but when the point is reached at which assault and battery and theft are punished with lynching , and influential journals justify the work of the",mob,", evidently there is room for work . missionary"
2965,8463_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1897,,mob's,"dire workh a louisiana murderer death at the stake . meets an in accomplice is hanged front of a church . killed five people . a wife murderer hanged at the same time . all of the mob's victims were colored . new orleans , jan . 20 . -"
2966,8463_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1897,mob's dire workh a louisiana murderer death at the stake . meets an in accomplice is hanged front of a church . killed five people . a wife murderer hanged at the same time . all of the,mob's,"victims were colored . new orleans , jan . 20 . - john johnston , the cotton family murderer was burn ed at the stake in front of the cotton residence near amite city , at three o'clock this morning . arch joiner was hanged . the same mob also"
2967,8463_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1897,"the mob's victims were colored . new orleans , jan . 20 . - john johnston , the cotton family murderer was burn ed at the stake in front of the cotton residence near amite city , at three o'clock this morning . arch joiner was hanged . the same",mob,"also lynched gus williams , who was accused of murdering his wife . all three of the men executed by the mob were colored . johnson and joiner , according to the confession of the former , were guilty of the murder of the five members of the cotton family"
2968,8463_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1897,"burn ed at the stake in front of the cotton residence near amite city , at three o'clock this morning . arch joiner was hanged . the same mob also lynched gus williams , who was accused of murdering his wife . all three of the men executed by the",mob,"were colored . johnson and joiner , according to the confession of the former , were guilty of the murder of the five members of the cotton family near here some time ago . the trio of murderers were taken from the jail at amite city altogether last night by"
2969,8463_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1897,"colored . johnson and joiner , according to the confession of the former , were guilty of the murder of the five members of the cotton family near here some time ago . the trio of murderers were taken from the jail at amite city altogether last night by the",mob,". shortly afterward a report was received that williams had been hanged to a big oak tree in front of little zion church , not far from amite city and that the mob was on its way to tickfaw with johnson and join er , who would no doubt meet"
2970,8463_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1897,"the trio of murderers were taken from the jail at amite city altogether last night by the mob . shortly afterward a report was received that williams had been hanged to a big oak tree in front of little zion church , not far from amite city and that the",mob,"was on its way to tickfaw with johnson and join er , who would no doubt meet a horrible fate . johnson and joiner were brought to amite city from new orleans yester day to plead to the indictments against them , and after hearing were remanded without bail ."
2971,8463_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1897,"way to tickfaw with johnson and join er , who would no doubt meet a horrible fate . johnson and joiner were brought to amite city from new orleans yester day to plead to the indictments against them , and after hearing were remanded without bail . during the day",a party of,citizens called at the jail and john son made his confession . his story of the slaughter of the fam ily was peculiarly brutal . he said that he had always liked the cotton family and would not have harmed them had it not been for the fact that he
2972,8465_0.txt,"Barton County democrat (Great Bend, Kan...)",1892,kansas a lynching . a negro,mob,"lynches a negro murderer the sheriff and hs deputies over powered . hiawatha , kan . , nov . 30 . - commo dore true , the negro who stabbed w . waltham to death at a eolored festival thanksgiving night , was lynched early this morning by colored men"
2973,8468_0.txt,"Ceredo advance (Ceredo, W. Va.)",1897,"surrendered . hardy , who killed geo . mounts and shot ellis in the shoulder and also shot two of the latter's fin gers off , surrendered to the mingo county authorities last week . it was feared that a",mob,"would lynch the prisoner at williamson and he was taken to russell county , va . , for safe keeping . the shooting was done near gray , on the ken valley.tucky side , of tug river , and was we understand without provocation mounts was an inoffensive man ,"
2974,8469_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,negro brute lynched . andrews was locked up in the city hall tuesday night . he had been sentenced to hang when the infuriated,mob,"pounced upon him . dragged from the court room . special correspondence evening journal . princess anne , md . , june 10 . - wil- liam andrews , the young negro accused of felonious assault upon mrs . william d . kelley , was taken from the sheriff here"
2975,8469_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,". princess anne , md . , june 10 . - wil- liam andrews , the young negro accused of felonious assault upon mrs . william d . kelley , was taken from the sheriff here yesterday and beaten into insensibility , then hanged to a tree by an infuriated",mob,", immediately after having been arraigned in couri and sentenced to death for his crime . andrews , who was but 20 years old , came here from north carolina , and on may 5 of this year was arrested for assault upon mrs . kelley . at that time"
2976,8469_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,"immediately after having been arraigned in couri and sentenced to death for his crime . andrews , who was but 20 years old , came here from north carolina , and on may 5 of this year was arrested for assault upon mrs . kelley . at that time a",mob,"endeavored to lynch him , but he was hurriedly taken to baltimore and confined in the jail in that city until tuesday night , when he was brought here for trial . during the night a number of men assembled and carefully planned yesterday's program . shortly before noon andrews"
2977,8469_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,"the sheriff and his deputy were soon overpowered , and then the maddened crowd pounced upon the negro , threw him to the ground and kicked him into complete insensibility . meanwhile a rope had been procured and , picking up the inanimate figure from the ground , the infuriated",mob,"placed the rope around the neck of the dying man , and , dragging the body to a tree within a hundred yards of the court house door , threw the rope over and swung the body into the a limb air . then a dozen bullets were fired into"
2978,8469_1.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1897,"of governor tunnell in "" declining to send troops to the town . he was given a fright last night . ru mors reached him that gordy's brothers , who live in gumboro hundred , the home of the murderer , were preparing to march on the jail with a",mob,and take him from the building by force . the sheriff at once swore in twelve extra deputies to guard the jail and posted pickets on all the roads leading into town . the guards will be kept on to- night . the scaffold on which the man will be
2979,8470_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,negro lynched . taken from jail by a,mob,"and shot on the river bank . hickman , ky . , sept . 3 . - between midnight and daybreak yesterday morn ing . will butcher , a quarrelsome negro , was taken from the city lockup and shot to pieces by a crowd of white caps . sunday"
2980,8470_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,"dead body was found near the river bank . his head was shot to pieces and his body filled full of hoies . a loaded shell of a no . 12 breechloader was found by his side , and a few steps up the bank were found or ten white",masks,", used by the mob eight ."
2981,8470_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,"the river bank . his head was shot to pieces and his body filled full of hoies . a loaded shell of a no . 12 breechloader was found by his side , and a few steps up the bank were found or ten white masks , used by the",mob,eight .
2982,8477_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1853,"lynch law in missouri- we learn from the columbia , mo . , statesman , the following particulars of the execution of a negro by the",mob,": "" hiram , a negro man belonging to col . young . of boon county , attempted to commit a rape on the daughter of a respectable citizen . he was taken before a justice , and the trial was progressing , when a mob of citizens rush ed"
2983,8477_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1853,"a negro by the mob : "" hiram , a negro man belonging to col . young . of boon county , attempted to commit a rape on the daughter of a respectable citizen . he was taken before a justice , and the trial was progressing , when a",mob,"of citizens rush ed into the court room , put a rope around the negro's neck , and forced him into a wood north of the court house , where an attempt was made to hang him , but the rope broke , and the mob was prevailed on to"
2984,8477_0.txt,Lynchburg daily Virginian (Lynchburg [Va.]),1853,"progressing , when a mob of citizens rush ed into the court room , put a rope around the negro's neck , and forced him into a wood north of the court house , where an attempt was made to hang him , but the rope broke , and the",mob,"was prevailed on to take him back to jail.- these occurrences took place on saturday , the 20th of august . on sunday , the negro confessed his guilt , implicating two oth er negroes in the crime . on monday , a meet . ing of citizens was called"
2985,8482_0.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1892,"alexander has just wired governor northen asking him to issue orders to colo nel i . c . levy , of the first georgia battalion , authorizing him to order out his infantry companies . anticipating a favorable reply , the companies are now assembling at their armory . the",mob,"disperses . augusta , ga . , october 3 , 2 : 10 a . m . ( special . ) at 2 o'clock the peace and good order citizens succeeded , after talking to mob , in getting the crowd to disperse and the give up ide of lynching"
2986,8482_0.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1892,"a favorable reply , the companies are now assembling at their armory . the mob disperses . augusta , ga . , october 3 , 2 : 10 a . m . ( special . ) at 2 o'clock the peace and good order citizens succeeded , after talking to",mob,", in getting the crowd to disperse and the give up ide of lynching"
2987,8483_0.txt,"The Sedalia weekly bazoo (Sedalia, Mo.)",1892,"three negroes lynched . atlanta , ga . , may 18 . - at ' clarks- ville at 2 o'clock this morning a",mob,of 200 men broke into jail and took therefrom three negroes charged with the murder of night policeman carter at tecca last week and hanged all . the negroes protested innocence them .
2988,8492_0.txt,"The Nashville daily union (Nashville, Tenn...)",1865,power was formerly mayo was carried to his home wisore a threatensng,mob,"was only deterred fram a resort to lynch law by the a strong police force . mayo an engineer on the hudson river railroad but was discharged fr misconduct . his young burus tried to stab him , but was po son is said to be a notorious bounty jumper"
2989,8499_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1934,man saved from louisiana,mob,"member of gang that lyn ched youth i know now how he felt killer avers shreveport , la . . april 20 . - ( p ) -fred lockhart , saved three days ago from death at the hands of an infuriated mob , identified himself friday as a participant"
2990,8499_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1934,"man saved from louisiana mob member of gang that lyn ched youth i know now how he felt killer avers shreveport , la . . april 20 . - ( p ) -fred lockhart , saved three days ago from death at the hands of an infuriated",mob,", identified himself friday as a participant in the sensational leo frank lynch- ing in georgia in 1915 . lockhart , held for attacking and killing 16- year- old mae giffin , turned from reading the bible to tell that he drove the automobile which carried frank from the gecrgia"
2991,8499_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1934,"young man and a college graduate , whose home was at brooklyn , n . y . , was lynched august 17 , 1915 , after his death sentence for the slaying of mary phagan had been commuted to life imprisonment . lockhart said he was a member of the",mob,"which battered its way into the milledgeville prison to get frank . the mob took frank to marietta in order to hang him near mary phagan's grave . as lockhart told his story , four companies of national guardsmen patrolled the parish courthouse grounds . the troops were called out"
2992,8499_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1934,". y . , was lynched august 17 , 1915 , after his death sentence for the slaying of mary phagan had been commuted to life imprisonment . lockhart said he was a member of the mob which battered its way into the milledgeville prison to get frank . the",mob,"took frank to marietta in order to hang him near mary phagan's grave . as lockhart told his story , four companies of national guardsmen patrolled the parish courthouse grounds . the troops were called out tuesday night while an angry crowd was storming the courthouse , unsuccessfully to reach"
2993,8499_0.txt,"Brownsville herald (Brownsville, Te...)",1934,") napier , admitted having escaped from a georgia prison camp in 1931 while serving life imprisonment for criminal assault . a reward of $ 1,500 was offered immediately after the frank lynca conviction of par for the ing a coroner's jury later ticipants . returned a verdict that the",mob,"men were unknown . a grand jury also investigated the case without result . many claims of frank's innocence were made . twice frank carried his legal fight for life to the unit ed states supreme court . the murder of 14- year- old mary phagan , a factory employe"
2994,8501_0.txt,NA,1888,pardon governor curing his . the yielded to the wish of his dying child and on the day he retired frcm oflice signed stevenson's pardon . stevenson returned to nodaway county and in less than a month shot man for which he was taken another from the jail by a,mob,and hung .
2995,8502_0.txt,"The Kenosha telegraph (Kenosha, Wis.)",1888,"lewis davis , confined for six months in jail on the charge of murdering david miller , at cuba , mo . was taken from the prison on the 22d by , a",mob,and hanged .
2996,8505_0.txt,NA,1872,"incendiary an hung . at man last night a that rumored it is the seized by was and bridge , charleston tempted to set fire to the gas house near infuriated",mob,and unceremoniously hung . to a lamp post
2997,8507_2.txt,"Barton County democrat (Great Bend, Kan...)",1888,dec . 3- three negroes who had attempted taken from jail by,mob,"at charleston , miss murder . , and shot to death ."
2998,8507_4.txt,"Barton County democrat (Great Bend, Kan...)",1888,dec . 13- two negroes burned to death by a,mob,"at owensboro , fla . , for assault on white woman . . . . a son choked his mother to death at claremont drunken , vt ."
2999,8511_0.txt,"The Portland daily press (Portland, Me.)",1888,"at omaha , nebraska , tuesday morning . fremont emmons was taken from the jail at pawnee city by a",mob,"and lynched from a railroad bridge . emmons killed miss ber tha schultz by stabbing , last thursday ing , because she refused to marry him . even"
3000,8513_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1889,at augusta the mormons have called on the police . one of their leaders informed chief twiggs saturday that rumors of,mobs,"and lynch law had been flying thick and fast for several days . it had been threatened , he said , that if mrs . rhodes failed to institute proceedings in the courts certain people would rise and take the lawsaw in their own hands . mrs . rhodes '"
3001,8514_1.txt,"Indian chieftain (Vinita, Indian ...)",1888,"three negroes lynched . plymouth , n . c . , jan . 29 . -- three negro prisoners were taken from the county jail by",masked,"men yesterday morning , conveyed to the woods on the outskirts of the town tied to trees and then shot to death . , the negroes were jack blount , his brother matthew blount and patterson spruitt , who had been jailed , charged with the murder of john dawson"
3002,8514_1.txt,"Indian chieftain (Vinita, Indian ...)",1888,"three negroes lynched . plymouth , n . c . , jan . 29 . -- three negro prisoners were taken from the county jail by",masked men,"yesterday morning , conveyed to the woods on the outskirts of the town tied to trees and then shot to death . , the negroes were jack blount , his brother matthew blount and patterson spruitt , who had been jailed , charged with the murder of john dawson ,"
3003,8517_0.txt,"The Evansville journal (Evansville, Ind...)",1868,"a friend of the democratie party and advised him to have nothing to do with the affair . but few dark scenes are without some bright spot . col . d . howard smith , auditor , went in , resolutely , endeavoring to stay the mad career of the",mob,". he was alone , and after vain efforts , was repelled with threats . he then said , and repeated his appeal to authority , that if he could get twenty- five armed men he would drive the mob from the jail . he denounced the proceedings as unjust"
3004,8517_0.txt,"The Evansville journal (Evansville, Ind...)",1868,"resolutely , endeavoring to stay the mad career of the mob . he was alone , and after vain efforts , was repelled with threats . he then said , and repeated his appeal to authority , that if he could get twenty- five armed men he would drive the",mob,"from the jail . he denounced the proceedings as unjust and murderous , and said it could be proven by a creditable man in town that at the time the crime was committed , this boy was at work under his employer's eye . and four or five other men"
3005,8519_0.txt,NA,1888,". a . bird shot through the shoulder , the ball coming was out near the spinal cord . col . thomas g . jones , of the second regiment of state troops , has arrived with five companies , and is confident he can prevent any further attempt at",mob,"violence the excitement has some what abated . . cause of the riot . two brutal murders charged to engineer hawes sought to be avenged . birmingham , dec . 11 . - last tuesday the body of a little girl was found in east lake , near this city"
3006,8519_0.txt,NA,1888,"after repeated warnings they would not stand back , and sheriff smitl ordered the officers to fire . one volley was fired and twenty- three men fell killed or wounded . three men were instantly killed , seven have since died , and ten others are badly wounded . the",mob,"then hurriedly escaped , vowing ance . venge the sheriff's statement . ho says the mob fired the first and last shots in the affray . sheriff smith says : "" we begged and pleaded with the crowd to keep back and then they fired the first shots . several"
3007,8519_0.txt,NA,1888,"fire . one volley was fired and twenty- three men fell killed or wounded . three men were instantly killed , seven have since died , and ten others are badly wounded . the mob then hurriedly escaped , vowing ance . venge the sheriff's statement . ho says the",mob,"fired the first and last shots in the affray . sheriff smith says : "" we begged and pleaded with the crowd to keep back and then they fired the first shots . several shots were fired by the crowd before i gave the order to fire . we begged"
3008,8520_1.txt,"Martinsburg herald (Martinsburg, W....)",1892,"; j . r . redferin , who murdered p . b . dunn at fraukl n , ky . , was taken f.om jail by a",mob,"at midnight and hanged . p . b . dann was a prominent citizen and ex- clerk of the circuit court . redferin lived in o e pf his houses , and dann tried to ej ct him . in company w.th john hobby , colored he went to redferin's"
3009,8521_0.txt,NA,1885,"as though he had actually pulled the trigger . this , at all evens , was believed in the county and was the immediate cause of the lyuching , the peo ple of the county felt that such conduct should be tolerated no longer , and they unwisely took the",law into their own hands,". an edgefield man whom i talked with said , with great emphasis , that he held that lynching was never justifiable , but if ever it was to be justifiable it was so in culbreath's case . there are now in edgefield jail more than thirty persons who are"
3010,8522_1.txt,"Salt Lake evening Democrat (Salt Lake City,...)",1885,"by order of judge lynch . galveston , june 9 . - a bonham ( texas ) special to the news says : at 3 o'clock this morning a",masked,"mob of 100 men aroused the jailer at the point of a winchester rifle and spokesman demanded of the the party keys of received the prison the . kes the and proceeded to the cells occupied by eli and sam dyer , charged with the murder of sheriff ragsdale and"
3011,8522_1.txt,"Salt Lake evening Democrat (Salt Lake City,...)",1885,"by order of judge lynch . galveston , june 9 . - a bonham ( texas ) special to the news says : at 3 o'clock this morning a masked",mob,"of 100 men aroused the jailer at the point of a winchester rifle and spokesman demanded of the the party keys of received the prison the . kes the and proceeded to the cells occupied by eli and sam dyer , charged with the murder of sheriff ragsdale and deputy"
3012,8525_0.txt,NA,1885,", says that o . t . cul breth was lynched today at edgefield court house . he was charged with killing william hammond , a young man who was guarding the house of mrs . culbreth , from whom her husband was separated . he was taken by a",mob,"from his lawyer's office while he was waiting to get bail and was car ried out of town and shot several unise , find left for dead . he revived implicating several lynchers and died he denied his guilt to the last . . johnston , va . -0 ."
3013,8525_1.txt,NA,1885,". tracks outside the building showed that chinamen had done the deed . in the next five days fifteen chinese were ar rested , and finally five confessed to the deed these were taken out and summarily . disposed of . purpose of robbery , avenged on saturday night by",a party of,"masked men , who took from five chinamen who had confessed their jail guilt and lynched them daniel frazer , of pierce city , who was foully and brutally murdered chinese a short time ago by for the"
3014,8525_1.txt,NA,1885,"the building showed that chinamen had done the deed . in the next five days fifteen chinese were ar rested , and finally five confessed to the deed these were taken out and summarily . disposed of . purpose of robbery , avenged on saturday night by a party of",masked,"men , who took from five chinamen who had confessed their jail guilt and lynched them daniel frazer , of pierce city , who was foully and brutally murdered chinese a short time ago by for the"
3015,8525_1.txt,NA,1885,"the building showed that chinamen had done the deed . in the next five days fifteen chinese were ar rested , and finally five confessed to the deed these were taken out and summarily . disposed of . purpose of robbery , avenged on saturday night by a party of",masked men,", who took from five chinamen who had confessed their jail guilt and lynched them daniel frazer , of pierce city , who was foully and brutally murdered chinese a short time ago by for the"
3016,8527_1.txt,"Semi-weekly interior journal (Stanford, Ky.)",1888,"of an outraged people the justice that the courts will be months in meting , if the scoundrel does not finally escape under some such technicality as the omission of the word "" feloniously "" or other as flimsey pretext for reversal as are sometimes made . we have advocated",mob,"law , the lebanon standing never ard to the contrary , but there are cases ple ! of such outrageous deeds that nothing but the most summary methods of dealing condign punishment seem to be applicable . the slow process of the law amounts almost to aggravation in such and"
3017,8537_0.txt,"The Canton advocate (Canton, D.T. [S...)",1884,"mer at maryville , mo . , december 3 , was taken from jail by a",mob,"and hung from the railroad bridge , despite the efforts the sheriff to prevent . of"
3018,8541_0.txt,NA,1913,"byne daw . the so- called law designated as lynch , from the first execulica by the",mob,", was tolerated without apology in the early days , especially on the frontier of advancing civilization where the murderers and cutthroats escaped from the states , congregated and attempted to terrorize their surroundings . when judge lynch's decree had been issued , there was no possibility for an appeal"
3019,8542_0.txt,NA,1914,"negro lynched in georgia . rochelle , ga.- nathan brown , a ne gro , was lynched by a",mob,"near here for shooting to death edward roun tree , a farm overseer . the negro was caught an all- day chase with bloodhounds after ."
3020,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"on this subject in oklahoma . i assert , first , that capital punish ment for crime does not tend to de crease the number of crimes against which that punishment is directed : second , that the commuting of death sentences to life imprisonment does not tend to increase",mob,"violence , and the record in oklahoma justifies both assertions . the statistics gathered show that for five years , from january 1 , 1909 , to dec . 31 , 1913 , eighteen persons met their death through mob violence in oklahoma this record is made up as fellows"
3021,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"death sentences to life imprisonment does not tend to increase mob violence , and the record in oklahoma justifies both assertions . the statistics gathered show that for five years , from january 1 , 1909 , to dec . 31 , 1913 , eighteen persons met their death through",mob,"violence in oklahoma this record is made up as fellows : 1909 , five ; 1910 , one ; 1911 , eight ; 1912 , none , 1913 , four . the first commutation from death to life imprisonment was executed by on the 28th day of july , 1911"
3022,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"position on the question of capital punishment could by no stretch of the imagination or misrepresentation of facts , have had anything to do with the number of homicides committed or the number of lynchings that ensued prior to july 28 , 1911 . of the eight persons killed by",mobs,"in 1911 , at least three , and possibly more ( i have not yet the exact figures ) , were killed prior to july 28 , 1911 , so that the record , assuming that only three were killed prior to july 1 , would stand as follows :"
3023,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"least three , and possibly more ( i have not yet the exact figures ) , were killed prior to july 28 , 1911 , so that the record , assuming that only three were killed prior to july 1 , would stand as follows : the number killed by",mobs,"in the two and a half years prior to july 1 , 1911 , nine ; the number killed in the two and a half years subsequent to that date nine it would be well also to , . note that of those killed prior to july 1 , 1911"
3024,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"murder and under our laws could have been legally executed ; that of the nine lynchings since that date , three of them were charged with criminal assault- an offense for which a legal execution could not have taken place . what relation has the commutation of death sentence to",mob,"vicience ? -- let us see . the commutation of death sentences to life imprisonment for the ive years as shown by the record discloses the following : the year of 1909 , one , 1910 , three , 1911 , one , 1912 eighth 1913 three tabulating these figures"
3025,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"he commuted three , there was one person lynched . in my administra it shows that during the year 1911 , when only one commutation was issued , and that on july 28 , after more than half of the year had passed . there were eight persons killed by",mobs,"; while in the year 1912 when eight commutations were issued , there was not a single case of mob violence . in other words , both during governor haskell's administration and mine the year in which the great est number of commutations were is sued , the fewest number"
3026,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,", when only one commutation was issued , and that on july 28 , after more than half of the year had passed . there were eight persons killed by mobs ; while in the year 1912 when eight commutations were issued , there was not a single case of",mob,"violence . in other words , both during governor haskell's administration and mine the year in which the great est number of commutations were is sued , the fewest number of mob violence occurred , while in the years in which the fewest commutations were executed , the largest number"
3027,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"while in the year 1912 when eight commutations were issued , there was not a single case of mob violence . in other words , both during governor haskell's administration and mine the year in which the great est number of commutations were is sued , the fewest number of",mob,"violence occurred , while in the years in which the fewest commutations were executed , the largest number of per sons were killed by mob violence . upon the other question of the relation of capital punishment to the commission of criminal homicides , i have gathered with care statistics"
3028,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"both during governor haskell's administration and mine the year in which the great est number of commutations were is sued , the fewest number of mob violence occurred , while in the years in which the fewest commutations were executed , the largest number of per sons were killed by",mob,"violence . upon the other question of the relation of capital punishment to the commission of criminal homicides , i have gathered with care statistics in this state for the years 1910 , 1911 , 1912 and 1913 , with the following result : in 1910 there were committed in"
3029,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"parlic dons to men serving life sentencesly for murder . it has been said by some of the editors that i should permit legal executions in order to prevent lynchings in other words , to appease the nob , yet every man who assists as a mem ber of a",mob,"in the hanging of an individual , no matter what crime may have been committed , is , under the law guilty of murder and if the law should be enforced against these individuals , every one of them would have to be electrocuted or sent to the penitentiary for"
3030,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"under the law guilty of murder and if the law should be enforced against these individuals , every one of them would have to be electrocuted or sent to the penitentiary for life . how many of these critics and editors would be willing to see the members of the",mob,"that recently hanged the negro in cleveland county , either electrocuted or sent to the penitentiary for life ? and yet this is what would re- , sult , were the law of oklahoma enforced . "" in this entire matter i am doing what i think it is my"
3031,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"or sent to the penitentiary for life ? and yet this is what would re- , sult , were the law of oklahoma enforced . "" in this entire matter i am doing what i think it is my duty to do . i am not trying to please the",mob,", and i shall never be swerved from the path of duty nor hesitate in my efforts to bring about a better condition of law observance in oklahoma in order to satisfy the demands of a mob or the clamor of that class of our citizenship which yet derives its"
3032,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"is my duty to do . i am not trying to please the mob , and i shall never be swerved from the path of duty nor hesitate in my efforts to bring about a better condition of law observance in oklahoma in order to satisfy the demands of a",mob,"or the clamor of that class of our citizenship which yet derives its in- spiration of what is right in govern ment from the old doctrine of "" an eye for an eye and a tooth for tooth . "" placarding the slain victim with inscriptions to the governor may"
3033,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"as any other people in the world , and if we have not yet advanced to that degree of civilization where capital punishment can be abolished with safety , we will nev er be civilized to that extent . murdering , either under the guise of the law or through",mob,"violence , has never yet tended to lift a people indulging in it to a higher piane of civ tization , and the record as disclosed above , shows that in oklahoma civilization quickly responds to every ef fort made in the interest of humani in passing let me say"
3034,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"every ef fort made in the interest of humani in passing let me say that seven ty- five per cent of the homicides committed oklahoma , , according to the record in is due to the fact that the prohibition and gambling laws are be ing violated . if these",mobs,"that cry for human blood , and editors that write daily and weekly lectures to the governor about law enforcement , from oklahoma the botlegger and would interest themselves in driving from oklahoma the bootlegger and the gambler , we would have fewer good citizens killed by irresponsible criminals ,"
3035,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"and would interest themselves in driving from oklahoma the bootlegger and the gambler , we would have fewer good citizens killed by irresponsible criminals , such as occurred in oklahoma city recently , and there would be no occasions either for legal or executions . but when the effort is",mob,"made to enact laws that would make it possible to enforce oklaho ma's criminal statutes , these same people are quick to come to a defense of the gambler and the bootlegger by arguing that the passage of such laws would be giving to the governor of the state """
3036,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,"giving to the governor of the state "" autocratic power "" which might be abused , and thus is the argument made effective which perpetuates conditions , while the enemies of society and good government continue to prey upon the people and lay the foundation stone upon which murder and",mob,"violence erect their structure . in conclusion i have no hesitancy in stating that inflamamtory editorials that arouse the brutal passions and natures of men are a hundred times more responsible for mob violence in this state , than any attitude the governor has assumed upon the question of capital"
3037,8545_0.txt,"The Daily Ardmoreite (Ardmore, Okla.)",1914,good government continue to prey upon the people and lay the foundation stone upon which murder and mob violence erect their structure . in conclusion i have no hesitancy in stating that inflamamtory editorials that arouse the brutal passions and natures of men are a hundred times more responsible for,mob,"violence in this state , than any attitude the governor has assumed upon the question of capital punishment lee cruce , governor . ."
3038,8548_0.txt,"The Madison daily leader (Madison, S.D.)",1914,"lynched wife negro and were accused of having set fire to a barn . bysalia , miss . , nov . 27 . - accused by an infuriated",mob,"of having set fire to a barn on the farm of j . b . williams , six miles from here , fred sullivan and his wife , jane sullivan , ne- groes , were hanged near the scene the fire . of edward williams , deputy sheriff , who"
3039,8552_0.txt,NA,1914,st . petersburg,mob,"lynches a negro murderer by associated press . st . petersburg , fla . , nov . 12 . - john vans , a negro , was taken from the ity prison here tonight by a mob and ung to a telephone pole nearby . evans was suspected of having"
3040,8552_0.txt,NA,1914,"st . petersburg mob lynches a negro murderer by associated press . st . petersburg , fla . , nov . 12 . - john vans , a negro , was taken from the ity prison here tonight by a",mob,"and ung to a telephone pole nearby . evans was suspected of having shot and killed edward sherman , of cam- en , n . j . , then to have assaulted mrs . herman he had an accomplice , whos still being . sought ,"
3041,8553_0.txt,NA,1900,lynching in texas james sweeney is swung up by a,mob,at port arthur . cleared by jury in a murder trial set free by law after having killed man with bayonet . mcb makes short work of the man takes him from a train and hangs him from telephone fole . rope broke in the first attempt legs are then
3042,8553_0.txt,NA,1900,"beaumont , tex . , friday and last night the jury returned a verdict of not guilty . as soon as he was released sweeney returned to port arthur , arriving here at 12 : 30 this morning . word had been telegraphed ahead that he was coming and a",mob,"met him at the depot , marched him up town and strung him up to a telephone pole without ceremony . in the first attempt the rope broke . the second attempt was made successfully by tieing sweeney's legs so his feet could not touch the ground and drawing the"
3043,8553_0.txt,NA,1900,"the depot , marched him up town and strung him up to a telephone pole without ceremony . in the first attempt the rope broke . the second attempt was made successfully by tieing sweeney's legs so his feet could not touch the ground and drawing the rope taut .",mob,"quietly disperses . their work accomplished , the mob , which was made up of port arthur citizens , dispersed quietly . sheriff langham of beau mont was notified of the mob's work and immediately started for port arthur . he re turned to beaumont tonight with "" jack """
3044,8553_0.txt,NA,1900,"him up to a telephone pole without ceremony . in the first attempt the rope broke . the second attempt was made successfully by tieing sweeney's legs so his feet could not touch the ground and drawing the rope taut . mob quietly disperses . their work accomplished , the",mob,", which was made up of port arthur citizens , dispersed quietly . sheriff langham of beau mont was notified of the mob's work and immediately started for port arthur . he re turned to beaumont tonight with "" jack "" martin , a boss stevedore and a fellow work"
3045,8553_0.txt,NA,1900,"by tieing sweeney's legs so his feet could not touch the ground and drawing the rope taut . mob quietly disperses . their work accomplished , the mob , which was made up of port arthur citizens , dispersed quietly . sheriff langham of beau mont was notified of the",mob's,"work and immediately started for port arthur . he re turned to beaumont tonight with "" jack "" martin , a boss stevedore and a fellow work man of crumbash , in custody . martin is believed to have been a ringleader in the lynching . port arthur is the"
3046,8554_1.txt,NA,1888,"bold raid on the village and one citizen is severely whipped- many people served with threatening notices . jamestows , n . y . , dec . 17 . - late at night eight men on horseback , with white handkerchiefs tied on their hats , and wear ing white",masks,", rode through the principal streets , and halted in front of the morning news office , which paper had been devoting much attention to alleged white cap warn ings that have been freely circulating through the city during the past week . the leader cried in à ringing voice"
3047,8555_0.txt,"Barton County democrat (Great Bend, Kan...)",1893,the coroner's jury in the denmark s . c . ) lynching concluded that the,mob,( lynched the wrong man .
3048,8556_0.txt,NA,1879,frank lane and several other of the leading spirits in the,mob,"that hanged bill young near luray , mo . , were arrested upon complaint of mrs . young and came before a magistrate at luray , on the 5th , for ex- amination , but , no one appearing to prosecute , the cases were dismissed . a from city"
3049,8556_1.txt,NA,1879,"-at manor , travis county , texas , on the night of the 3d , four mounted ,",masked,"and armed robbers took possession of the town . they robbed persons , and then rode off , 15 they could taking several of the best horses they could . a posse of citizens soon mustered find and started in pursuit of the scoundrels ."
3050,8562_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1877,"the people of oxford , ohio , visited vengeance yesterday on a scoun- summary drel who had violated a respectable lady while we cannot of that community . advocate",mob,"law as a proper punish ment for crime , yet it can truthfully be said that if there is a crime in the whole category of crimes which justifies a sum- administration of lynch law it is mary , the hideous crime of rape . it is a deed that"
3051,8562_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1877,"it is a deed that comes home to every citizen . it is a contingency that threatens every household in the community if punishment is not made sure , swift and its terrible . a just measure of punishment for the crime of rape- a negro brute shot by a",mob,". cincinnati , o . , september 3 . - jim garnett , the negro who committed a rape on the person of mrs . perry kingery , the wife of a farmer , near oxford , ohio , saturday last , was taken out of jail to- day at"
3052,8565_0.txt,"The weekly Arizona miner (Prescott, Ariz)",1878,"sandusky , sept . 5- a colored man was taken from the sheriff by a",mob,"and hung for the supposed murder of a white girl . ,"
3053,8567_0.txt,"Helena weekly herald (Helena, Mont.)",1873,tarpey.bration hanging,mob,in of the action the the people of monterey strongly condemn
3054,8578_0.txt,"The New Orleans daily Democrat (New Orleans, La...)",1877,"natchez , on tuesday , may 10 . on the 13th instant , at johnsonville , on the yazoo river , miss . , john thomas murdered another negro and red , but was arrested and confined in jail , from which he was taken at night by a colored",mob,"and hanged . franklin county has not had a jail since the one burned six months ago , and has not had in that time any use for one . everybody seems to know there is none , consequently they don't do any devilment to get into jail . the"
3055,8581_0.txt,"Knoxville daily chronicle (Knoxville, Tenn...)",1881,"a negro ravisher lynched . little rock , ark . , july 13 . - h nry smith , colored , who confessed to having ravished and murdered mattie webb , an orphan 14 years old , was taken from the jail at des are by a",mob,and hanged till dead . the body was then thrown into river . the
3056,8585_0.txt,NA,1892,the story of the lynching of joseph lyttle by a,mob,"of "" best citizens "" at findlay , ohio , is dis graceful and ridiculous . to the community in which disgraceful the out- footed justice . swift- vicksburg , miss . , special : news has been received of a murder and lynching in point coupee parish . a"
3057,8591_0.txt,"Democratic messenger (Snow Hill, Md.)",1906,,mob,"lynches three negroes alleged murderers taken from jail at salisbury , md . , and hanged . charlotte , n . c . , aug . 7 . - a mob of 3000 determined men forcibly entered the rowan county jail at salisbury , removed therefrom three of the six"
3058,8591_0.txt,"Democratic messenger (Snow Hill, Md.)",1906,"mob lynches three negroes alleged murderers taken from jail at salisbury , md . , and hanged . charlotte , n . c . , aug . 7 . - a",mob,"of 3000 determined men forcibly entered the rowan county jail at salisbury , removed therefrom three of the six negroes charged with the murder of the lyerly family at barber junction , july 13 . and lynched them . nease and john gillespie and jack dilling . ham , supposed"
3059,8591_0.txt,"Democratic messenger (Snow Hill, Md.)",1906,", removed therefrom three of the six negroes charged with the murder of the lyerly family at barber junction , july 13 . and lynched them . nease and john gillespie and jack dilling . ham , supposed to be the principals in that crime , were the victims of",mob,"the remaining negroes , vengeance . henry lee , george ervin and bella dillingham , were not molested , and later officers hurried them away to greensboro . the negroes were quietly marched northward toward spencer , but a halt was made at henderson's ball grounds in the edge of"
3060,8591_0.txt,"Democratic messenger (Snow Hill, Md.)",1906,"and ears of the negroes , whe were hung to the limb of the big tree on henderson's base ball ground . the bodies were badly mutilated be fore they were removed . george hall , the ex- convict from montgomery county , who is supposed to have led the",mob,"which lynched the three alleged murderers of the yerly family , is in the jail . the plan to rescue him , rumors of which caused governor glenn to hurry troops to salisbury , has not materialized . died on his wedding day groom died at bride's home while preparing"
3061,8596_0.txt,NA,1906,"breast just above the heart . he ran out of the saloon and was again shot , the ball entering the head just above the ear . radford feil in the street . dying , and never regained consciousness . 1 widow and four chil dren are left . fearing",mob,"violence , the sheriff took john cannon to another city . again convicted . muskogee . jan . 11 . - for the second time joe vickers , a convicted on a charge of criminally assaulting mrs . bessie dunbar near wagoner , and given the death penalty . roff"
3062,8597_0.txt,"The Fargo forum and daily republican (Fargo, N.D.)",1906,negro lynched . governor appealed to the,mob,"but was ignored . greenwood , s . c . , aug . 17 . - "" bob "" davis , the negro who assaulted miss jennie brooks near here monday , was lynched here at 7 o'clock last night . governor heyward was present and made a strong appeal"
3063,8597_0.txt,"The Fargo forum and daily republican (Fargo, N.D.)",1906,"c . , aug . 17 . - "" bob "" davis , the negro who assaulted miss jennie brooks near here monday , was lynched here at 7 o'clock last night . governor heyward was present and made a strong appeal to save the ne gro , but the",mob,"was determined shot the negro to death . and the negro , who was captured near ninety- six , was positively identified by miss brooks . he was carried about 100 yards from the brooks home and lynched , a negro woman firing the shot . first"
3064,8598_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1892,the robber . is charged as an accessory . mcdaniels detective sawyer had a narrow escape from being lynched yesterday . he went to elbert cross's home and searched the place for anything that might criminate cross . the citizens of the town learned what he was after and a,mob,gathered to lynch hlin . the marshal of the town quieted the mob and sawyer quickly boarded a train and came denver . to
3065,8598_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1892,a narrow escape from being lynched yesterday . he went to elbert cross's home and searched the place for anything that might criminate cross . the citizens of the town learned what he was after and a mob gathered to lynch hlin . the marshal of the town quieted the,mob,and sawyer quickly boarded a train and came denver . to
3066,8600_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"there would be no re [ ret for his fate , however greatly the resort to lynch law might be deplored . but there were reasons for doubting his guilt . indeed , it is safe to say that it not infrequently happens that innocent men are the victims of",mob,"law . it is better that a guilty man should escape now and then than that an innocent man should be lynched . the people should be taught to look to the courts and not to mob violence for the punishment of criminals . lynchings , although not confined to"
3067,8600_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,say that it not infrequently happens that innocent men are the victims of mob law . it is better that a guilty man should escape now and then than that an innocent man should be lynched . the people should be taught to look to the courts and not to,mob,"violence for the punishment of criminals . lynchings , although not confined to the south , are being used against the south because of the number of them occurring within her limits , and they are doing her great injury . it is the duty of every one who seeks"
3068,8600_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1893,"duty of every one who seeks to promote the south's prosperity to rise up and protest against them , and to use their influence to put a stop to them . punishment by legal means has more effect in checking the kind of crime for which lynch law is invoked",mob,violence can possibly have . than
3069,8602_0.txt,"Reporter and farmer (Webster, Day Co...)",1894,"at an upper story win of the elevator , and it is thought ey were all burned . negroes strung up . iple lynching in 82 arkansas town . little rock , sept . 25 . - the breath of had scarcely left the body of their tim when a",mob,"of 300 enraged of mcghee , ark . , secured washington , richard washing- and henry crobyson , three ne who fiendishly murdered h . c . at mcghee yesterday morning , strung them up to telegraph poles , their limp and lifeless bodies , forated with buckshot , are"
3070,8603_0.txt,NA,1894,"decatur , ills . , is much excited because a abbreviated telegrams .",mob,"wants to lynch a negro for assault on a white woman , and the other negroes promise make it interesting for the mob , using shotguns to as a part of the game ."
3071,8603_0.txt,NA,1894,"decatur , ills . , is much excited because a abbreviated telegrams . mob wants to lynch a negro for assault on a white woman , and the other negroes promise make it interesting for the",mob,", using shotguns to as a part of the game ."
3072,8604_0.txt,"The pioneer express (Pembina, Dakota...)",1894,a,mob,"of negroes at luraville , fla . , led by a negro preacher named mar shall , went to the house of john thom as , colored , to lyuch him for assaulting a negro girl . as the mob approached thomas opened fire with a winchester . his first"
3073,8604_0.txt,"The pioneer express (Pembina, Dakota...)",1894,"a mob of negroes at luraville , fla . , led by a negro preacher named mar shall , went to the house of john thom as , colored , to lyuch him for assaulting a negro girl . as the",mob,"approached thomas opened fire with a winchester . his first shot killed marshall . thom as continued firing , shooting down other members of the mob . six"
3074,8604_0.txt,"The pioneer express (Pembina, Dakota...)",1894,"shall , went to the house of john thom as , colored , to lyuch him for assaulting a negro girl . as the mob approached thomas opened fire with a winchester . his first shot killed marshall . thom as continued firing , shooting down other members of the",mob,. six
3075,8605_0.txt,"The true northerner (Paw Paw, Mich.)",1900,"negro lynched . vicksburg , miss . , oct . 24 . - gloster barnes , colored , was lynched by a",mob,of his own people in the northern part of this county monday night . in a drunken fury barnes murdered his wife and stabbed and badly wounded a negro who interfered and engaged in a rifle duel with a white man who at tempted to arrest him . he was
3076,8607_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1887,"wound that nearly proved fatal . branni- building . gan was committed for examination . miss sudden that she cut brannigan'a throat was set of the for next saturday . william in danger commis of judge lynch . its whose baltimore , md . , july 6 . - six",masked,"has men appeared at the door of the jail at purpose towson in baltimore county mid . , after , - the night last night and demanded admission and . the they declared their intention to lynch strung james jackson ( colored ) confined for out- entire rage on where"
3077,8607_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1887,"mid . , after , - the night last night and demanded admission and . the they declared their intention to lynch strung james jackson ( colored ) confined for out- entire rage on where the sherviola jackson ( white ) , aged 11 . proof after some threats the",mob,"disappeared . ton of this it car- morning crowbar and mattock were a this lot of found at the jail door . excitement at the rooms scene of outrage is very great , and it conclusion is expected a more formidable crowd will is get of the are prisoner ."
3078,8610_1.txt,"The Abilene reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1887,louisville a,mob,". the city of louisville excited over the jennie bowman murder- lynching of the murderers only provented by the military and police . louisville , ky . , april 30 . - every thing was quiet about the jail yesterday morn g , though the talk was that another and"
3079,8610_1.txt,"The Abilene reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1887,"m . the agreed signal of eleven taps by the fire : department bells in case of an attack upon . the jail was rung , as great crowds of peo ple were pressing toward the jail , around which the militia were stationed , and the police and a",mob,"were fighting . by 12 : 45 p . m . about 3,000 people were assembled on the jail square , and jefferson street was the scene of great confusion , people , rushing toward the jail from all points , but no serious had occurred and it was not"
3080,8610_1.txt,"The Abilene reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1887,", a well known physician of the city , mounted a barrel on the sidewalk and ad dressed them . he said that since the brutal crime of patterson and turner none of the women and children feel any security , and that while he generally was op posed to",mob,"law , there was nothing to be done in this case but to lynch the negro fiends . the law had again and again failed to punish murderers . they had been sent to the penitentiary when they ought to have been hung . the lawyers defended blood- stained criminals"
3081,8610_1.txt,"The Abilene reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1887,". on market street a crowd of about 100 me were marching up and down , each with about a foot of white cotton rope tied to place the arm . in a prominent on the court house is the illuminated design : "" wanted- 500 men to join this",mob,". "" up to this writing good order has prevailed . the mob appears to have no leader and ap pears to be only watching out of curiosity for something to turn up . the police and militia are determined to defend the jail , come what may , and"
3082,8610_1.txt,"The Abilene reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1887,"and down , each with about a foot of white cotton rope tied to place the arm . in a prominent on the court house is the illuminated design : "" wanted- 500 men to join this mob . "" up to this writing good order has prevailed . the",mob,"appears to have no leader and ap pears to be only watching out of curiosity for something to turn up . the police and militia are determined to defend the jail , come what may , and if the attempt is made there will be bloodshed sure . the soldiers"
3083,8610_2.txt,"The Abilene reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1887,another attempt was made on the 28th by a,mob,"to lynch turner and patterson , the negro assailants of jennie bowman , at louisville , ky . conflicts with the police resulted , the mob being finally driven off . advices from kodiak , alaska , bearing date of april 5 , state that the sealing schooner flying scud"
3084,8610_2.txt,"The Abilene reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1887,"another attempt was made on the 28th by a mob to lynch turner and patterson , the negro assailants of jennie bowman , at louisville , ky . conflicts with the police resulted , the",mob,"being finally driven off . advices from kodiak , alaska , bearing date of april 5 , state that the sealing schooner flying scud , sailing from that port , was lost at sea with all on board . the owner , h . anderson , captain nels hansen ,"
3085,8610_2.txt,"The Abilene reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1887,"and left . the water in the merrimac at lowell , mass . , was very high on the 29th , and ris ing rapidly . the mills were all running , but the backwater made it very difficult to run them . a shut down was feared . another",mob,"gathered in louisville , ky . , on the 29th , bent on lynching the assailants of jennie bowman . after an ex citing time and the calling out of the military quiet was restored . a colossal system of rcobery by means of prepared packs of cards has been"
3086,8617_0.txt,"The Omaha guide (Omaha, Neb.)",1941,his lite to notify the boston branch and national office of nacp . of the case and to urge that they act re- to prevent ford from being turned to south carolina . private ford has returned to camp fdwards near here where he enlisted after fleeing an angry scuthin,mob,". he was accused of naving assaulted with intent to kill , frank stokes , white , of cher- ford was attacked on a cher- aw . aw street by stokes and several ther white men who kicked ard beat him . in self- defense , he slashed stokes with"
3087,8617_0.txt,"The Omaha guide (Omaha, Neb.)",1941,"aw street by stokes and several ther white men who kicked ard beat him . in self- defense , he slashed stokes with a knife , escaped and made h's way to camp edwards where the south carolina followed him with demands police for ins return to that state .",mob,"loses lynch victim s . c . extradition vetoed boston , mass . , - a possible lyn ching was averted and a blow a gainst mob rule struck when governor leverett saltonstall of thises state returned , unsigned and un- honored , extradition papers for private andrew harmon ford"
3088,8617_0.txt,"The Omaha guide (Omaha, Neb.)",1941,"and made h's way to camp edwards where the south carolina followed him with demands police for ins return to that state . mob loses lynch victim s . c . extradition vetoed boston , mass . , - a possible lyn ching was averted and a blow a gainst",mob,"rule struck when governor leverett saltonstall of thises state returned , unsigned and un- honored , extradition papers for private andrew harmon ford , formerly of cheraw , s . c . , to the governor of south carolina , on 16 . may levi"
3089,8619_0.txt,NA,1897,", tex . , july 30 . - the lynching of henry robinson , a negro puliman porter who assulted emma wulff tuesday , was on ly prevented late last night by the brave and cool stand made by officers guarding the jailin which the prisoner is confined . the",mob,"met at convention hall at 11 : 30 p . m . , and marched to jail about 600 strong at midnight . the leader demanded the door to be opened . this was done and a big officer grabbed the leader and hustled him into a cell and closed"
3090,8619_0.txt,NA,1897,strong at midnight . the leader demanded the door to be opened . this was done and a big officer grabbed the leader and hustled him into a cell and closed the door before the crowd could force ac mittance . several speeches made in an effort to incite the,mob,and these speakers were arrested on the charge of inciting the mob to violence . the mob were dispersed by a big squad of police and no further attempt was made . it is believed another effort made tonight will be to lynch the pris oner . good news from
3091,8619_0.txt,NA,1897,. this was done and a big officer grabbed the leader and hustled him into a cell and closed the door before the crowd could force ac mittance . several speeches made in an effort to incite the mob and these speakers were arrested on the charge of inciting the,mob,"to violence . the mob were dispersed by a big squad of police and no further attempt was made . it is believed another effort made tonight will be to lynch the pris oner . good news from wolcott . washington , july 30- senator wolcott's stock is rising ."
3092,8619_0.txt,NA,1897,a big officer grabbed the leader and hustled him into a cell and closed the door before the crowd could force ac mittance . several speeches made in an effort to incite the mob and these speakers were arrested on the charge of inciting the mob to violence . the,mob,"were dispersed by a big squad of police and no further attempt was made . it is believed another effort made tonight will be to lynch the pris oner . good news from wolcott . washington , july 30- senator wolcott's stock is rising . official in formation has been"
3093,8623_0.txt,"St. Paul daily globe (Saint Paul, Min...)",1895,"today one of the negroes gave way , and confessed the crime , implicating two other negro men and two women . the officers secured them and were closely guarding them when last heard of last night . the report tonight does not give the de tails of how the",mob,"secured the murderers , except that they were taken by force . a telegram from confirms the story . greenville"
3094,8624_0.txt,"Western Kansas world (WaKeeney, Kan.)",1896,"sidney randolph , a negro , charged with the murder of little sadie buxton at gaithersburg , md . , was lynched by a",mob,who overcame the sheriff and forced him to surrender the keys of the jail . the negro protested his innocence to the last . afterwards a rumor arrived at gaithersburg that the colored people were organizing and threatened to lynch the father of the murdered sadie buxton and the deputy
3095,8624_0.txt,"Western Kansas world (WaKeeney, Kan.)",1896,"use their clubs on the strikers who followed . albert saunders , an employe of the works , was knocked off his wheel by a brick and drew his revolver and shot a striker , who died soon after . the police hurried saunders into an office . but the",mob,"wanted to lynch him and the mayor had to order soldiers to the scene before saunders could be taken to the station . the heat was intense in chicago on the 3d and a number of prostrations , some fatal , were reported . the latest cholera news from cairo"
3096,8625_0.txt,"Abilene weekly reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1896,a negro lynched . . the brute is taken from jail by a,mob,"and hanged . two women and a man drowned . a boat capsizes with fatal results- double tragedy- succeeded in killing him self- a loy kill- two lone women stabbed . --- birmingham , ala . , june 22 . - on fri day night last bessie , the nine-"
3097,8625_0.txt,"Abilene weekly reflector (Abilene, Kan.)",1896,"a ne gro farin laborer . she was later found in the woods , where the brute had assaulted her and left her in an unconscious condition , fatally injured . orr was afterward captured near danville and confined in the courthouse . at an early hour yesterday morning a",mob,"broke into the building , strapped the negro to a horse and took him to the scene of his crime where , they hanged him and riddled his body with bullets orr confessed his guilt . two women and a man drowned . zanesville , o . , june 22"
3098,8627_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,"back to the players . in doing so , one was struck on the leg . no excitement was raised and the kids took it as a part of the game . in the night this player travelled the same street coming from his gril friend's house . unexpectedly a",mob,closed in on him threatening to do him bodily harm . the voiced fury grew to open attacks and a cry to lynch . leroy ran all the way and told a few wakened students . within 20 minutes the campus was almost surrounded . a body of students came
3099,8627_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,the way and told a few wakened students . within 20 minutes the campus was almost surrounded . a body of students came down stairs and demanded to know what the trouble was . e . w . murry asked for a gun and said he would go to the,mob,"and demand an explanation . finally , we to gether advanced to the armed mob . for about 40 minutes the discussion centered whether or not to let him go . the discussion , however , when the students were aroused , grew so that the mob retreated with a"
3100,8627_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,"almost surrounded . a body of students came down stairs and demanded to know what the trouble was . e . w . murry asked for a gun and said he would go to the mob and demand an explanation . finally , we to gether advanced to the armed",mob,". for about 40 minutes the discussion centered whether or not to let him go . the discussion , however , when the students were aroused , grew so that the mob retreated with a sharp promise not to harm leroy . """
3101,8627_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1934,"go to the mob and demand an explanation . finally , we to gether advanced to the armed mob . for about 40 minutes the discussion centered whether or not to let him go . the discussion , however , when the students were aroused , grew so that the",mob,"retreated with a sharp promise not to harm leroy . """
3102,8630_0.txt,"The Superior times (Superior, Wis.)",1877,"one roper , alias mcghee , a negro , who attempted to rape miss bertie templeton , was taken from the jail at columbia , tenn . , by a",mob,", on the 27th inst . , and lynched the third story of the court house , in from the presence of fully 2,000 people ."
3103,8633_1.txt,"Helena weekly herald (Helena, Mont.)",1889,"deputy sheriff lowens and posse . they were imprisoned in an old house near kelly , new mexico . before the capture , the thieves three in number , , engaged the posse in a battle , during which their leader and deputy lowens were shot dead . last night",a party of,"cow boys proceeded to the house where the remaining two thieves were imprisoned , overpowered the guard and hanged the prisoners after riddling their bodies ullets . with"
3104,8633_2.txt,"Helena weekly herald (Helena, Mont.)",1889,"without anything this was regarded as evidence against them recently . they turned loose twenty- five freshly branded calves , which completely satisfied their neighbors that they were mavericking this was the particular act that led to the lynching . from the particulars received is known that a body of",masked,"men succeeded in getting on their trail . they were captured after a struggle and , after being bound , were led some distance away and together strung up to the limb of a tree and their bodies were riddled with bullets . this is the fifth hanging that has"
3105,8633_2.txt,"Helena weekly herald (Helena, Mont.)",1889,"without anything this was regarded as evidence against them recently . they turned loose twenty- five freshly branded calves , which completely satisfied their neighbors that they were mavericking this was the particular act that led to the lynching . from the particulars received is known that a body of",masked men,"succeeded in getting on their trail . they were captured after a struggle and , after being bound , were led some distance away and together strung up to the limb of a tree and their bodies were riddled with bullets . this is the fifth hanging that has taken"
3106,8638_0.txt,"Daily globe (St. Paul, Minn.)",1882,two views of it . [ chicago tribunt . ] if ever a crime was committed which just- fied a recourse to,mob,violence in order that its punishment might be swift and sure- if any conceivable atrocity can be considered as justifying lynch law- such a crime was that of the tramp who was yesterday morning taken from the jail at minneapolis and hanged from the limb of a tree in front
3107,8638_0.txt,"Daily globe (St. Paul, Minn.)",1882,"as the the deed , and after being taken perpetrator from the jail had made a full confession . under these circumstances it is not surprising that public sentiment in minneapolis and st . paul is on the side of the well- ordered which executed a well- deserved vengeance .",mob,"[ chicago herald.javel minneapolis is disgraced . it is a beautiful city , and one in which the advancement of civilization was supposed to have kept even pace with the increase of wealth and population . yet it is the first city of importance in which the wild , cruel"
3108,8638_0.txt,"Daily globe (St. Paul, Minn.)",1882,"it is a beautiful city , and one in which the advancement of civilization was supposed to have kept even pace with the increase of wealth and population . yet it is the first city of importance in which the wild , cruel and often mistaken law of the border",mob,"has usurped the place of the law of the state . to many it seems almost incredible that in a city of 50,000 inhabitants , with all the offcers and machinary for executing the law , a mob should be able to carry out its unlawful work so easily ,"
3109,8638_0.txt,"Daily globe (St. Paul, Minn.)",1882,"which the wild , cruel and often mistaken law of the border mob has usurped the place of the law of the state . to many it seems almost incredible that in a city of 50,000 inhabitants , with all the offcers and machinary for executing the law , a",mob,"should be able to carry out its unlawful work so easily , so swiftly , so uninterruptedly . what did it mean ? one report says : "" the police were on the ground , but found nothing to do , for every one was of the same mind ."
3110,8639_0.txt,"The Dallas daily herald (Dallas, Tex.)",1886,"a horrible murder avenged by a colored . memphis , oct . 28 .",mob-,"a colored man named james haynes and a colored woman named mary jackson applied for work as cotton pickers at a plantation in bolivar county , miss . , last wednesday . they said they came from coahoma station , in the same county . they were set at work"
3111,8639_0.txt,"The Dallas daily herald (Dallas, Tex.)",1886,"and at once arrested . he virtually confessed his guilt , of which there was already overwhelming circumstantial proof . the officers of the law took him to the neighboring little town of browns ville , intending to take him to jail as soon as convenient . saturday night a",mob,"of colored people , in a quiet , well organized fash ion , came to the village , captured haynes from the guard , and took him and hung him in the most approved and expeditious lynch law style . then the mob quietly dispersed . seems to know or"
3112,8639_0.txt,"The Dallas daily herald (Dallas, Tex.)",1886,"soon as convenient . saturday night a mob of colored people , in a quiet , well organized fash ion , came to the village , captured haynes from the guard , and took him and hung him in the most approved and expeditious lynch law style . then the",mob,quietly dispersed . seems to know or care who they nobody were .
3113,8643_0.txt,"The interior journal (Stanford, Ky.) 1872-1881",1876,an infuriated,mob,"hung a man named lee , in northern kentucky , because he shot aud killed the man ellis , who had seduced his wife . this is the first instance on record , where a man has been mobbed for such an offense . generally speaking , the slayer a"
3114,8643_0.txt,"The interior journal (Stanford, Ky.) 1872-1881",1876,"an infuriated mob hung a man named lee , in northern kentucky , because he shot aud killed the man ellis , who had seduced his wife . this is the first instance on record , where a man has been",mobbed,"for such an offense . generally speaking , the slayer a seducer is made a lion of . of"
3115,8644_0.txt,Morning journal and courier (New Haven [Conn...),1882,"verdict in the ashland riot . louisville , nov . 13 . - the coroner's jury at ashland , ky . , finished its sitting to- day the cases of the people killed on the bank of in two murderers were repulsed by the state the river , when the",mob,"attempting to lynch troops . the verdict charges that the firing by the troops was uncalled for and censures major john r . allen , commanding the troops ."
3116,8646_0.txt,"Mower County transcript (Lansing, Minn.)",1897,three negro murderers were lynched by a,mob,in louisiana a .
3117,8648_0.txt,"The Hocking sentinel (Logan, Ohio)",1897,"a wisconsin lynching . jerry johnson , a negro , was lynched by",mob,"near screven , wis . while in charge of officers being taken to jail , a crowd of armed men rode up and performingham iated his body with balls . the negro was arrested for leaden stealing bicycle ."
3118,8649_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1894,lynching of six negroes at millington last week is being pushed with vigor and as result the grand jury yester day found five indictments . more are expected to- day . the indicted men include detective w . f . richardson who led the negroes into the hands of the,mob,", a . at kinson , the man who drove the wagon on the night of the lynching and jeff laxter , merchant at kerrville , be a lieved to have been the leader of the mob ."
3119,8649_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1894,". f . richardson who led the negroes into the hands of the mob , a . at kinson , the man who drove the wagon on the night of the lynching and jeff laxter , merchant at kerrville , be a lieved to have been the leader of the",mob,.
3120,8651_1.txt,Belmont chronicle (St. Clairsville...),1894,"at kansas city , mo . , a",mob,"of 4,000 were with difficulty prevented people from lynching the ex- priest mcnamara ."
3121,8663_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1893,the,mob,"leader arrested , he claims to be a grand army man but old soldiers say he is not . denver , col . , july 29 . - col . c . f . brennan , who led the mob that lynched the italian murderer , arata , wednesday night"
3122,8663_0.txt,"The Wheeling daily intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1893,"the mob leader arrested , he claims to be a grand army man but old soldiers say he is not . denver , col . , july 29 . - col . c . f . brennan , who led the",mob,"that lynched the italian murderer , arata , wednesday night , has been arrested . he is booked at the station under the charge of hav ising incited a disturbance . the real charge against him is murder , in hav ing caused the hanging . brennan be a grand"
3123,8664_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1906,"attacked and stoped principally in the outskirts of the city by negroes . the better class of negroes wishing to avoid conflict are fleeing from the city , but the fighting still remains . element citizens in general deplore the state of affairs and the work principally that of a",mob,"of irresponsible whites who have allowed themselves to be carried away by the turn of events to such an extent that damage has been done to private property from a spirit of sheer wantonness , after the negroes had been defeated and driven from streets the when the riot started"
3124,8665_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1895,five negroes lynched two of the victims of an ala bama,mob,"were women . they had killed a white man . churchgoers found the dead bodies swing ing from the trees by the roadside sun day morning- one negro confessed the murder of the white man . montgomery , ala . , april 22 . - word comes from greenville ,"
3125,8665_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1895,". finally one of the negroes gave way and confessed the crime , implicating two other negro men and the officers secured them two women . and were closely guarding the prisoners when last heard from . the report does not give any of the de tails of how the",mob,"secured the murderers except that they were taken by force . a telegram from greenville con firms the story . the confession was made by rattler , who implicated the others . butler springs is 16 miles from here . a posse of men who bad charge of the five"
3126,8665_0.txt,"Evening journal (Wilmington, Del...)",1895,". one story is that a negro , who escaped , concocted the plot and planned the mur der in revenge for an imaginary wrong of a trivial nature . the confession which implicated the other men and women was full and explicit . it is reported here that the",mob,"of lynchers was made up of the most prominent farmers and merchants living near the scene of the murder , but it is believed this is an exaggerated statement of the situation . there is little doubt , however , that the prominent citizens condone the affair . there is"
3127,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"lynched , italians alleged assassins of chief hennessy killed in new orleans . nine men shot crouching in the prison and two hanged . a",mob,", extraordinary in size , extraordinary in its make up , extraordinary in its de termination , a few days ago in new orleans , la , hilled eleven of the nineteen italians charged with the murder of chief of police hennessy . it was a mob led by lawyers"
3128,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"hanged . a mob , extraordinary in size , extraordinary in its make up , extraordinary in its de termination , a few days ago in new orleans , la , hilled eleven of the nineteen italians charged with the murder of chief of police hennessy . it was a",mob,"led by lawyers and merchants , men of large wealth and high standing . it was so strong that the authorities made no show of resistance and suc eambed before it . indeed the officers of the law threw up their hats and cheered the mob in its work ."
3129,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,". it was a mob led by lawyers and merchants , men of large wealth and high standing . it was so strong that the authorities made no show of resistance and suc eambed before it . indeed the officers of the law threw up their hats and cheered the",mob,"in its work . these are the names of those shot or hanged : joseph macheca , antonio mar chesi , antonio scaffedi , rocco geracci , james carnso saretto comitez , pietro monastero , louis trahina , frank romero , man el polizzi , antonio bagnetto . when on"
3130,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"were heard on all sides . the speeches had not lasted more than fif teen minutes . the crowd by this time numbered about 5000 . the signal to march was then given , and away the crowd went down royal street . the slaughter at the prison . the",mob,seemed determined on quiet work . at the word of command they started to ward the parish prison at a dog trot . it was then seen that there were three carts in the meb in which were a number of ladders to storm the prison if necessary . there
3131,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"j . d . houston , ex- criminal sheriff and the manager of the democratic party of the state for years , was first lieutenant , and j . c . wicklife , formerly district attorney and editor of the states , second lieutenant . around these armed men the",mob,"surged , some three or four thousand strong . here and there in the crowd was a man armed with a rifle or a shotgun , but the majority had only revolvers . when they reached the prison it was soon seen that the men were organized as a mili-"
3132,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"seen that the men were organized as a mili- tary body . the 200 with guns drew up in front of the main gate on orleans street , other squads went to treme , marais and st . anne streets , completely surrounding the prison . the leaders of the",mob,"made a formal smand on captain lem davis , keeper of the de prison in , for admission . he refused , and said that he could surrender keys without the consent of the sheriff . he called upon the mob to disperse . his refusal was greeted with jeers"
3133,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"completely surrounding the prison . the leaders of the mob made a formal smand on captain lem davis , keeper of the de prison in , for admission . he refused , and said that he could surrender keys without the consent of the sheriff . he called upon the",mob,"to disperse . his refusal was greeted with jeers and groans . messengers were immediately dispatched for axes and crowbars and picks . these were soon procured from a neighboring blacksmith shop , and the mob set to to break in the big iron gate in front of work the"
3134,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"could surrender keys without the consent of the sheriff . he called upon the mob to disperse . his refusal was greeted with jeers and groans . messengers were immediately dispatched for axes and crowbars and picks . these were soon procured from a neighboring blacksmith shop , and the",mob,"set to to break in the big iron gate in front of work the prison . it is a massive concern , and the instruments made no impression on it . in the mean time another squad attacked the side gate on marais street . this might easily have been"
3135,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"marais street . this might easily have been defended by the sheriff , but no attempt had been made for its defence . the door was battered with some of the beams on the street and finally broken by a colored man with an ax . the leaders of the",mob,"stood at the door and only fifty men , the men who had first volunteered their services , were allowed to enter , the rest being kept out with difficulty . the mob first broke into the visiting room , where they were halted for a few seconds by the"
3136,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"the street and finally broken by a colored man with an ax . the leaders of the mob stood at the door and only fifty men , the men who had first volunteered their services , were allowed to enter , the rest being kept out with difficulty . the",mob,"first broke into the visiting room , where they were halted for a few seconds by the iron fence and railing . a demand was made for the key of the gate , and a deputy sheriff presented it to one of the men with the remark that the mob"
3137,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"mob first broke into the visiting room , where they were halted for a few seconds by the iron fence and railing . a demand was made for the key of the gate , and a deputy sheriff presented it to one of the men with the remark that the",mob,"was irresistible and it was folly to oppose it longer . the inside gate was thrown any open , and the several deputies who were in the lobby gave way to the crowd . the door leading into the white prisoners ' yard was open and the mob crowded through"
3138,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"that the mob was irresistible and it was folly to oppose it longer . the inside gate was thrown any open , and the several deputies who were in the lobby gave way to the crowd . the door leading into the white prisoners ' yard was open and the",mob,"crowded through . a cell at the door was open , and it was crowded with prisoners , who were trembling in every limb . a deputy stood in the door and informed the crowd that none of those in that cell were the prisoners wanted . then then the"
3139,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"crowded through . a cell at the door was open , and it was crowded with prisoners , who were trembling in every limb . a deputy stood in the door and informed the crowd that none of those in that cell were the prisoners wanted . then then the",mob,"filed out into the yard , glancing up at one of the cells . on the second floor a bianched and ghastly face was seen at the bars of the door . "" that's scaffedi , "" shouted one excited individual , and immediately several shots were at whoever he"
3140,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"sunseri and one of the other italians saved their lives in a dog house , where they escaped attention . sunseri weighs over 200 pounds but managed to , make himself small for this occasion . gas pardo marchesi , the boy prisoner , was saved by some of the",mob,", who took mercy on his tender years . he was concealed between two mattresses . the other italians were scattered around the yard . when they saw the mob they set up a yell for mercy . suddenly a voice said : "" give it to them ! """
3141,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"himself small for this occasion . gas pardo marchesi , the boy prisoner , was saved by some of the mob , who took mercy on his tender years . he was concealed between two mattresses . the other italians were scattered around the yard . when they saw the",mob,"they set up a yell for mercy . suddenly a voice said : "" give it to them ! "" and instantly three guns and a pistol belched forth a rain of leaden bullets . gerachi , who was lame and was the last of the fleeing men , received"
3142,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,", but that macheca , marchesi the elder and bagnetto would be brought from the prison and hanged . it had been intended to take macheca , who was regarded as the leader of the italians , outside and hang him , but in the meanwhile another section of the",mob,"had broken into the cell where macheca was confined . he heard the men coming , rushed from his cell , which was open and toward the chapel , but was finally cornered in a gallery of the condemned prison . here a young man hit him over the head"
3143,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"was dead , and the crowd was about to leave him when some one suggested as an extra precaution that he be disposed of . a bullet was fired through his brain . it being impossible to hang macheca , it was decided to lynch polizzi and bagnetto . the",mob,"on the outside had grown impatient and demanded victims . the streets for squares around were filled with people , among whom were a large number of women and children . angry crowd wanted the vengeance on all the nineteen italians , and showed some opposition when it was announced"
3144,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"were filled with people , among whom were a large number of women and children . angry crowd wanted the vengeance on all the nineteen italians , and showed some opposition when it was announced that only four had been killed , according to the first information given to the",mob,". a loud demand was then made that the promise to lynch some of the prisoners should be kept . at 11 o'clock , a few minutes after the shooting , the side door on marais street was pushed open and several of the armed men appeared pushing before them"
3145,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"park in the centre of orleans street , on which are several rows of trees . some one ascended a tree and threw another rope around a convenient limb . when bagnetto was swung up it was seen that he was shot through the head and already dead . the",mob,"wanted the others , but they were told that enough had been done . the whole affair occupied barely forty five minutes . it was 10 : 20 when the mob reached the parish prison ; it was 11 : 08 when bagnetto , the last victim , was strung"
3146,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"bagnetto was swung up it was seen that he was shot through the head and already dead . the mob wanted the others , but they were told that enough had been done . the whole affair occupied barely forty five minutes . it was 10 : 20 when the",mob,"reached the parish prison ; it was 11 : 08 when bagnetto , the last victim , was strung np . of the eleven men killed four had been ac quitted by the jury , three had had a mistrial , and four had not been tried . the mob"
3147,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"mob reached the parish prison ; it was 11 : 08 when bagnetto , the last victim , was strung np . of the eleven men killed four had been ac quitted by the jury , three had had a mistrial , and four had not been tried . the",mob,"lingered around the scene for some time , and the tree to which bagnette was hanged was nearly cut down to carry away as momen tos . polizzi and bagnette swung to the lamp post and tree until noon , when the coroner in an appearance and held an inquest"
3148,8668_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1891,"by members of italian secret societies , against which hennessy had collected evidence of the blackest crimes . the motive was the suppression of the information in his possession . the history of the immediate series of events which culminated in the murder dates back to last june , when",a party of,"italians shot down in the street six members of an italian organization unfriendly to them . forty murders of a similar nature had been committed by italians in the city during the preceding few years , and the authorities , with the undivided support of all english- speaking citizens ,"
3149,8669_0.txt,"The Washington bee (Washington, D.C...)",1892,a,mob,"storms a jail . vicksburg , miss . , 5 . - a mob has just ' broken into the jail to lynch three negroes . the mob has hung one negro and gone back to the jail for more . troops have been called out . democratic negroes should"
3150,8669_0.txt,"The Washington bee (Washington, D.C...)",1892,"a mob storms a jail . vicksburg , miss . , 5 . - a",mob,has just ' broken into the jail to lynch three negroes . the mob has hung one negro and gone back to the jail for more . troops have been called out . democratic negroes should and ponder over the above . read
3151,8669_0.txt,"The Washington bee (Washington, D.C...)",1892,"a mob storms a jail . vicksburg , miss . , 5 . - a mob has just ' broken into the jail to lynch three negroes . the",mob,has hung one negro and gone back to the jail for more . troops have been called out . democratic negroes should and ponder over the above . read
3152,8669_2.txt,"The Washington bee (Washington, D.C...)",1892,"ark . haynes , at desperado gro a",mob,of colored people lynched a ne
3153,8670_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,law . of,mob,danger the three leading journalists of north caro lina condemn mob law as an evil in itself and declare that the good name and busi prosperity of that state demand its entire ness suppression . the north carolina editors point out that the state constitutions provide legislative bodies whose duty
3154,8670_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,law . of mob danger the three leading journalists of north caro lina condemn,mob,law as an evil in itself and declare that the good name and busi prosperity of that state demand its entire ness suppression . the north carolina editors point out that the state constitutions provide legislative bodies whose duty at is to frame the laws ; that if the people
3155,8670_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,"state constitutions provide legislative bodies whose duty at is to frame the laws ; that if the people of any part of a state are to be allowed at their will the judicial function of passing on the sufficiency of a law to meet any particular case , then a",mob,"becomes at once superior to both legislature and courts . if the assallant of a woman ought to be punished with death , either as a measure of the heinousness of his crime or as a protection to other women , then let law so provide , as it does"
3156,8670_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,"or as a protection to other women , then let law so provide , as it does in north the carolina . at roanoke , va . , we are now told , the overwhelming sentiment is in favor of public orier . there are no open apologists for the",mob,"who lynched the negro a few weeks ago , and only praise for the militla who killed several of the riotous assailants of the jail . poor mayor trout now realizes that he made the mistake of his life in losing his courage at the critical moment and running away"
3157,8670_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,"widespread and alarming manifestation of organized lawlessness that we have ever seen in this country . there is nothing surprising in this . mississippi for years has allowed jadge lynch to murder and maltreat negroes and destroy their property , and today these white ruffians have grown boid enough to",mob,"white people and de stroy their property . so in louisiana , where mob law has had full sway for many years . what can be expected in a state where a city of over 200,000 population a lows a mob of 4,000 to burst a prison and murder its"
3158,8670_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,"country . there is nothing surprising in this . mississippi for years has allowed jadge lynch to murder and maltreat negroes and destroy their property , and today these white ruffians have grown boid enough to mob white people and de stroy their property . so in louisiana , where",mob,"law has had full sway for many years . what can be expected in a state where a city of over 200,000 population a lows a mob of 4,000 to burst a prison and murder its inmates in cold blood ; what can you expect where negroes are murdered in"
3159,8670_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,"today these white ruffians have grown boid enough to mob white people and de stroy their property . so in louisiana , where mob law has had full sway for many years . what can be expected in a state where a city of over 200,000 population a lows a",mob,"of 4,000 to burst a prison and murder its inmates in cold blood ; what can you expect where negroes are murdered in cold blood because they will not reveal a criminal relative's hiding place to a lynching party . of course these white ruffians gradually grow more and more"
3160,8670_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1893,a prison and murder its inmates in cold blood ; what can you expect where negroes are murdered in cold blood because they will not reveal a criminal relative's hiding place to a lynching party . of course these white ruffians gradually grow more and more lawless and they enforce,mob,law white neighbors . against
3161,8671_0.txt,NA,1891,fought for his life . a murderer lynched by a kentucky,mob,". louisville , ky . , june 8 . - at wick liffe , ky . , at midnight last night , evan e . shelby , charged with the murder of mrs . sallie moore , was taken by a mob of 100 unknown men from the jail and"
3162,8671_0.txt,NA,1891,"life . a murderer lynched by a kentucky mob . louisville , ky . , june 8 . - at wick liffe , ky . , at midnight last night , evan e . shelby , charged with the murder of mrs . sallie moore , was taken by a",mob,"of 100 unknown men from the jail and hanged . the sheriff resisted and was roughly handled . shelby fought destion perately and severely hurt several of the mob . he was almost dead before they got him out . the murder was committed in 1882 , near woodville ,"
3163,8671_0.txt,NA,1891,"night , evan e . shelby , charged with the murder of mrs . sallie moore , was taken by a mob of 100 unknown men from the jail and hanged . the sheriff resisted and was roughly handled . shelby fought destion perately and severely hurt several of the",mob,". he was almost dead before they got him out . the murder was committed in 1882 , near woodville , a village near wickliffe , just across from cairo , ill . shelby had been sentenced for life , but had been granted a new trial from the court"
3164,8671_0.txt,NA,1891,"dead before they got him out . the murder was committed in 1882 , near woodville , a village near wickliffe , just across from cairo , ill . shelby had been sentenced for life , but had been granted a new trial from the court of appeals . the",mob,"said they had previously mart shelby , under indictment hung as accessory ."
3165,8673_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1894,"to be tried for lynching . memphis , tenn . , oct . 26 . - the trial of the members of the",mob,"who lynched six negroes millington , tenn . , august 31st has been near set for oct . 29th ."
3166,8676_0.txt,"Saint Mary's beacon (Leonard Town, M...)",1894,"at a wedding in allegany county , n . c . , robert slaughter , of carroll county , va . , stabbed two men to death . he was arrested and placed in jail , from whence he was taken by a",mob,and lynched a .
3167,8677_0.txt,NA,1894,"they refused to obey and defied him to arrest them . with augmented force this crowd soon sur rounded the jail , shouting that collins should not be lynched . the sheriff also went to the jail with a strong force to protect prisoner . at day . light the",mob,dispersed the .
3168,8683_0.txt,"Iowa state bystander (Des Moines, Iow...)",1894,"southerners may find defenses for this ostracism which satisfy them- that is not a matter of present concern- but northern lapses from virtue cannot fairly be used as such defenses any more than an occasional exhibition of ,",mob,"brutality at the north can be fairly used to defend southern lynchings . if it is hypocrisy for such people as these brooklynites to condemn southern treatment of the negro , it is exactly as much hypocrisy to justify southern extremes ostracism of the negro by citing the of occasional"
3169,8683_1.txt,"Iowa state bystander (Des Moines, Iow...)",1894,the attempt to lynch a negro in ohio last week presents a striking contrast .,mob,"violence occasionally occurs in the north , but it is met with resistance and often fails in its effort . in the north there is an attempt to maintain the majesty of the law , no matter what the crime may be or who the criminal is , whether white"
3170,8683_1.txt,"Iowa state bystander (Des Moines, Iow...)",1894,"north there is an attempt to maintain the majesty of the law , no matter what the crime may be or who the criminal is , whether white or black in the south there is no attempt . made to sustain the law or to resist the action of the",mob,". the negro in ohio was adjudged guilty by a jury of his peers and sentenced by the judge , and the men who were unfortunately killed were attempting to usurp the authority of the courts and override constitution and bulwarks of social order the and civil justice ."
3171,8685_0.txt,"The Emporia news (Emporia, Kan.)",1878,"henry mar tin and wm . s . givens guilty of murder in the second degree . for killing charles slocumb and outraging his wife . they were sentenced to the penitentiary for life . at two o'clock , this morning mar in and jackson were taken forcibly by a",mob,"and hung , half a mile from the house . givens was taken to the court penitentiary by a strong guard ."
3172,8697_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1900,"to outstrip any british men- of- war . "" lynching in maryland . lewis harris , a negro strung up for attempted assault . republic special baltimore , md . , march 26 . - lewis harris , a negro , about 35 years old , was lynched by a",mob,"at belair , in hartford county , maryland , to- night . harris was charged with having attempted an assault upon miss annie mcllwaine about 4 o'clock sun day morning . by a subterfuge , miss mc ilwaine was persuaded to come to the door . when harris seized her"
3173,8697_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1900,"consisting of about twenty men , all well armed , rode into bel air about 11 o'clock to- night and went straight to sheriff kinhart's house . the leader demanded the keys of the jail . which adjoins the sheriff's house in the rear . the sheriff refused and the",mob,opened fire on him . while part of the crowd kept up a mock fusillade at the sheriff's house others battered in the door of the jail with hammers and crowbars ani hurried harris down the road about 300 yards and strung him up . his only state ment was
3174,8700_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1900,next sunday- the camera stevens testifies in his own behalf . denies having been in the aley,mob,". says he was at home when the humphrieses were lynched -evidence all in . republic special , palestine , tex . , jan . 2 . - testimony in the are of hetent staves , sharged with be phries and his two sons , closed to- day , and"
3175,8702_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1922,blood thirst is abandoned by texas,mob,"negro escapes lynching when woman is unable to identify him as her assailant ; another sought honey grove , texas , may 26 . - efforts to lynch will mason , negro held in jail here on suspicion following an at tempted assault upon a wiite woman near here wednesday"
3176,8702_0.txt,"Casper daily tribune (Casper, Wyo.)",1922,"texas , may 26 . - efforts to lynch will mason , negro held in jail here on suspicion following an at tempted assault upon a wiite woman near here wednesday , apparently had been abandoned today . after milling about the jail until a late hour last night a",mob,"which gathered the negro had been arrested dispersed , the members re after turning to their homes ."
3177,8703_0.txt,"The progressive farmer (Winston, N.C.)",1901,"stood oppo . site the president . ireland hurled him to the floor , and as he fell a negro waiter named john harper leaped upon him . in the confusion , he was hustled to police headquarters and securely jailed before he could be intelligently located by the angry",mob,"of thousands , ready to tear him limb from limb . mckinley's first thought for his wife . the president was assisted to a chair . his face was very white , but he made no outcry and sank back with one hand holding his abdomen . his eyes were"
3178,8707_0.txt,NA,1901,"casnova were married in of philadelphia . it is now ertimated that georgia's cotton crop this year will amount to do over a million bales . lieut . grant has captured col . cabrera , the most important filipino officer left after aguinaldo . an alabama sheri successfully resisted a",mob,"of would- be lynchers , an though armed only with a shot gun . a mob which gathered to hang three men confined in the jail at flem- ingsburg were bluffed off by the guards dr . w . godfrey hunter is expected to reach kentucky soon to enter actively"
3179,8707_0.txt,NA,1901,"year will amount to do over a million bales . lieut . grant has captured col . cabrera , the most important filipino officer left after aguinaldo . an alabama sheri successfully resisted a mob of would- be lynchers , an though armed only with a shot gun . a",mob,"which gathered to hang three men confined in the jail at flem- ingsburg were bluffed off by the guards dr . w . godfrey hunter is expected to reach kentucky soon to enter actively into the race for united states senator to succeed deboe . the citizens of tampa ,"
3180,8709_0.txt,"Eureka weekly sentinel (Eureka, Nev.)",1901,"day that out of 63,000 persons in the concentration camps of the british in south africa 34,000 were children . due to the fearless attitude of judge harrington of modoc county , cal . , the grand jury of that county has indicted three of the supposed ringlead of the",mob,"that lynched calvin hall , his three sons and son- in- law recently at lookout . the western federation of miners at their recent convention in denver offered a reward of $ 1,000 for the ar rest and conviction of john f . mcdon nell , who embezzled the funds"
3181,8710_0.txt,NA,1901,"carpenter by trade , and came here several years ago from ripley . topeka jointists heeded the de mand ol the citizens ' vigilance com committee , and closed their places of business . they have been given un til friday in which to remove their fixtures . a kentucky",mob,"lynched a negro accused of having assaulted a bank cashier's wife . winter goods at cost . blankets , clothing and underwear . bradley cuts the price . up in canada it is the bear that comes out of his hole on february 2 , which the canucks call candlemas"
3182,8711_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,,mob,"breaks into jail to lynch negro and is fired a upon . carrollton , ga . , june 7 . - the nerve of a georgia sheriff , joseph merrill , to day upheld the law of the state and saved the life of a negro from a mob ."
3183,8711_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,"mob breaks into jail to lynch negro and is fired a upon . carrollton , ga . , june 7 . - the nerve of a georgia sheriff , joseph merrill , to day upheld the law of the state and saved the life of a negro from a",mob,". in protecting the negro , who was saved from the gallows only a few hours before through the efforts of his lawyers , one life was lost and two men were wounded . the arrival of the state militia averted threatened trouble to- night and at 9 o'clock a"
3184,8711_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,"a large crowd of people had come to town to witness the hanging , and when it was learned that an appeal had been taken to the supreme court , delaying the execution , there was much excited talk , which crystallized soon after in the form ation of a",mob,". at noon the mob made an assault on the jail . they battered down the outside door , despite the warn ing of the sheriff , and entered the build ing . they made a demand on the sheriff for the keys to the negro's cell , but were"
3185,8711_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,"had come to town to witness the hanging , and when it was learned that an appeal had been taken to the supreme court , delaying the execution , there was much excited talk , which crystallized soon after in the form ation of a mob . at noon the",mob,"made an assault on the jail . they battered down the outside door , despite the warn ing of the sheriff , and entered the build ing . they made a demand on the sheriff for the keys to the negro's cell , but were re fused . with the"
3186,8711_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,"order was not obeyed . shot down by officers . as they advanced down the corridor toward the sheriff the order was given to fire . bennett fell , dying almost instantly . thomas word , the father of williams ' victim , who was in the front of the",mob,", was badly shot , as was also an unknown countryman . the unexpected fight of the sheriff and his little posse frightened the mob , and they retreated outside of the jail . here they broke and ran and were soon divided into little groups discussing the event ."
3187,8711_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,". bennett fell , dying almost instantly . thomas word , the father of williams ' victim , who was in the front of the mob , was badly shot , as was also an unknown countryman . the unexpected fight of the sheriff and his little posse frightened the",mob,", and they retreated outside of the jail . here they broke and ran and were soon divided into little groups discussing the event . sheriff merrill at once consulted judge harris of the county court and it was decided to call upon governor candler for aid . the governor"
3188,8711_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1901,judge harris of the county court and it was decided to call upon governor candler for aid . the governor was communicated with by telephone and said he would send two companies from atlanta as soon as they could be assembled . governor acts promptly . during the afternoon the,mob,"tele phoned the situation to friends in the ad joining towns of villa rica and temple , and made an appeal for more men to get possession of the negro . this was communicated also to governor candler , who soon wired a proclamation to the people of the county"
3189,8714_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1897,". , to the post dispatch says that erastus brown , the negro who nearly killed miss fannie foerving near villa ridge on july 2 and was subsequently captured and conveyed to union to prevent his being lynched , was at this morning and hanged 10 a 1ree by a",mob,of men from the neighborhood villa ridge . of
3190,8715_0.txt,"Daily Yellowstone journal (Miles City, Mon...)",1887,". the inquest was held yesterday and the evidence of mr . mason was corroborated by an other witness of the affair- mason's brother- in- law . the action by clark of attempting the rape of the little girl was fully proven , and before the day of the killing",a party of,"cow boys were seriously contemplating a re- course to lynch law upon clark . the details of the crime of clark were revolting . the crime bad been systematically furthered by him for months back , and the only wonder is that mason did not shoot him on sight in"
3191,8717_0.txt,"Huntsville gazette (Huntsville, Ala...)",1887,"alex . crawford , a negro murderer , was taken from the winona ( miss . ) jail a",mob,", on the 7th , and was lynched . by old alex . crawford , who murdered young loggins at winona , miss . , was taken from jail at place on the 7th and hanged . he confessed that the crime ."
3192,8717_1.txt,"Huntsville gazette (Huntsville, Ala...)",1887,"mack , two notorious negrces , were arrested recently , charged with the crime , and were brought to trial before a justice of the peace . at the trial the evidence was so strong against them that the citizens became infuriated , and a company of nearly one hundred",masked,"men , white and colored , took the ers out and hung them . prison"
3193,8717_1.txt,"Huntsville gazette (Huntsville, Ala...)",1887,"mack , two notorious negrces , were arrested recently , charged with the crime , and were brought to trial before a justice of the peace . at the trial the evidence was so strong against them that the citizens became infuriated , and a company of nearly one hundred",masked men,", white and colored , took the ers out and hung them . prison"
3194,8720_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1849,turk . when the mormons settled in missouri an enthusiastic young man ed mills was their most popular and admired preacher . indeed so great was his fame that whenever he held meetings a crowd of the saints were sure to be present . wie on a strong and violent,mob,"of lynchers was about this time organized to put down the mormons , under the command of col . turk- one of the most desperately dangerous men that missouri , or in truth , any other country ever produced . some of the mormons were tarred and feathered , some"
3195,8720_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1849,"the audience , proved the despotic power of his utterance . suddenly , three rifles exploded in succession before the door , and three quick sen- "" principles tapohar vol . vi . sabor tinels , shaking with terror , rushed into the room , crying out . "" the",mob,"! the mob ! save yourselves from colonel turk's mob ! "" no scene of dis person can depict may and confusion the seen the fe males screamed aloud , as if all hope had departed several of the men sprang out of the windows and fled , as if"
3196,8720_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1849,"proved the despotic power of his utterance . suddenly , three rifles exploded in succession before the door , and three quick sen- "" principles tapohar vol . vi . sabor tinels , shaking with terror , rushed into the room , crying out . "" the mob ! the",mob,"! save yourselves from colonel turk's mob ! "" no scene of dis person can depict may and confusion the seen the fe males screamed aloud , as if all hope had departed several of the men sprang out of the windows and fled , as if pursued by a"
3197,8720_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1849,". suddenly , three rifles exploded in succession before the door , and three quick sen- "" principles tapohar vol . vi . sabor tinels , shaking with terror , rushed into the room , crying out . "" the mob ! the mob ! save yourselves from colonel turk's",mob,"! "" no scene of dis person can depict may and confusion the seen the fe males screamed aloud , as if all hope had departed several of the men sprang out of the windows and fled , as if pursued by a legion of devils , while most of"
3198,8720_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1849,"the windows and fled , as if pursued by a legion of devils , while most of those who remained appeared stupified and to tally powerless , either to escape or make ready for resistance . indeed there was little space allowed for preparation . in a few minutus a",mob,"amounting to hundreds had surrounded the building , and the muzzles of fifty cocked guns and pistols were thrust in through the doors and windows . still none within lifted a finger for defence ; fear seemed to have turned them into stone . persecution had not yet hardened the"
3199,8720_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1849,"poor sufferers swelled to a wail wilder than the bowling of the wind without . at length colonel turk roar tengingtone ed "" turn out the women and seize the men , and let us have the hickory switches and the tar and feathers ! "" aneby and the drunken",mob,"shouted , and hastened to execute the brutal mandate . up to this time young mills had con obibtinued standing with the bible of their prophet in his hand , but unearthly pale and strangely excited , his lip writhing . his teeth clenched , and his bright eyes swimming"
3200,8720_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1849,"and then taking the ice , skinued over the frozen stream with the swiftness of the wind.ww has nobody a pair of skates ? "" shouted col . turk , striking his forehead with a gesture of wrath and vexation . "" i have , "" answered one of the",mob,"; "" but i shall certainly not try them on the ice such a night as this . "" d "" be quick , give them to me ! "" exclaimed turk , in a tone of fiery impatience . the skates were produced ; the eager colonel tried them"
3201,8720_0.txt,"The spirit of democracy (Woodsfield, Ohi...)",1849,"oh ! there is no daring like the courage inspired by the passion for revenge ! in the meanwhile , mills had approach the farther shore , when he discovered the startling apparition of armed men on the bank . he knew at a glance what it meant . the",mob,". to prevent any of the moroas from escaping , had stationed a guard beyond the river . he instantly turned his course down the stream , when a whole platoon let off their rifles , but the distance was too considerable . a hail of bullets rattled around him"
3202,8724_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1858,"or , oaths violated by jurors ; or , pardons granted on the petitions of benevolent citizens ! what is the result of these false opinions and perverted acts ? the result is , new crimes and new outrages on every side , till the out raged community take the",law into their own hands,", and vindicate public justice . then we hear good citizens talk loudly of law and order . they see at once the evil and the horrors of punishing men by lawless mobs . they call out the military , and are for settling the matter with balls and bayonets"
3203,8724_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1858,"new outrages on every side , till the out raged community take the law into their own hands , and vindicate public justice . then we hear good citizens talk loudly of law and order . they see at once the evil and the horrors of punishing men by lawless",mobs,". they call out the military , and are for settling the matter with balls and bayonets . this is very well . it is even a necessity , when we have lost the authority of government . it was a necessity for napoleon to sweep the streets of paris"
3204,8724_0.txt,"Western Reserve chronicle (Warren, Ohio)",1858,"get this , by the regular laws , and mild government they will finaly resort to a very different kind . the worst enemy of a a free people is unlicensed passion , and this is just the same in an unpunished criminal , as it is in an unpunished",mob,"to prevent the last , we must enforce the law upon the former . the intelligence , and the virtue of the people must come up to the rescue of their own rights.- they must vindica'e their own capacity self government by enforcing their own for laws.- cin . gazette"
3205,8726_0.txt,The North-Carolinian (Fayetteville [N...),1860,"documents . the police interfered and made several arrests . the convention then adjourned till 2 o'clock . whilst retiring from the hall numbers of them were greeted outside by a large crowd who followed them with hootings . cannison , a prominent abolitionist , was pursued by an immense",mob,"crying out "" lynch him , "" "" haag him , "" - "" there goes a man that steals nig gers , "" "" there goes the spirit of john brown ' & c . finally cannison took refuge in the marine bank from whence the police escorted him"
3206,8728_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,louisiana in,mobbed,"alfred schaufneit is calhoun , la . , august 26 . - alfred schaufneit , a negro , was lynched here at 10 o'clock today by a mob for attempting to criminally assault miss olive chambers , a prominent young woman of this place , at an early hour this"
3207,8728_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"louisiana in mobbed alfred schaufneit is calhoun , la . , august 26 . - alfred schaufneit , a negro , was lynched here at 10 o'clock today by a",mob,"for attempting to criminally assault miss olive chambers , a prominent young woman of this place , at an early hour this morning . schaufneit was frightened by the screams of his intended victim and fled , but was later captured by a posse a few miles out of town"
3208,8728_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1906,"one seemed pleased at the swiftness of the justice meted out to the negro . the following bold notice was posted upon the negro's body : "" this is a warning to all negroes who would attempt to force an entrance to the apartments of white women . "" the",mob,which lynched schaufneit was quiet but determined one . a ⠀ ⠀
3209,8730_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1883,"a negro , who at windsor , n . c . , assaulted a daughter of james freeman recently , was captured there taken from jail by a",mob,and hanged . and
3210,8730_1.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1883,"william m . crockett , who it was the alleged murdered j . f . hunt in wytheville , va , was lynched the other day by one hundred .",masked,men .
3211,8730_1.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1883,"william m . crockett , who it was the alleged murdered j . f . hunt in wytheville , va , was lynched the other day by one hundred .",masked men,.
3212,8730_2.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1883,a meadville ( miss . ),mob,"made short work of tom bailey , colored , the other morning . he had assaulted a body into a pondering her , threw negro her"
3213,8732_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1900,". 29 . - george ful ler , a negro , was lynched last night near marion , perry county . he was charged with burning the barn of dennis cummings , of whom he had been a tenant . while fuller was being taken to marion a body of",masked,men took him from officers and hanged him to a tree . the
3214,8732_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1900,". 29 . - george ful ler , a negro , was lynched last night near marion , perry county . he was charged with burning the barn of dennis cummings , of whom he had been a tenant . while fuller was being taken to marion a body of",masked men,took him from officers and hanged him to a tree . the
3215,8738_0.txt,"The Neihart herald (Neihart, Mont.)",1894,"against the other 11 for nine days , locked up in the jury room , when they gave in , and we brought in a and then i not guilty ' verdict of , was ready to stab myself with spite . "" "" what about ? "" cause the",mob,"had hanged the on the very first day we prisoner were locked up . "" - exchange ."
3216,8739_0.txt,"Nashville union and American (Nashville, Tenn...)",1860,,mob,"law at fort smith --- hanging of a on horse thief . fort smith , ark . . sept . 15 . - a man who gave the name of william owen , lately of louisville , ky . , was arrested yesterday for horse stealing and com de mitted"
3217,8740_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1891,"well- known phenomenon- the fact that the events of a lifetime will pass some times in a moment through the mind of a person who is on the point of death by drowning or suffocation . speaking of the death of lord ponson- by , who was hanged by the",mob,"in paris in 1791 , and cut down before life was extinct , the author says : he ( lord ponsonby ) proceeded to give an account of his sensation on re turning to consciousness . he could not have been actually suspended in mid- air more than a few"
3218,8740_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1891,"added , his was an essentially nervous temperament . this remarkable mental power of calling up the past in moments of suspended animation have heard frequently mentioned . one was the case of count zichy , in the revolution of 1848 in vienna . he was caught by the savage",mob,", hung like lord pon- souby in the middle of the street , when his own regiment of dragoons charged down and cut the cords as he was swinging in the air . he fell to the ground and was supposed to be dead ; but his recovery was a"
3219,8742_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1897,". ness of any judge in georgia to call a special term of the court in such cases , whether the welfare of society demands it . is it because of an unusual spirit of lawlessness : among the white people of georgia that they would perpetrate or permit such",mob,"violence ? i dare say that the crimina : . record of this class of her people will com pare with that of any state or nation on the globe . why , then , is lynch law more frequently practiced here than in the north and west ? it"
3220,8745_0.txt,NA,1899,"a jury in a texas lynch ing case . imposing life sentence . st . louis , dec . 23 . - a special to the post- dispatch from palestine , tex . , says : the jury in the case of ed cain , charged with conspiracy with the",mob,"that lynched the three humphreys on the night of may 23 , 1899 , in henderson county , returned a verdict of guilty today . cain's punishment is fixed at life imprisonment in the penitentiary . the case against the other mem bers of the mob , who are charged"
3221,8745_0.txt,NA,1899,"with conspiracy with the mob that lynched the three humphreys on the night of may 23 , 1899 , in henderson county , returned a verdict of guilty today . cain's punishment is fixed at life imprisonment in the penitentiary . the case against the other mem bers of the",mob,", who are charged directly with the murder was adjourned till wednesday because of , the christmas holiday ."
3222,8746_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,"last of sam lewis , the black fiend lynched and riddled with bullets . jupiter , fla . , aug . 18 . - sam lewis was taken from jail at juno by a",mob,"at 3 o'clock this morning , hanged to a tele graph pole in front of the court house and then riddled with bullets . the mob approached the jail with sledge hammers and began to batter the door . seeing they would get in anyhow , jailer keyser threw the"
3223,8746_0.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1895,"riddled with bullets . jupiter , fla . , aug . 18 . - sam lewis was taken from jail at juno by a mob at 3 o'clock this morning , hanged to a tele graph pole in front of the court house and then riddled with bullets . the",mob,"approached the jail with sledge hammers and began to batter the door . seeing they would get in anyhow , jailer keyser threw the lynchers the keys . as the lynchers entered a colored deputy sheriff , perkins , who was in the jail , fired at them . the"
3224,8747_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1899,"negro murderer lynched . a negro named "" general "" duckett , who murdered jas . stockton , a wealthy planter of little river county , was aken from the sheriff by a",mob,"and ynched . duckett slipped up to stock on's house and shot him through a window with a shot- gun . the mur lerer hid in the red river bottoms for some time , but finally surrendered , stating that he had been without food for days and was nearly"
3225,8747_0.txt,"The Forrest City times (Forrest City, A...)",1899,"but finally surrendered , stating that he had been without food for days and was nearly starved to leath . the sheriff started to take the prisoner from rocky comfort to rich mond to piace him in jail , and had gone only a few miles when overtaken by the",mob,. duckett was hung to the limb of a tree and his body riddled bullets . with
3226,8748_0.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,"three negroes lynched . were suspected of being implicated in an assault near saffold , ga bainbridge , ga . , july 24 . - three negroes were lynched during last night near safford , ga . , and the",mob,"is hunting for five more who are believed to have been members of a that robbed e . j . ogletree agent gang , of the plant system at safford , saturday night , afterward binding him and assaulting his wife in his presence since the crime was committed hunt"
3227,8748_0.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,"was taken to safford , where he was identified by mr . and mrs . ogletree as one of their assailants . не said there were eight negroes in his gang and they came from augusta . he said two of the gang were not far one portion of the",mob,"went away . in pursuit of these two , while the other hanged sammin and riddled his body with bullets . the other two were shot and a party bringing their scalps to safford this evening . a hundred men with bloodhounds are after the remaining five members of the"
3228,8748_1.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,five men lynched . strang up to louisians by a,mob,"for plotting to murder , new orleans , la . , july 22 . - five sicilians were hanged by a mob yesterday at tallula , a town of several hundred inhabitants in madison par ish , seventeen miles from the river . the dead are : joe defatta ,"
3229,8748_1.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,"five men lynched . strang up to louisians by a mob for plotting to murder , new orleans , la . , july 22 . - five sicilians were hanged by a",mob,"yesterday at tallula , a town of several hundred inhabitants in madison par ish , seventeen miles from the river . the dead are : joe defatta , charles defatta , frank defatta , sy deberroch and joe cereno . the five victims were strung up to trees for a"
3230,8748_1.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,"of the men are believed to have families in europe . quiet was restored immediately after the lynch- , and the grand jury began an in- vestigation of the affair , but because of feeling against the men it is doubtful if action is taken against any member of the",mob,". the grand jury reported as follows : "" it is evident from the facts brought to our knowledge that the men who were lynched had formed a conspiracy to assassinate dr . hodges and the mob learning the facts took the law into their own hands . after diligent"
3231,8748_1.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,"men it is doubtful if action is taken against any member of the mob . the grand jury reported as follows : "" it is evident from the facts brought to our knowledge that the men who were lynched had formed a conspiracy to assassinate dr . hodges and the",mob,"learning the facts took the law into their own hands . after diligent inquiry we have not been able to learn the names or the identity of any of the men composing mob , "" the"
3232,8748_1.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,"is taken against any member of the mob . the grand jury reported as follows : "" it is evident from the facts brought to our knowledge that the men who were lynched had formed a conspiracy to assassinate dr . hodges and the mob learning the facts took the",law into their own hands,". after diligent inquiry we have not been able to learn the names or the identity of any of the men composing mob , "" the"
3233,8748_1.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,that the men who were lynched had formed a conspiracy to assassinate dr . hodges and the mob learning the facts took the law into their own hands . after diligent inquiry we have not been able to learn the names or the identity of any of the men composing,mob,", "" the"
3234,8748_3.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,and then lynched . missouri negro meets death at the hands of a,mob,"near higbee . mexico , mo . , july 24 . - frank em bree , charged with an assault on the 14- year- old daughter of w . w . daugh erty , june 17 , near burton , howard county , was lynched saturday morn ing while on"
3235,8748_3.txt,"Hutchinson gazette (Hutchinson, Kan...)",1899,"way with the officers to fayette to be tried for the crime . he had expected his fate , and a few days ago wrote to his brother in garnett , kan . , and said good- by . he said if the court cleared him he expected to be",mobbed,"after his rolase . he occupied a cell next to that of alexander jester , the alleged murderor of gilbert gates . he had feared lynching on his way to fayette and begged to be taken to kansas city for safety . the lynching occurred near higbee , a little"
3236,8752_0.txt,NA,1900,"negro lynched carolina negro taken away from the officers . charlotte , n . c . , aug . 29 . avery mills , colored , was banged and riddled with bullets by a",mob,"yester day for the murder of m . h . flock , ex member of the legislature . officers were taking the negro to jail when the mob overtook them , took him away , and soon had him strung up . the murder occurred as the result of a"
3237,8752_0.txt,NA,1900,"n . c . , aug . 29 . avery mills , colored , was banged and riddled with bullets by a mob yester day for the murder of m . h . flock , ex member of the legislature . officers were taking the negro to jail when the",mob,"overtook them , took him away , and soon had him strung up . the murder occurred as the result of a theft of some peaches by negro . the"
3238,8752_1.txt,NA,1900,"and it is said that if the people had been eure that poison caused car mack's death , the parties arrested , the deceased's wife and a man who worked on the place , as told in these dispatches yesterday , would have suffered violence at the hands of a",mob,. the testimony at the inquest went to show that mre . carmack had purchased strychnine about ten days ago . it was further developed that she had that she intended leaving her stated husband .
3239,8754_0.txt,NA,1899,a constitutional question . the lynching of a negro by a negro,mob,"has caused some of the southern editors to put on their thinking caps . in this especial case the carefulness of the mob is commended , for there was not a particle of doubt but the that guilty one was executed . on the whole , the mob seems to"
3240,8754_0.txt,NA,1899,a constitutional question . the lynching of a negro by a negro mob has caused some of the southern editors to put on their thinking caps . in this especial case the carefulness of the,mob,"is commended , for there was not a particle of doubt but the that guilty one was executed . on the whole , the mob seems to have been much above the average , as far as con duct and carefulness were concerned . "" but , "" says one"
3241,8754_0.txt,NA,1899,"a negro mob has caused some of the southern editors to put on their thinking caps . in this especial case the carefulness of the mob is commended , for there was not a particle of doubt but the that guilty one was executed . on the whole , the",mob,"seems to have been much above the average , as far as con duct and carefulness were concerned . "" but , "" says one of the editors , "" what will it lead to ? can ignorant and ir responsible negroes be permitted or entrusted to enforce mob law"
3242,8754_0.txt,NA,1899,"the mob seems to have been much above the average , as far as con duct and carefulness were concerned . "" but , "" says one of the editors , "" what will it lead to ? can ignorant and ir responsible negroes be permitted or entrusted to enforce",mob,"law ? can any man argue himself into the belief that it is safe to allow them to form mobs to break in jails and , overpower sheriffs ? "" now these questions are not hard to answer . of course , mobs made up of negroes should not be"
3243,8754_0.txt,NA,1899,". "" but , "" says one of the editors , "" what will it lead to ? can ignorant and ir responsible negroes be permitted or entrusted to enforce mob law ? can any man argue himself into the belief that it is safe to allow them to form",mobs,"to break in jails and , overpower sheriffs ? "" now these questions are not hard to answer . of course , mobs made up of negroes should not be permitted to carry out their designs , no matter how "" orderly "" the mob may be . it is"
3244,8754_0.txt,NA,1899,"negroes be permitted or entrusted to enforce mob law ? can any man argue himself into the belief that it is safe to allow them to form mobs to break in jails and , overpower sheriffs ? "" now these questions are not hard to answer . of course ,",mobs,"made up of negroes should not be permitted to carry out their designs , no matter how "" orderly "" the mob may be . it is wrong , whether it happens down south or in ohio . it should be stopped , and we hope to hear no more"
3245,8754_0.txt,NA,1899,"to allow them to form mobs to break in jails and , overpower sheriffs ? "" now these questions are not hard to answer . of course , mobs made up of negroes should not be permitted to carry out their designs , no matter how "" orderly "" the",mob,"may be . it is wrong , whether it happens down south or in ohio . it should be stopped , and we hope to hear no more of mobs made up of negroes . but , come to think of it , there should be no discrimination on account"
3246,8754_0.txt,NA,1899,"up of negroes should not be permitted to carry out their designs , no matter how "" orderly "" the mob may be . it is wrong , whether it happens down south or in ohio . it should be stopped , and we hope to hear no more of",mobs,"made up of negroes . but , come to think of it , there should be no discrimination on account of color , race or previous condition of servitude . there is a enstitutional amendments that covers the case , and we are bound to say that it covers white"
3247,8755_0.txt,NA,1900,"- mindee cho wagee , the negro- indian who escaped from jail here on thursday , after assaulting sheriff joseph wilson and his little son and shooting the sheriff's wife in the arm when she came to their assistance , was lynched at 11 : 30 o'clock tonight by a",mob,"of angry citizens . the lynchers forced an entrance to the jail , meeting with slight resistance at the hands of the officers , and dragged the prisoner out into the jail yard where he was strung up to a tree . , drive porter into the lake mob becomes"
3248,8755_0.txt,NA,1900,"a mob of angry citizens . the lynchers forced an entrance to the jail , meeting with slight resistance at the hands of the officers , and dragged the prisoner out into the jail yard where he was strung up to a tree . , drive porter into the lake",mob,"becomes infuriated and police come just in time to save life . chicago , april 28 . - a crowd of nearly 100 infuriated men and boys chased "" dock "" thomas , a colored pullman car porter , off the dock into the lake at the foot of thirty"
3249,8757_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1900,a,mob,"lynched will burts , a negro , near basket mills , c . , for an attempt ed assault on a white s . woman ."
3250,8757_1.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1900,"bloody fight in texas . el paso , tex . , feb . 19 . - at five o'clock in the morning a",mob,"of negro soldiers from fort bliss attacked the city po lice station with the object of releasing two of their comrades who had been arrested . during the fight police officer new t . stewart , and one negro soldier , were killed and it is believed that an other"
3251,8759_0.txt,"The Red Cloud chief (Red Cloud, Webs...)",1900,texas murderer lynched,mob,"completes work which jury by acquittal begins . a port arthur , tex . , special says that james sweeney . white , was lynched at that place for murdering charles crumbach , a laborer in a cot- ton mill over which sweeney presided as foreman . the murder occurred"
3252,8759_0.txt,"The Red Cloud chief (Red Cloud, Webs...)",1900,", was lynched at that place for murdering charles crumbach , a laborer in a cot- ton mill over which sweeney presided as foreman . the murder occurred february 1 , sweeney was indicted and at his trial at beaumont was acquitted . when he returned to port arthur a",mob,"met him at the depot , took him up town and hanged him to a telephone pole . sheriff langham of beaumont has arrested "" jack "" martin , a fellow work man of crumbach's who is believed tc have been a ringleader , in the"
3253,8762_0.txt,NA,1898,"a mississippi negro lynched . william stern , alias william john son , colored , was",mobbed,"near rose meath , miss . he attempted to mur der mr . john hord , a prominent planter , last may , striking him in the head with a nail- puller . he made his and captured in escape was recently alabama by mr . hord , and was"
3254,8763_0.txt,"The Greenville times (Greenville, Mis...)",1897,"taken from the court- room and lynched . memphis , tenn . , oct . 6 . - henry crower , a negro , was taken from the court- room at hernando , miss . , at 9 : 20 a . m . , by a",mob,of 75 men and lynched . accomplished the ruin of 15 year crower- old dovie ferguson .
3255,8764_0.txt,"Indian chieftain (Vinita, Indian ...)",1897,"h . cass , and a . p . goody kootz out near the sac and fox agency , and the two negroes who had murdered them were captured and lodged la the oid calaboose on the east side , that the people of this town gathered to dissuade the",mob,"from hanging the perpetrators of this foul murder . it was sunday evening and as the weather was warm , the whole population seemed to be out on that occasion . after service was over at the churches , everybody repaired to the opera house where a crowd had gathered"
3256,8765_3.txt,NA,1898,"col . caravajil , a guerilla chief who arrived at santiago on the spanish steamer maria morrera was obliged to leave the city to escape ,",mob,violence .
3257,8766_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1898,two negroes lynched . murderers of a missouri constable hanged by a,mob,". clarksville , mo . , june 6 . - an excursion boat from louisiana , hannibal and quincy reached here yesterday with about 200 negroes aboard . scarcely had they arrived when there was a disturb ance , and city marshal walter mclean was called . he boarded the"
3258,8766_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1898,"instantly . the men paraded the streets all day , flourishing guns , rifles , and revolvers . four of the negroes were arrested and sam and curtis young , the two who murdered marshal mclean , of clarkesville , were taken from the officers early this morning by a",mob,and hanged to tree a mile north of the city . a
3259,8769_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1899,"martin and west were captured about 10 o'clock this morning . it required a whipping to make the former confess , when he broke down and related the whole story . the town marshal brought the prisoners to town and placed them in the city prison . about to'clock a",mob,"of 150 masked men broke open the place and took the two men to the bridge west of town . nooses were placed around their necks , the other ends of the ropes being tied to the cross tles and they were told to jump off the bridge . martin"
3260,8769_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1899,"were captured about 10 o'clock this morning . it required a whipping to make the former confess , when he broke down and related the whole story . the town marshal brought the prisoners to town and placed them in the city prison . about to'clock a mob of 150",masked,"men broke open the place and took the two men to the bridge west of town . nooses were placed around their necks , the other ends of the ropes being tied to the cross tles and they were told to jump off the bridge . martin once plunged into"
3261,8769_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1899,"were captured about 10 o'clock this morning . it required a whipping to make the former confess , when he broke down and related the whole story . the town marshal brought the prisoners to town and placed them in the city prison . about to'clock a mob of 150",masked men,"broke open the place and took the two men to the bridge west of town . nooses were placed around their necks , the other ends of the ropes being tied to the cross tles and they were told to jump off the bridge . martin once plunged into space"
3262,8770_0.txt,"Iowa state bystander (Des Moines, Iow...)",1896,"an ohio jury has decided that a militia officer who in support of a sheriff , orders his men to fire on a",mob,"of would- be lynchers is not a murderer . that does away with a theory sometimes advanced to justify lynching , that it is usually the action of the community reassuming the power it has entrusted to its agents . it also disposes of the unwritten law and properly rates"
3263,8772_0.txt,NA,1896,a,mob,"at clarendon , ark . , lynched gould ( colored ; for assault ing godfrey florence wright , a white woman ."
3264,8772_1.txt,NA,1896,"two negroes who attempted to assassinate col . c . d . hunter near selma ala . , were lynched by a",mob,". ,"
3265,8773_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1896,". , sept . 21 . - johr fitch , colored , was lynched last night near chapel hill , charleston county . he had broken into the room of miss harrington , daughter of judge harrington , a few evenings ago , but was away . taken by a",masked,mob and lynched was while en route to jail .
3266,8773_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1896,", sept . 21 . - johr fitch , colored , was lynched last night near chapel hill , charleston county . he had broken into the room of miss harrington , daughter of judge harrington , a few evenings ago , but was away . taken by a masked",mob,and lynched was while en route to jail .
3267,8773_1.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1896,"wanted to lynch him . the narrow escape of a reform school graduate . fort scott , kan . , sept . 25 . - at mapleton , kan . , northwest of this city , yesterday afternoon , a populist picnic came near merging into a",mob,"bing bee , when henry smith , a young man 20 years old , who was recently released from the state reform school , was taken to that town , bound hand and foot , charged with attempting to assault mrs . elizabeth britton , aged 56 , wife of"
3268,8774_0.txt,"The Bridgeport evening farmer (Bridgeport, Con...)",1912,"mr . van beuren in the character of governor philip morrow in edward sheldon's intensely dramatic play "" the nigger , "" has a situation to face in which he is compelled to either truckle to the",mob,"or become decidedly un popular as a protector of a negro who has committed the unmentionable crime . pursued by a mob bent upon lynch ing , the negro flees to the morrow plantation for protection , his old "" mammy "" pleading with young mor row on her knees"
3269,8774_0.txt,"The Bridgeport evening farmer (Bridgeport, Con...)",1912,"philip morrow in edward sheldon's intensely dramatic play "" the nigger , "" has a situation to face in which he is compelled to either truckle to the mob or become decidedly un popular as a protector of a negro who has committed the unmentionable crime . pursued by a",mob,"bent upon lynch ing , the negro flees to the morrow plantation for protection , his old "" mammy "" pleading with young mor row on her knees . the governor with drawn revolver holds the crowd at bay and tries to reason with them . to their leader who"
3270,8774_0.txt,"The Bridgeport evening farmer (Bridgeport, Con...)",1912,". and it's human nature- i can under stand that . but , for god's sake try to jam down your feelings for a mo ment and think , remember that to the crime lynching is next worse itself . "" finding that pleading has no effect the blood- thirsty",mob,"morrow on hurls defiance at them . "" there's not a man in this state . i don't care who that could feel a he is , "" he cries , "" deeper horror and disgust for such a crime and such a criminal than i , but you and"
3271,8774_0.txt,"The Bridgeport evening farmer (Bridgeport, Con...)",1912,"ment under the law , there is no rea son in the world why another and per crime as repulsive a haps equally should be committed by a body of citizens in defiance of law and order . i quite agree with governor shafroth of colorado who says that one",mob,"can de more injury to society than twenty murderers . "" although i am quite familiar with of southerners in the the attitude question of lynch law , having lived in below the mason and dixon line for several years , i cannot understand the position of the governor of"
3272,8779_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1919,every nian charged with any kind of felony should be tried and punished by law and without the law's delays . lynching reacts upon the community in which it takes place . lawlessness unrestrained is like a corroding ulcer . it eats into our boasted civilization and every manifestation of,mob,action is far- reaching in its brutalizing effect on society in general . moral standards are lowered and respect for law is . reduced to a minimum . the good people of georgia and the good people of all the other states where lynchings have occurred should rise up in
3273,8782_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1920,". two lowans burned in airplane . rockwell city , ia . , oct . 16 . - george allan of jefferson was fatally burned and morris henderson was badly hurt when the airplane henderson was fly ing came down in the outskirts of rockwell city in flames . alabama",mob,"hangs negro . greenville , ala . , oct . 16 . - select reid , a negro , was lynched by a mob near greenville after an alleged at tack by him on a . h . arrington , superintendent of the southern cotton oll company plant . mexican"
3274,8782_0.txt,"The Manitowoc pilot (Manitowoc, Wis.)",1920,"burned and morris henderson was badly hurt when the airplane henderson was fly ing came down in the outskirts of rockwell city in flames . alabama mob hangs negro . greenville , ala . , oct . 16 . - select reid , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,"near greenville after an alleged at tack by him on a . h . arrington , superintendent of the southern cotton oll company plant . mexican reds seize mines , mexico city , oct . 15 . - coal miners in the agujitas district of the state of coahulla ,"
3275,8783_0.txt,"The Corpus Christi caller (Corpus Christi,...)",1920,"to give hund . in calling the meeting grunau said he would have no recommendations to make , and that "" any prop sition the men may propose will be voted on . "" he added that he would be free to suggest any action desired . arrests made as",mob,"forms attempt to lynch negro proves futile when officers interfere by the associated press . indianapolis , ind . , april 22 . - a mob estimated at approximately co men gathered early this evening at the county and was believed that an attempt would be made to colored ,"
3276,8783_0.txt,"The Corpus Christi caller (Corpus Christi,...)",1920,"may propose will be voted on . "" he added that he would be free to suggest any action desired . arrests made as mob forms attempt to lynch negro proves futile when officers interfere by the associated press . indianapolis , ind . , april 22 . - a",mob,"estimated at approximately co men gathered early this evening at the county and was believed that an attempt would be made to colored , who confessed early this morning to the murder of 14- year- old martha ifuff monday evening . all the police re- serves were called for guard"
3277,8783_0.txt,"The Corpus Christi caller (Corpus Christi,...)",1920,"man giving his name as john gilson 63 years old , is walo to have attacked one of the patrolmen guarding the jail . the police officers attempted to disperse the mobe but their numbers seadis increased four additional arrests were made shortly afterward while the police were madeiving the",mob,"way from the all it was scattered with difficulty . the police were well organized for their work , while the mob lacked leadershit . few appeared to be armed and there was no evidence of rope . as the mob broke up in smaller groups within a short radius"
3278,8783_0.txt,"The Corpus Christi caller (Corpus Christi,...)",1920,"jail . the police officers attempted to disperse the mobe but their numbers seadis increased four additional arrests were made shortly afterward while the police were madeiving the mob way from the all it was scattered with difficulty . the police were well organized for their work , while the",mob,"lacked leadershit . few appeared to be armed and there was no evidence of rope . as the mob broke up in smaller groups within a short radius of the jail , plans were made for a concerted attack on the jail . ray entered a plen of zuilty when"
3279,8783_0.txt,"The Corpus Christi caller (Corpus Christi,...)",1920,"made shortly afterward while the police were madeiving the mob way from the all it was scattered with difficulty . the police were well organized for their work , while the mob lacked leadershit . few appeared to be armed and there was no evidence of rope . as the",mob,"broke up in smaller groups within a short radius of the jail , plans were made for a concerted attack on the jail . ray entered a plen of zuilty when arra gned in city court today . flonor goodrich was out of the goty but harry smith , general"
3280,8783_0.txt,"The Corpus Christi caller (Corpus Christi,...)",1920,"ray entered a plen of zuilty when arra gned in city court today . flonor goodrich was out of the goty but harry smith , general , was in charge of the situate was ready to call on the state militin companies of indianapolis wilfam ray , for whom the",mob,"was believed to be seeking came to indianapolis from chicago about weeks ago and has been emploved in this city . he is 19 years old and mar ried . the crime for which he is held without oond , was committed last monday . the negro is alleged to"
3281,8783_0.txt,"The Corpus Christi caller (Corpus Christi,...)",1920,negroas were marching on the town . a prominent mulberry business man reported over long distance telephone late today that the hardware stores had been thrown open to the public so that arms and ammunition could be secured to properly arm the mul berry citizens upon the arrival of the,mob,". it is known that some of the negroes in the community have been in an ugly mood since the lynching last monday . it was later reported that some of the citizens considered the report only a wild rumor , but novertheless guards have been thrown around the town"
3282,8784_0.txt,NA,1920,"santa rosa , cal . , dec . 10 . when members of the black",masked,"mob reached healds burg , 14 miles north of kere , after lynching george boyd , ter ence pitt and charles valente , they were given a public ovation , according to word brought back by a santa rosa newspaper man . the streets of the big country town ,"
3283,8784_0.txt,NA,1920,"santa rosa , cal . , dec . 10 . when members of the black masked",mob,"reached healds burg , 14 miles north of kere , after lynching george boyd , ter ence pitt and charles valente , they were given a public ovation , according to word brought back by a santa rosa newspaper man . the streets of the big country town , usually"
3284,8784_0.txt,NA,1920,"country town , usually quiet as the heart of a forest at that early morning hour , rang with acclaim to the lynchers , who parkedeir cars around the city park and then added their horns to the din . one attractive young woman , running up to a black-",masked,"figure , throwing her arms arcund him cried , "" i am prouder of you than if you had gone to france and killed a hundred ger mans . "" the din kept up for an hour or mcre as though it were the climax to some carnival time ,"
3285,8784_0.txt,NA,1920,"climax to some carnival time , the reporter said . eye for eye and tooth for tooth santa rosa , dec , 10 . -- the old testament vengeance of "" a life for a life "" was exacted of george boyd , terence fitts and charles valente by a",mob,"here today of between 50 and 100 men . all armed and masked in black , they entered the sonoma coun ty jail at 12 : 30 this morning , over powered sheriff john boyes and his deputies and took the three men to a cemetry and hangd them on"
3286,8784_0.txt,NA,1920,"and tooth for tooth santa rosa , dec , 10 . -- the old testament vengeance of "" a life for a life "" was exacted of george boyd , terence fitts and charles valente by a mob here today of between 50 and 100 men . all armed and",masked,"in black , they entered the sonoma coun ty jail at 12 : 30 this morning , over powered sheriff john boyes and his deputies and took the three men to a cemetry and hangd them on the same limb of an oak tree . had the three lived they"
3287,8784_0.txt,NA,1920,"officers were shot down by boyd , he confess ed , when they attempted to arrest the three last sunday as members of a san francisco gang which recently attacked a score or more of young women . there was no confusion , no hurry , no opposition to the",mob,". all had been prearranged , even to the acety line torches to burn off the jail locks if necessary . fifteen or more auto- mobiles , with license plates removed , advanced on the jail guards turned back the few passersby . the sheriff and four deputies and two"
3288,8785_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1920,lexington grand jury refuses to indict,mob,"lexington , ky . . feb . 27- declaring that to return indictments would further aggravate an already tense situation , the special grand jury which investigated the riots here recently in which a mob attempted to lynch will lockett , negro slayer of geneva haru man , finished its"
3289,8785_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1920,"lexington grand jury refuses to indict mob lexington , ky . . feb . 27- declaring that to return indictments would further aggravate an already tense situation , the special grand jury which investigated the riots here recently in which a",mob,"attempted to lynch will lockett , negro slayer of geneva haru man , finished its work . the jury re fused to indict members of the mob , al though admission was made in the jury's report that testimony which had submitted warranted such action . been -00"
3290,8785_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1920,"return indictments would further aggravate an already tense situation , the special grand jury which investigated the riots here recently in which a mob attempted to lynch will lockett , negro slayer of geneva haru man , finished its work . the jury re fused to indict members of the",mob,", al though admission was made in the jury's report that testimony which had submitted warranted such action . been -00"
3291,8786_0.txt,NA,1910,"the town loaded with angry men , bent upon avenging the deed . a number of business men went to the sheriff and made a demand for the prisoners . the officer informed them they could not get them . the sheriff summoned a posse and prepared to resist the",mob,"which began to form by hundreds , then by thous- ands . about 4 o'clock in the after noon members of the mob , procuring a heavy piece of timber , began the work of battering in the first door of the jail . the sheriff and his posse made"
3292,8786_0.txt,NA,1910,"made a demand for the prisoners . the officer informed them they could not get them . the sheriff summoned a posse and prepared to resist the mob which began to form by hundreds , then by thous- ands . about 4 o'clock in the after noon members of the",mob,", procuring a heavy piece of timber , began the work of battering in the first door of the jail . the sheriff and his posse made an attempt to stay the proceedings by firing several shots in the air ; but the mob surrounded them and deprived them of"
3293,8786_0.txt,NA,1910,"the after noon members of the mob , procuring a heavy piece of timber , began the work of battering in the first door of the jail . the sheriff and his posse made an attempt to stay the proceedings by firing several shots in the air ; but the",mob,"surrounded them and deprived them of their weapons . while the battering down of the first door was going on states attor- ney moore hall ordered the men to stop and caught hold of the ram near its "" business "" end and being jostled by the angry workers he"
3294,8786_0.txt,NA,1910,"of the ram near its "" business "" end and being jostled by the angry workers he narrowly escaped being rammed against the iron door and crushed to death . he realized his narrow escape and re tired from the scene . it was but a short time before the",mob,"reached , the inner cell door . in the meantime members of the mob had been talking with the frightened negroes . each of whom con fessed , but each said the other had fired the fatal shot . when the door of the cell contalt ing the murderers was"
3295,8786_0.txt,NA,1910,"angry workers he narrowly escaped being rammed against the iron door and crushed to death . he realized his narrow escape and re tired from the scene . it was but a short time before the mob reached , the inner cell door . in the meantime members of the",mob,"had been talking with the frightened negroes . each of whom con fessed , but each said the other had fired the fatal shot . when the door of the cell contalt ing the murderers was battered down they were taken out into the yard of the court house which"
3296,8786_0.txt,NA,1910,the door of the cell contalt ing the murderers was battered down they were taken out into the yard of the court house which is opposite the city jail and one of them was hung from the limb of a tree . while this was being done several of the,mob,"took the other negro members in a wagon , telling him he would receive better treatment if he would show them where they had thrown the re volver after shooting fox . he prom ised to do so . in passing the railroad station on the way to the scene"
3297,8786_0.txt,NA,1910,"scene of the shooting some one in the crowd that followed shouted it don't make any difference what had been promised he would be hung anyway . the negro rose up and said if that was the case , he might as well be hung now . at this the",mob,jerked him out of the wagon and strung him up to the art of a telegraph pole . the hanging of both negroes was witnessed by many woryen and chil dren and nearly all the white people of the town and surrounding country who gave words of encouragement to those
3298,8787_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1920,"vindicated and the world convinced not only of our strength and prowess but of our integrity and our devotion to the highest ideals . this is a conquering purpose and nothing can defeat it . woodrow wilson . sues for topekan's death . would collect $ 7,500 from duluth for",mob,"action against negro . * july duluth , minn . , 3 . - elisha scott , negro attorney of topeka , kan . . has filed suit here against the city of duluth on behalf of clifford jackson . of topeka , to collect $ 7,500 damages for the"
3299,8787_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1920,"who was one of the three negroes lynched here june 15 . the city officers are charged with negligence in not furnishing young jackson sufficient protection . sinn fein shoot policeman , dublin , july 3 . - police sergeant tobin was shot dead and constable ready severely wounded when",a party of,"four policemen was fired upon from ambush near ballinore . tipperary , today the other two policeman escaped . ."
3300,8788_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1926,"springer spaniel , spitz , cocker span",mob,"which took him from the dover , iel and airedale . tenn . , jail . bell was hanged to the additional prizes are being offered limb of a tree and then shet full of for the homeliest dog , the best train- holes . he was on trial for"
3301,8788_0.txt,"The Bismarck tribune (Bismarck, N.D.)",1926,"rufus joyner , 35 years old , at parker- dog , and the funniest dressed dog . in town , tenn . , last sunday night . charge of the show are scouts leiss mann , person , crewe and rosen . 120 men are negro prisoner entombed lynched by",mob,"mine explosion in hopkinsville , ky . , oct . 9 . - ( pp ) capetown , south africa , oct . 9 . ( p ) word was received here today of the -four white men and 116 lynching of herb bell , negro , by a were"
3302,8789_0.txt,NA,1921,"of the labor confer ence , assembled here . negro murderer lynched . meridian , miss.- will echols , negro , recently convicted of the murder of henry w . davis , an aged night watch- man at a lumber plant , was taken from jail at quitman by a",small party of,"men , carried two miles into the country and shot to death . thaddeus h . caraway charris & ewise representative thaddeus h . cara way of the first arkansas district , beat united states senator william f . kirby for the latter's renomination . japanese- american affairs at crisis"
3303,8794_0.txt,"The interior journal (Stanford, Ky.) 1905-1910",1909,a,mob,"lynched three negroes at mar shall , tex . killed a deputy sher iff . they"
3304,8796_0.txt,"Grand Forks herald (Grand Forks, N....)",1920,duluth lynching,mob,"girls cheered on the duluth , minn . . june 22 . - mob psychology as evidenced in the rioting here , when three negroes were ed , showed many peculiar traits lynch . horror , perhaps , would have trans fixed any one of the young women had she"
3305,8796_0.txt,"Grand Forks herald (Grand Forks, N....)",1920,"duluth lynching mob girls cheered on the duluth , minn . . june 22 . -",mob,"psychology as evidenced in the rioting here , when three negroes were ed , showed many peculiar traits lynch . horror , perhaps , would have trans fixed any one of the young women had she observed a lynching as a lone spectator , the mental attitude of the mob"
3306,8796_0.txt,"Grand Forks herald (Grand Forks, N....)",1920,"mob psychology as evidenced in the rioting here , when three negroes were ed , showed many peculiar traits lynch . horror , perhaps , would have trans fixed any one of the young women had she observed a lynching as a lone spectator , the mental attitude of the",mob,made but it a holiday affair .
3307,8804_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1917,"interned for kaiser cakes . new york , dec . 14 . - because frederick j . heuser , a confectioner , sold cakes decorated with the german col- authorities decided he federal was ors , spreading german propaganda . he was arrested an dinterned on ellis island . wyoming",mob,"lynches a negro . rock springs , wyo . , dec . 14 . - an unidentified negro charged with molesting woman residents of blairtown , a suburb , was taken from the city jail and hanged to bridge north of rock springs . his body a was found ."
3308,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,"mayor omaha lynch to attempt the attempted hanging of mayor edward p . smith of omaha , nebraska , by a",mob,"that the mayor was try- ing to prevent from lynching a negro , is a new monstra- tion of mass violence . in the history of lynchings there are few instances of attacks on public officials . police chiefs , sheriffs , judges and mayors , trying to prevent lynchings"
3309,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,", trying to prevent lynchings usually have won their point or have been pushed aside , more or less respectfully . such injuries as they have received have commonly been accidental and incidental . the stringing up of mayor smith , therefore , showed a greater degree of lawlessness than",mobs,usually are guilty of . it was not accidental . men can't be hanged by other men by accident . doubtless the governor of the state or the judges of the state supreme court would have suffered the same fate as the mayor of omaha had they been in his
3310,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,it was not accidental . men can't be hanged by other men by accident . doubtless the governor of the state or the judges of the state supreme court would have suffered the same fate as the mayor of omaha had they been in his place . opposing such blind,mob,"passion , no public offi cial would have stood a chance , this incident emphasizes the temporary hatred of law and order which is one of the characteristics of a mob , bent on lynching . this mob knew its intent to be mur- derous and was quite cognizant of"
3311,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,"suffered the same fate as the mayor of omaha had they been in his place . opposing such blind mob passion , no public offi cial would have stood a chance , this incident emphasizes the temporary hatred of law and order which is one of the characteristics of a",mob,", bent on lynching . this mob knew its intent to be mur- derous and was quite cognizant of the lawlessness of its whole procedure , yet it was so determined to carry out its purpose that it was ready to kill , and did attempt to kill , the"
3312,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,"of omaha had they been in his place . opposing such blind mob passion , no public offi cial would have stood a chance , this incident emphasizes the temporary hatred of law and order which is one of the characteristics of a mob , bent on lynching . this",mob,"knew its intent to be mur- derous and was quite cognizant of the lawlessness of its whole procedure , yet it was so determined to carry out its purpose that it was ready to kill , and did attempt to kill , the highest public official of a big city"
3313,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,", and did attempt to kill , the highest public official of a big city who did no more than try to uphold the law in accordance with the provisions of the law , at the dictate of his own conscience , in fulfillment of his sworn duty . the",mob,"also fought , and was willing to kill , the police of omaha who were also ful filling their sworn duty in trying to keep the negro out of the mob's hands , save the mayor's life and restore order in the city . why did this mob break loose"
3314,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,"the law , at the dictate of his own conscience , in fulfillment of his sworn duty . the mob also fought , and was willing to kill , the police of omaha who were also ful filling their sworn duty in trying to keep the negro out of the",mob's,"hands , save the mayor's life and restore order in the city . why did this mob break loose ? why are lynchings so common in the united states ? what shall be done to pre- vent them ? lynchings of negroes accused of attacks on women are common because"
3315,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,". the mob also fought , and was willing to kill , the police of omaha who were also ful filling their sworn duty in trying to keep the negro out of the mob's hands , save the mayor's life and restore order in the city . why did this",mob,break loose ? why are lynchings so common in the united states ? what shall be done to pre- vent them ? lynchings of negroes accused of attacks on women are common because the acts themselves are frequent and be they infuriate a part of the public . their anger
3316,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,", but the mere fact that there are obstacles furnishes no reason why there should not be investigation and punishment . hard punishment will be a preventive of lynchings while improvements in law enforcement fol lowing the commission of crimes will remove much of the rancor that finds expression in",mob,"spirit . meanwhile , this lynching at omaha stands as one of most disgraceful occurrences that ever blackened a the city's name . probably the result of the super- fury engendered in the mob because of the nine hours ' resistance which the authorities had offered . the burning of"
3317,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,"fol lowing the commission of crimes will remove much of the rancor that finds expression in mob spirit . meanwhile , this lynching at omaha stands as one of most disgraceful occurrences that ever blackened a the city's name . probably the result of the super- fury engendered in the",mob,because of the nine hours ' resistance which the authorities had offered . the burning of the courthouse and the resulting destruction of thousands of unreplaceablé records were incidental and comparatively minor acts of lawlessness . lynchings into which the racial element does not enter may be ascribed a little
3318,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,"a trial a farce and test the patience of a justice loving public . if there were more swift and adequate administration of justice after the commission of crimes , there would be fewer lynchings . this is not a defence of lynchings but a simple statement of fact .",mobs,"often are formed , break laws and risk their own lives in order to execute someone whom they believe to be guilty of crime when they would not do so had they not the uneasy feeling that otherwise the guilty might go un punished . we know very well that"
3319,8805_0.txt,NA,1919,", or we have a mass of conflicting laws whereby the guilty may profit and have profited to such an extent that the people have been moved to take the administration of justice out of the hands of the courts . this is lamentable and the more so because the",mobs,"in each instance have disgraced themselves , shamed their states and cast discredit on their country in the estimation of foreign peoples . as to punishment , it is hard to punish adequately be cause of the difficulty of fixing blame . it usually is not difficult to discover the"
3320,8806_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1929,", the southern capitalists and their hangers- on- the preachers , politicians , editors and teachers- have taught the white workers that their poverty is caused by the negroes . with this belief inculcated in the minds of the workers it was therefore easy to incite them into lynch ing",mobs,". gastonia shows that the workers will no longer be fooled by the deceptive propaganda of their oppressors . present events indicate the fighting spirit of the masses . gastonia has already thrown to the forefront several burning issues . chief among these , it has dramatized in the boldest"
3321,8806_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1929,", despite their knowl edge of the slave traditions of the south , and fully aware of the fact that the business men and their lackeys would exploit the stand taken on behalf of the negroes , nevertheless refused to surrender their positions . their heroism in the face of",mob,"law and the lynching appeals of the press will never be forgotten by the american workers . their courage surpassed that of the abolitionists . their's was a mission to emancipate not only negroes but white workers as well from the fet ters of wage slavery . "" the gastonia"
3322,8806_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1929,"were being shot down by the gunmen of the mill owners , and to unite with the "" respectable "" citizens to rid the town of the dirty "" foreigners . "" reailzing that the appeals were in vain , that the workers refused to be stampeded into a lynching",mob,", the reactionary forces organized a fascist battallion called the "" committee of one hundred "" and set out to take the lives of the strike leaders themselves . during the raid on the strike headquarters by the "" committee of one hundred "" headed by the police , a"
3323,8806_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1929,hall and warned him to keep away . they met hall two miles out of town and took him in a motor car to charlotte where they collected enough money among themselves to pay his railroad fare to new york . no sooner had hall embarked on the train a,mob,broke into the house where he hid before his departure . it was only the timely and prompt action of these white workers that saved the life of their negro comrade . one can easily imagine why these fascists were so anxious to get hold of hall . as a
3324,8807_0.txt,"The producers news (Plentywood, Mon...)",1924,"years . while they are the second party in the wisconsin legis- lature with the democrats nowhere they are not strong enough at madison to control state legislation . latest returns give hoan 74,000 and rose 56,000 , giving hoan a majority of 18,000 . sheriffs prevent lynching of negro",mob,"violence would decrease if public officials followed the example of the rocky mount , va . , officers who prevented the lynching of ote gil- bert , a negro sentenced to 20 years for criminal assault , the american civil liberties union declares in a statement issued today . according"
3325,8807_0.txt,"The producers news (Plentywood, Mon...)",1924,"lynching of ote gil- bert , a negro sentenced to 20 years for criminal assault , the american civil liberties union declares in a statement issued today . according to a letter received by the union from j . p . lee , public prosecutor of rocky mount , a",mob,"formed outside the jail to lynch gilbert , but dispersed when they found that any attempt to take the prisoner would result in a number of people being killed . "" the officers were determined to go to any length in the protection of the prisoner , even to the"
3326,8812_0.txt,"The state rights democrat (Albany, Linn Co...)",1896,"lynch law , but in this caee nothing else could have done justice . - prompt and deserved justice lewiston , aug 19- frank biles , a of half- breed indian from nez perce reservation , was taken from asotin jail at 11 o'clock last night and hanged by a",mob,"of is indignant citizens . his crime was the brutal criminal outrage of miss mary richardson , a young woman 17 years of age . miss richardson , whose home is in enterprise , or . , was in delicate health , and had been visiting friends in this vicinity"
3327,8813_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1896,"murderer saved from lynching . paxton , ill . , dec . 17 . -- a",mob,"from the vicinity of the geddes murder , in drummer township , arrived here last night with the avowed object of lynching hartman , the prisoner in the county jait indicted for the murder of mrs . geddes . it was foiled by sheriff mason , spirited the prisoner to"
3328,8814_1.txt,"The Democratic advocate (Westminster, Md...)",1899,"a negro , named duckett , was taken from the sheriff of little river county , askansas , by a",mob,"on tuesday and hanged . he con fessed the murder of james stockton , planter . a"
3329,8815_0.txt,NA,1898,lynched for hog stealing an arkansas,mob,"of whites punishes a $ 2 theft with death . little rock , ark . , jan . 2 . - an aged negro was lynched yesterday by a mob of white citizens near sherrill , in cleve county , for hog stealing . when discovered the body of the"
3330,8815_0.txt,NA,1898,"lynched for hog stealing an arkansas mob of whites punishes a $ 2 theft with death . little rock , ark . , jan . 2 . - an aged negro was lynched yesterday by a",mob,"of white citizens near sherrill , in cleve county , for hog stealing . when discovered the body of the negro was lying across the dead body of the hog had stolen . pinned to the man's cloth ing was a card bearing the words : "" you will never"
3331,8816_0.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1899,a,mob,"lynched daniel patrick , a ne who miss bessie gro assaulted near scranton , miss . ireland"
3332,8818_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1896,", ky . . nov . 8 . - will bean , the negro who assaulted the wife of l . c . clark in this county on last thursday , was captured and placed in jail here this morning . while the sheriff was bringing him to town a",mob,"took him before mrs . clark , who identified him . she is expected to die from fright , but she pleaded with the mob to allow the law to take its course , and bean was finally turned over to the sheriff . negroes as well whites threaten to"
3333,8818_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1896,"this county on last thursday , was captured and placed in jail here this morning . while the sheriff was bringing him to town a mob took him before mrs . clark , who identified him . she is expected to die from fright , but she pleaded with the",mob,"to allow the law to take its course , and bean was finally turned over to the sheriff . negroes as well whites threaten to lynch him if mrs . clark dies as ."
3334,8818_1.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1896,"bryanite leader arrested for 014 murder . louisville , ky . , nov . 8 . - a dying negro in metcalfe county last week confessed to being one of a",mob,"that committed a murder seven years ago . the leader of the mob , he said , was theodore mcintyre , a young populist politician , who had moved to hardyville , hart county , and had settled on a farm . melntyre took a very active part in the"
3335,8818_1.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1896,"bryanite leader arrested for 014 murder . louisville , ky . , nov . 8 . - a dying negro in metcalfe county last week confessed to being one of a mob that committed a murder seven years ago . the leader of the",mob,", he said , was theodore mcintyre , a young populist politician , who had moved to hardyville , hart county , and had settled on a farm . melntyre took a very active part in the recent campaign for bryan . he is the nephew of silas payton ,"
3336,8821_0.txt,NA,1892,"circuit court is in session at pineville , and among the criminal cases , are nine indictments against members of the middlesborough police force for being members of a",mob,that hung frank simus last summer . ras
3337,8822_0.txt,"Bismarck weekly tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1891,lynched seiboldt . a brutal wisconsin murder avenged by a,mob,"at darlington . milwaukee , sept . 23 . - a darlington , wis . , special to the journal says : anton sieboldt , who pounded james meighan to death last wednesday , was taken from the jail here by a mob and hung to a tree in the"
3338,8822_0.txt,"Bismarck weekly tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1891,"a brutal wisconsin murder avenged by a mob at darlington . milwaukee , sept . 23 . - a darlington , wis . , special to the journal says : anton sieboldt , who pounded james meighan to death last wednesday , was taken from the jail here by a",mob,"and hung to a tree in the park until dead . this was the day set for his preliminary examination and he was brought to town- at 11 a . m . from monroe , greene county , where he had been taken for safety , a mob having threatened"
3339,8822_0.txt,"Bismarck weekly tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1891,"by a mob and hung to a tree in the park until dead . this was the day set for his preliminary examination and he was brought to town- at 11 a . m . from monroe , greene county , where he had been taken for safety , a",mob,having threatened to lynch him last thursday . he was cool and adjusted the rope about his own neck . the meets with general approval . lynch-
3340,8824_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1892,"l . johnson and his accomplished daughter , janette , were murdered in a most revolt ing manner and the bodies burned to conceal the crime . four negroes were ar rested after several days ' search . they confessed the crime and were lodged in jail . yesterday a",mob,"overpowered the sheriff , took the fiends out , hung them to a tree and riddled their bodies with bul lets then they cut them . , tore down them limb from limb , gathered the pieces together and burned them . the names of the lynched men : jim"
3341,8825_1.txt,"The Jasper weekly courier (Jasper, Ind.)",1892,a,mob,"of masked men entered the jail at memphis , tenn . , on the morn ing of the 9th , by means of a ruse , ran has sacked it from top to bottom , and took out three of the negro leaders in recent riot and shot them to"
3342,8825_1.txt,"The Jasper weekly courier (Jasper, Ind.)",1892,a mob of,masked,"men entered the jail at memphis , tenn . , on the morn ing of the 9th , by means of a ruse , ran has sacked it from top to bottom , and took out three of the negro leaders in recent riot and shot them to death ."
3343,8825_1.txt,"The Jasper weekly courier (Jasper, Ind.)",1892,a mob of,masked men,"entered the jail at memphis , tenn . , on the morn ing of the 9th , by means of a ruse , ran has sacked it from top to bottom , and took out three of the negro leaders in recent riot and shot them to death . the"
3344,8826_0.txt,"Fisherman & farmer (Edenton, N.C.)",1892,a,mob,"at jacksboro , tenn . , lynched andy beshears and john willis , who had assault ed a woman in the presence of her husband . were made to stand on a gate until the ropes they were fixed ."
3345,8829_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,hanged by a,mob,". a colored man lynched at weir city . accused of killing a bar tender -evidence not positive . kansas city , oct . 31 . - a star special from weir city , kan . , says : weir city was the scene last night of a double tragedy"
3346,8829_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,"mcardle , bar tender in berry janes "" joint "" was shot and killed at half past 10 o'clock and in less than two hours , his supposed murderer , george wells , a negro miner from scammon , was swinging to a telephone pole , the victim of a",mob,"which had forcibly taken him from jail . earlier in the evening mcardle and wells had some words in the saloon af ter which the negro left . shortly af terwards a shot was fired from across the street , the bullet striking mcardle squarely in the forehead . he"
3347,8829_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,out to an officer who arrested him on suspicion and lodged him in jail . another spectator shortly after wards identified him as the negro who had quarreled with mcardle and the report quickly spread that he was identified as the man who did the killing . a howling determined,mob,"formed quickly and marched to the jail . se curing wells without much trouble they dragged the frightened negro from the building and strung him up to the nearest telephone pole . before the rope was placed about his neck , wells admitted he was with the man who shot"
3348,8830_0.txt,NA,1891,"may 12 . - ashbury green ( colored ) , sentenced to twenty- one years in the penitentiary yesterday at centerville , md . , for assault on mrs . how ard tolion of kent island on february 28 , 1891 , was taken from jail at centerville by a",masked,"body of men this morning shortly after 1 o'clock and hung to the limb of a tree . no excitement whatever attended sentence , though a large crowd was the about the court house all day ."
3349,8832_0.txt,"The western sentinel (Winston-Salem, ...)",1891,"show of the splendidly equipped superbly drilled and brave , determined hornets nest riflemen , capt . robertson ; alone preven- ted the raiding of the jail , the certain killing of some the good people , and the probable sacking of the city of charlotte by an infuriated negro",mob,". the scene was a terrible one . preconcerted signal of the ringing of their chuch bells , the negroes assembled in hundreds , and threatened the most outrageous violence against the peace and put in deadly peril the homes and lives of women and children as well as the"
3350,8832_0.txt,"The western sentinel (Winston-Salem, ...)",1891,"deadly peril the homes and lives of women and children as well as the active citizens and peace officers of the city . and the presence of this splendid military company also certain hot headed white prevented aven- gers of outrage from committing a worse crime than murder , a",mob,"of a prisoner in jail . lynching those localities that are indif- ferent to this matter of military bitterly repent their criminal protection will one of these days carelessness . the blood of citizens , the lives of women children will of these points and pay penalty the of the"
3351,8832_1.txt,"The western sentinel (Winston-Salem, ...)",1891,"what was joe . interview at kansas in an john c . days ago col . city a few one of orleans , of new wickliffe , lynched the eleven italians , sta the leaders of the",mob,"which joe ted to a reporter that macheca , who was considered the chief of the offenders , proba- bly had not a drop of italian , blood in his veins . "" his father , "" said colonel wickliffe , "" was an irishman , his mother an american"
3352,8833_1.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1891,"a murderer lynched . billings , mont . , july 24 . - an organized",masked,"mob broke into the jail last night , held revolvers on the sheriff , took the murderer of josepb claney and hanged him to telegraph pole . the murderer was a a tramp ."
3353,8833_1.txt,"The morning news (Savannah, Ga.)",1891,"a murderer lynched . billings , mont . , july 24 . - an organized masked",mob,"broke into the jail last night , held revolvers on the sheriff , took the murderer of josepb claney and hanged him to telegraph pole . the murderer was a a tramp ."
3354,8837_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1891,"wash . , oct . 12 . - a young man named victor beebe was killed fri day night by a man named day , in a quarrel about some cows which had destroyed beebe's corn . day fled after the shooting , but was captured next day and a",mob,"organized to lynch him . he was taken to kalama , but it is feared will yet be lynched . he"
3355,8838_0.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,"three negroes lynched . a leesburg , ga . ,",mob,"dispensed justice by wholesale last evening . atlanta , ga . , feb . 11 . - a telephone message at midnight from leesburg , in the southern part of the state , says a mob took cupid redding and two other negroes from the jail there to- night and"
3356,8838_0.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,"three negroes lynched . a leesburg , ga . , mob dispensed justice by wholesale last evening . atlanta , ga . , feb . 11 . - a telephone message at midnight from leesburg , in the southern part of the state , says a",mob,"took cupid redding and two other negroes from the jail there to- night and lynched them . the message did not say where the mob had come from , but was to the effect that they were apparently well organized , and , on reaching the jail , quick y"
3357,8838_0.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,". , feb . 11 . - a telephone message at midnight from leesburg , in the southern part of the state , says a mob took cupid redding and two other negroes from the jail there to- night and lynched them . the message did not say where the",mob,"had come from , but was to the effect that they were apparently well organized , and , on reaching the jail , quick y demanded the keys . they were deliver ed after a short parley with the sheriff and the mob entered the jail . the three negroes"
3358,8838_0.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,"the message did not say where the mob had come from , but was to the effect that they were apparently well organized , and , on reaching the jail , quick y demanded the keys . they were deliver ed after a short parley with the sheriff and the",mob,"entered the jail . the three negroes were secured , and , according to the tele phone advices , the mob started for the woods with them . governor candler to- night ordered a com pany of state militia from albany to lees burg , to prevent , if possible"
3359,8838_0.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,"well organized , and , on reaching the jail , quick y demanded the keys . they were deliver ed after a short parley with the sheriff and the mob entered the jail . the three negroes were secured , and , according to the tele phone advices , the",mob,"started for the woods with them . governor candler to- night ordered a com pany of state militia from albany to lees burg , to prevent , if possible , the lynching of a negro at the latter place . it was re ported to the governor by the sheriff"
3360,8838_0.txt,"Kansas City journal (Kansas City, Mo...)",1899,"with them . governor candler to- night ordered a com pany of state militia from albany to lees burg , to prevent , if possible , the lynching of a negro at the latter place . it was re ported to the governor by the sheriff of lee county that",a party of,"lynchers would take the regular night train at smithville and come to leesburg for the purpose of lynching the negro . the governor was not informed of the negro's name , but was told that he had been arrested and jailed at leesburg during the afternoon . the trio lynched"
3361,8839_1.txt,"The Irish standard (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1893,"all them . lynched gaston , s . c . , aug . 1 . - handy kaig- ler , the third and last of the negroes who assaulted the young wife of archie at this place , was lynched by a",mob,sightler yesterday .
3362,8840_0.txt,NA,1893,"routed by the strikers . as a result of the battle the men in the strip were routed by the strikers and were forced to flee for their lives , pursued by a howling",mob,", which would have lynched them had they been caught . the owner of the clements , his son and a man named big dick reed are said to be the ones who did the shooting , and they have given them selves up , and were run out of"
3363,8841_0.txt,The Salt Lake herald (Salt Lake City ...),1898,"the negro with desperation , but the negro drew a piece of sharp iron , striking her on the head and inflicting fatal . he wounds that may prove fled , believing his victim to be dead . when the neighbors learned of the horrible affair , they formed a",mob,"and pursued the negre with bloodhounds . they trailed him to a small cabin with- in five miles of where the crime was quickly committed door . the was broken down . the negro , hearing the noise , tried to escape through a win dow , but failed ."
3364,8844_0.txt,"Hopkinsville Kentuckian (Hopkinsville, K...)",1899,lynching in meixco . of an infuriated,mob,". seven colored laborers victims diaz , mexico , may 23 . - there is great excitement in the town of san dialo , ten miles from here , over the lynching of seven colored laborers on the mexican central railway . jose santo , a spanish negro , attempted"
3365,8846_0.txt,"The Coalville times (Coalville, Utah)",1899,"war with spain . , the city hall in chi cago was last winter the scene of a",mob,that threatened to lynch the aldermen who had been bought up like cattle by the street railroad lines of that city . but this i believe was a sham affair and the actors in it de served hanging as much as the alder . so deep are the jungles of
3366,8850_0.txt,Los Angeles herald (Los Angeles [Calif.]) 1890-1893,1891,"a colored rape fiend lynched . fort gibson , miss . , sept . 4 . - willie smith , colored , who criminally assaulted a white lady near here august 21st , was captured last tuesday . today a",mob,"of 500 men , mostly colored , took him to the scene of his crime , where he was fully identified by his victim after which they hanged him . ,"
3367,8853_0.txt,NA,1898,four men are lynched . two murderers and two rapists executed by arkansas,mobs,". four colored men have been lynched in the vicinity of bearden , ark . , within the last few days . two were rapist and two murders . the ravishers , devo and huntly , were swung up three miles north of bearden , and the murderers met their"
3368,8853_0.txt,NA,1898,", within the last few days . two were rapist and two murders . the ravishers , devo and huntly , were swung up three miles north of bearden , and the murderers met their fate a few miles south of bearden . the work was done by two separate",mobs,", and according reports created little excite- ment . to"
3369,8853_1.txt,NA,1898,burned them alive horrible fate of two semi nole halfbreeds . met death at the hands of an en raged,mob,"in oklahoma- with outraging and murdering charged a farmer's wife- other items . are burned at the stake . a dispatch from fort smith , ark . , suu day says : justice in a more horrible form than that meted out to henry smith of paris , tex ."
3370,8853_1.txt,NA,1898,"murdering charged a farmer's wife- other items . are burned at the stake . a dispatch from fort smith , ark . , suu day says : justice in a more horrible form than that meted out to henry smith of paris , tex . , was administered by a",mob,"on the oklahoma border friday night to j . marcus mcgeisey and palmer simpson , two seminole indians . they were charged with murder , their victim being mrs . james simmons a respectable farm er's wife living in oklahoma . the crime was a most revolting one and the"
3371,8853_1.txt,NA,1898,"scene of their crime they were executed by judge lynch's "" order in the most horrible manner that human minds and hands could devise . they were burned at the stake . the indians met their doom with the usual stoicism of their race . after life was extinct the",mob,allowed the fire to die down and they quickly dispersed their several homes . to
3372,8854_0.txt,NA,1892,"while the crimes for which men have been recently lynched in various parts of the country are of the most revolting character and naturally arouse the strongest feelings of re- venge in a community directly affected , they are nevertheless a national disgrace .",mobs,"do not act under the influence of reason and are not controlled by law . they deal out vengeance , not justice , yet in some places these mobs have taken the places of courts and usurped the functions of executive officers . the existence of palliating circumstances must in"
3373,8854_0.txt,NA,1892,"naturally arouse the strongest feelings of re- venge in a community directly affected , they are nevertheless a national disgrace . mobs do not act under the influence of reason and are not controlled by law . they deal out vengeance , not justice , yet in some places these",mobs,"have taken the places of courts and usurped the functions of executive officers . the existence of palliating circumstances must in some instances be admitted , because there are outrages that shock the public sense of right beyond con trol , but there is nothing that can wholly excuse the"
3374,8854_0.txt,NA,1892,"serious . it is but a comparatively few years since none but the worst outrages against female children caused an infliction of lynch law , and then only after the guilt of the accused was established beyond all doubt . later there were cases where aggravated murders were punished by",mob,"violence , and then came a series of cases , north and south , where the result of a victim's wounds were not awaited , but where death at hands of organized lawbreakers was meted out . in new orleans men were hanged after a court of competent jurisdiction had"
3375,8854_0.txt,NA,1892,"of competent jurisdiction had pronounced them innocent , and at shelbyville a man was hung before his victim had died . at memphis four negroes were hung for an assault that has not yet proved fatal , and at findlay there is strong evidence that the man hung by the",mob,"was insane , and therefore irresponsible . not only do the mobs not lessen the crimes for which they wreak vengeance but increase the ferocity with which they inflict it . it is not long since the world was hor rifled by the burning of a mexican in texas and"
3376,8854_0.txt,NA,1892,"man was hung before his victim had died . at memphis four negroes were hung for an assault that has not yet proved fatal , and at findlay there is strong evidence that the man hung by the mob was insane , and therefore irresponsible . not only do the",mobs,"not lessen the crimes for which they wreak vengeance but increase the ferocity with which they inflict it . it is not long since the world was hor rifled by the burning of a mexican in texas and a little later an arkansas , mob danced around a negro who"
3377,8854_0.txt,NA,1892,". not only do the mobs not lessen the crimes for which they wreak vengeance but increase the ferocity with which they inflict it . it is not long since the world was hor rifled by the burning of a mexican in texas and a little later an arkansas ,",mob,"danced around a negro who was slowly cremated . if there can be a case which justifies lynching it is that of eph . grizzard , who was recently hanged by a desperate mob near nashville , but the law would soon have visited upon him the extreme penalty by"
3378,8854_0.txt,NA,1892,"rifled by the burning of a mexican in texas and a little later an arkansas , mob danced around a negro who was slowly cremated . if there can be a case which justifies lynching it is that of eph . grizzard , who was recently hanged by a desperate",mob,"near nashville , but the law would soon have visited upon him the extreme penalty by administering which the law has been broken . a stop should be put to lynching and no endeavor to punish those who engage in it should be omitted it is high time to call"
3379,8857_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1892,cremated by a,mob,". birmingham , ala . , oct . 14 . - concerning the lynching of the four negroes in mon roe county by a mob of enraged citizens , later details say that after the bodies had been riddled with bullets , they were cut down , the limbs torn"
3380,8857_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1892,"cremated by a mob . birmingham , ala . , oct . 14 . - concerning the lynching of the four negroes in mon roe county by a",mob,"of enraged citizens , later details say that after the bodies had been riddled with bullets , they were cut down , the limbs torn apart by the maddened mob , and then gathered in a heap and burned , as they had burned the of their helpless victims ."
3381,8857_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1892,". , oct . 14 . - concerning the lynching of the four negroes in mon roe county by a mob of enraged citizens , later details say that after the bodies had been riddled with bullets , they were cut down , the limbs torn apart by the maddened",mob,", and then gathered in a heap and burned , as they had burned the of their helpless victims . bodies"
3382,8860_0.txt,"Montgomery County sentinel (Rockville, Md.)",1880,"any miscarriage of justice in a rape case in this state , and when the sentinel assures us that the men who vindictively murdered peck belonged to the most respectable por tion of the community , it only increases the shame which the proceeding has cast on montgomery county .",mob,"murder has attained a terrible popularity in maryland . during the last few years we have had a lynching in anne arundel county , in prince george's , in frederick , and now in montgomery . the grand jury that has the cour- age to indict some of the men"
3383,8863_0.txt,"The Fulton County news (McConnellsburg,...)",1901,"of the girl , and was fearful that her abductor and murderer , as they judged green to be , might es cape punishment on some technicality . it was resolved that green , must die . about 10 o'clock on the night of october 21 , 1887 . a",mob,"surrounded the jail at delphia and called on the sheriff for the keys . when he refused to give them up the mob attacked the jail with cold chisels and sledge ham mers , and socn forced an entrance . green was taken out , placed in a wag on"
3384,8863_0.txt,"The Fulton County news (McConnellsburg,...)",1901,"punishment on some technicality . it was resolved that green , must die . about 10 o'clock on the night of october 21 , 1887 . a mob surrounded the jail at delphia and called on the sheriff for the keys . when he refused to give them up the",mob,"attacked the jail with cold chisels and sledge ham mers , and socn forced an entrance . green was taken out , placed in a wag on with a guard , and then the mob climbed in to their vehicles , which were standing around , and the proces sion"
3385,8863_0.txt,"The Fulton County news (McConnellsburg,...)",1901,"punishment on some technicality . it was resolved that green , must die . about 10 o'clock on the night of october 21 , 1887 . a mob surrounded the jail at delphia and called on the sheriff for the keys . when he refused to give them up the",mob attacked,"the jail with cold chisels and sledge ham mers , and socn forced an entrance . green was taken out , placed in a wag on with a guard , and then the mob climbed in to their vehicles , which were standing around , and the proces sion came"
3386,8863_0.txt,"The Fulton County news (McConnellsburg,...)",1901,"on the sheriff for the keys . when he refused to give them up the mob attacked the jail with cold chisels and sledge ham mers , and socn forced an entrance . green was taken out , placed in a wag on with a guard , and then the",mob,"climbed in to their vehicles , which were standing around , and the proces sion came up its route to , walnut grove . when they got there green was con fronted with mr . mabbit , and to the latter's question as to what he had done with luella"
3387,8863_0.txt,"The Fulton County news (McConnellsburg,...)",1901,"when they got there green was con fronted with mr . mabbit , and to the latter's question as to what he had done with luella swore that the girl was alive and well and was then liv ing at fort wayne , tex . mr . mabbit and the",mob,"were of the opinion that this was a lie and was told for the purpose of gaining time . so without any more parley the rope that had been brought along was placed around green's neck and the other end thrown around the limb of a tree , and in"
3388,8863_0.txt,"The Fulton County news (McConnellsburg,...)",1901,"of a tree , and in a few moments green was a corpse . he pro tested his innocence to the last mo apment , and at no time exhibited the least trace of fear except at the ex pression of a wish on the part of some of the",mob,"to burn him , and then he begged them to "" kill him like a man , "" and not to torture him . in explanation of his movements with luella mabbit cn the night they went away together green said that he and the girl had planned to elope"
3389,8869_0.txt,"Ottumwa semi-weekly courier (Ottumwa, Iowa)",1901,", mrs . rathburn and daughter , mary , were found murdered in their home in burlington , after hav ing been there several days . storms was arrested and lodged in jail and public feeling was so strong that it was only by strategy that sheriff smith kept the",mob,"from lynching storms , who was spirited away in the night from the jail in minneapolis , where he took the train and was plac ed by armed guards in the anamosa nitentiary . when the case came up it was taken to wapello on a change of venue for"
3390,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"the excitement attending the gruesome tragedy enacted last night outside the city limits when george white , the ne gro ravisher and murderer of 17- year old helen s . bishop , was burned at the stake , has subsided . public senti ment appears to deplore the resort to",mob,"violence , but the consensus of opinion is that summary vengeance alone could atone for the brutal outrage upon the life and honor of the young girl . it is generally believed that had the courts brought the murderer to speedy trial last night's tragedy would have been averted ."
3391,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"persons who today visited the spot where the funeral pyre was lighted scarcely one left without some ghastly memento . one man carried away a foot that had not been consumed . fragments of clothing , pieces of wood , cinders and any articles that bore mute testimony of the",mob's,"work were eagerly sought . one arrest was made tonight by state detective francis . the prisoner's name was not divluged by the police , but it is said he is charged with having been a party to the lynching . the police officials have little to say regarding the"
3392,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"it is said that state and city . detectives were in the crowd last night and recognized some of those who participated in the burning . other arrests , it is believed , will follow . during the show of resistance made by the police and jail officials when the",mob,"attacked the new castle coun ty work house , peter smith , a 12- year- old boy , was shot in the back . the bullet which struck him evidently came from a pistol in the crowd and it is claimed by the prison warden that his guards fired over"
3393,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"it is said that state and city . detectives were in the crowd last night and recognized some of those who participated in the burning . other arrests , it is believed , will follow . during the show of resistance made by the police and jail officials when the",mob attacked,"the new castle coun ty work house , peter smith , a 12- year- old boy , was shot in the back . the bullet which struck him evidently came from a pistol in the crowd and it is claimed by the prison warden that his guards fired over the"
3394,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"is unknown . was slightly injured . mrs . bishop , mother of the murdered girl , is in a state of nervous excite ment . white was put to death within a few hundred yards of the bishop home and the glare of the fire and howls of the",mob,"could be plainly seen and heard at the house . judge explains court's position . judge grubb , of the county court , to day made a public statement in which he deplores the lynching of white and its consequent reflection upon the good name of delaware . judge grubb"
3395,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,". newiin gaw throp , president of the trustees of the new castle county work house and david j . reinhardt , solicitor of the city of wilmington . t + read as follows : "" call milítia out at once to protect work house property . already entered by",mob,"of 2,000 . "" it was then too late for the governor to take action as the troops could not have reached the scene in time to pre vent the lynching . wilmington , del . , june 23 . - all is quiet in this community today follow ing"
3396,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"have reached the scene in time to pre vent the lynching . wilmington , del . , june 23 . - all is quiet in this community today follow ing the horrible lynching of george white , helen bishop's confessed slayer at an early hour this morning . of a",mob,"of nearly five thousand that over powered the authorities , stormed the new castle county work house and dragged from a cell the trembling wretch and burned him at the stake , the identity of only one is publicly known . that is little veter person smith , 12 years"
3397,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,"dragged from a cell the trembling wretch and burned him at the stake , the identity of only one is publicly known . that is little veter person smith , 12 years old , who fell when the work house guards fired a volley into the ranks of the attacking",mob,". the lad was struck by a bullet which entered his back and is thought to have penetrated his kidneys . at the homeopathic hospital , where the injured boy was immediately taken , the physicians stated that he is in a serious condition . the brute's confession . white's"
3398,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,""" the leader said his name was baker , and that he was from virginia . his face was familiar to most of the peo ple and it is believed he is a resident of wilmington , although some say he had been imported for the purpose of leading the",mob,". the lynching is believed to have been the result of a plot which was concocted several days ago and was to have been put into execution saturday night , but on that occasion there was misunderstanding and the attempt fail ed the police department was advised during the day"
3399,8870_0.txt,"The semi-weekly messenger (Wilmington, N.C...)",1903,and kane went to the work house . there were several thousand persons at the prison at that time and the officers were powerless against such large num bers so they entered the building to assist the guards in an effort to protect the prisoner . the leaders of the,mob,"were cool and determined , warden meserve told them white was in cell 13 in the third story in order to prevent unnecessary destruction of property he told the . leaders how to disconnect the ceil door . negro fought for life . white fought desperately for his life in"
3400,8871_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1903,". republic special . clarendon . ark . , june 25 . - jack harris , a negro , who assaulted john coburn , a white farmer living eight miles east of clarendon , last sunday night , was taken from his guard this morning at 1 o'clock by fifty",masked,"men and hanged . for better security , the sheriff had placed harris in charge of a deputy and secreted them in a barn . the mob demanded to be admitted into the jail , which request was readily granted . while one part of the mob was looking through"
3401,8871_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1903,". republic special . clarendon . ark . , june 25 . - jack harris , a negro , who assaulted john coburn , a white farmer living eight miles east of clarendon , last sunday night , was taken from his guard this morning at 1 o'clock by fifty",masked men,"and hanged . for better security , the sheriff had placed harris in charge of a deputy and secreted them in a barn . the mob demanded to be admitted into the jail , which request was readily granted . while one part of the mob was looking through the"
3402,8871_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1903,"living eight miles east of clarendon , last sunday night , was taken from his guard this morning at 1 o'clock by fifty masked men and hanged . for better security , the sheriff had placed harris in charge of a deputy and secreted them in a barn . the",mob,"demanded to be admitted into the jail , which request was readily granted . while one part of the mob was looking through the jail , another por tion of it went to the barn , took the negro and hanged him . an advance member the guard had spied"
3403,8871_0.txt,"The St. Louis Republic (St. Louis, Mo.)",1903,"o'clock by fifty masked men and hanged . for better security , the sheriff had placed harris in charge of a deputy and secreted them in a barn . the mob demanded to be admitted into the jail , which request was readily granted . while one part of the",mob,"was looking through the jail , another por tion of it went to the barn , took the negro and hanged him . an advance member the guard had spied on the sheriff's movements of . harris was a tenant on john coburn's farm . sunday he asked to ride"
3404,8872_0.txt,"Bismarck daily tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1902,"negro lynched . lajunta , col . , march 26 . -w . h . wallace , a negro sleeping car porter was lynched in a corner of the court house square , being hanged to an electric pole by a howling",mob,"of 4,000 persons wallace was accused of assaulting . an aged white woman ."
3405,8875_1.txt,"The Gainesville star (Gainesville, Fl...)",1903,would- be lynchers foiled . colored,mob,"broke down jail doors , but missed their man . the jail at brooklyn , a suburb of east st . louis , mo . , sunday night , was broken open by a mob of negroes , whose desire it was to lynch one of their own color for"
3406,8875_1.txt,"The Gainesville star (Gainesville, Fl...)",1903,"would- be lynchers foiled . colored mob broke down jail doors , but missed their man . the jail at brooklyn , a suburb of east st . louis , mo . , sunday night , was broken open by a",mob,"of negroes , whose desire it was to lynch one of their own color for an attempted assault on a negro woman earlier in the day . their intended victim , however , had been previously removed to st . louls for safe keeping . east"
3407,8875_3.txt,"The Gainesville star (Gainesville, Fl...)",1903,"-at maysville , ky . , a",mob,"lynched thacker , a white man , who had been given a -it life"
3408,8875_4.txt,"The Gainesville star (Gainesville, Fl...)",1903,"-troops were called out at bain bride , ga . , at an early hour saturday morning to protect the jail , owing to the threat of a",mob,which held up a deputy and demanded the keys to jail . the
3409,8875_5.txt,"The Gainesville star (Gainesville, Fl...)",1903,"-at basin , wyo . , sunday , a",mob,stormed the jail and took therefrom two condemned murderers and lynch ed them . during the attack on jail a county officer was killed . the
3410,8876_0.txt,NA,1899,". today three wagons full arrived at texarkana , having crossed red river at index at midnight last night . shot and tossed in river . jackson , miss . , march 23 . - three negroes were taken from an officer of the law and lynched by an armed",mob,"near silver city , in yazoo county . after being shot to death the bodies of the victims were weighted with bundles of cotton bale ties and thrown into the yazoo river . the negroes were : minor wilson . c . c . reed . willis boyd , they"
3411,8876_0.txt,NA,1899,early last week . they were arrested and taken to yazoo city and held in jail . the constable boarded the steamer rescue with the negroes saturday morning and reached silver city with them . all that is further known is that the negroes fell into the hands of the,mob,"at this point were shot , to death and thrown into the river , as above stated . the feeling against these negroes had been very bitter on account of a disturbance at the midnight plantation last week , in which they , with two other negroes , had fired"
3412,8876_0.txt,NA,1899,"stated . the feeling against these negroes had been very bitter on account of a disturbance at the midnight plantation last week , in which they , with two other negroes , had fired upon two whites upon the road . public little river's river's race war little race war",mobs,"of whites prowl through country wreaking vengeance on blacks . lynch , shoot and throw into the river - alleged scheme of "" general "" duckett and his followers to precipitate a war is nipped- ten negroes known to be dead . texarkana , ark . , march 23 ."
3413,8876_0.txt,NA,1899,"an indefinite num ber of negroes have met their death at the hands of an infuriated white population . seven are known to have been lynched , shot to death or slain in some manner and the work is not yet done . the bodies of the victims of the",mob's,"vengeance are hanging to the limbs of trees in various parts of the county , or strung up , while that of another was shot to death while trying to escape and thrown into a creek and left there . the country is in a state of most intense excitement"
3414,8876_0.txt,NA,1899,"of trees in various parts of the county , or strung up , while that of another was shot to death while trying to escape and thrown into a creek and left there . the country is in a state of most intense excitement . white men are collecting in",mobs,heavily armed and determined ; negroes are fleeing for their lives and the community is in an uproar the exact . number of negroes who have been summarily dealt with or those who may yet fall into the hands of the mob before or der is restored may never be
3415,8876_0.txt,NA,1899,intense excitement . white men are collecting in mobs heavily armed and determined ; negroes are fleeing for their lives and the community is in an uproar the exact . number of negroes who have been summarily dealt with or those who may yet fall into the hands of the,mob,"before or der is restored may never be known . seven bodies have been found and other victims are being hunted and will meet a similar fate when run to earth . the known dead are : "" general "" duckett . edwin goodwin . adam king . joseph jones"
3416,8876_0.txt,NA,1899,"will meet a similar fate when run to earth . the known dead are : "" general "" duckett . edwin goodwin . adam king . joseph jones . benjamin jones . m . jones . unknown man . joe king and john johnson were also taken in hand by",mobs,and whipped . they were afterward turned loose and have appeared . dis
3417,8877_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1900,"apparent decline from which it would be pleasant to argue the speedy disappearance of this serious offense against law and civilization . there is a lack of certainty of classification , however , that im pairs the usefulness of the statistics . it is not known whether all cases of",mob,violence are included or only those instances in which mobs have taken culprits from legal custody and inflicted the death penalty . the statement is made that not all the illegal executions in the south find their way into print . suspicion is followed by assassination of negroes in the
3418,8877_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1900,"the speedy disappearance of this serious offense against law and civilization . there is a lack of certainty of classification , however , that im pairs the usefulness of the statistics . it is not known whether all cases of mob violence are included or only those instances in which",mobs,have taken culprits from legal custody and inflicted the death penalty . the statement is made that not all the illegal executions in the south find their way into print . suspicion is followed by assassination of negroes in the south with far greater frequency than secures the attention of
3419,8878_0.txt,"The Jasper weekly courier (Jasper, Ind.)",1902,"tom blackard , aged 23 , a farmer , who resided near dukedom , tenn . , who had killed , in cold blood , deputy marshal frank taylor , was taken from the lockup at dukedom , on the of 10th , by a",mob,", and hanged from a bridge . , washington"
3420,8879_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1902,"a 7- year- old daughter of john h . wagner , a tailor , under a box car near the west penn railroad station . the child was covered with blood feebly crying , "" mamma , and was mamma , "" when rescued from her brutal assailant . a",mob,"tried to lynch him and he was gotten into jail . several attack were made on the jail saturday night and early sunday morning . the following men were injured during the rioting : george klein , a steel worker , shot through cne leg by policeman graff . deputy"
3421,8879_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1902,"stones : slightly injured . special deputy lewis heller , struck in the face oy a board ; gash cut chin . . in fears dynamiting . butler , pa , sheriff has jail guarded . heavily cennett said he was drunk- his brutal crime- attacks made on jail by",mob,". butler , pa . . sept . 15 . - apprehension was caused late last evening by the story that a gang of men intendel to attack the jail and make an at tempt during the night to dynamite the building . in order to him self sheriff hoon"
3422,8879_0.txt,"Sistersville daily oil review (Sistersville, W...)",1902,the prevailing opinion appears to be that an extra session of quarter convened . sessions court should be judge miller will hold court here on tuesday and bennett could by plead . ing guilty save the county an extra his sentence to expense and mitigate some extent . members of,mob,may be arrested . it is probable that arrests will be soon as bennett has been safely disposed of . the officers succeeded in getting a long list of names of persons who participated in the attack on the jail and prosecutions will follow . at 6 o'clock last evening
3423,8882_0.txt,NA,1901,"burned . black fiend pays usual penalty for the usual crime . troy , ala . , sept . 3 . - bill fournery , alias bill hilliard , a negro charged with assaulting miss wilson at chest nut grove , was shot and his body burn ed by a",mob,"near the scene of his crime to- day . miss wilson , who is 16 or 17 years old , and the little daughter of doc carroll , about 12 years of age , were on their way to school at chestnut grove , just across the line in coffee"
3424,8883_0.txt,NA,1901,"is supposed to have been started by negroes out of revenge for the lynching of ike fitzgerald , colored , on saturday . at his trial the jury stood eleven for hanging and one for life imprisonment . that evening as the sheriff was taking fitzgerald to the jail a",mob,of 200 men took the prisoner from the sheriff and hanged him to a tree . before he was hanged the negro was tortured in a horrible manner . the negroes of tiptonville and vicinity were greatly wrought up over the mutilation and ing . lynch-
3425,8884_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1901,"by legal process . so far as the rights of the person who is has committed the nameless crime are concerned , it matters not how quick he is put out of the way , or as to the manner of his taking off . it is the effect that",mob,"violence has on soeiety in general that concerns every good citizen . there can be no doubt that lynchings have a demoralizing effect , though we do not believe , as do some , that they have a tendency to increase the very crime which usually causes them . but"
3426,8886_0.txt,"Willmar tribune (Willmar, Minn.)",1901,"at hamburg , ark . , james mcloid , a white man under arrest for steal ing a pony , was taken from jail by a and lynched .",mob,#
3427,8890_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1897,"of rene williams injured in the lynching . florence , ala , july 16 . - in last night's iyachiug , at west point , tenn . , where anthony williams , the negro murderer of miss rene williams , was shot and barned in the public streets by a",mob,". three men in the party were shot in the general fusilade which occurred when the mob began shooting at the negro . john williams , father of the murdered girl , received two stray bullets in the neck , and will perdue , her sweetheart will die , who"
3428,8890_0.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1897,"last night's iyachiug , at west point , tenn . , where anthony williams , the negro murderer of miss rene williams , was shot and barned in the public streets by a mob . three men in the party were shot in the general fusilade which occurred when the",mob,"began shooting at the negro . john williams , father of the murdered girl , received two stray bullets in the neck , and will perdue , her sweetheart will die , who had come from nashville , to help lynch the negro , was shot in the thigh and"
3429,8890_1.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1897,negro fiend lynched .,mob,"in alabama took him from the courtroom . montgomery , ala . , july 16 yesterday major terrell , a negro , assaulted mrs . martin thomas , a white woman living in the country five miles from elba , ala . she was alone in the house with her"
3430,8890_1.txt,The times (Washington [D.C...),1897,"piled upon her by the brute and set on fire . the flames attracted some passers by , and they rescued the woman in time to get her dying statement . the baby was roasted to death . terrell was arrested and was being given a preliminary trial when a",mob,broke up the court and took him out hanged him and
3431,8891_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1903,game ball riot at fatal lynching narrowly averted in pittsburg . six negro crap shooters draw revolvers when ordered from the grounds- one beaten to death after a desperate fight and another was abont to be hanged when the,mob,"came to its senses . pittsburg , pa . , may 31 . - in a riot at a baseball ground at high bridge , in west liberty borough , to- day , one ne- gro was killed , two were probably fa- atlly shot , a third was badly"
3432,8891_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1903,"men out , he received a bullet in the breast under the heart and fell to the ground with a groan . following this up , the men inside the coop would open the door , fire into the crow and then jump back to safety . one of the",mob,"climbed to the roof and the next time the negro inside opened the door to fire , a huge rock fell and landed on his head . there was a shout of delight the negro , who from the hundreds . was identified later as charles kelley , fell forward"
3433,8891_0.txt,"The daily morning journal and courier (New Haven, Conn...)",1903,"the other end of it started down the hill , for a distance of at lease 300 yards . the negro was bleeding from a dozen cuts and bruises and bullet wounds , and was apparently more than half dead . over the rough ground , the victim of the",mob's,"fury was dragged to a large tree . soon men were climbing the tree to fasten the rope to al imb , and it was only a question of minutes when there would have been a lynching . at this critical moment , some one yelled "" let him alone"
3434,8893_0.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1903,"negro lynched in louisiana . jonesville , la . , june 26 . - news reached here today of the lynching of lamb whiteley , a negro on the smithland plantation , near monterey landing , con cordia parish . whiteley assaulted a white man and a",mob,him to the woods and riddled his body took with bullets .
3435,8894_0.txt,"The Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1940,"trouble in july "" ( duell , sloan and pearce : $ 2.50 ) . sometimes humor ous , sometimes tender , always powerful , caldwell makes his characters effectively real in this simple drama of life and death in the georgia backwoods . when sheriff jeff heard that a",mob,"was looking for sonny clark , the sheriff started packing his · fishing tackle . he hated fishing , hated mosquitoes , but he was safer , politically , out of reach of a tele phone until the affair was over . but the planatation owner sonny work ed for"
3436,8894_0.txt,"The Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1940,", had him . heard katy barlow accuse and katy's father , shep barlow , was as mean a tenant as ever lazied through a crop . judge allen , the political boss , wasn't much help , either . sheriff jeff might have gone fish ing anway if a",mob,hadn't stormed the jail and taken old sam with them . sam never did anyone any harm . he just liked to buy junk cars and sell them . but he invariably forgot that the cars were mortgaged . so the sheriff would keep sam in ffail for a few
3437,8894_0.txt,"The Waterbury Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1940,"sell them . but he invariably forgot that the cars were mortgaged . so the sheriff would keep sam in ffail for a few days to teach him a lesson sam could never learn . it was to have sam , not sonny , that the sheriff started trailing the",mob,". caldwell paints a vivid picture of the brutality of the phites , out to lynch , and the terror of the negroes , huddled in their cabins . he follows the innocent sonny in his losing , race with inevitable fate trials katy barlow through her brief moment of"
3438,8896_0.txt,NA,1903,"mother of james dillard , who was lynched at sullivan , ind . , november 19 , 1902 , has filed suit for $ 10,000 damages in the federal court at indianapolis against john s . dudley , sheriff of sullivan county , from whom dillard was taken by the",mob,"and lynched . sheriff dudley's bondsmen are made defendants . a band of ladrones surprised the town of iriga in the province of am bos camadines , luzon , and killed the wife and uncle of the presidente and three volunteers . before retiring they captured nine guns . ouofre"
3439,8897_0.txt,"The Washburn leader (Washburn, McLea...)",1901,negro lynched . kansas,mob,"haugs a negro murderer . wichita , kah . , may 28 . - bill campbell , a negro , was lynched at pond creek , okla . , by a mob of 400 persons , who broke down the jail , took him to the scene of his crime"
3440,8897_0.txt,"The Washburn leader (Washburn, McLea...)",1901,"negro lynched . kansas mob haugs a negro murderer . wichita , kah . , may 28 . - bill campbell , a negro , was lynched at pond creek , okla . , by a",mob,"of 400 persons , who broke down the jail , took him to the scene of his crime and hanged him to a telegraph pole . he was hanged for the fatal shooting of deputy sheriff smith eorge ."
3441,8910_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1903,"assault of mrs . w . h . neeley , a white woman who resides about seven miles west of town . this attempt occurred last friday and the negro was arrested saturday and taken before mrs . neeley who was positive in her identification . shortly after midnight a",mob,"broke in to the county jail and , taking turner out , strung him to a limb in front of the court house where several other negroes have been lynched at different times . turner denied his guilt to the last . coal drivers on a strike . mamanoy city"
3442,8914_0.txt,"Shepherdstown register (Shepherdstown, ...)",1904,roosevelt and lynch law . senator bailey arraigns president in violence . for tis views on,mob,"est "" if there are among us men who deadly justify the lawless spirit which some times expresses itself in a public lynch life ing they could not find in all the range literature a more pointed of english of and complete defense of such conduct than has been furnished"
3443,8914_0.txt,"Shepherdstown register (Shepherdstown, ...)",1904,"crease magistracy of this country ever en portant tered his brain he devoted himself to the more pleasant but less pretentious task of writing books , and in a work nized which he calls ' ranch life and hunt disease ing trail ' he thus records his approval of the",mob,": natural "" during the last two or three years the stockmen have united to put down there all these dangerous characters , often its by the most summary exercise of lynch ledge law . bands of horse and cattle thieves have been regularly hunted down and this destroyed in"
3444,8916_0.txt,"The Hickman courier (Hickman, Ky.)",1901,"- george no fuller , a negro , was lynched near lost in marion , perry county . he was charged with bifrning the barn of by , dennis cummings , of whom he had been a tenant . while fuller was being taken to marion a body of on",masked,"men took him from the offi on cers and hanged him to a tree . ful ler had a bad reputation , and was , more than once a convict . on the war revenue law . washington , dec . 28 . - senator allison , who is the"
3445,8916_0.txt,"The Hickman courier (Hickman, Ky.)",1901,"- george no fuller , a negro , was lynched near lost in marion , perry county . he was charged with bifrning the barn of by , dennis cummings , of whom he had been a tenant . while fuller was being taken to marion a body of on",masked men,"took him from the offi on cers and hanged him to a tree . ful ler had a bad reputation , and was , more than once a convict . on the war revenue law . washington , dec . 28 . - senator allison , who is the second"
3446,8918_0.txt,"The Coalville times (Coalville, Utah)",1903,make war on negroes . illinois,mob,"makes general onslaught on colony of negroes . an unknown negro , aged about 17 years , was lynched by a mob near the village of santa fe , ills . , sunday afternoon for attempting to assault the 10- year- old daughter of branson davis , a farmer ."
3447,8918_0.txt,"The Coalville times (Coalville, Utah)",1903,"make war on negroes . illinois mob makes general onslaught on colony of negroes . an unknown negro , aged about 17 years , was lynched by a",mob,"near the village of santa fe , ills . , sunday afternoon for attempting to assault the 10- year- old daughter of branson davis , a farmer . the lynching was followed by a general onslaught upon a colony of negroes living in tents in a bridge construction camp ."
3448,8921_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1903,pineapple's christmas frolic . a desire for excitement and blood was plainly at the bottom of the distressing and absolutely inexcusable lynching and conflagration that occur red at pineapple on christmas evening even the,mob,"did not claim that their vietim killed young melton , who was shot as a result of crap playing with negroes . they simply knew that a negro had been arrested who had per haps participated in the game of craps . they did not investigate ; they did not"
3449,8923_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1904,"years old , while she was on her way to school . the matter was to the authorities and a posse immediately reported went in search identified him . officers left with the prisoner to bring him to gainesville , the county seat , but they were overtaken by the",mob,"some miles from the place and the negro was taken from them and hanged to a tree . his body was then riddled with bullets . the mob consisted of fifty men who wore no masks , although the lynching occurred in broad daylight . lynched by negroes . petersburg"
3450,8923_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1904,". officers left with the prisoner to bring him to gainesville , the county seat , but they were overtaken by the mob some miles from the place and the negro was taken from them and hanged to a tree . his body was then riddled with bullets . the",mob,"consisted of fifty men who wore no masks , although the lynching occurred in broad daylight . lynched by negroes . petersburg , va . , jan . 15 . - information has been received of the alleged lynching in sussex vounty , va . , of elmore mosely ,"
3451,8923_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1904,"him to gainesville , the county seat , but they were overtaken by the mob some miles from the place and the negro was taken from them and hanged to a tree . his body was then riddled with bullets . the mob consisted of fifty men who wore no",masks,", although the lynching occurred in broad daylight . lynched by negroes . petersburg , va . , jan . 15 . - information has been received of the alleged lynching in sussex vounty , va . , of elmore mosely , a negro , by a mob of ne-"
3452,8923_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1904,"wore no masks , although the lynching occurred in broad daylight . lynched by negroes . petersburg , va . , jan . 15 . - information has been received of the alleged lynching in sussex vounty , va . , of elmore mosely , a negro , by a",mob,of ne- mosely was tried and acquitted groes . this week for killing another negro in the public highway in the presence of the mob of ne- wife child . ivictim's and a
3453,8923_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1904,"- information has been received of the alleged lynching in sussex vounty , va . , of elmore mosely , a negro , by a mob of ne- mosely was tried and acquitted groes . this week for killing another negro in the public highway in the presence of the",mob,of ne- wife child . ivictim's and a
3454,8924_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1904,"menace , as lynch law . "" let me tell you that the first duty of the officers of the law , whether they be sheriffs , constables , municipal officers , mayors , governors or the president him self , is to maintain public order and put down the",mob,"with an iron hand . "" after advising donnelly to put a stop to the strike the president is represent ed as saying : "" in any case be assured i will keep my hands off unless your folly brings you into collision with the laws of the united states"
3455,8929_0.txt,NA,1905,"a woman in the south had her husband arrested for nonsupport , and at his trial testified that he was a drunken , worthless ruffian . it is evident that the leading citizens "" believed her , for they quickly organ ized a",mob,", took hubby from the officers , and lynched him . now wifey has sued the leaders of the for $ 50,000 for causing the death of the man whom she swore was worthless mob ."
3456,8929_0.txt,NA,1905,"evident that the leading citizens "" believed her , for they quickly organ ized a mob , took hubby from the officers , and lynched him . now wifey has sued the leaders of the for $ 50,000 for causing the death of the man whom she swore was worthless",mob,.
3457,8932_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"are beartily sick of the reign of lynch law , admit that the time is coming , if the tide and of lawlessness is not stemmed , when accusation , a specious circumstance , "" as negroes are today . chief justice bleckley , of georgia , denounces",mob,"law with ansparing vigor . he affirms that mobs could not exist if we "" could alter the tone and teaching of the public journals which confound the mob with the people and describe mob violence as cases in which the people act in their own behalf and take justice"
3458,8932_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"lynch law , admit that the time is coming , if the tide and of lawlessness is not stemmed , when accusation , a specious circumstance , "" as negroes are today . chief justice bleckley , of georgia , denounces mob law with ansparing vigor . he affirms that",mobs,"could not exist if we "" could alter the tone and teaching of the public journals which confound the mob with the people and describe mob violence as cases in which the people act in their own behalf and take justice into their own hands . "" lynch law is"
3459,8932_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"when accusation , a specious circumstance , "" as negroes are today . chief justice bleckley , of georgia , denounces mob law with ansparing vigor . he affirms that mobs could not exist if we "" could alter the tone and teaching of the public journals which confound the",mob,"with the people and describe mob violence as cases in which the people act in their own behalf and take justice into their own hands . "" lynch law is not the act of "" the people . "" the men who form an ordinary lynching party are not the"
3460,8932_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,", "" as negroes are today . chief justice bleckley , of georgia , denounces mob law with ansparing vigor . he affirms that mobs could not exist if we "" could alter the tone and teaching of the public journals which confound the mob with the people and describe",mob,"violence as cases in which the people act in their own behalf and take justice into their own hands . "" lynch law is not the act of "" the people . "" the men who form an ordinary lynching party are not the people , "" nor even any"
3461,8932_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,"of their own law , they had sesamed to inflict injustice in the name of justice . the people have no hands for unlawful work . justice is in the hands of the people only when it is in the hands of their organized tribunals , . . should a",mob,"pass and promulgate a statute or a body of statutes , would it be said that the people had taken the making of the laws into their own hands ? what journal or newspaper would venture speak thus of such a lawless method of to making laws ? """
3462,8932_0.txt,"The Seattle post-intelligencer (Seattle, Wash. ...)",1894,". justice is in the hands of the people only when it is in the hands of their organized tribunals , . . should a mob pass and promulgate a statute or a body of statutes , would it be said that the people had taken the making of the",laws into their own hands,"? what journal or newspaper would venture speak thus of such a lawless method of to making laws ? """
3463,8933_0.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1893,"for eign countries , etc . knoxville , tenn . , february 26 . - joseph payne , a negro was lynched at jellico , tenn . , tonight for assaulting a white girl named nannie cecil . the lynching was a quiet affair , about fifty men composing the",mob,". the negro confessed and asked for time to pray . earthquake in california . san francisco , cal . , february 23 . - an earthquake shock was felt at sacramento and several places in solano county last night . at dixon the people rushed pell mell from their"
3464,8933_0.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1893,"it also appears that , whatever may have been the immediate cause of the fire , each one connected with the institution did all within his or her power to prevent it . bank robbers thwarted . pittsburg , penn . , february 22 . - late this evening four",masked,"men boldly at tempted to rob the city bank in leechburg , pa . , thirty miles from pittsburg , on the west pennsylvania railroad . they were discovered before they could accomplish their designa nd one of the robbers was ar rested . the other three escaped after a"
3465,8933_0.txt,"The Atlanta constitution (Atlanta, Ga.)",1893,"it also appears that , whatever may have been the immediate cause of the fire , each one connected with the institution did all within his or her power to prevent it . bank robbers thwarted . pittsburg , penn . , february 22 . - late this evening four",masked men,"boldly at tempted to rob the city bank in leechburg , pa . , thirty miles from pittsburg , on the west pennsylvania railroad . they were discovered before they could accomplish their designa nd one of the robbers was ar rested . the other three escaped after a dsperate"
3466,8936_0.txt,NA,1907,"- none except old "" dad "" sheehan . "" dad , "" a fearless irishman , attempted to arrest thornton , and was shot down like a dog by the "" bad after a desperate 99 man . "" resistance , "" bad joe "" was captured by a",mob,"and hanged . it was the town's first lynching bee . "" bad joe "" was the last of his kind in joplin . the dang ling body was a warning to all other "" bad men "" that their society was no longer wanted , and they immediately proceeded"
3467,8942_0.txt,"The Houston daily post (Houston, Tex.)",1901,"influen citizens are urging the people to go home . it is said that six of the negro suspects have been spirited away to the work house . the negroes still in jail are the two who have been identified , joseph roberts and frank holland . after midnight the",mob,"began to beat negroes with whom a quarrel could be provoked , and ten black men were beaten . a number of pistol shots were fired , but no one was injured . the crowd has begun to diminish . kansas city , mo . , july 13 . -"
3468,8942_0.txt,"The Houston daily post (Houston, Tex.)",1901,"whom a quarrel could be provoked , and ten black men were beaten . a number of pistol shots were fired , but no one was injured . the crowd has begun to diminish . kansas city , mo . , july 13 . - 1 a . m.- the",mob,"seems to have abandoned its lynching plan . five hundred men , in squads of seventy- five , are raiding the negra quarter in the north end , chasing and beating and smashing windows . negroes a captain's opinion ."
3469,8943_0.txt,"The Superior times (Superior, Wis.)",1893,three negroes lynched . murder of an arkansas business man avenged by a,mob,". camden , ark . , may 9 . - turee negroes were lynched at bearden , this county , early this morning , for the murder ons made saturday upon business man of that place . norman died from the results of the wounds , which were inflicted with"
3470,8943_0.txt,"The Superior times (Superior, Wis.)",1893,"this county , early this morning , for the murder ons made saturday upon business man of that place . norman died from the results of the wounds , which were inflicted with an axe upon his head as he was returning home from his store at midnight . the",mob,", consisting of 100 men , were sure they had the right parties , pocket book and personal effects of norman's were found upon them . the purpose of the assassins was robbery . the negroes were taken from the officers between midnight and dawn they begged piteously for their"
3471,8944_0.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1901,"accused of buncoing a miner out of a sack of gold dust . in the events that followed smith was killed , after he had shot frank reid , the district attorney at skagway . triplet was sentenced to a year's imprisonment at sitka . while he was in a",mob,"gathered about the jail to lynch him . officers dispersed the mob , however , and triplet served out his term . he was often subjected to arrest in chica go , and detective murnane is said to have taken him to the central station more than 100 times ."
3472,8944_0.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1901,". in the events that followed smith was killed , after he had shot frank reid , the district attorney at skagway . triplet was sentenced to a year's imprisonment at sitka . while he was in a mob gathered about the jail to lynch him . officers dispersed the",mob,", however , and triplet served out his term . he was often subjected to arrest in chica go , and detective murnane is said to have taken him to the central station more than 100 times . at last john d . shea , then chief of detectives ,"
3473,8948_0.txt,"The Washburn leader (Washburn, McLea...)",1901,,mob,". a hanged by nashville , tenn . , march 19 . - at tip tonville a mob hanged ike fitzgerald to a tree near the court house . the negro was charged with assault on a girl , and a trial jury had just white reported that they could"
3474,8948_0.txt,"The Washburn leader (Washburn, McLea...)",1901,"mob . a hanged by nashville , tenn . , march 19 . - at tip tonville a",mob,"hanged ike fitzgerald to a tree near the court house . the negro was charged with assault on a girl , and a trial jury had just white reported that they could not agree ."
3475,8949_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1904,six leaders of a negro,mob,"that had threatened to sack pickettsville , tenn . . were taken from jail at trenton and lynched . three negroes lynched by a mob at brookhaven were , miss ."
3476,8949_0.txt,"Wausau pilot (Wausau, Wis.)",1904,"six leaders of a negro mob that had threatened to sack pickettsville , tenn . . were taken from jail at trenton and lynched . three negroes lynched by a",mob,"at brookhaven were , miss ."
3477,8953_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1918,"fund started to stop lynching san antonio , tex . , august 4 . - announcement was made today by publishers of the san antonio express of the establishment of a fund totaling $ 100,000 to be maintained for five years to combat and punish lynching and",mob,violence within the bounds of continental united states . in announcing the fund it is said a reward of $ 100 will be paid to each person directly responsible for arrest and subsequent conviction of any per son or persons instrumental in arousing a mob to commit lynching or participating
3478,8953_0.txt,"Phoenix tribune (Phoenix, Ariz.)",1918,combat and punish lynching and mob violence within the bounds of continental united states . in announcing the fund it is said a reward of $ 100 will be paid to each person directly responsible for arrest and subsequent conviction of any per son or persons instrumental in arousing a,mob,"to commit lynching or participating in the lynching itself when the victim is white . a reward of $ 1,000 is provided under similar conditions when the victim of the lynching is a negro . the offer ap- plies both to officers of the law and citizens of any state"
3479,8954_0.txt,"Albuquerque morning journal (Albuquerque, N....)",1921,"negro is saved from lynching by timely arrival of the cops ( by the associated press . ) des moines , ia . , july 3 . - timely arrival of the police saved samuel lee , a negro , from lynching at the hands of a",mob,"of several hundred people here tonight . the crowd gathered after lee had stabbed and probably fatally injured his wife , at the entrance of a local amusement park . lee attempted to escape down a struck and side street , but was knocked down by a passing auto mobile"
3480,8957_0.txt,NA,1902,an,unmasked,"mob hanged a ne gro named robert adair in the court house yard at lewisburg , tenn . adair murdered a farmer , who surprised him while corn from his field . stealing"
3481,8957_0.txt,NA,1902,an unmasked,mob,"hanged a ne gro named robert adair in the court house yard at lewisburg , tenn . adair murdered a farmer , who surprised him while corn from his field . stealing"
3482,8958_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1902,"for identification . about 100 men accompanied the officers and prisoner . noetable among them was wm . powell , brother of the girl , armed with a double barreled shotgun . after the negro had been fully identified and as the officers were taking him back to jall the",mob,"seized and lynched him in the courthouse yard before the officers could get into the jall . miss powell is a student at the jes samine institute in this city and lives at her brother's home , about three miles north . last evening she started home in company with"
3483,8958_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1902,"of the victim who fully identified him . t make the identification doubly sure , the negro was taken to the scene of the tragedy in charge of officers , followed by a inob of 200 armed men determined that the prisoner should not be transferred to lexington . the",mob,"followed closely behind the carriage and was reinforced by as many more on the way . when nearing the courthouse yard , the carriage was surrounded and the mot dragged the negro from the authorities who were helpless , but made a strong resistance . brown was hurried to the"
3484,8961_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1904,"mayor bowlus , governor her- rick y ordered all the troops here to le the city tomorrow morning the office will then be left to the protect of the three home companies and police force which has been re- i ced . it is feared , however , the ae",mob,"will attempt to burn the fonky tonk "" and others of the disreputable buildings if this occurs . and the lighting plant near by is destroyed , the city will be in darkness . near at hand is also the city building costing $ 350,000 and the arcade , valued"
3485,8961_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1904,"y . m . c . a . building and in the various churches today and tonight a power ful arraignment of the courts , in city , state and nation was made by the leading men of springfield , in discuss ing "" who's to blame "" for the",mob,"violence during the previous week . judge f . m . hagan , who is recognized as the most gifted public speaker in this section of ohio , took occasion in his address at the mass meet- ing to place the blame where he said it belonged . "" our"
3486,8961_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1904,"speaker in this section of ohio , took occasion in his address at the mass meet- ing to place the blame where he said it belonged . "" our city , "" he said , "" has just passed through a crisis . human life has been taken by a",mob,". it has destroyed private property with the torch . the crisis has passed and we can now sur vey the field , consider the causes and plan for the future . worse things might have been done by the mob in springfield . the life of a miscreant was"
3487,8961_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1904,"crisis . human life has been taken by a mob . it has destroyed private property with the torch . the crisis has passed and we can now sur vey the field , consider the causes and plan for the future . worse things might have been done by the",mob,"in springfield . the life of a miscreant was taken who de served to die to the hands of the law . dens of infamy were destroyed which the authorities should have suppressin ed long ago . there has been no labor riot , no bread riot , no mob"
3488,8961_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1904,"mob in springfield . the life of a miscreant was taken who de served to die to the hands of the law . dens of infamy were destroyed which the authorities should have suppressin ed long ago . there has been no labor riot , no bread riot , no",mob,"has at tacked the property of any man for its own gain . mob law has ceased and must not occur again . "" as to the causes- we open the gates of our country to a flow of im migrants , many of whom are of the most ignorant"
3489,8961_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1904,"to die to the hands of the law . dens of infamy were destroyed which the authorities should have suppressin ed long ago . there has been no labor riot , no bread riot , no mob has at tacked the property of any man for its own gain .",mob,"law has ceased and must not occur again . "" as to the causes- we open the gates of our country to a flow of im migrants , many of whom are of the most ignorant , vicious and debased people on earth , coming by the mil lions to"
3490,8963_1.txt,"Richmond dispatch (Richmond, Va.)",1902,"were on the point of lynching the negro . some say the rope had been placed around his neck , but this is probably an exaggeration . assistant superintendent vaughan , of the car company , at the point of a pistol , went to the rescue and caused the",mob,"to desist . a moment later the police arrived and the danger was averted . as the night advanced , however , the police received information from many sources that an attack on the jail was contemplated by the street railway employees as soon as all were off duty ,"
3491,8964_0.txt,NA,1902,tom brown ( colored ) was lynched a,mob,"at nicholasville , ky . , for as by saulting a white girl ."
3492,8964_1.txt,NA,1902,"euless whittaker ( colored ) , charged with the murder of john dorster , was taken from jail at lynchburg , tenn . and hanged by a",mob,". ,"
3493,8965_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1904,"conductor of street car saloon- keeper standing on the footboard , asked to step in side , first struck conductor with fist , then shot him . fired at policeman ;",mob,"cried , "" lynch him ! "" when taken to drug store to be identified by victim , he again drew revolver , and was knocked down . at the long island hospital albert breeze , a conductor on a brooklyn and coney island street car , is said to"
3494,8965_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1904,"the policeman who arrested him , and as threatened with lynching by the crowd that saw his assault on the conductor and attempted murder of the police man . only the arrival of capt . har kins and a squad of police saved the italian from the vengeance of the",mob,". according to the story of passengers who were on the car crimaldi was standing on the footboard of the car smoking a cigar . breeze politely asked him to step inside , saying it was against the rules to stand on the footboard . crimaldi paid no attention to"
3495,8965_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1904,"step inside , saying it was against the rules to stand on the footboard . crimaldi paid no attention to the re quest , and breeze spoke to him again . three times the conductor made the a quiet tone , and each time request crimaldi refused to obey .",mob,"threatens lynching . crimaldi recovered the mob before burrounded owens and his prisoner and began shouting . "" lynch hin ! "" as they were about to attack the itallan capt . harkins and a squad of police came up and took charge of him . he was taken back"
3496,8965_0.txt,"The evening world (New York, N.Y.)",1904,"the rules to stand on the footboard . crimaldi paid no attention to the re quest , and breeze spoke to him again . three times the conductor made the a quiet tone , and each time request crimaldi refused to obey . mob threatens lynching . crimaldi recovered the",mob,"before burrounded owens and his prisoner and began shouting . "" lynch hin ! "" as they were about to attack the itallan capt . harkins and a squad of police came up and took charge of him . he was taken back to where breeze was lying in a"
3497,8968_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1902,"myers , almost blind and on the verge of the grave , selected the ropes to be used , tied the knots and gave counsel to the ring leaders as to their method of procedure . no humane instinet manifested itself , ac cording to the witness , while the",mob,was hurrying its captives off to their doom . one victim was beaten with a wagon spoke and the others shared in a measure this brutailty while being dragged to the execution ground . even old calvin hall's gray hairs and tottering galt did not win for him respite from
3498,8968_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1902,earth . dur hutton withheld no facts . he described the events prior to and during the lynch ing with faithful attention to details and did not attempt to hide the part he took in plotting the death of the five lookout prisoners and carrying out the imposed by the,mob,". sentence alturas , jan . 8 . - john hutton , the self- confessed participant in the quintuple lynching at lookout last may , told the story of that frontier tragedy in court to- day . he was the only witness examined during the day in the trial of"
3499,8968_0.txt,The San Francisco call (San Francisco [...),1902,dramatic and sensational in its details that the spectators who crowded the courtroom heard it with breathless from beginning to end . attention special dispatch to the call . crowd at the alturas trial hears dramatic of barbarism story . witness hutton gives details of lynchings lookout . tells how,mob,five hanged men
3500,8970_0.txt,"Evening times-Republican (Marshalltown, I...)",1902,"hung . they've got some smart lawyers . "" and always coupled with this remark is the suggestion that it would have saved time and money "" if the people of albert city had strung them up . "" in other words , this kind of legal procedure is making",mob,"law possible , probable and , some think , necessary , when the outrageous murder occurs . next"
3501,8971_0.txt,"Shoshone journal (Shoshone, Idaho)",1902,,mob,"lynches white man . his victim's father and brother assist execution . at abe whiterop , the white murderer of william grow , who was killed last month , was taken from the paris , mo . , jail , marched to the bridge on the north edge of the"
3502,8971_0.txt,"Shoshone journal (Shoshone, Idaho)",1902,"victim's father and brother assist execution . at abe whiterop , the white murderer of william grow , who was killed last month , was taken from the paris , mo . , jail , marched to the bridge on the north edge of the town and hanged by a",mob,"of more than 100 men , who rode quiet ly into town at midnight . the man made no resistance , and in reply to questions his guilt . the father and brother confessed of the victim were in the mob and assisted in escort the man to the bridge"
3503,8971_0.txt,"Shoshone journal (Shoshone, Idaho)",1902,"north edge of the town and hanged by a mob of more than 100 men , who rode quiet ly into town at midnight . the man made no resistance , and in reply to questions his guilt . the father and brother confessed of the victim were in the",mob,"and assisted in escort the man to the bridge , a quarter of a mile away . at the bridge witherop's feet were tied by the brother of the murdered man and the senior grow ad iusted the rope about his neck and pushed him off the structure . witherop"
3504,8973_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1903,officers cut him down . save the life of a negro whom,mob,"had hanged . whitesboro , tex . , aug . 13 . - an attempted assault on mrs . hart caused the arrest of 8 negroes , 7 of whom were released . the other was held for identification . about 8 o'clock last night a mob took possession of"
3505,8973_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1903,"a negro whom mob had hanged . whitesboro , tex . , aug . 13 . - an attempted assault on mrs . hart caused the arrest of 8 negroes , 7 of whom were released . the other was held for identification . about 8 o'clock last night a",mob,"took possession of him and hanged him to a limb of a tree . he had not become unconscious when officers ar rived from sherman and , making their way through the mob with a rush , cut the negro down , and hurried him to sherman . after the"
3506,8973_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1903,"whom were released . the other was held for identification . about 8 o'clock last night a mob took possession of him and hanged him to a limb of a tree . he had not become unconscious when officers ar rived from sherman and , making their way through the",mob,"with a rush , cut the negro down , and hurried him to sherman . after the negro had been forcibly taken from the mob its num bers began terrifying the colored residents guns were fired of the town . promiscuously in the negro section . the terrorized negroes were"
3507,8973_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1903,"to a limb of a tree . he had not become unconscious when officers ar rived from sherman and , making their way through the mob with a rush , cut the negro down , and hurried him to sherman . after the negro had been forcibly taken from the",mob,its num bers began terrifying the colored residents guns were fired of the town . promiscuously in the negro section . the terrorized negroes were ordered to leave town once and outgoing trains on all roads at were filled with negroes .
3508,9563_0.txt,NA,1904,doubt as to identity saved coleman's neck .,mob,"was about to string him up in floyd county . rome , ga . , march 23 . - six- mile station a small town in this county , was thrown into a fever of excitement about 1 o'clock this morning by a mob which was about to lynch john"
3509,9563_0.txt,NA,1904,"to identity saved coleman's neck . mob was about to string him up in floyd county . rome , ga . , march 23 . - six- mile station a small town in this county , was thrown into a fever of excitement about 1 o'clock this morning by a",mob,"which was about to lynch john colemen colored , who is charged with attempting criminal assault upon mrs . john moore , wife of prominent farm or . the alleged assault on mrs . moore occurred at her home last night , and she was alone at the time the"
3510,9563_0.txt,NA,1904,"farm or . the alleged assault on mrs . moore occurred at her home last night , and she was alone at the time the negro appeared . mrs . moore fired three times at the negro , but none took effect . on hearing of the attempted assault a",mob,was quickly made up and went in pursuit of the negro . he was captured and was about to be summarily dealt with when some one appeared on the scené and stated there was some doubt of his being the right party . coleman was then brought to rome and
3511,9563_0.txt,NA,1904,he was captured and was about to be summarily dealt with when some one appeared on the scené and stated there was some doubt of his being the right party . coleman was then brought to rome and placed in jail by a committee ap for the pointed by the,mob,"purpose . this morning judge henry , for further fear mob violence , had the negro sent to of atlanta for safekeeping ."
3512,9563_0.txt,NA,1904,"when some one appeared on the scené and stated there was some doubt of his being the right party . coleman was then brought to rome and placed in jail by a committee ap for the pointed by the mob purpose . this morning judge henry , for further fear",mob,"violence , had the negro sent to of atlanta for safekeeping ."
3513,9564_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1904,,mob,"leaders indicted . several alleged leaders of the hunts ville mob have been indicted in the united states district court presided over by judge thomas g . jones , and if a conviction should follow , no doubt a case would be carried to the united states supreme court ,"
3514,9564_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1904,mob leaders indicted . several alleged leaders of the hunts ville,mob,"have been indicted in the united states district court presided over by judge thomas g . jones , and if a conviction should follow , no doubt a case would be carried to the united states supreme court , and we would whether the thirteenth then know amendment covers mops"
3515,9564_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1904,"dis cussed judge jones ' charge , and in the south it is felt that if his views be sustained by the court of last resort , undue interference on the part of the general government in local affairs would follow . such interference could be headed off by stopping",mobs,". if the worst come , public sentiment can at any rate put an end to federal interference by simply restoring the supremacy of law , something we should do in any event . we can readily keep the general government out by doing our full duty . the huntsville"
3516,9566_0.txt,"Owingsville outlook (Owingsville, Ky...)",1903,"the burning of white . thousands visited the scene of the execution at wilmington . wilmington , del . , june 29 . - thou sands of persons sunday visited the place where george f . white , a ne gro was burned at the stake by a",mob,"of 4,000 persons for brutally assault ing and stabbing to death miss helen s . bishop , the 17- year- old daughter of rev . e . a . bishop . they came from all the small towns in this vicinity and hundreds journeyed to the execution place from chester"
3517,9566_0.txt,"Owingsville outlook (Owingsville, Ky...)",1903,"plough ed field , about 50 feet from the road way , which is hidden by high brushes . the field has been trampled almost as smooth and hard as asphalt by the thousands who have visited the farm . the only evidence that remains of the work of the",mob,"are three cobble stones , on one of which this inscription has been placed in indelible ink : "" here is all that remains of white "" . the bushes , behind which the mur der was committed , have been cut down for a distance of several yards and"
3518,9567_1.txt,"The Maui news (Wailuku, Maui, ...)",1904,an ohio,mob,"broke into jail at springtield , ohio , bung a negro murderer and riddled his body with lets . bul"
3519,9568_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1908,"negro lynched in louisiana . delhi , la.- robert mitchell , colored , an alleged murderer , was taken from a deputy sheriff by a",mob,"at oakgrove , near here , thursday atternoon and lynched . a repe was placed around the negro's neck and he was hanged a railroad water tank . to"
3520,9570_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1893,the same everywhere one day last week an infuriate,mob,"broke into a court zoom , over powered the offi ials , seized frederic . gustavon , a white man , undergoing a hearing on the charge of criminally , and , perhaps , fatally assaulting a little girl , and lynched him , his body being swung to a"
3521,9570_0.txt,"The Guthrie daily leader (Guthrie, Okla.)",1893,"you pose this lawless event happened ? sup was not in the south , but in ottumwa , in the republican state of iowa . it makes little difference in what section revolting erimes against na ture , of such a kind , occur , public sentiment swiftly resorts to",mob,"and lynch law , fearing the slow and doubtful issue of the ordained course of justice . the fact that the perpetrator is a black instead of a while fiend is not likely to modify the relentless demand for speedy vengeance on the part of the public . politics ,"
3522,9573_0.txt,"The Lamar register (Lamar, Colo.)",1903,a,mob,"of three hundred negroes attempted to lynch a negro murder er in missouri last week , but was quickly suppressed by the sheriff . such unwarranted attempts to usurp the privileges of the southern gentlemen will not be tolerated , and it remarkable restraint that the showed entire mob was"
3523,9573_0.txt,"The Lamar register (Lamar, Colo.)",1903,"a mob of three hundred negroes attempted to lynch a negro murder er in missouri last week , but was quickly suppressed by the sheriff . such unwarranted attempts to usurp the privileges of the southern gentlemen will not be tolerated , and it remarkable restraint that the showed entire",mob,was not lynched .
3524,9575_0.txt,"Evening bulletin (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1905,"negroes lynch negro . bainbridge , ga . , october 8 . - a",mob,here has lynched a negro rapist negro .
3525,9577_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,ohio averted in lynching barely,mob,"had formed , but negro was given hurried trial and spirited away . springfield , o . , november 15 . - the town of rushsylvania near here , is in the midst of great excitement and last night came near repeating its performance of ago , when was years"
3526,9577_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1905,"excitement and last night came near repeating its performance of ago , when was years a negro twelve lynched . henry jenkins , colored , was ar rested last night , charged with assault on his 7- year- old stepdaughter . a number of men at once began organizing a",mob,to lynch the negro . he was given a hurried trial before mayor bower spirited away to bellefontaine and and placed in jall
3527,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,georgia,mob,"lynches eight . masked men take prisoners from watkinsville jail . tie them to a fence and shoot to death all but one- white man shares negroes ' fate- gov . terrell says it's too late to take action in the case now . watkinsville , ga . , june"
3528,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,georgia mob lynches eight .,masked,"men take prisoners from watkinsville jail . tie them to a fence and shoot to death all but one- white man shares negroes ' fate- gov . terrell says it's too late to take action in the case now . watkinsville , ga . , june 29 . a hundred"
3529,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,georgia mob lynches eight .,masked men,"take prisoners from watkinsville jail . tie them to a fence and shoot to death all but one- white man shares negroes ' fate- gov . terrell says it's too late to take action in the case now . watkinsville , ga . , june 29 . a hundred white"
3530,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,"jail . tie them to a fence and shoot to death all but one- white man shares negroes ' fate- gov . terrell says it's too late to take action in the case now . watkinsville , ga . , june 29 . a hundred white men , armed and",masked,", early this morning robbed the county jail at this place of nine prisoners and shot eight of them to death within two hundred yards of the center of the town . seven of the victims were negroes and one was a white man . the ninth prisoner escaped death"
3531,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,of nine prisoners and shot eight of them to death within two hundred yards of the center of the town . seven of the victims were negroes and one was a white man . the ninth prisoner escaped death by dropping as if killed at the first volley . the,mob,"supposed him dead and left him wounded upon the ground , where he was found later by the authorities and returned to the jail . one negro in the prison escaped being butchered because the mob overlooked him . the victims of the mob were john aycock , white ;"
3532,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,"prisoner escaped death by dropping as if killed at the first volley . the mob supposed him dead and left him wounded upon the ground , where he was found later by the authorities and returned to the jail . one negro in the prison escaped being butchered because the",mob,"overlooked him . the victims of the mob were john aycock , white ; richard allen , lewis robinson , richard robinson , sandy price , eugene yerby , claude elder and bob harris , negroes . joe patterson was the negro wounded . he will recover from his injuries"
3533,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,"at the first volley . the mob supposed him dead and left him wounded upon the ground , where he was found later by the authorities and returned to the jail . one negro in the prison escaped being butchered because the mob overlooked him . the victims of the",mob,"were john aycock , white ; richard allen , lewis robinson , richard robinson , sandy price , eugene yerby , claude elder and bob harris , negroes . joe patterson was the negro wounded . he will recover from his injuries . the cause of the lynohing was the"
3534,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,"lewis robinson were his alleged companions in the crime . richard allen was under sentence of death for murder , sandy price was charged with attempted assault , eugene yerby wa8 charged with burglary and bob harris was charged with shooting two negroes . it was about midnight that the",mob,"quietly formed . in perfect order they marched to the jail , where the jailor was called out and at the point of a number of guns was forced to surrender his keys . thus fortified , the crowd had no trouble to get inside the prison . every cell"
3535,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,. every cell was opened and the trembling prisoner whieh each contained was ordered out . the nine prisoners in single file were marched to a spot about 200 yards from the jail . on the way to the place of execution aycock veherently protested his innocence and begged the,mob,to spare his life . he was driven forward with the negroes . most of the blacks went to their death without a word . when the prisoners and their captors had arrived at a spot which seemed best suited to the desire of the mob the nine men were
3536,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,the jail . on the way to the place of execution aycock veherently protested his innocence and begged the mob to spare his life . he was driven forward with the negroes . most of the blacks went to their death without a word . when the prisoners and their,captors,"had arrived at a spot which seemed best suited to the desire of the mob the nine men were ranged in a row against a fence and each was bound to a post . then the lynchers lined up and discharged a volley . shotguns , pistols and rifles were"
3537,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,innocence and begged the mob to spare his life . he was driven forward with the negroes . most of the blacks went to their death without a word . when the prisoners and their captors had arrived at a spot which seemed best suited to the desire of the,mob,"the nine men were ranged in a row against a fence and each was bound to a post . then the lynchers lined up and discharged a volley . shotguns , pistols and rifles were used by the lynchers , and their work was quickly done . they dispersed quietly"
3538,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,"each was bound to a post . then the lynchers lined up and discharged a volley . shotguns , pistols and rifles were used by the lynchers , and their work was quickly done . they dispersed quietly . an examination by the jailer who had been forced by the",mob,"to accompany the party to the scene of the execution showed that eight of the men had been riddled with bullets and were dead . the ninth , a negro , was found to be only slightly wounded . the post to which he had been bound was torn and"
3539,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,"their homes to learn the cause of the firing . atlanta , ga . , june 29 . - regarding the lynching to- day at watkinsville , gov . terrell said : "" i cannot too deeply deplore this horrible affair . the people of georgia are absolutely opposed to",mob,violence and the best citizens will join me in condemning the shocking occurrence at watkinsville . this affair will be deplored by the entire coun try and none will be more sorry than the law abiding citizens of this state . mobs do not administer justice . they terrorize communities
3540,9578_0.txt,The sun (New York [N.Y.]) 1833-1916,1905,the people of georgia are absolutely opposed to mob violence and the best citizens will join me in condemning the shocking occurrence at watkinsville . this affair will be deplored by the entire coun try and none will be more sorry than the law abiding citizens of this state .,mobs,"do not administer justice . they terrorize communities and prevent justice from be ing done . it is of course too late to take any action in the matter now , as the men are already dead . if an inkling of this affair had reached the executive department in"
3541,9579_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1893,"noah alexander , who was killed at paris a few years since , son of the banker there , upon the occasion of a",mob,"in that place that was intent on breaking into the jail and lynching a negro , and when all the prominent men there had exhausted their eloquence in vainly trying to quiet it , pushed through the crowd , and backing against the jail door , with a pistol in"
3542,9579_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1893,"breaking into the jail and lynching a negro , and when all the prominent men there had exhausted their eloquence in vainly trying to quiet it , pushed through the crowd , and backing against the jail door , with a pistol in either hand , dispersed the how ling",mob,"by proclaiming that he would kill the first man that set foot upon the curbstone . all of these knowing that he was a desperate and determined man , his eloquence proved more persuasive than that the others , and the mob moved away of one by one ."
3543,9579_0.txt,"The evening bulletin (Maysville, Ky.)",1893,"in either hand , dispersed the how ling mob by proclaiming that he would kill the first man that set foot upon the curbstone . all of these knowing that he was a desperate and determined man , his eloquence proved more persuasive than that the others , and the",mob,moved away of one by one .
3544,9581_0.txt,NA,1905,,mob,"lynches two . hattiesburg , miss . , aug . 6 . - edward lewis and kid george , two negroes , were lynched last night by a mob . the men were charged with being accessories to the murder of guard j . g . smith yesterday . convict"
3545,9581_0.txt,NA,1905,"mob lynches two . hattiesburg , miss . , aug . 6 . - edward lewis and kid george , two negroes , were lynched last night by a",mob,. the men were charged with being accessories to the murder of guard j . g . smith yesterday . convict
3546,9582_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1893,"the murderer latimer , who escaped through another murder , has been captured . jackson , mich . , march 29 . - [ special . ] an angry",mob,"started out to lynch latin mer , the convict who killed his keeper , was captured last night . the officers and took another road and evaded the mob ."
3547,9582_0.txt,"The Stark County Democrat (Canton, Ohio)",1893,"murder , has been captured . jackson , mich . , march 29 . - [ special . ] an angry mob started out to lynch latin mer , the convict who killed his keeper , was captured last night . the officers and took another road and evaded the",mob,.
3548,9585_0.txt,"The Wichita daily eagle (Wichita, Kan.)",1904,"does trade along go what are , the in last analysis , the purpose -- and note how , as the rivers run to the sea , so opportunity to rub it in on chio's negro lynching",mob,.
3549,9586_0.txt,"The news & observer (Raleigh, N.C.)",1903,hurt . the assassin was at once arrested and thrown into prison . this attempted murder created much excitement and subsequently the assassin was dragged from prison by a,mob,and lynched . guanajutto is about seventy- five miles northwest of it is singularly mexico situated in deep narrow
3550,9590_0.txt,"The Durham recorder (Durham, N.C.)",1908,and crowd a have always cians how to handle a,mob,". sanitary lotion . never fails . sold by for the agitation of the question by a mob , has some clear- cut and , so other they , but ; say the sound lynch on views bros . hackney . druggists eminently than"
3551,9590_0.txt,"The Durham recorder (Durham, N.C.)",1908,and crowd a have always cians how to handle a mob . sanitary lotion . never fails . sold by for the agitation of the question by a,mob,", has some clear- cut and , so other they , but ; say the sound lynch on views bros . hackney . druggists eminently than"
3552,9591_0.txt,"The Brunswick news (Brunswick, Ga.)",1920,"early this morning . the dead negro was a brother to orphe lius mekelvey , for whom a posse is seeking , on the charge that he shot and killed james e . adams . a worth county farm overseer . curley mckel vey , the victim of last night's",mob,", is also said to have shot adams . if located the other is almost cer tain to meet a like negro fate ."
3553,9593_0.txt,NA,1946,"news to many of us who have either visited or lived in the south . however , it may prove revealing to those readers whose impressions of the south have been from romantic novels or hollywood sets of moonlight and magnolias . not only does mr . kennedy rip the",mask,"of tradition from the face of the south , exposing all of its ugliness , crudeness and brutality in maintaining a system of white supremacy , but also he indicts its northern neighbors , the big industrialists , whose money and system of exploitation help to keep hate sheets and"
3554,9594_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"dayton relief head charges jobless "" held her captive "" dayton , ohio.- with the hysteria which smells of southern",mob,"lynching , the dayton newspapers screamed in their headlines that "" 12 deputies rescue girl relief worker held captive by alleged communist mob , "" while actually about 75 men , women and children had cornered the relief worker in an old school on northridge and demanded that she vouchers"
3555,9594_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1933,"dayton relief head charges jobless "" held her captive "" dayton , ohio.- with the hysteria which smells of southern mob lynching , the dayton newspapers screamed in their headlines that "" 12 deputies rescue girl relief worker held captive by alleged communist",mob,", "" while actually about 75 men , women and children had cornered the relief worker in an old school on northridge and demanded that she vouchers for food , shoes sign"
3556,9596_0.txt,NA,1917,attacked . at one time it was feared today that a,mob,"would try to lynch a negro suspected of attacking the girl . signs have been placed on trees and telegraph poles bearing the inscription : "" ngroes : -don't let another sun set on you . "" b . & o . agent shot . st . louis , may"
3557,9597_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1922,"jured . an negro lynched 18 parties orlando . fla . . july of coming into orlando tonight from the kissimme river reported that a negro believed to be oscar mack , charged with killing two white men at kissime last sunday evening had been lynched jenniejewel . in a",mob,at lak bj orange county .
3558,9599_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1886,the lynching of epps . the people of greene county defend them selves from the charge of,mobbing,"him , to the editor of the indianapolis journal : in your paper of to day you have an account of the lynching of holly epps , the negro murderer , of greene county . editorially you make some very severe remarks in regard to greene county which are entirely"
3559,9599_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1886,", of greene county . editorially you make some very severe remarks in regard to greene county which are entirely unjust , but it is probable you had no means of knowing the truth in regard to the matter . there was not a man from greene county in that",mob,". the only man from greene county that was in vincennes at the time was the prosecuting attorney of this circuit , and no one pre tends that he had anything to do with the lynch ing . on careful inquiry , it is found to be un questionably true"
3560,9599_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1886,"in vincennes at the time was the prosecuting attorney of this circuit , and no one pre tends that he had anything to do with the lynch ing . on careful inquiry , it is found to be un questionably true that no man from this county was in the",mob,or in any manner connected with it . no man was absent from the neighborhood of the of the scene murder . no man was seen on the trains or on the road going or returning . the means used in breaking the jail show that it was done by
3561,9599_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1886,"of the murder a day or two after its occurrence he would have been lynched , so indignant were the people on account of the atrocity of his crime . it was also apparent to our officers on the day of epps's arrival in bloomfield that there was danger of",mob,"violence , and at once it was arranged to remove him from the county , after which everything was quiet . there was never any greene county mob at any time in knox county . the first mob that was spoken of by the papers that attempted to enter the"
3562,9599_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1886,"crime . it was also apparent to our officers on the day of epps's arrival in bloomfield that there was danger of mob violence , and at once it was arranged to remove him from the county , after which everything was quiet . there was never any greene county",mob,"at any time in knox county . the first mob that was spoken of by the papers that attempted to enter the vincennes jail was evidently got up by newspaper correspondents for the pur pose of & sensation , and not a this county man in it was from it"
3563,9599_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1886,"the day of epps's arrival in bloomfield that there was danger of mob violence , and at once it was arranged to remove him from the county , after which everything was quiet . there was never any greene county mob at any time in knox county . the first",mob,"that was spoken of by the papers that attempted to enter the vincennes jail was evidently got up by newspaper correspondents for the pur pose of & sensation , and not a this county man in it was from it is believed by the best informed men that the last"
3564,9599_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1886,"that was spoken of by the papers that attempted to enter the vincennes jail was evidently got up by newspaper correspondents for the pur pose of & sensation , and not a this county man in it was from it is believed by the best informed men that the last",mob-,the one that did the fatal work- was also got up by newspaper correspondents ; and when the truth is known it will appear that no greene county citizen had anything to do with this outrage upon civilization . the tenor of your editorial in condemnation of mob violence is
3565,9599_0.txt,The Indianapolis journal (Indianapolis [I...),1886,the last mob- the one that did the fatal work- was also got up by newspaper correspondents ; and when the truth is known it will appear that no greene county citizen had anything to do with this outrage upon civilization . the tenor of your editorial in condemnation of,mob,violence is heartily indorsed by the mass of our citizens . we also feel gratified over the manner in which you have complimented our officers in saturday's editorial for performing their duty under the statute . greene county .
3566,9600_0.txt,"The Bossier banner (Bellevue, Bossi...)",1909,"in an automobile accident monday at pensacola , florida . a negro woman school teacher at port gibson , miss . , saturated her clothing with oil and cremated herself . the murder of an eleven- year- old boy by an italian at wymore , neb . , caused a",mob,"to drive all italians out . after all the men , women and children of the armenian villiage of kessab had been slain the town was burned . sixteen persons were injured , one per haps fatally , in a tornado monday which destroyed a large part of centrahoma ,"
3567,9601_0.txt,NA,1909,"the hattiesburg news , in an able editorial , condemns the brutal exnibi . tion made by a",mob,"at monroe , la . , when a negro was justly lynched if , ever one was , and when the members of the mob took pieces of bones from the charred remains of the negro and saved them as souvenirs . there is no defense for the negro ."
3568,9601_0.txt,NA,1909,"the hattiesburg news , in an able editorial , condemns the brutal exnibi . tion made by a mob at monroe , la . , when a negro was justly lynched if , ever one was , and when the members of the",mob,"took pieces of bones from the charred remains of the negro and saved them as souvenirs . there is no defense for the negro . he had got- ten mad and had shot and wounded everybody in sight , but the mob for got itself when it took souvenirs of"
3569,9601_0.txt,NA,1909,"was , and when the members of the mob took pieces of bones from the charred remains of the negro and saved them as souvenirs . there is no defense for the negro . he had got- ten mad and had shot and wounded everybody in sight , but the",mob,"for got itself when it took souvenirs of such an occasion . it was a disgrace , and shows there is lots of the brute in people when they are controlled by passion , rather than reason- meridian dispatch . ."
3570,9602_0.txt,NA,1909,"ada , okla . , april 19 . - at 3 this morning a",mob,"of 200 men stormed / the county jail here and after overpowering the sheriff , lynched j . b . miller of fort worth , texas , charged with the murder of a . a . bob- bitt , a wealthy cattleman of this section and e . e ."
3571,9604_0.txt,"The Salt Lake herald-Republican (Salt Lake City,...)",1909,negro lynched by,mob,"in mississippi meridian , miss . , nov . 25 . - morgan chambers , a negro , was taken from town marshal broadway and deputy joe camp at meehan , twelve miles west of here , tonight , by 200 masked men and his body riddled with bullets ."
3572,9604_0.txt,"The Salt Lake herald-Republican (Salt Lake City,...)",1909,"negro lynched by mob in mississippi meridian , miss . , nov . 25 . - morgan chambers , a negro , was taken from town marshal broadway and deputy joe camp at meehan , twelve miles west of here , tonight , by 200",masked,"men and his body riddled with bullets . the negro had earlier in the day beaten and robbed martin an aged citizen of point , a small station two miles west of meehan . dressler was taken to meehan , where he identified his assailant . marshall broadway and deputy"
3573,9604_0.txt,"The Salt Lake herald-Republican (Salt Lake City,...)",1909,"negro lynched by mob in mississippi meridian , miss . , nov . 25 . - morgan chambers , a negro , was taken from town marshal broadway and deputy joe camp at meehan , twelve miles west of here , tonight , by 200",masked men,"and his body riddled with bullets . the negro had earlier in the day beaten and robbed martin an aged citizen of point , a small station two miles west of meehan . dressler was taken to meehan , where he identified his assailant . marshall broadway and deputy camp"
3574,9604_0.txt,"The Salt Lake herald-Republican (Salt Lake City,...)",1909,"martin an aged citizen of point , a small station two miles west of meehan . dressler was taken to meehan , where he identified his assailant . marshall broadway and deputy camp started with the prisoner for the town prison . on the way they were confronted by the",mob,", who took the negro by force , marshal broadway having cheek grazed by a bullet in the scrimmage his ."
3575,9613_0.txt,NA,1910,"robin cooper , slayer of senator carmack new trial . granted a dying prisoner lynched after being shot by officers he was hanged by a",mob,". meridian , miss . . april 14 . - thomas o'neill , colored , who shot and killed john temple , the jailer here , was shot by officers in a ght in the basement of the dauderdale county jail . a crowd of nearly 2000 people took the"
3576,9613_0.txt,NA,1910,"crowd of nearly 2000 people took the dying colored man from the offcers , carried him to a telegraph pole and hanged him . after the body was lowered the throat was cut and the clothing saturated with oil and set on fire . the body was rescued from the",mob,"after the clothing had been burn- ed off . temple was killed by o'neill when temple went to the assistance of a deputy whose revolver the prisoner had seized . george williams , another colored man , is charged with assisting o'neill , the mob threatens to lynch him and"
3577,9613_0.txt,NA,1910,"body was rescued from the mob after the clothing had been burn- ed off . temple was killed by o'neill when temple went to the assistance of a deputy whose revolver the prisoner had seized . george williams , another colored man , is charged with assisting o'neill , the",mob,threatens to lynch him and also .
3578,9615_0.txt,NA,1931,slayer lynched by,mob,"colored man dragged from hospital bed at salisbuy and hanged dragged from a hospital cot where he lay ill from self- inflected wounds , a colored man was lynched in front of the wicomico county court house at salisbury friday night , less than three hours after he had confessed"
3579,9615_0.txt,NA,1931,"the hospital sullen crowds began to gather and the negro was finally dragged from his cot and hanged to a tree . maryland's last lynching previous to that at salisbury friday night occurred on christmas night 1911 , at brooklyn , then part of anne arundel county , when a",mob,"of white men stormed the jail , which was without police protection , dragged king johnson , colored , out and shot him to death a few blocks distant . the previous day he had shot and killed frederick a . schwab in a pool at fairfield . room"
3580,9617_0.txt,"The Hartford herald (Hartford, Ky.)",1913,cence . no sentimental appeal can be successfully made to twelve white men in favor of a negro who may reasonably be suspected of that offense . yet a negro whom a,mob,"sought to lynch and whom governor cole blease , when appealed to by the faithful sheriff who stood off the mob , failed to protect , has been acquitted . there is a warning in this case for lynchers . if this south carolina mob had not been intimidated by"
3581,9617_0.txt,"The Hartford herald (Hartford, Ky.)",1913,"sentimental appeal can be successfully made to twelve white men in favor of a negro who may reasonably be suspected of that offense . yet a negro whom a mob sought to lynch and whom governor cole blease , when appealed to by the faithful sheriff who stood off the",mob,", failed to protect , has been acquitted . there is a warning in this case for lynchers . if this south carolina mob had not been intimidated by the brave sheriff , who , when the inner door of the jail was reached , gave warning "" i'll kill"
3582,9617_0.txt,"The Hartford herald (Hartford, Ky.)",1913,"yet a negro whom a mob sought to lynch and whom governor cole blease , when appealed to by the faithful sheriff who stood off the mob , failed to protect , has been acquitted . there is a warning in this case for lynchers . if this south carolina",mob,"had not been intimidated by the brave sheriff , who , when the inner door of the jail was reached , gave warning "" i'll kill the first man who enters that door , "" an innocent would have been tynched . man [ albany ( ga . ) herald"
3583,9620_0.txt,NA,1913,fort worth,mob,"that of fails to get negro fort worth , tex . , may 17 . - up to - a late hour last night no attempt had at been made to repeat the disorder of thursday night when a mob , bent on lynching tom lee , negro bootblack ,"
3584,9620_0.txt,NA,1913,"fort worth mob that of fails to get negro fort worth , tex . , may 17 . - up to - a late hour last night no attempt had at been made to repeat the disorder of thursday night when a",mob,", bent on lynching tom lee , negro bootblack , attacked the county jail and later destroyed property in the business sec tion of fort worth valued at more than $ 15,000 . as a precautionary the measure , however , a military guard is being maintained at the prison"
3585,9622_0.txt,NA,1910,a,mob,"at newark , o . , lynched a young joint- who had killed a restaurant proprietor raider ."
3586,9624_0.txt,NA,1912,"to the ground with a bul let through his body . none of the other convicts attempt- ed to escape . the authorities here were notified and aid was sent to the camp . howell was guarded by the deputy sheriffs , and was being taken to hawkinsville when a",mob,"of fifty men covered the officers with guns , took the prisoner , and strung him to a telephone pole and riddled his body with bullets . ,"
3587,9625_0.txt,"Santa Fe new Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)",1912,"in a conflict between moral effect and tait's dignity , we're hot for the morality . back to barbarism . !",a party of,"men headed by the clerk of the superior court at dawson , ga . carried a young white girl to the woods in an automobile , stripped her and flayed her with a whip until she now lies at the point of death , for no other reason than that"
3588,9625_0.txt,"Santa Fe new Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.)",1912,"and lynched for outraging womanhood and no sympathy is felt for him . there is not a man living , who has any decency or chivalry or red blood in him , who would not defend and fight for a good woman , and when a body of hellish fiends",masking,"as men , attack a woman as was done in georgia , for a reason so petty , one feels that no punishment too severe can be meted out to the offenders . one wonders if the time will ever come when the strain in humanity , which is worse"
3589,9627_0.txt,"Bismarck daily tribune (Bismarck, Dakot...)",1916,spirit prisoner fear,mob,"lynching : joplin , mo . . oct . 21 . - threats of lynching tonight caused state officers to spirit j . b . johnson from one jail to another , until he had been transferred from webb city to carthage , and from garthage to some other place"
3590,9629_0.txt,NA,1907,"has been sentenced to thirty days in jail . after shooting down his chum in cold blood and then attempting to chop the body to pieces with a hatchet in the street at blair station , near pitts burg , adam lacach , a foreigner , was rescued from a",mob,that tried lynch him and was landed in jail at clairton to .
3591,9631_0.txt,NA,1908,greenough negro survives lynching man hanged by,mob,"at dothan , als , cat down by offeers and locked up . dothan , ala . , jan . 21 . - the negro . grover franklin , who last night was taken away from sheriff butler and his deputies and hanged to a tree , is again in"
3592,9631_0.txt,NA,1908,"dothan , ala . , jan . 21 . - the negro . grover franklin , who last night was taken away from sheriff butler and his deputies and hanged to a tree , is again in the hands of the law and stands a chance for recovery . the",mob,last night was so closely followed by the officers and law abiding citizens determined if possible to avert the lynching that they did not have time to get their victim outside the corporate limits and hurriedly stringing him up to the first tree and thinking they had riddled him with
3593,9640_0.txt,"Carson City daily appeal (Carson City, Ne...)",1908,negro es,mob,"lynch officers are overpower ed and assauted is soon hanged pesacola , fla . , july 30 . - three men dead and a score wounded , probably fatally is the record of a success . ful attempt last night by a mob to storm the county jail and take"
3594,9640_0.txt,"Carson City daily appeal (Carson City, Ne...)",1908,"negro es mob lynch officers are overpower ed and assauted is soon hanged pesacola , fla . , july 30 . - three men dead and a score wounded , probably fatally is the record of a success . ful attempt last night by a",mob,to storm the county jail and take out the negro leander shaw who during the day had assaulted mrs . lillian davis near here . the sheriff with half a dozen dep . uties stood on the windows upstairs with drawn revolvers and diffes . the sheriff pleaded with the
3595,9640_0.txt,"Carson City daily appeal (Carson City, Ne...)",1908,to storm the county jail and take out the negro leander shaw who during the day had assaulted mrs . lillian davis near here . the sheriff with half a dozen dep . uties stood on the windows upstairs with drawn revolvers and diffes . the sheriff pleaded with the,mob,", at the same time telling them he would de fend the prisoner at the cost of every life present . his word had no effect and the moment the first blow was struck on the gate a volley of shots flashed from theupper windows of the jail . this"
3596,9640_0.txt,"Carson City daily appeal (Carson City, Ne...)",1908,"his word had no effect and the moment the first blow was struck on the gate a volley of shots flashed from theupper windows of the jail . this was answered by the crowd , which poured volley after volley into the jail windows , wounding the deputies . the",mob,"was momentarily driven back with many wounded and one dead as a result of the deadly aim of the sheriff and his deputies . at midnight the mob , which in the meantime had been reinforced by many residents of the surrounding country , made another attack on the jail"
3597,9640_0.txt,"Carson City daily appeal (Carson City, Ne...)",1908,"this was answered by the crowd , which poured volley after volley into the jail windows , wounding the deputies . the mob was momentarily driven back with many wounded and one dead as a result of the deadly aim of the sheriff and his deputies . at midnight the",mob,", which in the meantime had been reinforced by many residents of the surrounding country , made another attack on the jail . the sheriff and officers were over powered by men who had crept over the hear wall and covered them with rifles and revolvers . others broke down"
3598,9643_0.txt,"The Utah County Democrat (Provo City, Uta...)",1908,murderer lynched by,mob,". oxford , miss.- lawrence patten , a negro , who killed mrs . mcmillan , a white woman , at her home , was hanged by a mob tuesday night . the mur der was unusually brutal . patten de- ivered a message to mrs . mcmillan from her"
3599,9643_0.txt,"The Utah County Democrat (Provo City, Uta...)",1908,"murderer lynched by mob . oxford , miss.- lawrence patten , a negro , who killed mrs . mcmillan , a white woman , at her home , was hanged by a",mob,"tuesday night . the mur der was unusually brutal . patten de- ivered a message to mrs . mcmillan from her husband , who is serving a sentence in the oxford jail , and lin- rered about the place . mrs . mcmillan attempted to frighten him away with a"
3600,9644_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1908,three 1- negroes lynched in louisiana .,mob,"hangs three negroes to tree accused of setting fire to a cotton gin . allcrazed by religion one victim , a minister , preaches he is the saviour . whites believe exhorter guilty be cause he prophesies in pulpit that troubles will overtake capt . swayzee- said to have burned"
3601,9644_0.txt,"The Washington herald (Washington, D.C...)",1908,"suggestion of rev . albert godlin , burned the gin , expecting to arouse the negroes thereby and to point to the destruction of the gin as evidence of the truth of his prophecies . the men were placed in the jonesville jail , which was broken into by a",mob,and the men hanged to a neighboring tree . the woman who was mixed up in affair escaped . the
3602,9645_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1906,"parents of an outraged child save the black brute's life . chicago , jan . 29 . - a dispatch to the tribune from washington , ga . , says : following a criminal assault on a 10- year- old girl by a negro , who was captured by a",mob,", the assailant's fate was in doubt yesterday while the par ents of the girl were pleading for and against burning him at the stake . mrs . roberts , weeping , begged that the law be allowed to take its course , and her husband continued to incite the"
3603,9645_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1906,", the assailant's fate was in doubt yesterday while the par ents of the girl were pleading for and against burning him at the stake . mrs . roberts , weeping , begged that the law be allowed to take its course , and her husband continued to incite the",mob,"to lynch the negro . she then appealed to her husband to aid her in peventing the lynching . she said that to put the assailant to death within the hearing of the girl would be almost as cruel to the child as the negro's act . roberts , after"
3604,9645_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1906,"that to put the assailant to death within the hearing of the girl would be almost as cruel to the child as the negro's act . roberts , after some hesitation , came to his wife's side and joined his en treaties with her . the united efforts convinced the",mob,"that to lynch the ne gro would add to the wrong already done the child , and it was agreed to turn the assailant over to the sheriff . mamle roberts was attacked saturday as she was returning from a neighbor's home by rich anderson , a negro employed by"
3605,9645_0.txt,Deseret evening news (Great Salt Lake...),1906,", posses with bloodhounds began pursuit of anderson . the negro was captured yesterday in a swamp and taken to roberts ' home , where it was planned to have him identified by the child , and then lynch him . when the arrived at the roberts home the negro",mob,confessed his guilt .
3606,9647_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1908,negro lynch orderly,mob,"assault in mississippi neighborhood followed on the heels of numerous others . biloxi , miss . , nov . 10 . - henry leidy , a negro , was taken from the jail here by a mob of white men to- day , carried three- quarters of a milé distant"
3607,9647_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1908,"negro lynch orderly mob assault in mississippi neighborhood followed on the heels of numerous others . biloxi , miss . , nov . 10 . - henry leidy , a negro , was taken from the jail here by a",mob,"of white men to- day , carried three- quarters of a milé distant and lynched . not a single shot was fired . the mob was orderly and marched back to the city and dispersed . the negro assaulted elizabeth hauser , seventeen years old , near here to- day"
3608,9647_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1908,". biloxi , miss . , nov . 10 . - henry leidy , a negro , was taken from the jail here by a mob of white men to- day , carried three- quarters of a milé distant and lynched . not a single shot was fired . the",mob,"was orderly and marched back to the city and dispersed . the negro assaulted elizabeth hauser , seventeen years old , near here to- day , beating her insensible with a club and leaving her for dead . she partly regained consciousness and crawled to where she was discovered ."
3609,9649_2.txt,"Idaho County free press (Grangeville, Id...)",1893,"defied the authorities relative to illicit distilling . monday night a row was started in her place by a crowd of black and white toughs , in which charles morgan , , shot and killed john lees , a colored colored boy . morgan was caught and lynched by a",mob,"of citizens . "" kis "" redd fled , pursued by the mob , and is reported to have been caught last and lynched . night"
3610,9649_2.txt,"Idaho County free press (Grangeville, Id...)",1893,"started in her place by a crowd of black and white toughs , in which charles morgan , , shot and killed john lees , a colored colored boy . morgan was caught and lynched by a mob of citizens . "" kis "" redd fled , pursued by the",mob,", and is reported to have been caught last and lynched . night"
3611,9649_3.txt,"Idaho County free press (Grangeville, Id...)",1893,"bernardino , cal . , april 7 . - the horrible butchery which occurred in this city yesterday , resulting in the death of old man goldkoffer and the woman francisca floresa , at the hands of the assassin jesus fuen , culminated in the lynching of fuen by a",mob,"early morning . this a jealous lover's crime the for horrible butchery of an old man and woman by a spaniard . both of them slashed to pieces the murderer is arrested and afterwards lynched by neighbors of the murdered couple . san bernardino , cal . , april 7"
3612,9651_0.txt,NA,1907,murderer is lynched .,masked,"men overpower sheriff and hang prisoner . las animas , colo . , dec . 29 . law . -- rence leberg was lynched here last night for the murder of henry laven . meyer by a mob of masked men . about forty men entered the jail short ly"
3613,9651_0.txt,NA,1907,murderer is lynched .,masked men,"overpower sheriff and hang prisoner . las animas , colo . , dec . 29 . law . -- rence leberg was lynched here last night for the murder of henry laven . meyer by a mob of masked men . about forty men entered the jail short ly before"
3614,9651_0.txt,NA,1907,"murderer is lynched . masked men overpower sheriff and hang prisoner . las animas , colo . , dec . 29 . law . -- rence leberg was lynched here last night for the murder of henry laven . meyer by a",mob,of masked men . about forty men entered the jail short ly before 9 o'clock and easily overpowered the sheriff and other officers and locked them securely in a room of the building . the men took leberg a short distance from the jail and hang ed him to a
3615,9651_0.txt,NA,1907,"murderer is lynched . masked men overpower sheriff and hang prisoner . las animas , colo . , dec . 29 . law . -- rence leberg was lynched here last night for the murder of henry laven . meyer by a mob of",masked,men . about forty men entered the jail short ly before 9 o'clock and easily overpowered the sheriff and other officers and locked them securely in a room of the building . the men took leberg a short distance from the jail and hang ed him to a telegraph pole
3616,9651_0.txt,NA,1907,"murderer is lynched . masked men overpower sheriff and hang prisoner . las animas , colo . , dec . 29 . law . -- rence leberg was lynched here last night for the murder of henry laven . meyer by a mob of",masked men,. about forty men entered the jail short ly before 9 o'clock and easily overpowered the sheriff and other officers and locked them securely in a room of the building . the men took leberg a short distance from the jail and hang ed him to a telegraph pole .
3617,9651_0.txt,NA,1907,and other officers and locked them securely in a room of the building . the men took leberg a short distance from the jail and hang ed him to a telegraph pole . the self confessed murderer made no ance and made no statement . resist the members of the,mob,offered no violence and no were fired dur ing the entire affair shots .
3618,9654_0.txt,"The Salt Lake tribune (Salt Lake City,...)",1913,"the sending of blackhand here letters to mrs . raiph bris tol and mrs . david c . eccles , collapsed today . it is said that smith had been told by a visitor at the jail that unless he confessed he would be taken from his cell by a",mob,"and lynched . "" my god , if they do that they are go ing to kill an innocent man , "" smith sobbed , while in conversation with an officer . "" tell me , is there any statement that i can make ? this whole thing is a"
3619,9656_0.txt,"The Colville examiner (Colville, Wash.)",1913,two negroes were lynched in mississippi last week . the,mob,got the wrong man the first time which again demonstrates the injustice of law . lynch
3620,9657_0.txt,"The Greenville journal (Greenville, Ohi...)",1913,negro is lynched by,mob,". dyersburg , tenn . , nov . 10 . - a crowd stormed the jail here and took john talley , negro , and hanged him to a limb of a tree . he had attempted to of attack a white woman who was alone in her home ."
3621,9658_0.txt,NA,1913,"negro lynched in south . jennings , la . , aug . 28 . - james comeaux , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,"here . comeaux had been ar rested for assaulting a . w . joseph , an italian merchant , who had accidentally swept dirt on the negro's shoes while he passing the ital ian's store . was"
3622,9660_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1903,"content to hang or shoot the wretch to death but they burned him at the stake . his offense was "" the usual crime , "" to which he added murder . the negro his guilt . confessed wreaked vengeance not believed authorities will take action although many of the",mob,"are known . wilmington , del . , june 24 . - the question here today is whether the authorities will take action looking toward the arrest and punishment of those who were prominent in the lynching of george white , the negro who assaulted and killed miss helen bishop"
3623,9660_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1903,"would be justified , though the father of miss bishop is sued an appeal that the law be allowed to take its course . the state and county authorities took no action . the wilmington militia was not ordered out , though it could have reached the scene after the",mob,"began to assemble in time to have saved the negro . police reinforcements were not sent to prison until after the mob assembled the . by dela ware mob on negro ravisher and murderer . third attempt to secure prisoner proves successful- taken to the scene of his crime ,"
3624,9660_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1903,"course . the state and county authorities took no action . the wilmington militia was not ordered out , though it could have reached the scene after the mob began to assemble in time to have saved the negro . police reinforcements were not sent to prison until after the",mob,"assembled the . by dela ware mob on negro ravisher and murderer . third attempt to secure prisoner proves successful- taken to the scene of his crime , fastened to a stake and burned- as the victim was being roasted his body was riddled with bullets . wilmington , del"
3625,9660_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1903,"took no action . the wilmington militia was not ordered out , though it could have reached the scene after the mob began to assemble in time to have saved the negro . police reinforcements were not sent to prison until after the mob assembled the . by dela ware",mob,"on negro ravisher and murderer . third attempt to secure prisoner proves successful- taken to the scene of his crime , fastened to a stake and burned- as the victim was being roasted his body was riddled with bullets . wilmington , del . , june 22 . - a"
3626,9660_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1903,"on negro ravisher and murderer . third attempt to secure prisoner proves successful- taken to the scene of his crime , fastened to a stake and burned- as the victim was being roasted his body was riddled with bullets . wilmington , del . , june 22 . - a",mob,"of three thousand persons to night broke into the county work- house at new castle , bent on lynch- ing george white , the negro who was held on the charge of assaulting and then killing miss helen bishop , aged 17 years , last monday . the guards defended"
3627,9660_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1903,"bent on lynch- ing george white , the negro who was held on the charge of assaulting and then killing miss helen bishop , aged 17 years , last monday . the guards defended the place but were overpowered . the negro was taken from the work house by the",mob,", who started with him for price'sings corner , the scene of the assault and cut leading to wilmington , which is five miles from the work house . the lynchers announced when they had of the that possession negro they would burn him to death at price's corner ."
3628,9660_0.txt,"The gold leaf (Henderson, N.C.)",1903,"who said they saw him in the vicinity . a knife which mr . woodward said belonged to him was found where the girl was assaulted . the negro was brought to wilmington but was later transferred to the work house , where the thought he would be safe from",mob,police violence . saw mr . woodward's daughter and i intended to assault her but a couple of men came along in a wagon and i did not disturb her . then i saw the bishop girl and i followed her . i seized her and asked her if she
3629,9661_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1910,"the brutal murder of a 5- year- old girl was revealed by the finding of her mutilated body in an old broken . down barn at newark , n . j . the po lice detectives had their hands full from lynch trying",mob,prevent a ing a suspect to who was arrested .
3630,9662_0.txt,"The Morris County chronicle (Morristown, N.J...)",1910,"the indictment in newark , ohio , of fifteen persons for participation in the lynching of carl etherington , an officer of the anti- saloon league , probably marks a turning of the tide in popular complacency toward",mob,violence . the governor of ohio and the legal authorities in licking county have shown every disposition to treat the murderers of etherington just like any other murders . the mayor of newark acted the on once widely prevalent view that citizens bent on tak- ing the law into their
3631,9662_0.txt,"The Morris County chronicle (Morristown, N.J...)",1910,complacency toward mob violence . the governor of ohio and the legal authorities in licking county have shown every disposition to treat the murderers of etherington just like any other murders . the mayor of newark acted the on once widely prevalent view that citizens bent on tak- ing the,law into their own hands,"should not be unduly interfered with . he did nothing to quell the rioting which preceded the lynching , and governor harmon removed him from office for negligence . now the courts are to try the lynchers as common murderers , ignoring the usual pretence that they were acting as"
3632,9663_0.txt,"Watertown leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1910,officers kill negro .,mob,"take body from jail , hang it , cut throat and then set fire to clothing . meridan , miss april , - tom . 13 . o'neil , a negro who shot and killed jail er temple here today , was shot and killed by the officers in a"
3633,9663_0.txt,"Watertown leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1910,"body of o'neil , who was expiring , from the officers , carried it to a telephone pole and hanged it . after the body was lowered , the throat was cut and the clothing saturated with kerosene and set on fire . the body was res cued from the",mob,"after the clothing had been burned . temple was killed by o'neil when he went to the assistance of a deputy whose revolver the negro had seized . george williams , another negro , is with assisting o'neil and the charged mob threatens to lynch him also ."
3634,9663_0.txt,"Watertown leader (Watertown, Jeff...)",1910,". the body was res cued from the mob after the clothing had been burned . temple was killed by o'neil when he went to the assistance of a deputy whose revolver the negro had seized . george williams , another negro , is with assisting o'neil and the charged",mob,threatens to lynch him also .
3635,9664_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1932,"of the scottsboro defense committee in the neighbor hoods , factories , schools , new adherents can be won for the defense of the scottsboro boys . the further struggle for the release of the scottsboro boys must be concretely linked up with the struggle against the whole system of",mob,"violence and lynch terror . the workers , and especially the white workers , must react with more decisiveness and determination to every act of discrimination , every act of repression of negro toiler sand connect this struggle with the scottsboro case . major attention must be given to penetrating"
3636,9666_0.txt,"Albuquerque citizen (Albuquerque, N....)",1909,,mob,"lynched three negroes for murder slayers of deputy sheriff were executed last night without un due publicity . fort worth , texas , april 30 . - a mob lynched three negroes late last marshall , texas . the three night at men lynched had killed a deputy creole moore"
3637,9666_0.txt,"Albuquerque citizen (Albuquerque, N....)",1909,"mob lynched three negroes for murder slayers of deputy sheriff were executed last night without un due publicity . fort worth , texas , april 30 . - a",mob,"lynched three negroes late last marshall , texas . the three night at men lynched had killed a deputy creole moore . sheriff . they were : pie hill and mat chase . they were charged with killing deputy sheriff mark huffman and wounding a con stable a few days"
3638,9668_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"lynchers work like shadow men negro is killed in center of mobile officers know nothing after the lynching the jail keys were returned to the jailor with thanks the chief and sheriff surprised . mobile , january 23 . - the identity of the men who composed the",mob,"that lynched the negro , richard robertson , here early today will probably never be known , and it is not likely the grand jury will re turn any indictments . the lynching , which occurred in the shadows of christ church , was very quiet ; in fact ,"
3639,9668_0.txt,"The Birmingham age-herald (Birmingham, Ala...)",1909,"up on me and the other deputy by surprise . i begged them to let the law take its course , but they were determined and took the koys and forced me to go upstairs and release the negro . impossible , in the face of it was utterly the",mob,", to show fight , as i was at their mercy . my partner was covered and the other deputies , who were asleep in the building , were held in their beds at e point of revolvers until after the negro lynched . the keys were brought was back"
3640,9669_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1908,dead . not negro lynched,mob,"had hanged him to tree and fired a volley at him . dothan , ala . . jan . 20 . - grover franklin , the negro who was taken away from sheriff butler and his night and hanged to a tree , is deputies last again in the hands"
3641,9669_0.txt,New-York tribune (New York [N.Y.]),1908,". dothan , ala . . jan . 20 . - grover franklin , the negro who was taken away from sheriff butler and his night and hanged to a tree , is deputies last again in the hands of the law and stands a chance for recovery . the",mob,"last night was so closely followed by the officers and law abiding citizens , determined , if possible , to avert the lynching , that it did not , have time to get its victim outside the corporate limits , and hurriedly stringing him up to the first tree and"
3642,9671_0.txt,"The progressive farmer (Winston, N.C.)",1903,prej race that fact the illustrate only to them to udice and,mob,law are not sectional evils . the negroes who are now leaving north carolina for northern states will not find better treatment or better friends than they have here . they will not find it easier to get work and they will not find their rights better safeguarded . governor
3643,9671_0.txt,"The progressive farmer (Winston, N.C.)",1903,"two rather notable illustrations of race feeling at the north . near belleville town in the state of illinois on the 7th inst . a negro was lynched and his body burnt , and at wilmington , del . , last monday a negro was burnt alive by an infuriated",mob,"of northerners . the delaware negro's crime was a horrible one ; he had outraged and mortally hurt a young school , the daughter of a prominent minister . the girl mob is said to have numbered more than 2,000 , unmistakably preparing were members and its for their bloody"
3644,9671_0.txt,"The progressive farmer (Winston, N.C.)",1903,", and at wilmington , del . , last monday a negro was burnt alive by an infuriated mob of northerners . the delaware negro's crime was a horrible one ; he had outraged and mortally hurt a young school , the daughter of a prominent minister . the girl",mob,"is said to have numbered more than 2,000 , unmistakably preparing were members and its for their bloody work for hours before the negro was taken from the jail monday night . yet the authorities took no such steps to protect the negro as would have been taken in many"
3645,9671_0.txt,"The progressive farmer (Winston, N.C.)",1903,"steps to protect the negro as would have been taken in many a southern state . says the charlotte observer's correspond ent : "" the state and county authorities took no action . the wilmington militia was not ordered out , though it could have reached the scene after the",mob,"began to assemble in time to have saved the negro . police re- inforcements were not sent to the prison until after the mob assembled . "" the lynching in illinois- the state over which the shade of abraham lincoln keeps eternal vigil --was even more shocking and indefensible ."
3646,9671_0.txt,"The progressive farmer (Winston, N.C.)",1903,"the state and county authorities took no action . the wilmington militia was not ordered out , though it could have reached the scene after the mob began to assemble in time to have saved the negro . police re- inforcements were not sent to the prison until after the",mob,"assembled . "" the lynching in illinois- the state over which the shade of abraham lincoln keeps eternal vigil --was even more shocking and indefensible . the -superintendent schools in belleville refused to renew the certificate of of a negro teacher , and the shot , color against of because"
3647,9672_0.txt,"Spirit of the age (Woodstock, Vt.)",1908,farcical trial three negroes quickly strung up by are,mob,"a small town in tennesseee where many stirring incidents have late ly occurred , the scene of a "" legal ized "" lynching- the men had es caped after shooting the officers who were sent to arrest them . union city , tenn.- tiptonville , bordering on redfoot lake ,"
3648,9672_0.txt,"Spirit of the age (Woodstock, Vt.)",1908,"the negroes lynched were marshall , ddward and james stineback . these rothers created a disturbance at a eligious meeting near tiptonville sat irday night and when burrus and hall tttempted to arrest them the negroes hot the officers and escaped . it was barely daylight sunday morn ng before",a party of,"citizens from fiptonville and surrounding . towns vere in pursuit of the negroes , but hey eluded the pursuers until tuesday norning , when they were surrounded . und captured in a camp near ridge y . the negroes , covered by a hun ired guns , were easily captured"
3649,9672_0.txt,"Spirit of the age (Woodstock, Vt.)",1908,"und captured in a camp near ridge y . the negroes , covered by a hun ired guns , were easily captured . they had two guns but were out of am nunition . the news of the capture spread rap dly and soon the jail was surrounded y a",mob,"which had no hesitancy in hreatening a lynching at once , in road daylight . one of the few citizens to mount the steps of the jail and to appeal to the nob to desist was j . l . burnette , a awyer , who recalled the recent night"
3650,9672_0.txt,"Spirit of the age (Woodstock, Vt.)",1908,"of no avail , pleaded that the men , if they were determined to lynch the negroes , to wait till nightfall . taylor hall , a brother of the wound deputy sheriff , agreed that a postponement of the lynching until night would be satisfactory to him . the",mob,", however , was restless and it was apparent that delay would not be brooked . as a last resort justice da vis agreed to open court at 5 o'clock summon a jury and allow the negroes after "" all available evidence "" was . heard , to be """
3651,9672_0.txt,"Spirit of the age (Woodstock, Vt.)",1908,"had seen the killing was heard , and in an incredibly short time the case was given to the jury which in a few minutes returned a verdict of guilty , and fixed the penalty at death . the sentence had barely been passed on the three negroes when the",mob,", with a whoop and a yell swarmed into the court room , seized the prisoners , rushed them to a large tree , near the edge of the town , and "" duly executed the sentence of deatn "" by hang ing them , firing volley after volley into"
3652,9673_0.txt,NA,1912,"hold up court officials take negro and lynch him columbus , ga . , aug . 14 . - holding up officials in the courthouse , a",mob,"of about 40 men here yesterday afternoon took t . z . cotton , alias t . z . mcel henny , a 16 year old negro , on trial , and lynched him just beyond the city limits . the negro was accused of killing land , a white"
3653,9674_0.txt,"The Waxahachie daily light (Waxahachie, Tex...)",1917,the negro in galveston who out raged a white woman was hanged by the,mob,to a saloon sign . the lyuch- ers showed considerable in selecting a place . discretion
3654,9678_0.txt,"The searchlight (Culbertson, Mon...)",1910,,mob,"leader convicted . newark , ohio , dec , 17 . - "" guilty of manslaughter "" was the verdict rendered today against montella watha , charged with having been the leader of the mob which lynched carl ton last july . ethering"
3655,9678_0.txt,"The searchlight (Culbertson, Mon...)",1910,"mob leader convicted . newark , ohio , dec , 17 . - "" guilty of manslaughter "" was the verdict rendered today against montella watha , charged with having been the leader of the",mob,which lynched carl ton last july . ethering
3656,9680_2.txt,NA,1883,"john l . martin , of luling , tex . , who confessed having murdered his wife , was taken out of the hands of his guard on the night of the by one hundred",masked,"men , and hanged 6th to a tree ."
3657,9680_2.txt,NA,1883,"john l . martin , of luling , tex . , who confessed having murdered his wife , was taken out of the hands of his guard on the night of the by one hundred",masked men,", and hanged 6th to a tree ."
3658,9683_0.txt,NA,1883,"judge lynch at work . wheeling , w . va . . dec . 11 . - eig bill kinney , acquitted of murder at west union , yesterday . was taken from jail by a",mob,"and hung last night . it is reported that the mob started for clarksburg where kinney's cousin is in jail , convicted , of manslaughter ."
3659,9683_0.txt,NA,1883,"judge lynch at work . wheeling , w . va . . dec . 11 . - eig bill kinney , acquitted of murder at west union , yesterday . was taken from jail by a mob and hung last night . it is reported that the",mob,"started for clarksburg where kinney's cousin is in jail , convicted , of manslaughter ."
3660,9683_1.txt,NA,1883,"they would not tell . cincinnati , dec . 10 . - the commercial gazette's , delta ohio , special says : last night a large number of",masked,"men appeared at the jail and got the keys from the watchman and took out rast and haffnattor , who were arrested for burglary , and demanded that they name their confederates in the numerous burglaries recently or be hanged . both refused and were strung up . when nearly"
3661,9683_1.txt,NA,1883,"they would not tell . cincinnati , dec . 10 . - the commercial gazette's , delta ohio , special says : last night a large number of",masked men,"appeared at the jail and got the keys from the watchman and took out rast and haffnattor , who were arrested for burglary , and demanded that they name their confederates in the numerous burglaries recently or be hanged . both refused and were strung up . when nearly dead"
3662,9683_1.txt,NA,1883,"demanded that they name their confederates in the numerous burglaries recently or be hanged . both refused and were strung up . when nearly dead they were taken down and asked again to give the names , they said they would not , and were again hung up and the",mob,went away . the watchman cut . the men down . they are still in a critical condition . all their accomplices have left town . supposed
3663,9685_0.txt,"Daily globe (St. Paul, Minn.)",1882,"and boasted of his party's strength , threatening to kill whe ever attempted to interfere with them . last friday evening while sitting at a table in a saloon he was shot through the neck , his assailants shooting him through a window . the same night a band of",masked,"men broke into w . c . barnes ' sid house captured , houston and charles luster , took them about a mile and hung them to a tree . j . weston was also shot thrice through the head . who the parties are is a matter of conjecture"
3664,9685_0.txt,"Daily globe (St. Paul, Minn.)",1882,"and boasted of his party's strength , threatening to kill whe ever attempted to interfere with them . last friday evening while sitting at a table in a saloon he was shot through the neck , his assailants shooting him through a window . the same night a band of",masked men,"broke into w . c . barnes ' sid house captured , houston and charles luster , took them about a mile and hung them to a tree . j . weston was also shot thrice through the head . who the parties are is a matter of conjecture ."
3665,9685_2.txt,"Daily globe (St. Paul, Minn.)",1882,"brute lynched . little rock , dec . 27 . - late on tuesday night charley branch , a negro who ravished and murdered a nine year old girl near varnor station on the little rock & mississippi river railway , was taken from the guards by armed and an",mob,hanged to telegraph pole . a
3666,9686_0.txt,"Brenham weekly banner (Brenham, Tex.)",1881,the people in arkansas do business in hurry . a few days ago at augusta a three men attempted to rape a young lady . they were caught and jailed ; at night a,masked,"mob of twenty men broke into the jail took them out and hanged them , after which they dumped their dead into the river bodies ."
3667,9686_0.txt,"Brenham weekly banner (Brenham, Tex.)",1881,the people in arkansas do business in hurry . a few days ago at augusta a three men attempted to rape a young lady . they were caught and jailed ; at night a masked,mob,"of twenty men broke into the jail took them out and hanged them , after which they dumped their dead into the river bodies ."
3668,9688_0.txt,"Helena weekly herald (Helena, Mont.)",1889,"kentucky lynch law . louisville , june 26 . - a",mob,"went to the jail at shepardsville , ballet county , at one o'clock this morning and took charles ardell charged with the murder , of peddler , to the woods and hung him . a"
3669,9690_0.txt,The weekly messenger La.),1889,"upon the recent lynching of felix keys very truthfully says from past events it is safe to say that if felix keys had escaped the gallows and been sent to the penitentiary , in six months from the time he arrived at ba ton rouge , one half of the",mob,"who hung him would have signed a petition for his pardon ; because there was a foul murder committed on our streets a few years ago and the man sent to the penitentiary , and some of the very men who hung fel ix keys signed a petition for the"
3670,9692_0.txt,"The Grenada sentinel (Grenada, Miss.)",1889,"felix keyes , colored , who in a fit of jealousy , near carencro , foully murdered his wife , cut ting her throat with a knife and then knocking her in the head with an axe . he was taken to the scene of his crime executed by the",mob,. and
3671,9693_0.txt,NA,1911,,mob,"hangs buck negro in south nugget special service . greenville , oct . 12 . - yesterday morning a mob consisting of over two hundred citizens went to the county jail overpowered the sheriff and secured a young buck negro he was guard- ing . the mob took the negro"
3672,9693_0.txt,NA,1911,"mob hangs buck negro in south nugget special service . greenville , oct . 12 . - yesterday morning a",mob,"consisting of over two hundred citizens went to the county jail overpowered the sheriff and secured a young buck negro he was guard- ing . the mob took the negro to the nearest telegraph pole and strung him up . filling his body with bullets , after he ceased to"
3673,9693_0.txt,NA,1911,"mob hangs buck negro in south nugget special service . greenville , oct . 12 . - yesterday morning a mob consisting of over two hundred citizens went to the county jail overpowered the sheriff and secured a young buck negro he was guard- ing . the",mob,"took the negro to the nearest telegraph pole and strung him up . filling his body with bullets , after he ceased to struggle . the young negro was captured night before last after a long search with bloodhounds and landed in the county jail charged with assaulting eleven year"
3674,9694_0.txt,"The Big Sandy news (Louisa, Ky.)",1890,"near donald sonville , in miller county . hanged to a tree and his body riddled with bullets he was arrested on suspicion of entering a room occupied by four ladies . their screams caused him fly . he was captured and on the to way to jail an armed",mob,lynched him .
3675,9695_0.txt,NA,1911,"killed and the citizens be gan searching for po : ter . all were armed , and it was freely stated that if potter was caught he would be lynched . potter was captured by marshal v . p . stabler and placed in the city jail . hearing the",mob,"approaching , the marshal swore in half a dozen deputies , and the prisoner was rushed to the opera house , where he was hid den beneath the stage . a messenger was sent for the sheriff , but before he arrived the mob had taken the place and the"
3676,9695_0.txt,NA,1911,"the city jail . hearing the mob approaching , the marshal swore in half a dozen deputies , and the prisoner was rushed to the opera house , where he was hid den beneath the stage . a messenger was sent for the sheriff , but before he arrived the",mob,"had taken the place and the negro had been captured . cringing from terror , the black was dragged from his hiding place . he was taken upon the stage and tied securely to one of the uprights , while the mob gathered in the orchestra pit below . a"
3677,9695_0.txt,NA,1911,"the sheriff , but before he arrived the mob had taken the place and the negro had been captured . cringing from terror , the black was dragged from his hiding place . he was taken upon the stage and tied securely to one of the uprights , while the",mob,gathered in the orchestra pit below . a signal was given and the body was riddled with bullets . a few minutes later the mob stole quietly from the playhouse and the drama was over . an investigation will be made by the coroner's jury to identify the pants in
3678,9695_0.txt,NA,1911,"black was dragged from his hiding place . he was taken upon the stage and tied securely to one of the uprights , while the mob gathered in the orchestra pit below . a signal was given and the body was riddled with bullets . a few minutes later the",mob,stole quietly from the playhouse and the drama was over . an investigation will be made by the coroner's jury to identify the pants in the mob . particis
3679,9695_0.txt,NA,1911,in the orchestra pit below . a signal was given and the body was riddled with bullets . a few minutes later the mob stole quietly from the playhouse and the drama was over . an investigation will be made by the coroner's jury to identify the pants in the,mob,. particis
3680,9696_0.txt,NA,1910,". - three companies of military arrived here to- day to prevent any attempt to lynch james dawson , a negro , accused of assaulting and killing mrs . john alliss , and beating her husband whose death is hourly expected . fol lowing the negro's escape yesterday from a",mob,"of 1,000 infuriated citi to the taken zens , the negro was , woods by the officers and his whereabouts to- day are unknown . it is be- . ved , however , that he has been quietly placed , in jail in a neighbor . obtaining town . because"
3681,9696_0.txt,NA,1910,"quietly placed , in jail in a neighbor . obtaining town . because of alliss ' condition he was unable to identify the negro . four companies of militia are here and the town is under martial rule . the sheriff and deputies to- day repulsed an attack by a",mob,"on dawson the negre was then placed in jail here and two companies of state militia , which arrived early to- day . more are guarding the jail two companies are at awyne ready to be , here at an instance's notice . , dispatched - should another attempt be"
3682,9696_0.txt,NA,1910,"day . more are guarding the jail two companies are at awyne ready to be , here at an instance's notice . , dispatched - should another attempt be made to lynch dawson . , through a ruse of the officers yes friendsterday , the negro was saved rom .",mob,. of 1.000 infuriated citizens . because allliss ' condition he is said to be of unable to identify the
3683,9697_0.txt,NA,1912,seeks justice for,mob,"son lynched that brooklyn tailor whose boy was strung up may appeal to the president . new york , april 27 . - john h . hoef- ner , a tailor with a shop at 1231 atlan- tie avenue , brooklyn , whose 19- year- old son , was removed"
3684,9697_0.txt,NA,1912,"that brooklyn tailor whose boy was strung up may appeal to the president . new york , april 27 . - john h . hoef- ner , a tailor with a shop at 1231 atlan- tie avenue , brooklyn , whose 19- year- old son , was removed by a",masked,"mob from the jail in forsythe . mont . . where he had been locked up on wednesday of last week on suspicion of mur- der and to cottonwood strung up a , tree in the centre of the town de- , clared thursday at his shop his boy was"
3685,9697_0.txt,NA,1912,"brooklyn tailor whose boy was strung up may appeal to the president . new york , april 27 . - john h . hoef- ner , a tailor with a shop at 1231 atlan- tie avenue , brooklyn , whose 19- year- old son , was removed by a masked",mob,"from the jail in forsythe . mont . . where he had been locked up on wednesday of last week on suspicion of mur- der and to cottonwood strung up a , tree in the centre of the town de- , clared thursday at his shop his boy was the"
3686,9700_0.txt,NA,1911,". swainsboro , ga- ben smith , an eld aegro preacher , was lynched after he had shot his wife and fatally wounded dep aty marshal neal canady , who was called to the scene . a crowd pursued the negro , caught him , filling his body then the",mob,"dispersed with bullets . this the second lynching that is has had within ten days , the other being john mclood , the negro who shot and killed deputy sheriff ton woods . ben"
3687,9702_0.txt,"Albuquerque morning journal (Albuquerque, N....)",1911,"night . members of the company say they were told that if they would remain up until 2 or 3 a . m . they "" would see some fun . "" later a stage hand told them some to be lynch negroes were- ed . the members of the",mob,", they say , included many negroes . governor willson said , from re ports the lynching was talked about to strangers in shelbyville several hours before it occurred and the governor was not notified . he says if he had heard about it three hours before it happened he"
3688,9708_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1891,stormed the jail . the omaha,mob,"attempts to rescue its arrested leaders . omaha , oct . 12 . -r . g . bloom , captain john o'donohue , h . h . brandies , ed . fitzgerald , ed . netchaefer , patrick o'horne and john fritz , seven of the mob that lynched coe"
3689,9708_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1891,". the omaha mob attempts to rescue its arrested leaders . omaha , oct . 12 . -r . g . bloom , captain john o'donohue , h . h . brandies , ed . fitzgerald , ed . netchaefer , patrick o'horne and john fritz , seven of the",mob,"that lynched coe , were arrested saturday evening and taken to the county jail . they are all charged with murder in the first degree and were re bail . 7 : 30 the jail was surrounded by a of 500 , and word was sent to county l ney"
3690,9708_0.txt,"Waterbury evening Democrat (Waterbury, Conn...)",1891,crowd to have a committee appointed to go through the jail and ascertain if the men were inside . this suited the crowd and when the committee reported that five of the men had been released and the other two had been taken out of town for safe keeping the,mob,dispersed . the city and county officials seem to be utterly paralyzed the results of friday night's work over and the developments of saturday night .
3691,9712_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1895,strung him up . a negro incest fiend hanged by a,mob,"of his own color . jackson , miss . , june 21 . - a special from port gibson , miss . , says : james sanders ( colored ) was hung last night about twelve miles from here by an infuriated mob of both whites and blacks . he"
3692,9712_0.txt,"Wheeling register (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1895,"a negro incest fiend hanged by a mob of his own color . jackson , miss . , june 21 . - a special from port gibson , miss . , says : james sanders ( colored ) was hung last night about twelve miles from here by an infuriated",mob,"of both whites and blacks . he was caught by his son in a compromising position with his own daughter . the son reported the case to sanders ' wife , who was the step- mother of the girl , whereupon a row occurred , in which the wife of"
3693,9717_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,"saved a negro from being lynched in new york . rochester , n . y . aug . 2 . - george frank lin , colored , attempted to assault mrs . mary steinmiller , who lives near brighton , one of rochester's suburbs , saturday evening , and a",mob,of men and boys tried to lynch him when he was finally found last night hiding in a barn near the vil lage . he was identified by the woman and the mob made a rush for him . he was taken back to the barn where he had been
3694,9717_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,"steinmiller , who lives near brighton , one of rochester's suburbs , saturday evening , and a mob of men and boys tried to lynch him when he was finally found last night hiding in a barn near the vil lage . he was identified by the woman and the",mob,"made a rush for him . he was taken back to the barn where he had been captured , where another crowd was in waiting . news of his identification had preceded his arrival and parties who had been following his tracks across the field traced him back to the"
3695,9717_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1899,", despite the frantic struggles of franklin and his protectors , was thrown about his neck . everybody within reach seized the rope and started to drag franklin out . he was forced to his knees and dragged across the floor out into the open , and one of the",mob,"climbed into a tree ready to pass the end of the rope across a convenient limb , when constable schroeder appeared on the the scene , and fighting his way through the crowd , drew his revolver and threatened to shoot the first man who made a imove to harm"
3696,9718_0.txt,"Great Falls tribune (Great Falls, Mo...)",1922,,mob,"lynches another negro for girl murder perry , fla . , dec . 12 . the second of two negroes arrested friday in connection with the murder of miss ruby hendry , school teacher , the previous saturday , was lynched mon day night , when arthur young was taken"
3697,9718_0.txt,"Great Falls tribune (Great Falls, Mo...)",1922,"the murder of miss ruby hendry , school teacher , the previous saturday , was lynched mon day night , when arthur young was taken from the officers as they were attempting to transfer him to another jail . charlie wright was burned at the stake friday night after a",mob,of several thousand men had taken from the officers as they brought him the two negroes into town .
3698,9721_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1912,"negro convict is lynched black kills guard , fires on others",mob,"takes slayer from sheriff and hang him . cochran , ga.- a negro convict , homer howell , was lynched after he had killed guard joseph coody , aged forty , and attempted to shoot down two other guards in the convict camp a mile from here . howell and"
3699,9721_0.txt,"River Falls journal (River Falls, Pi...)",1912,"mile from here . howell and sixty other men in the camp , it is said , had plotted to escape . news of the killing spread quickly . howell , guarded by deputy sheriffs , was being taken to hawkinsville , ten miles from this place , when a",mob,of fifty armed men took the prisoner quickly strung him up to a tele and phone pole .
3700,9723_2.txt,"Barbour County index (Medicine Lodge,...)",1909,"15- troops rushed to springfield , ill . ; wil liam donegan lynched by",mob,"several shot . ,"
3701,9731_0.txt,"The Daily Missoulian (Missoula, Mont.)",1918,"negro is lynched . lexington , tenn . , april 22 . - berry noyes , the negro who shot and killed sheriff w . e . mcbride near here last saturday , was hanged in the court house yard today",mob,. the sheriff sought to arrest noyes for violating the state prohibition law . later his body was dragged through the streets to the scene of the killing of the sheriff and burned at the stake 1 tonight .
3702,9733_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1943,st . louis daily cites failure in dixie the federal department of justice intervened in this case only after decades of experience showing that state law is powerless to punish a lynch,mob,". we have had proof of that ugly fact in missouri . now the federal government itself has failed at hattiesburg . a fed- eral district judge ruled that the government was within its rights in bringing the action , but attorneys for the defense waved the bloody shirt of"
3703,9733_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1943,"waved the bloody shirt of civil war memories , cried out about states ' rights , and a local jury acquitted the local defendants . the jury acquitted one of the accused although his signed confes- sion , admitting to the fbi that he had been a member of the",mob,", was introduced in evidence , and despite his failure to take the stand , in the presence of the jury , to repudiate the confession or submit to government cross- examination . not mississippi alone , but the whole united states , is disgraced in the eyes of the"
3704,9733_0.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1943,"to take the stand , in the presence of the jury , to repudiate the confession or submit to government cross- examination . not mississippi alone , but the whole united states , is disgraced in the eyes of the world when a human being can be lynched and his",mob,murder go unpunished . the debacle at hattiesburg is a sign of the enormous distance we still must travel before the theoretical values our democracy are made a reality- st . louis star- times . of
3705,9733_1.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1943,half hearted attempt a week or so ago the united state's government made what might be termed a half- hearted effort to obtain the conviction of three south ern,mobsters,"who were alleged members of a mob that lynched a negro down in mississippi almost a year ago . we say it was a half- hearted attempt because , according to reports , the government seemed reluctant to question the witnesses , and in many other ways went about the"
3706,9733_1.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1943,half hearted attempt a week or so ago the united state's government made what might be termed a half- hearted effort to obtain the conviction of three south ern mobsters who were alleged members of a,mob,"that lynched a negro down in mississippi almost a year ago . we say it was a half- hearted attempt because , according to reports , the government seemed reluctant to question the witnesses , and in many other ways went about the task of prosecuting the alleged mobsters in"
3707,9733_1.txt,"Minneapolis spokesman (Minneapolis, Mi...)",1943,"a mob that lynched a negro down in mississippi almost a year ago . we say it was a half- hearted attempt because , according to reports , the government seemed reluctant to question the witnesses , and in many other ways went about the task of prosecuting the alleged",mobsters,"in a somewhat timid fashion . those who were given the task of obtaining a conviction for the government put very little , if any , vigor or aggressiveness in their conduct of case . chicago bee . the"
3708,9735_0.txt,The Washington times (Washington [D.C...),1903,"not seek to punish lynchers belleville , ill . , june 9 . - although the crowd of men which lynched david s . wyatt , the negro school teacher who shot charles hertel , county superintendent of schools , at belleville saturday night , worked on the jail without",masks,"for six hours , in view of hundreds , including all the city and county officials , and although the few men who did the killing are known to scores , it is unlikely their prosecution will result . state attorney farmer said to day that he had not been"
3709,9741_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1904,"negro lynched in texas . john maynard , a negro , was lynched by a",mob,"at montgomery , texas . he was charged with being one of a party of negroes who robbed several bohemians , and , after beating them , one . two other negroes were arrested killed ."
3710,9741_0.txt,"The Penn's Grove record (Penn's Grove, S...)",1904,"negro lynched in texas . john maynard , a negro , was lynched by a mob at montgomery , texas . he was charged with being one of",a party of,"negroes who robbed several bohemians , and , after beating them , one . two other negroes were arrested killed ."
3711,9744_0.txt,NA,1903,"the religion for the negro . at the concluding day's session of the catholic federation , held in atlantic city , n . j . , this week , among the resolutions passed was one condemning",mob,"violence and lynching . so far as it goes , this is all right . it is an evidence of catholic obedience to law and horror of mob barbarity . that is all the resolution amounts to . we unwillingly con fess that all the resolutions put up and passed"
3712,9744_0.txt,NA,1903,"federation , held in atlantic city , n . j . , this week , among the resolutions passed was one condemning mob violence and lynching . so far as it goes , this is all right . it is an evidence of catholic obedience to law and horror of",mob,barbarity . that is all the resolution amounts to . we unwillingly con fess that all the resolutions put up and passed condemning mob violence have not had the slighest effect in checking it . two or three lynchings happened this week- one minus the siekening hor ror attached to
3713,9744_0.txt,NA,1903,"and lynching . so far as it goes , this is all right . it is an evidence of catholic obedience to law and horror of mob barbarity . that is all the resolution amounts to . we unwillingly con fess that all the resolutions put up and passed condemning",mob,violence have not had the slighest effect in checking it . two or three lynchings happened this week- one minus the siekening hor ror attached to burning at the stake . perhaps this was because the victim was a white man . two or three more lynchings likely to occur
3714,9744_0.txt,NA,1903,"victim was a white man . two or three more lynchings likely to occur during the next week . no dread are of the horror following capture stops the black villain from violating white women ; no public sentiment , however strong , has yet persuaded men from organizing into",mobs,", breaking open jails and bringing out the despoil ers of virtue to suffer the most excruciating tor ture . something besides resolutions must be invoked to put an end to anarchy . the law seems impotent to carry out its purpose , and it will be impotent so long"
3715,9744_0.txt,NA,1903,and it is the catholic church of all others in the south where the spectacle is presented of both races kneeling at the same communion railing . what a field is thus presented for the reclamation of a race ! what an opportunity to stem the tide of anarchy and,mob,violence through the teach ings of our faith among a people steeped in ance and immorality ! ignor
3716,9746_0.txt,NA,1894,three swung up . a,mob,"of over 200 masked men went to the j ail at tuscumbia , ala . a little after midnight sunday morn ing , and obtaining the key's from the jailer's wife during the temporary absence of her husband , took three prisoners out and lynched them . men were tom"
3717,9746_0.txt,NA,1894,three swung up . a mob of over 200,masked,"men went to the j ail at tuscumbia , ala . a little after midnight sunday morn ing , and obtaining the key's from the jailer's wife during the temporary absence of her husband , took three prisoners out and lynched them . men were tom black , john williams"
3718,9746_0.txt,NA,1894,three swung up . a mob of over 200,masked men,"went to the j ail at tuscumbia , ala . a little after midnight sunday morn ing , and obtaining the key's from the jailer's wife during the temporary absence of her husband , took three prisoners out and lynched them . men were tom black , john williams the"
3719,9749_0.txt,NA,1906,"lynching . in connection with the delays of the law , i call your attention and the attention of the nation to the pre- valence of crime among us , and above all to the epidemic of lynching and",mob,"violence that springs up , now in one part of our country , now in another . section , north , south , each east , or west , has its own faults ; no section can with wisdom spend its time jeering at the faults of another section ;"
3720,9749_0.txt,NA,1906,"are but the crime is pecularly frequent in respect to black men . the greatest existing cause of lynching is the per- petration , especially by black men , of the hideous crime of rape- the most abominable in all the category of crimes , ever worse than murder .",mobs,"frequently avenge the conmis- sion of this erime by themselves torturing to death the man committing it ; thus avenging in bestile fashion a bestile deed and reducing themselves , to a level with the criminal . lawlessness grows by what it feeds upon ; and when mobs begin to"
3721,9749_0.txt,NA,1906,"murder . mobs frequently avenge the conmis- sion of this erime by themselves torturing to death the man committing it ; thus avenging in bestile fashion a bestile deed and reducing themselves , to a level with the criminal . lawlessness grows by what it feeds upon ; and when",mobs,"begin to lynch for rape they speedily extend the sphere of their operations and lynch for other kinds of erimes many so , that two- thirds of the lynchings are not for rape at all ; while a consider- able proportion of the individuals lynched are innocent of all crime"
3722,9749_0.txt,NA,1906,"are innocent of all crime . governor candler , of georgia , stated on one occasion some years ago : "" can say of a varity that i have , with- in the last month , saved the lives of half a dozen innocent negroes who were pursued by the",mob,", and brought them to trial in a court of a law in which they were acquitted . "" as bishop galloway , of mississippi , has finely said : "" when the rule of a mob obtains , that which distinguishes a high civilization is rurrend- ered . the"
3723,9749_0.txt,NA,1906,"the lives of half a dozen innocent negroes who were pursued by the mob , and brought them to trial in a court of a law in which they were acquitted . "" as bishop galloway , of mississippi , has finely said : "" when the rule of a",mob,"obtains , that which distinguishes a high civilization is rurrend- ered . the mob which lynches a negra charged with rape will in a little while lynch a white man suspected of crime . every christian patriot in america needs to lift up his voice in loud and eternal protest"
3724,9749_0.txt,NA,1906,", and brought them to trial in a court of a law in which they were acquitted . "" as bishop galloway , of mississippi , has finely said : "" when the rule of a mob obtains , that which distinguishes a high civilization is rurrend- ered . the",mob,"which lynches a negra charged with rape will in a little while lynch a white man suspected of crime . every christian patriot in america needs to lift up his voice in loud and eternal protest against the mob spirit that is threatening the integrity of this republic . """
3725,9749_0.txt,NA,1906,that which distinguishes a high civilization is rurrend- ered . the mob which lynches a negra charged with rape will in a little while lynch a white man suspected of crime . every christian patriot in america needs to lift up his voice in loud and eternal protest against the,mob,"spirit that is threatening the integrity of this republic . "" governor jelks , of alabama , has recently spoken as follows : "" the lynching of person for whatever crime is inex any"
3726,9760_0.txt,"The evening times (Washington, D.C...)",1901,"the jail at doyline . several citizens stood guard over the jail all night to prevent a lynching . yesterday an effort was made to get the negro to the parish jail at minden , but while on the way there the prisoner was away from the officers by a",mob,and taken shot to death .
3727,9761_1.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,previous lynchings . there have been two other lynchings in queen anne's county in its history . john fields was hung by a,mob,"near queenstown in the early sixties for criminal intimacy with a white girl . the man was simply taken by infuriated people and hanged on a hickory tree , on the farm of robert j . wilson , near queenstown . the second case was that of james pippin ,"
3728,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"building . the family were of course very much alarmed by the invasion of the premises , but no one was hurt or the seriously interfered with except officers and they were not more roughly , handled than necessary to secure the keys and to keep them back while the",mob,"secured the prisoner . the lynching was evidently the work of men whose minds had been made to do deel up the . asbury greln's fate dragged by the neck and hung on a feach tree . a mob's violence in centreville , centreville , md . , 12- asbury"
3729,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,to secure the keys and to keep them back while the mob secured the prisoner . the lynching was evidently the work of men whose minds had been made to do deel up the . asbury greln's fate dragged by the neck and hung on a feach tree . a,mob's,"violence in centreville , centreville , md . , 12- asbury green colored , sentenced monday by judge stump , of queen anne's circuit court , to twenty- one years in the penitentiary for a felonious assault on mrs . howard tolson , of kent island , february 28 ,"
3730,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"12- asbury green colored , sentenced monday by judge stump , of queen anne's circuit court , to twenty- one years in the penitentiary for a felonious assault on mrs . howard tolson , of kent island , february 28 , was taken from centreville jail by a body of",masked,"men shortly after 1 o'clock this morning and hanged on a bearing peach tree it had been threat- . disened before sentence was passed that in case the penalty was anything less than hanging the mob would interpose , but after the conservative and judicious course of judge stump in"
3731,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"12- asbury green colored , sentenced monday by judge stump , of queen anne's circuit court , to twenty- one years in the penitentiary for a felonious assault on mrs . howard tolson , of kent island , february 28 , was taken from centreville jail by a body of",masked men,"shortly after 1 o'clock this morning and hanged on a bearing peach tree it had been threat- . disened before sentence was passed that in case the penalty was anything less than hanging the mob would interpose , but after the conservative and judicious course of judge stump in imposing"
3732,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"island , february 28 , was taken from centreville jail by a body of masked men shortly after 1 o'clock this morning and hanged on a bearing peach tree it had been threat- . disened before sentence was passed that in case the penalty was anything less than hanging the",mob,"would interpose , but after the conservative and judicious course of judge stump in imposing a lengthy term of imprisonment it was thought that all disposition to violence had been removed . the sentence of the court was apparently acquiesced in , and no alarm was created or apprehension exeited"
3733,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"violence had been removed . the sentence of the court was apparently acquiesced in , and no alarm was created or apprehension exeited . it was , therefore , a surprise when it was realized that a body of fifty or sixty men . some them armed with all them",masked,"and of complete guns . , ly disguised , should take the law into their own hands and override the decis ion of the sworn administrators of the law . the mob overpowered the jail officers , took the keys from them , open- ed the prison doors , and"
3734,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"in , and no alarm was created or apprehension exeited . it was , therefore , a surprise when it was realized that a body of fifty or sixty men . some them armed with all them masked and of complete guns . , ly disguised , should take the",law into their own hands,"and override the decis ion of the sworn administrators of the law . the mob overpowered the jail officers , took the keys from them , open- ed the prison doors , and dragged the prisoner from his cell to the place where he was hanged , though he must"
3735,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"it was realized that a body of fifty or sixty men . some them armed with all them masked and of complete guns . , ly disguised , should take the law into their own hands and override the decis ion of the sworn administrators of the law . the",mob,"overpowered the jail officers , took the keys from them , open- ed the prison doors , and dragged the prisoner from his cell to the place where he was hanged , though he must have been chocked to beath by the rope around his neck dragging him on the"
3736,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"in the office , where the deputies were talking . noth ing was said , but the exclama io "" the keys , the keys ! "" the deputies resisted to the best of their ability . deputy sheriff t . frank seward made a strong effort to keep the",mob,"back but several , of them just caught him bodily and pinned him to the floor and took the keys from his pocket he was then forced . back to the end of the hall with guns pointed in his face . the prison interior . sheriff turuer coming down"
3737,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"end of the hall with guns pointed in his face . the prison interior . sheriff turuer coming down stairs , was confronted by a rifle and shot gun . he was told to come no further on pain of death , and he had to go back . the",mob,"then opened the doors leading to the cell where the prisoner asbury green was confined . the prison cells are on the right on entering from the door fronting east . the first room is the sheriff's office , and j . to the right of this , in the"
3738,9761_2.txt,"The Cecil Whig (Elkton, Md.)",1891,"from one side to another , leaving the trail well defined . the night was dark and cloudy , with a these little rain and some lighting . conditions were extremely favorable for accomplishing the work . awakened from sleep . the prison offlcers were overpowered so quickly and the",masks,and disguises were so complete that no recognitions were made . when green was reached in his cell he was asleep . he had no clothing on but under shirt and drawers . these were pretty well dragged from him by the time he got to the peach tree perhaps
3739,9772_0.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1903,"two little sons near frankton , ind . marion , ind . , oct . 26 . - jesse mcclure , a farm hand , murdered his two sons , aged 5 and 7 years , sunday aft ernoon , leaving their bodies in a fence corner . while a",mob,"was forming to capture and lynch him , mcclure drove on a run to this city and gave himself up . he has been secreted by the authorities who fear attempted violence . mcclure lived near frankton and had separated from his wife a year ago , she refusing to"
3740,9772_1.txt,"The citizen (Berea, Ky.)",1903,prevailed . but it was soon seen that the efforts of the murderer had been futile . president diaz was not hurt . the assassin was at once arrested and thrown into this murder cre ated much excitement and subsequent ly the assassin was dragged from pris on by a,mob,"and lynched . guanajato is about 160 miles north west of mexico city . it is singularly situated in deep , narrow mountain de files over 6,000 feet above sea level . it is formed of a number of villages located around the mines and has population numbering 63,000 ."
3741,9773_0.txt,NA,1908,lawyer slain by night riders capt . rankin hanged and shot by,masked,"men . partner may also be dead two prominent tennessee lawyers were taken from a hotel at night and carried away by night riders . captain rankin's body found hang ing from tree at edge of lake . col . taylor's body not found , but believed he was also"
3742,9773_0.txt,NA,1908,lawyer slain by night riders capt . rankin hanged and shot by,masked men,". partner may also be dead two prominent tennessee lawyers were taken from a hotel at night and carried away by night riders . captain rankin's body found hang ing from tree at edge of lake . col . taylor's body not found , but believed he was also killed-"
3743,9773_0.txt,NA,1908,"over fishing privileges in lake . union city , tenn . , oct . 21 . - colonel r . z . taylor and captain quinten rainkin , prominent attorneys of tren ton , were taken from ward's hotel , at walnut log , fifteen miles from here , by",masked,"night riders and murdered . captain rankin's body was found riddled with bullets and hanging from a tree one mile from the hotel . efforts to find the body of colonel taylor have been futile thus far , but it is believed that he was also killed . sheriff eastwood"
3744,9773_0.txt,NA,1908,"passage of an act by the regulating fishing in reel foot lake , a short distance from wal nut log . mr . ward , manager of the hotel at walnut log , telephoned sid waddell , a stockholder of the west tennessee land company , that about twenty- five",masked,"night riders came to his hotel at midnight . they lined up outside the hotel , pulled out their revolvers , and called taylor and rankin . the men did not suspect trouble and came down immediately . as the attorneys passed into the front yard of the hotel the"
3745,9773_0.txt,NA,1908,"colonel taylor un til morning . going to the edge of reel foot lake , the bandits put a rope about captain rankin's neck and strung him up from a limb on the bank of the lake , for the fishing privileges of which he had con tended . the",masked,"men stepped back and opened fire on the swinging body , riddling it with bullets . they took colonel taylor to some other spot . search has failed to re veal a trace of him . the trouble between inhabitants en the banks of reel foot lake and col onel"
3746,9773_0.txt,NA,1908,"colonel taylor un til morning . going to the edge of reel foot lake , the bandits put a rope about captain rankin's neck and strung him up from a limb on the bank of the lake , for the fishing privileges of which he had con tended . the",masked men,"stepped back and opened fire on the swinging body , riddling it with bullets . they took colonel taylor to some other spot . search has failed to re veal a trace of him . the trouble between inhabitants en the banks of reel foot lake and col onel taylor"
3747,9773_0.txt,NA,1908,"them had somewhat subsided . there were some legal papers at walnut log which needed attention , and the attorneys went there to see about them . a man named powell , who hauls fish from walnut log to hickman , is said to have been forced to accompany the",mob,". powell says that after kill ing rankin a vote was taken regarding the disposition to be made of taylor . during the dispute taylor made a dash , jumped into the bayou and start ed to swim across . a number of shots were fired at him . in"
3748,9784_0.txt,"Norwich bulletin (Norwich, Conn.)",1912,"jake samuels , a negro , charged with criminally assaulting mrs . wal- . ter ramsey , wife of a robertson county farmer saturday night , was taken from officers at nashville , tenn . , yesterday by a",mob,and riddled with bul lets.-
3749,9796_0.txt,NA,1911,"negro brakeman lynched for attacking white man manchester , ga . , oct . 20 . - jerry lovelace , a negro brakeman , charged with assaulting yardmaster w . f . ker nan on tuesday night , was taken from marshal collier here today by a",mob,of about thirty men early and lynched .
3750,9798_0.txt,NA,1916,"colored man lynched . little rock , ark . , oct . 11 . - frank dodd , a colored prisoner held on a charge of having annoyed a young white woman , was taken from the county jail at dewitt by a",mob,of three hundred and hanged from > tree in the outskirts men of the town .
3751,9801_0.txt,NA,1922,"driven from among white them an without first giving friends people whom we know to be our opportunity of protecting us . "" oconee county has been thrown in to tumult during the last year . state's officials attention has been called to the numerous cases of night riding by",masked,men in which reports say negroes were taken from their homes and flogged . the county grand jury recently re turned indictments against white per . after the lynching of three neg sons roes . no convictions were obtained .
3752,9801_0.txt,NA,1922,"driven from among white them an without first giving friends people whom we know to be our opportunity of protecting us . "" oconee county has been thrown in to tumult during the last year . state's officials attention has been called to the numerous cases of night riding by",masked men,in which reports say negroes were taken from their homes and flogged . the county grand jury recently re turned indictments against white per . after the lynching of three neg sons roes . no convictions were obtained .
3753,9803_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1918,alleged teuton is sympathizer lynched by,mob,"collinsville , i . , april 5 . robert p . praeger , 45 , alleged pro german , was taken from hiding in the city hall here early today by a mob of 350 "" loyalists "" and hanged to a tree two miles west of town . no"
3754,9803_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1918,"alleged teuton is sympathizer lynched by mob collinsville , i . , april 5 . robert p . praeger , 45 , alleged pro german , was taken from hiding in the city hall here early today by a",mob,"of 350 "" loyalists "" and hanged to a tree two miles west of town . no arrests have been made , al the the lynchers were not masked and are said to have been led by prominent citizens . early last night praeger came to collinsville after evading a"
3755,9803_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1918,"praeger , 45 , alleged pro german , was taken from hiding in the city hall here early today by a mob of 350 "" loyalists "" and hanged to a tree two miles west of town . no arrests have been made , al the the lynchers were not",masked,"and are said to have been led by prominent citizens . early last night praeger came to collinsville after evading a patrotle band at maryville , where he was alleged to have talked socialism and made disloyal remarks . members of the mob followed and chased him here . he"
3756,9803_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1918,", al the the lynchers were not masked and are said to have been led by prominent citizens . early last night praeger came to collinsville after evading a patrotle band at maryville , where he was alleged to have talked socialism and made disloyal remarks . members of the",mob,followed and chased him here . he was compelled to march bare tooted and draped with an american flag down the main street . rescued him and hid him in the city hall basement . the mob demanded the prisoner and when refused rushed past authorities and dragged him from
3757,9803_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1918,alleged to have talked socialism and made disloyal remarks . members of the mob followed and chased him here . he was compelled to march bare tooted and draped with an american flag down the main street . rescued him and hid him in the city hall basement . the,mob,demanded the prisoner and when refused rushed past authorities and dragged him from his hiding place beneath a pile of tilings . mayor siegel's pleadings were disregarded . still barefooted . praeger was led along the old national highway with a noose around his neck . police and the coroner
3758,9804_0.txt,NA,1915,alabama hangs,mob,"two negro suspects jail attaches overpowered militia too late to vent lynching . pre montgomery , ala . , jan . 5 . - two negroes , ed and will smith , were taken from the wetumpka jail early today and lynched by a mob . they had been accused"
3759,9804_0.txt,NA,1915,"alabama hangs mob two negro suspects jail attaches overpowered militia too late to vent lynching . pre montgomery , ala . , jan . 5 . - two negroes , ed and will smith , were taken from the wetumpka jail early today and lynched by a",mob,". they had been accused of implication in the murder of r . a . stillwell , an elmore county er . farm soon after reports reached the governor's office that a mob had over powered the jail attaches at wetumpka and removed the negroes . montgomery militiamen hurried toward"
3760,9804_0.txt,NA,1915,"ed and will smith , were taken from the wetumpka jail early today and lynched by a mob . they had been accused of implication in the murder of r . a . stillwell , an elmore county er . farm soon after reports reached the governor's office that a",mob,"had over powered the jail attaches at wetumpka and removed the negroes . montgomery militiamen hurried toward the scene in automobiles . however they were too late to prevent the lynching , . stillwell was shot several days ago while guarding his barns against thieves . bloodhounds led directly ,"
3761,9804_0.txt,NA,1915,"while guarding his barns against thieves . bloodhounds led directly , it was declared , the cabin of the smith negroes , who to were arrested . searching parties later found the negroes ' bodies hanging in the woods five miles from wetumpak . three sup posed members of the",mob,are in at wetumpka . jail governor oddie issued an order for a special session of the elmora county grand jury to investigate the lynching . three militia companies remained wwetumpka throughout the day . in
3762,9805_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1900,"four negroes lynched . new orleans , sept . 21 . - four negroes were taken from jail by a",mob,"and lynched last night at pontchatoula , la . the town , which is on the illinois central , had been infested with negro burglars recently ."
3763,9809_0.txt,NA,1909,a florida,mob,"which lynched a man was so considerate of him that it gave him a ride in an automobile first . no danger , however that this style of autoing will become , popular ."
3764,9810_0.txt,Indiana daily times (Indianapolis [I...),1921,sheriff overpowered ;,mob,"lynches negro richmond , va . , aug . 3 . - the sheriff of mecklenburg county was overpowered early today while taking an unidentided negro charged with the murder of post master elmore , at tobacco , va . , monday night , to jail . the crowd lynched"
3765,9811_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1911,seen throwing kisses at white women . he was a chauffeur . both west and patterson were to have been taken before a grand jury be called january 23 and a speedy trial to was predicted for each . • three . hangs,mob,"whole of a the scene ky shelbyville . , , sale lynching . jan . 16 . - fifty shelbyville , ky . , masked men stormed the shelby coun- ty jail here , seized and lynched three negroes , two of whom were charged with insulting white women and"
3766,9811_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1911,"have been taken before a grand jury be called january 23 and a speedy trial to was predicted for each . • three . hangs mob whole of a the scene ky shelbyville . , , sale lynching . jan . 16 . - fifty shelbyville , ky . ,",masked,"men stormed the shelby coun- ty jail here , seized and lynched three negroes , two of whom were charged with insulting white women and the third under sentence to hang for the murder of a negro woman . bodies of two of negroes , gene marshall and wade the"
3767,9811_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1911,"have been taken before a grand jury be called january 23 and a speedy trial to was predicted for each . • three . hangs mob whole of a the scene ky shelbyville . , , sale lynching . jan . 16 . - fifty shelbyville , ky . ,",masked men,"stormed the shelby coun- ty jail here , seized and lynched three negroes , two of whom were charged with insulting white women and the third under sentence to hang for the murder of a negro woman . bodies of two of negroes , gene marshall and wade the patterson"
3768,9811_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1911,"to hang for the murder of a negro woman . bodies of two of negroes , gene marshall and wade the patterson , have been found , but that of the third , jim for al west , is still , though he was seen in the hands of the",mob,"with a rope about his neck . the two bodies recovered were mile found about a quarter of a apart . that of was found hanging to the bridge marshall over the emminance pike , patterson that of while the jail , near creek . patterson found in was ,"
3769,9811_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1911,"two bodies recovered were mile found about a quarter of a apart . that of was found hanging to the bridge marshall over the emminance pike , patterson that of while the jail , near creek . patterson found in was , it is said attempted , to escape from",mob,", the and his shot was body thrown into the creek . the jail hid edward thompson jailer according to hornback , a deputy horn insistent , became more when it keys when the mob appeared and later , jail the to men the admitted back office . holidays the"
3770,9811_0.txt,"The Topeka state journal (Topeka, Kansas)",1911,"creek . patterson found in was , it is said attempted , to escape from mob , the and his shot was body thrown into the creek . the jail hid edward thompson jailer according to hornback , a deputy horn insistent , became more when it keys when the",mob,"appeared and later , jail the to men the admitted back office . holidays the women during white two patterson , it was charged , insulted down them . both of knocked and re- was more crime alleged west's colder tuesday . warmer tonight . he had often been cent"
3771,9813_0.txt,NA,1916,gla prison farm by,mob,and hanged . aug . 16 . - leo frank taken from geor
3772,9814_0.txt,"The Hawaiian gazette (Honolulu [Oahu,...)",1916,georgia,mob,"lynches negro ( associated press by federa ) wireless . ) cartersville , georgia , february 25 . - a negre , who had attacked a white woman . was hanged from the city hall today by fity men and boys and body riddled with bullets . the"
3773,9815_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1911,"one common and inherent characteristic of the white man's baser nature , regardless of his political , civil or religious training . what he does one place he will do at any other place , under similar inducements and with like opportunities . what white men's newspapers describe as """,mob,"frenzy , "" "" rage "" and "" uncontrolable pas sion , "" are merely masks for a spirit of race hatred more cowardly and despicable than the looting of the corpses of horror victims by ghouls , which is another special form of expression of the degree of civilization"
3774,9815_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1911,", civil or religious training . what he does one place he will do at any other place , under similar inducements and with like opportunities . what white men's newspapers describe as "" mob frenzy , "" "" rage "" and "" uncontrolable pas sion , "" are merely",masks,"for a spirit of race hatred more cowardly and despicable than the looting of the corpses of horror victims by ghouls , which is another special form of expression of the degree of civilization which their ordinary classes have attained . the more helpless their victim the more "" frenzied"
3775,9815_0.txt,"The Colorado statesman (Denver, Colo.)",1911,"spirit of race hatred more cowardly and despicable than the looting of the corpses of horror victims by ghouls , which is another special form of expression of the degree of civilization which their ordinary classes have attained . the more helpless their victim the more "" frenzied "" the",mob,"and the greater its delight . and after the spree of hate indulged in by a reckless thousand , the "" conspiracy of silence , "" once described by president roosevelt , puts brownsville so far in the shade as to just men deny that there are greater savages than"
3776,9817_0.txt,"The daily worker (Chicago, Ill.)",1930,"i . l . d . battles lynching wave sharp statement on sherman murder the outrageous and fiendish murder of george hughes , negro worker , at sherman , texas , by a",mob,"of white ruling class bloodthirsty lynchers , is clear evidence of the means which the boss class and its agents are utilizing in their attempt to suppress the struggles of the negro masses . this brutal lynching follows very closely the lynching of wilkins , dave harris , allen green"
3777,9818_0.txt,NA,1921,"negro , 15 , lynched . ballinger , tex . , dec . 1 . -",masked,"men seized robert murtore , 15- year the of sheriff flint three miles from here yesterday , and tying him to a post , riddled his body with 50 bullets . the charged with negro was criminal assault on a 9- year- old girl last night . the girl's con"
3778,9818_0.txt,NA,1921,"negro , 15 , lynched . ballinger , tex . , dec . 1 . -",masked men,"seized robert murtore , 15- year the of sheriff flint three miles from here yesterday , and tying him to a post , riddled his body with 50 bullets . the charged with negro was criminal assault on a 9- year- old girl last night . the girl's con white"
3779,9820_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1919,two negroes lynched by,mob,". montgomery , ala . . oct . 1 . - two negroes , miles phifer and robert grosky , the latter a discharged soldier , were taken from county officials about five miles from montgomery and shot to death by a mob of about twenty - five masked men"
3780,9820_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1919,"two negroes lynched by mob . montgomery , ala . . oct . 1 . - two negroes , miles phifer and robert grosky , the latter a discharged soldier , were taken from county officials about five miles from montgomery and shot to death by a",mob,"of about twenty - five masked men on monday . both negroes charged with having at tacked white were women ,"
3781,9820_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1919,"by mob . montgomery , ala . . oct . 1 . - two negroes , miles phifer and robert grosky , the latter a discharged soldier , were taken from county officials about five miles from montgomery and shot to death by a mob of about twenty - five",masked,"men on monday . both negroes charged with having at tacked white were women ,"
3782,9820_0.txt,"Wauwatosa news (Wauwatosa, Wis.)",1919,"by mob . montgomery , ala . . oct . 1 . - two negroes , miles phifer and robert grosky , the latter a discharged soldier , were taken from county officials about five miles from montgomery and shot to death by a mob of about twenty - five",masked men,"on monday . both negroes charged with having at tacked white were women ,"
3783,9821_0.txt,NA,1921,negro is lynched in mccomb by,mob,"body found on edge of town -had had trouble with white man . the magnolia gazette of thursday records the lynching of a young ne- gro , eddie mcdowell , who was taken from his home in the heart of the residential section of mccomb and done to death by"
3784,9821_0.txt,NA,1921,"found on edge of town -had had trouble with white man . the magnolia gazette of thursday records the lynching of a young ne- gro , eddie mcdowell , who was taken from his home in the heart of the residential section of mccomb and done to death by a",mob,". the gazette says : about two months ago , while employed in the garage of the caston motor company , he got on a drunk en spree , and , while in that state , applied profane epithets to a white employe of the same concern who , promptly"
3785,9822_0.txt,NA,1923,eye witness story of,mob,"victim who also was gregor before his execution with here is the story of a . f . raash , bunk- mate of e . c . gregor who was hanged by a mob at harrison , ark . raash was interviewed at springfield , mo . , by a"
3786,9822_0.txt,NA,1923,"eye witness story of mob victim who also was gregor before his execution with here is the story of a . f . raash , bunk- mate of e . c . gregor who was hanged by a",mob,"at harrison , ark . raash was interviewed at springfield , mo . , by a united press correspondent . raash had fled to springfield after having been terribly beaten by the mob that hanged gregor . the correspondent says that raash , when interviewed , was covered with bruises"
3787,9822_0.txt,NA,1923,"f . raash , bunk- mate of e . c . gregor who was hanged by a mob at harrison , ark . raash was interviewed at springfield , mo . , by a united press correspondent . raash had fled to springfield after having been terribly beaten by the",mob,"that hanged gregor . the correspondent says that raash , when interviewed , was covered with bruises caused by blows from gun butts and one eye was black and blue . "" gregor couldn't possibly have had anything to do with the burning of . m . & n ."
3788,9822_0.txt,NA,1923,"decided to pay a visit to or families in harrison . "" the bridges had been burned when we arrived , so he could have had nothing to do with it . "" raash , who is not a striker , told of being led into the woods by a",mob,"of 20 men and threatened with hang- - ing unless he confessed burning bridges on the railroad , the corres- pondent said . he says he was also told that every union man around and in harrison tuesday would be strung to a trestle . "" i was sitting around"
3789,9822_0.txt,NA,1923,"in the face . "" my wife and children rushed to me and threw their arms around me . and cried for mercy . one by one they were torn away and thrown into the corners of the room and i was led out into the night . "" the",mob,"took me to a spot in the woods near harrison . i was beaten and kicked for 20 minutes when i would not confess to burning bridges . i told them i was not a striker and had been in harrison only on thanksgiving and christmas . "" let's hang"
3790,9822_0.txt,NA,1923,"kicked again . and again , and told if i was seen in harrison i would be hanged to a i home and put on trestle . went some clothes , kissed my wife and goodbye and started up the children road south from harrison . "" i saw other",mobs,"along the road i hit into the mountains and i so have been on the road ever since . """
3791,9823_0.txt,NA,1915,"mississippi comes to the front with another lynching ; this time the negro merely fired at an officer , and none of the",mob,"was drunk , either , a rule against admitting toughs and drink ing men to the ranks of lynching mobs having been made to be chattanooga times . observed ."
3792,9823_0.txt,NA,1915,"mississippi comes to the front with another lynching ; this time the negro merely fired at an officer , and none of the mob was drunk , either , a rule against admitting toughs and drink ing men to the ranks of lynching",mobs,having been made to be chattanooga times . observed .
3793,9826_0.txt,"The Seattle star (Seattle, Wash.)",1915,"photograph showing ancient hi ghway of the incas running through quito , the capital of ecuador . in the background is the penitentiary , inte which an infuriated",mob,"broke two years ago and lynched an ex . president of ecuador and four of generals , all leaders in a revolu tior his"
3794,9827_0.txt,NA,1919,"burned at the stake . several wit thousand nessed the scene . persons two burned at stake in flor ida jacksonville , fla . sept . 8 . - two negoes charged with mur der were taken from the city jai ! here shortly after midnight and lynched . a",mob,"of 30 men stormed the jail in search of a ne- gro who was being held for assaulting a little white girl , but who had been sent to st augustine by court officers early last night , following threats of violence finding their intended victim gone , the crowd"
3795,9828_0.txt,NA,1918,"negro is lynched . cordele , ga . , may 23 . - james cobb , the negro taken from the jail here by a",mob,"shortly after midnight , was carried to the scene where he attacked and killed mrs . roy simmons , miles east of cordele , and hanged seven ."
3796,9829_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1915,". frank tonight was being guarded by forty policemen in an undertaking establishment here to pre- vent further demonstrations , follow ing disorders by a crowd which at times mounted up to 5000 , attracted by an operpowering desire to make sure for themselves that the work of the lynch",mob,"which kidnaped the noted prisoner and hanged him had been thoroughly done . bent on viewing the remains of frank , several hundred men , when they discovered the place where the body was being secreted before being taken to the undertakers , gathered at the automobile garage on pied"
3797,9829_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1915,"when they discovered the place where the body was being secreted before being taken to the undertakers , gathered at the automobile garage on pied mont avenue at ellis street and threatened to break down the doors uniess permitted to enter . after a window had been in by the",mob,"plain clothes smashed police- frank's body is almint minull great crowds gather and at tempt to enter under taker's room . atlanta , ga . , aug . 18 . - the body of lec m . frank , under a heavy police guard , was placed aboard a southern"
3798,9829_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1915,"and burial place of mary pha gan , victim of the pencil factory mur der for which frank was convicted at daybreak he was hanged at the end of fifteen feet of rope in an oak grove . the body was discovered at 8 : 30 this morning and a",mob,quickly gath ered . women and children were prominent in the throng . while the still in air of cremation on the spot were made by members of the throng . cool counsel prevailed and the body was cut down and brought to atlanta . though not escaping vicious kicks
3799,9829_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1915,prominent in the throng . while the still in air of cremation on the spot were made by members of the throng . cool counsel prevailed and the body was cut down and brought to atlanta . though not escaping vicious kicks from the boot of a maniac in the,mob,"as it was being carried to the taker's wagon no arrests under wagon . no arrests have yet been made . governor harris has instructed officials of cobb county to exert every effort to apprehend the lynchers , but as yet no state or county rewards have been offered ."
3800,9829_0.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1915,"they have them . investigations under way . three investigations are now under way the prison commission . , aided by the governor , today instituted an inquiry into the circumstances sur rounding the jail delivery . sheriff hicks is bending his effort toward discovery of the personnel of the",mob,". the coroner today began gathering information looking to an inquest to be opened probably tomorrow . the general feeling in atlanta to night is one of relief . comment generally was condemnatory of the act of the lynchers , and many whose sentiments had been against frank in life"
3801,9829_1.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1915,mayor justifies the,mob's,"action san francisco , aug . 17- justification of the mob's action in lynching leo m . frank was voiced tonight by j . g . woodward , mayor of atlanta , ga . , in a speech delivered before california's county assessors . "" you have heard only one"
3802,9829_1.txt,"The Ogden standard (Ogden City, Utah) 1913-1920",1915,"mayor justifies the mob's action san francisco , aug . 17- justification of the",mob's,"action in lynching leo m . frank was voiced tonight by j . g . woodward , mayor of atlanta , ga . , in a speech delivered before california's county assessors . "" you have heard only one side of the case , and that a subsidized one ,"
3803,9830_0.txt,NA,1919,"general wood to leave for chicago omaha , neb . , oct . 3 . --- governor mc kelvie , assisted by state agents , today continued his investigation into the cause of the riots last sunday which resulted in the lynching of a negro , a attack by the",mob,"on the mayor of omaha , the killing of two white men and the burning of the county court house . more than 75 men and boys are un der arrest , charged with participating in the riots and the police say many others will be taken into custody ."
3804,9831_0.txt,NA,1948,"georgia slaying warrant issued in lyons , ga . state troopers gave mrs . amy mallard , 24 , protection last week when she swore out a murder warrant against a young white farmer who , she said , aided a",mob,"that lynched her husband , last nov . 20 . robert mallard , prosperous funeral - supplies salesman who liv among poor georgia whites , ed was lynched , allegedly because he voted in the last election . mrs . mallard also said that the whites were envious of their"
3805,9831_0.txt,NA,1948,"was lynched , allegedly because he voted in the last election . mrs . mallard also said that the whites were envious of their prosperity . william l . ( spud ) howell , the young white farmer was identified by mrs . mallard as being a member of the",mob,that lynch ed her husband . a special grand jury is sched to begin an investigation uled of the slaying this friday .
3806,9833_0.txt,"The broad ax (Salt Lake City,...)",1919,,mob,"lynches and burns negro in mississippi of vicksburg , miss . , thurs . p . m . lloyd clay , aged 24 a negro , alleged to have attacked a young the white woman , was lynched and then his body burned to night by a mob of between"
3807,9833_0.txt,"The broad ax (Salt Lake City,...)",1919,"mob lynches and burns negro in mississippi of vicksburg , miss . , thurs . p . m . lloyd clay , aged 24 a negro , alleged to have attacked a young the white woman , was lynched and then his body burned to night by a",mob,of between 800 and 1000 persons . is
3808,9835_0.txt,"The Dolores star (Dolores, Montez...)",1917,"and said to be a deserter from the army , was ar rested at mesa on complaint of mrs . gibson who told the officers that daley had killed her husband and then attacked her . daley was taken to phoenix and lodged in jail , later taken by a",mob,of fifty and and hanged .
3809,9838_0.txt,NA,1909,"negro murderer lynched . live oak , fla.- swinging from a limb in front of his shoe repairing shop at perry , taylor county , the dead body of charley anderson , a negro , was found early sunday morning . a",mob,"had im posed the death penalty as a reward for the bullet anderson sent into the heart of marshal hawkins . the place of the lynching was almost at the spot where marshal hawkins was slain , the officer having been in the act of placing the negro under arrest"
3810,9839_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1911,cherokee indian gle ably ball in accused of murder ings play landed in jail after being ers rescued from,mob,"bent on on lynching . tual asheville , n . c . , october 9 . - ross french , twenty- one , a cherokee indian , nary living on the birdtown , swain county , reservation , was safely locked in the county jail here last night charged with"
3811,9839_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1911,"county jail here last night charged with the murder of ethel schuler , the four- teen- year- old daughter of a birdtown farmer , after having criminally her . his arrival here was effected assaulted after her . his arrival here was effected after by an exciting escape from a",mob,"of one hundred men bent on lynching the pris- foot the oner . the body of the girl was found friday in the woods near the town with her throat cut , and no trace of her assailant was found until yesterday morning , when it deputy sheriff beck of"
3812,9839_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1911,"no trace of her assailant was found until yesterday morning , when it deputy sheriff beck of swain county ar it rested french at a point seven miles from sylva . beck made the arrest on the strength of blood- stained finger prints the on the indian's hat . men",mob,"threatens lynching . the news of french's capture spread quickly to the neighboring towns and a have mob of one hundred men followed the deputy sheriff to waynesville , where french was lodged in jail . as the mob continued to grow , the sheriff called out in the militia"
3813,9839_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1911,county ar it rested french at a point seven miles from sylva . beck made the arrest on the strength of blood- stained finger prints the on the indian's hat . men mob threatens lynching . the news of french's capture spread quickly to the neighboring towns and a have,mob,"of one hundred men followed the deputy sheriff to waynesville , where french was lodged in jail . as the mob continued to grow , the sheriff called out in the militia and the crowd was dispersed . beck then took his prisoner through the after back door of the"
3814,9839_0.txt,"Evening star (Washington, D.C...)",1911,"blood- stained finger prints the on the indian's hat . men mob threatens lynching . the news of french's capture spread quickly to the neighboring towns and a have mob of one hundred men followed the deputy sheriff to waynesville , where french was lodged in jail . as the",mob,"continued to grow , the sheriff called out in the militia and the crowd was dispersed . beck then took his prisoner through the after back door of the jail to a waiting automobile at clyde , and twenty miles from this city the deputy sheriff boarded an asheville- bound"
3815,9842_0.txt,"The Big Sandy news (Louisa, Ky.)",1888,a,mob,"composed of colored men took john rowans , a negro brute , from jail at union bridge , md . , and strung him up to a tree . while hanging , bowans motioned that he wanted to speak , and he was lowered and the rope loosened . bowans"
3816,9843_0.txt,"Macon beacon (Macon, Miss.)",1890,"a murderer lynched . santa maria , cal . , may 13 . - twenty",masked,men entered a saloon here last night and lynched urderer named criswell . a
3817,9843_0.txt,"Macon beacon (Macon, Miss.)",1890,"a murderer lynched . santa maria , cal . , may 13 . - twenty",masked men,entered a saloon here last night and lynched urderer named criswell . a
3818,9845_0.txt,"Daily public ledger (Maysville, Ky.)",1895,it is said that the,mob,"which hung tom blair at mt . sterling consisted of fifteen persons , and the governor has offered $ 400 each for their apprehension and arrest , and to this the county has added $ 100 each . this reward has brought three detectives on the ground , and in"
3819,9846_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,storm jail ; hang negro alabama,mob,"metes quick justice to negro who attacked woman . montgomery , ala . , april 2 . while in the hands of a mob convey ing him to his alleged victim for identification , a pike county negro today confessed the crime . the mob hanged him to a telegraph"
3820,9846_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,"storm jail ; hang negro alabama mob metes quick justice to negro who attacked woman . montgomery , ala . , april 2 . while in the hands of a",mob,"convey ing him to his alleged victim for identification , a pike county negro today confessed the crime . the mob hanged him to a telegraph pole . scores of bullets were shot into the swinging body . the mob then dispersed the . negro confessed to attacking mrs ."
3821,9846_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,"jail ; hang negro alabama mob metes quick justice to negro who attacked woman . montgomery , ala . , april 2 . while in the hands of a mob convey ing him to his alleged victim for identification , a pike county negro today confessed the crime . the",mob,"hanged him to a telegraph pole . scores of bullets were shot into the swinging body . the mob then dispersed the . negro confessed to attacking mrs . butts of goshen . a mob organized this morning and stormed the jail at goshen springs , taking the from a"
3822,9846_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,", april 2 . while in the hands of a mob convey ing him to his alleged victim for identification , a pike county negro today confessed the crime . the mob hanged him to a telegraph pole . scores of bullets were shot into the swinging body . the",mob,"then dispersed the . negro confessed to attacking mrs . butts of goshen . a mob organized this morning and stormed the jail at goshen springs , taking the from a cell . negro"
3823,9846_0.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,"alleged victim for identification , a pike county negro today confessed the crime . the mob hanged him to a telegraph pole . scores of bullets were shot into the swinging body . the mob then dispersed the . negro confessed to attacking mrs . butts of goshen . a",mob,"organized this morning and stormed the jail at goshen springs , taking the from a cell . negro"
3824,9846_2.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,", the serious injury of two white men and minor injuries to a number of white and colored men , and damage to a number of buildings . a lynching is threatened if the negro who fired the fatal shot is found . about 10 o'clock saturday night , a",mob,"of armed negroes swooped down upon a crowd of spectators in the main thoroughfare of the town and fired a volley of bullets and buckshot into the crowd . orem stockley , 18 years old , son of a farmer living near laurel , fell to the ground shot through"
3825,9846_2.txt,"The Wheeling intelligencer (Wheeling, W. Va...)",1911,"necessitating amputation , and john thompson , a white barber , was shot in both legs while sharing a patron . other white men received minor injuries . it is known that several negroes were injured , but they cannot be located . officers were unable to cope with the",mob,and there was a flerce struggle between the two races until 3 o'clock this morning . windows were shattered and the exterior of were greatly damaged . buildings
3826,9849_0.txt,NA,1888,"the law too slow for thein . atlanta , ga . , may 1 . - henry pope , colored , was hanged by a",mob,"at midnight from the court house veranda in summer ville . he was to have been hanged wednesday , but the news of a respite by the governor led the people the county to lynch him . he had been convicted of of rape ."
3827,9850_0.txt,"The daily citizen (Asheville, N.C.)",1889,' hanged by a,mob,". washington , november 8 . - owen anderson , an eighteen year old boy , was lynched in leesburg , va . , early yesterday morning . anderson wednesday evening outraged a respectable seventeen year old white girl , who was returning home from school . he was arrested"
3828,9852_0.txt,NA,1892,a lynching in new york . the a negro brute hanged to a tree by a vengeful,mob,". he violently assaulted a young woman hall in the presence of two other women- were pursued , captured and promptly a lynched . port jervis , n . y . , june 2 . - robert jackson , a young colored man , was a . swift retribution for"
3829,9852_0.txt,NA,1892,"whispered the through the crowd "" lynch him , lynch but him ! the suggestion spread like wildemy fire , and it was evident that the fate of the tact prisoner was sealed . the on his arrival at the lock- up jackson ber was taken in hand by the",mob,". the vil lage police endeavored to protect him , but their efforts were unavailing . it was at first proposed to have jackson identitied by his victim before hanging him , in order to make sure of his guilt . with this object in view the mob tied a"
3830,9852_0.txt,NA,1892,"by the mob . the vil lage police endeavored to protect him , but their efforts were unavailing . it was at first proposed to have jackson identitied by his victim before hanging him , in order to make sure of his guilt . with this object in view the",mob,"tied a rope around his body and dragged him up . you hammond and down main streets as far as the residence of e . g . fowler , esq . by this time the mob had reached a state i of uncontrollable excitement , and it was and decided"
3831,9852_0.txt,NA,1892,"order to make sure of his guilt . with this object in view the mob tied a rope around his body and dragged him up . you hammond and down main streets as far as the residence of e . g . fowler , esq . by this time the",mob,"had reached a state i of uncontrollable excitement , and it was and decided to dispatch him without further ceremony . a noose was adjusted about his neck and he was strung up to a neighboring tree in the presence of over 1,000 people . for an hour the body"
3832,9852_0.txt,NA,1892,", n . j . he was 5 feet 8 inches in height , and had a heavy mous tache . he was heavily built . at midnight excitement was still run ning high here over the assault and the disclosures made by jackson while in the hauds of his",captors,"in relation to foiey . his story was that he had had an under standing with foley that the latter was to take miss mcmahon to the banks of the neversink river and then leave her , so that he ( jackson ) might attack her . the fact that"
3833,9852_0.txt,NA,1892,". y . , june 3 . - the incidents of the journey of jackson , the negro who was lynched here last night for a brutal assault on miss teena mcmahon , were of a most exciting character . at every electric light a halt was made by the",mob,"and the subject of immediate lynching dis cussed . when the procession had reached a point on sussex street opposite the residence of lawyer carr , one excited citizen made a violent harangue , urging hanging without delay . johnson was dragged along the streets at the end of a"
3834,9852_0.txt,NA,1892,"when the procession had reached a point on sussex street opposite the residence of lawyer carr , one excited citizen made a violent harangue , urging hanging without delay . johnson was dragged along the streets at the end of a rope , and was kicked and pounded by the",mob,"without mercy , when the place of lynching was reached his clothing had been literally torn from his body , and he was in a bleeding condition . the scene was appalling beyond description . the yells of the doomed man could be heard for blocks , and his distorted"
3835,9853_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1901,hang knife- wielding negro .,mob,"overpowers guards and applies lynch law . lake charles , la . , dec . 10 . - sauldren poydras , the negro who cut chief deputy sheriff c . m . richaras and wife seriously with a razor thursday , was arrested near walsh , 20 miles east ,"
3836,9853_0.txt,"Vilas County news (Eagle River, Vi...)",1901,"10 . - sauldren poydras , the negro who cut chief deputy sheriff c . m . richaras and wife seriously with a razor thursday , was arrested near walsh , 20 miles east , and brought here yesterday . officers were about to lodge him in prison when a",mob,"overpowered the guards , took poydras and hanged him to an electric light near the court house . wire"