




The Griffon News: Missouri Western State College
May 19, 2022 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2022 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 435 words
Byline: Martin Holmes, TV Insider
Body


The residents of Riverdale are set to say goodbye as The CW has announced that the popular drama series will end its run with the upcoming seventh season.
Riverdale was renewed back in March, alongside fellow CW dramas The Flash, All American, Superman & Lois, Walker, Kung Fu, and Nancy Drew. The Archie Comics series is currently airing its sixth season on Sunday nights, averaging a total of 560,000 viewers with Live+7 DVR playback included.
The cancellation news came as part of The CW's 2022 fall schedule release, which confirmed the seventh and final season will debut at midseason in 2023. Riverdale now joins its fellow network shows Dynasty, Charmed, Naomi, 4400, In the Dark, and Roswell, New Mexico, all of which were axed last week.
Riverdale was developed by Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa and based on the characters from Archie Comics. The show follows a group of teenagers trying to unravel the evils lurking within this seemingly innocent town. Often heightened for dramatic effect, the series deals with things like murder, sex, drugs, and all sorts of supernatural weirdness.
The series was a big hit for The CW in its debut season, becoming even more popular after it became available on Netflix. The second season averaged over 2 million viewers, a solid number for the network. However, in recent seasons the ratings have started to drop, with Season 5 averaging just over 1 million viewers.
Riverdale stars KJ Apa as Archie, Lili Reinhart as Betty, Camila Mendes as Veronica, Cole Sprouse as Jughead, Madelaine Petsch as Cheryl, Mädchen Amick as Alice, Charles Melton as Reggie, and Vanessa Morgan as Toni.
More from this section
Nick Jonas: Baby is a 'gift'
Nick Cannon says he has been for a 'vasectomy consultation' after welcoming four kids in one year
He kept a MUMMIFIED FOOT by his bed?! The stars who worship feet...
See Also
'Riverdale' Sneak Peek: Veronica Unleashes a 'Toxic' Performance
With a taste of her lip-syncing, we're on a ride.
Aguirre-Sacasa executive produces alongside Greg Berlanti and Sarah Schechter of Berlanti Productions and Jon Goldwater, publisher and CEO of Archie Comics. Warner Bros. Television produces.
Riverdale, Sundays, 8/7c, The CW
More Headlines:
'Riverdale' to End With Season 7 at The CW
The CW Fall 2022 Schedule: 'Supernatural' & 'Walker' Prequels, 'The Flash' to Midseason
'Love, Death & Robots' Season 3: Netflix Drops Surprise Episode
'The Kardashians' Season 1 Episode 6: Kim's Criminal Justice Advocacy
Marnie Schulenburg Dies: 'As the World Turns,' 'One Life To Live' Star Was 37
Originally published on tvinsider.com, part of the TownNews Content Exchange.

Load-Date: May 20, 2022


End of Document
