




The Daily Caller
June 22, 2023 Thursday 12:06 AM EST


Copyright 2023 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT
Length: 277 words
Byline: Leena Nasir, Entertainment Reporter, 
Body



Hilaria Baldwin overshared some pretty cringey details about her husband, Alec Baldwin, and made it seem as though he has some serious mama-issues.
The  and mother of seven of his children, admitted to not using any birth control during a  with Romper. As if that wasn't already too much information, she kept on giving. The interviewer described Hilaria as being the type of person that loves taking care of others. That was the segue to what fans will not be able to unhear. Hilaria described her relationship with Alec by saying, “Am I his mommy? Sometimes I'm his mommy. Sometimes.”
 Hilaria Baldwin on 26-year age gap with husband Alec: 'Sometimes I'm his mommy'  
 - Page Six (@PageSix) 
The truly  raised more than a few eyebrows on social media.
Hilaria is 26 years younger than Alec, and many assumed she had daddy issues and found her fix with the 65-year-old actor, the outlet noted.
It seems to be quite the opposite. Hilaria addressed those criticisms head-on during her interview.
“At the beginning of our relationship, everyone was like, 'She must have daddy issues because she's married to somebody older.' But it's actually the opposite,” she .
She didn't stop there.
Hilaria then told fans all about the fact that Alec doesn't want to get snipped. 
“I feel awful when I'm on birth control; it makes me depressed,” she said to Romper.
“Every single time I have a baby, my OB writes down the vasectomy doctor on a Post-it, and I bring it home to Alec,” she noted.
“He hasn't done it yet.”

Graphic

 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK - MAY 18: Alec Baldwin and Hilaria Baldwin attend the 2023 PEN America Literary Gala at American Museum of Natural History on May 18, 2023 in New York City. (Photo by Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images for PEN America)

Load-Date: June 21, 2023


End of Document
