




The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)
April 10, 2008 Thursday


Copyright 2008 
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News
Section: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS
Length: 443 words
Byline: Josh McAuliffe, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.
Body


Apr. 10--Last we heard from the Dunder Mifflin Scranton crew, Michael and Jan were driving back from that disastrous deposition at corporate headquarters in New York, where Michael refused to back his girlfriend in her wrongful termination suit against the paper company.
As the two morosely discussed dinner possibilities, a rift of some sort appeared to be in the works.
Indicators point to plenty of impending drama coming to the fore in "Dinner Party," the first new episode of "The Office" since November.
The Scranton-set NBC sitcom returns tonight at 9 after a five-month hiatus caused by the Writers Guild of America strike. Locally, it airs on WBRE-TV, Channel 28.
In "Dinner Party," one of six new episodes set to run between now and mid-May, Michael (Steve Carell) and Jan (Melora Hardin) welcome Jim (John Krasinski) and Pam (Jenna Fischer) and Andy (Ed Helms) and Angela (Angela Kinsey) to their home for a night of food and fun.
As usual, details are scarce regarding the episode, but there's little doubt this get together will dissolve into chaos so long as the ever-moronic Michael and the increasingly wacky Jan are involved.
Scenes made available to the public include: Michael failing to fully comprehend the rules of Charades: Michael complaining to Jan about the physical toll that "three vasectomies" have had on him: and Jan, upon greeting her guests, explaining that the dinner's centerpiece, osso bucco, will only require another three hours of braising.
Meanwhile, back at the office, Dwight (Rainn Wilson) is jealous and hurt at not being invited to the festivities.
Expectations will be high for the episode, given how long "The Office" has been away, and the fact that cast and crew have been praising the quality of the script for months.
"It is one of the funniest episodes we'd ever done," Krasinski told Canada's Canwest News Service. "And we realized it more and more during the shooting of it."
Next week's episode, "Parking," will revolve around Andy and Kevin's (Brian Baumgartner) attempts to regain some stolen parking spaces.
With the return of "The Office," The Times-Tribune will revive its next-day recaps of each episode, complete with any Scranton-specific mentions that pop up throughout the show.
To see more of The Times-Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to . Copyright (c) 2008, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email , call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

Load-Date: November 21, 2008


End of Document
