




USNEWS.com
October 16, 2023 Monday


Copyright 2023 U.S. News & World Report All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Vol.; No.
Length: 697 words
Byline: L.R. Fox
Highlight: As many men become increasingly engaged in family planning, a new era of male contraceptives arrives.
Body


Last month, we celebrated , and this year, we have a lot to cheer: Women's contraceptive use , including in the U.S., where the FDA recently  the first over-the-counter female birth control pill. As we head into the next era for birth control access, I want to challenge us to think even bigger: What would it look like if men had practical options to share in the responsibility of family planning? 
[]
Historically, birth control has been marketed to and  at women. For many, there's a societal assumption that birth control is a woman's domain. Many pharmaceutical companies seem content to maintain the status quo -- some even  for new contraception products for women. It's been  that the necessary research into male forms of birth control has been slowed by a lack of funding.  have found that fewer than 30 U.S. clinical trials since 2005 have looked at birth control for men compared to the more than 500 studies for erectile dysfunction, for example. 
In this new era -- with women's reproductive care under fire -- we can't let old assumptions or dedication to the status quo constrict innovation and stymie progress. 
People are ready to move forward and are looking for better ways to engage in family planning. Traditionally, many men are assumed to  in their own health care, especially reproductive health. But in the last year, a number of studies came out showing that men are increasingly getting vasectomies, the only current long-acting family planning method for men. 
For instance, vasectomies in the U.S. went up by 26% from 2014 to 2021, according to a . After the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wadelast year, . Reports of a so-called  began circulating. One doctor even  that vasectomy consults surged by 900% following the decision. 
Another interesting phenomenon is that more young men are looking for long-acting methods. Insurance data  that the age range of men interested in vasectomies is skewing younger and younger. This means that young men who may want to become parents in the future or father additional children are increasingly relying on a contraceptive option that wasn't originally  to be reversible -- and still isn't all of the time. Men seeking to plan their families deserve more options than are currently available to them. 
[]
Family planning can no longer be pegged as a women's issue. For men to share in the responsibility, we need access to novel contraceptive methods. In the current landscape, it's more critical than ever that people have access to the best method of contraceptive care for them. 
As the founder of a company designing a new form of male contraception called  , I know firsthand how important a long-acting, reversible and non-hormonal male contraceptive would be for men. The design of Plan A would offer a way for men to stop the flow of sperm through a simple injection of non-hormonal hydrogel that acts as a flexible and reversible filter within the vas deferens. 
I believe men are excited to see technologies like this finally hit the market. I'm fortunate enough to get to witness the excitement across our team at each new milestone we reach, from the investors I talk to everyday, to the scientists working in our labs. All signs point to male contraception being on the verge of a major breakthrough. 
To support and encourage that breakthrough, we need more research and investment in male birth control methods. Health care professionals need additional options to present to their patients. Fathers, brothers and sons need to continue to break down the stigma around men's participation in family planning. 
Male birth control is part of the future. Let's all do our part to make it a reality.
L.R. Fox is the CEO and founder of NEXT Life Sciences, a medical device company that plans to deliver the first male contraceptive solution that is non-hormonal, long lasting and reversible.

Graphic

 
Picture, A number of studies have shown that men are increasingly getting vasectomies, the only current long-acting contraceptive method for men., (Getty Stock)

Load-Date: October 17, 2023


End of Document
