




Newstex Blogs 
Florida Politics
February 23, 2024 Friday 1:05 AM EST


Newstex LLC
Copyright 2024 Florida Politics 
Length: 553 words
Byline: Gabrielle Russon
Body


February 23rd, 2024 (   — Delivered by   )
Despite more than two hours of opposition lobbying against the legislation, a House panel approved a bill Thursday mandating insurance companies that provide transgender care to also be required to cover de-transition treatments.
The   voted in favor of   after emotional testimony during a five-hour meeting.
'This is a charged debate,' said bill sponsor Rep.  , a Republican from Apopka who argued his legislation was 'bringing compassion to those who have seen and experienced brokenness in their life and want to make themselves whole.'
Others viewed it differently, calling it a slap in the face to the LGBTQ+ community.
'This bill is not compassionate,' said Rep.  , a Jacksonville Democrat. 'It has everything to do with transphobia and infringing upon the freedoms of people you don't understand, people you fear or people you simply don't agree with how they live their lives.'
Under the bill, health insurance companies covering prescriptions or procedures as part of transgender care will also provide coverage for treatment to de-transition 'for an appropriate additional premium' starting January 1, 2025, according to the staff analysis. 
Insurance companies offering transgender care will also be required to offer additional policies that does not offer that coverage.
The bill also requires a driver license or identification card to include a person's sex at birth, instead of gender.
'This does not take anyone's right to personally identify how they wish but this is a state document based upon state statute. That's why there's clarity,' Bankson said.
Democrats argued the state was interfering in the private sector by deciding what insurance companies are required to cover. Others accused Republicans of hypocrisy, pointing out state doesn't require insurance companies to cover reversals for vasectomies and penile implants.
Bankson called transition surgeries 'relatively new' in the medical field and said there needed to be a 'two-way street' for people who undergo.
'It is discriminatory to say we will make you whole this direction, but not make you whole this direction,' he said.
Bankson denied his legislation was attacking the transgender community and argued he didn't believe his bill, if passed, could lead insurance companies to deciding to drop transition surgeries.
'I know there are fears that this will cause the insurance coverage there to be diminished. I have not had anyone from the insurance industry speaking out against this bill, telling me this is terrible,' he said. 'I truly think it's the opposite.'
The majority of the testimony from the public voiced opposition to the bill as LGBTQ+ advocates shared how gender-affirming care helped them and compared reparative therapy to conversion therapy.
The ranking Democrat on the committee lamented HB 1639 debate dominating the meeting.
'We have spent over two hours on this bill just today, and on all the other days to talk about something that does no harm to anyone,' said Rep.  . 'We should be spending more time looking at expanding Medicaid and all these other things we could be doing to actually help people. It is so painful.'
Post Views: 0


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 22, 2024


End of Document
