




The Tampa Tribune (Florida)
July 14, 2006 Friday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: FRIDAY EXTRA; Pg. 10
Length: 601 words
Byline: BOB ROSS, The Tampa Tribune
Body


By BOB ROSS
The Tampa Tribune
A young couple's perfect new life turns chaotic in "You, Me and Dupree," a low-level comedy elevated by its main characters' screen appeal.
After a Hawaiian wedding and blissful honeymoon, newlyweds Carl and Molly Peterson (Matt Dillon and Kate Hudson) return to their Los Angeles neighborhood. But before they can settle in, they learn that Carl's longtime best friend, Randolph Dupree (Owen Wilson) has lost his job, his apartment and his car.
Because Dupree claims he got into this trouble because he took a week off to be best man at their wedding, the Petersons reluctantly invite him to stay with them "for a few days."
Hah. We all know where this will lead. Dupree has, shall we say, serious maturity issues. While crashing on the couch is fine with him, Molly finds his presence disruptive. Here's when you can decide how funny the film is: Molly and Carl come downstairs in the morning and see Dupree asleep in the nude, face down. The sight of those pink cheeks made many in the audience laugh, and if you're of the same mind the film will be worth staying through.
Otherwise, you're in for a lengthy character sketch that relies heavily on four gifted comic performers.
Wilson has built himself into a box-office brand name (see Worth the Rent, Page 42). With his surfer-dude mop and homespun speaking style, he's a natural as the man-child Dupree - a guy who would rather play baseball in the street with the local kids than look for a job. He thinks a steep skateboard ramp in front of the house is a dandy improvement.
Dupree's presence plays out against a strong subplot. While Molly is happy teaching elementary school, Carl toils as a designer for Mr. Thompson, her fat-cat developer daddy (Michael Douglas). Thompson, while superficially pleasant, turns out to be an antagonistic control freak who wants his daughter to keep her surname. It's amusing when Carl finds that his office door has a new sign on it: Carl Peterson-Thompson. Carl doesn't even fret too much when his father-in-law suggests he get a vasectomy.
But when the old man changes Carl's pet project from a small, environmentally friendly subdivision into a sprawling, greed-inspired monster, a career crisis coincides with Dupree's ever-expanding intrusions.
Wilson makes the character lovable despite - or maybe because of - his slipshod sense of reality. First-time screenwriter Mike LeSieur makes Dupree's antics seem rooted in innocence, even when they lead to the most deplorable results. The fraternal directing team of Anthony and Joe Russo seem to have abandoned the edgy cynicism of their TV work ("Lucky," "Arrested Development") in favor of this film's more traditional style.
That leaves it up to the actors. Dillon's a perfect straight man here, torn between loyalty to a pal and love for his spouse. And Hudson is adorably adept as the young wife stuck in an unending quandary.
CHART: MOVIE REVIEW
You, Me and Dupree: C+
MOVIE BOARD RATING: PG-13 (profanity, nudity, sexuality, crude humor)
STARS: Owen Wilson, Kate Hudson, Matt Dillon, Michael Douglas
DIRECTORS: Joe and Anthony Russo
LOCATION: For locations, see Quick Flicks, Page 12; see Page 14 for movie times.
PLOT SUMMARY: Newlyweds are stressed when the best man crashes at their house.
RUNNING TIME: 109 minutes
ON THE WEB: youmeanddupree.com
Photo credit: Universal Studios
Photo: Newlyweds Molly (Kate Hudson) and Carl (Matt Dillon, right) have their lives disrupted by a persistent houseguest (Owen Wilson) in "You, Me and Dupree"
Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without permission. E-mail 

Notes

FILM

Graphic

 
PHOTO CHART
.

Load-Date: July 15, 2006


End of Document
