




Cosmopolitan(US)
September 1, 2014


Copyright 2014 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOT & HEALTHY; Pg. 258; Vol. 257
Length: 2277 words
Byline: Amanda Robb
Body


Across the country, lawmakers have passed new rules they said will protect the health of women. This is the story of what has really happened.
I heard there's a new law,"
Valé, a doe-eyed wisp of a 17-year-old, chattered to anyone, everyone in the waiting room of Reproductive Services of Harlingen, Texas. She gripped her primly dressed mother's hand. "Do you think they will still help?" the girl continued frantically. "Do you think it's still safe?" No one in the room-there were six pregnant women, ages 17 to 38-answered. Each had come to the clinic, tucked away in this Rio Grande Valley city about 20 miles from the Mexican border, for an abortion. Trouble is, it was illegal for them to get one here or anywhere else in the United States within 25,000 square miles.
The law Valé was referring to is Texas's 2013 omnibus abortion bill, which imposed a raft of new restrictions on clinics. Among them: Abortion providers must have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles of their practice-meaning that if a patient has a serious complication, the provider could check her into the nearby hospital and personally treat her there. Signing the bill into law, Governor Rick Perry said it would "improve the quality of care for women."
That is not exactly how things have played out.
On November 1, 2013, the day the admitting-privileges rule went into effect, 14 of the 36 abortion clinics in Texas closed. Most everyone believed Reproductive Services of Harlingen would be another one because its owner/operator, Lester Minto, MD, does not have hospital-admitting privileges. "But neither does the guy down the street doing vasectomies," the family practitioner told me when I called him shortly before Thanksgiving. "The new law is bullshit."
The American Medical Association, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the Texas Hospital Association all oppose admitting-privileges requirements for abortion providers. Fewer than 0.05 percent of U.S. abortion patients ever need to be hospitalized. If a woman finds herself in that rare situation, the professional groups all say that she should do the obvious thing: Go to an emergency room to be treated by someone trained in emergency medicine.
Dr. Minto told me that he tried to get admitting privileges at a local hospital. But in his experience, the process was like trying to get into a snooty private club. Hospital administrators make up the rules for admission. They can be sensible (board certification), money-driven (admit at least 12 patients a year), or religious (adhere to Catholic doctrine). Then, administrators decide who gets in and who gets blackballed-which Dr. Minto said happened to him.
"I have to help women a bit differently than I used to," the doctor said. "When they come to my clinic, I say, 'Sorry, I can't give you an abortion, but I can tell you what other women in your situation do.'" Put plainly, they try to self-abort.
"If they have a passport and enough money, they go over the border to buy Cytotec," Dr. Minto said. Cytotec is a brand name for misoprostol, which is half the drug cocktail used in legal U.S. medical abortions and is also used to treat stomach ulcers. Misoprostol is sold by prescription in the U.S. but is available over-the-counter in Mexico pharmacies. "If a woman can't get over the border, she tries to buy Cytotec at a U.S. flea market."
Back alley as that sounds and jacked up as the prices get (with a U.S. prescription, misoprostol costs as little as 10 to 12 cents a pill, but over the border and on the street, it reportedly goes for up to $80 a tablet), Dr. Minto said this process "often works fine." But if it doesn't, the consequences can be grave-hemorrhaging, sepsis. So Dr. Minto told me he tells women who come to see him, "If you try something, come see me in a week to make sure it worked. Because if there's a problem, I can do miscarriage management."
Before the U.S. Supreme Court legalized abortion nationwide in its 1973 Roe v. Wade decision, miscarriage management was a common end-run around laws prohibiting the procedure. In order to get medical care, a woman had to find a way to make herself bleed vaginally. A sharp object stabbed through the cervix often did the trick.
"But I'm not seeing that now," Dr. Minto told me. "So far, women today try drugs." A week before Christmas 2013, I traveled to the tip of Texas to witness this all firsthand.
Gabriela was 30. She had raven black hair, red-rimmed eyes, and a clenched jaw. Sitting erect in a molded plastic chair, she looked absolutely pissed. "As soon as I found I was pregnant, I went to Mexico," the single, childless salesclerk said. "I saw a doctor there to get a prescription for a bad stomach because I heard the pharmacies give you a better price on the drug if they don't think you are trying to have an abortion. That appointment was $50. The pharmacy charged me $100 for 30 pills. The doctor told me to take four pills, and if it didn't work in three hours, take four more. I did that. Then I took four more. Then I got scared. Now I am here-this visit will cost me $550 more."
Gabriela's take-home pay was about $1,000 a month. You can do the math.
A nurse took Gabriela's history and briskly went through a stack of forms. After Gabriela signed them, the nurse introduced her to Dr. Minto. In person, he's a big man whose blue eyes and booming cheerfulness bring to mind the Wizard in The Wizard of Oz.
"I hear you tried Cytotec!" Dr. Minto said, in English and Spanish.
"Uh-huh," Gabriela said.
They disappeared with the nurse into a room that is spare and white except for ultrasound equipment, cupboards, and a line-drawing poster promoting condom use.
Gabriela emerged wiping off dregs of ultrasound jelly, and then Dr. Minto's assistant directed Gabriela one door down, to the procedure room.  She was left alone to take off her pants and underwear and to lie down on a table and get her feet into some bootie-covered stirrups.
I sat down to check e-mails. Before I got my password into my phone, I heard a yelp and a moan, and within two minutes, out staggered Gabriela.
"You did great," Dr. Minto told her.
Gabriela's expression was murderous. The nurse led her to one of six vinyl Barcaloungers situated in a semicircle. Gabriela curled up, fetal-like. "They put a mask on your face, but it did nothing for the pain," she said. "Terrible, terrible cramps."
"Um, anesthesia?" I asked Dr. Minto.
"We offer IV sedation for what it costs me," he explained. "It used to be $5. Now, it's much more." The additional cost was presumably out of reach to his patients. While I was in the office, all the women received the cheaper but less powerful option of nitrous oxide-laughing gas.
Dr. Minto said the reason for the change was that the costs of IV meds had soared. Plus, anesthesia has its own risks. But it didn't escape my notice that, since the passage of the law, his business was also down nearly 75 percent.
"These new laws can force clinics to scale back who they can offer services to, and as volume and income go down, sedation can become limited," says Colleen McNicholas, DO, a fellow on the committee for underserved women for the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. "These restrictions diminish the quality of care on so many levels."
Carmelita was 27, married, and the mother of two toddler-age children. She worked in customer service. "I can't have another baby," she said. "When I get pregnant, I throw up constantly-have-to-stay-in-the-hospital throw-up constantly-so I can't work," she said. "My husband gets scared. It is a difficult marriage. Six hours after we had sex, I bought the morning-after pill. It did not work. My cousin in Mexico sent me the [misoprostol] pills. They did not work."
A few minutes later, she was beside Gabriela on a Barcalounger, the two women holding heating pads to their cramping bellies.
Dr. Minto was not sure why his business had gotten so bad. Maybe women were afraid that the new law could land them in legal trouble. (It cannot. In Texas, only doctors face fines, of up to $4,000.) Or maybe they had just figured out their own ways to deal with unwanted pregnancies.
"Do-it-yourself health care almost never ends well, whether it's unregulated pills bought on the internet or back-alley procedures that were the staple of our grandmothers' youth," says Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America. "Research is conclusive all over the world: making abortion illegal or inaccessible doesn't make the procedure less common. It only makes it far less safe and results in many more deaths."
The crisis is not confined to Texas. Although abortion remains legal, in vast swaths of the South and Midwest, it could become completely unavailable. At press time, 11 states have a law requiring hospital-admitting privileges for abortion providers. The law is enforced in Missouri, North Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, and Utah. It held up in court in Alabama, Kansas, Mississippi, and Wisconsin. And unless a legal challenge can stop things, Texas-style restrictions will go into effect this fall in Louisiana and Oklahoma.
Hospital-admitting laws are working through six more state legislatures. So are hundreds more of what abortion-rights advocates call targeted regulation of abortion-provider (TRAP) laws. They include rules about everything from room sizes and corridor widths to parking spaces and requirements that grass outside clinics be cut to a certain height.
Some are just nuisances. But some will instantly close clinics. Already in 2011, 89 percent of U.S. counties lacked an abortion provider, and more facilities have closed their doors since. Six states-Arkansas, Mississippi, Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming-now have only a single provider.
Valé was Dr. Minto's last patient of the day. Her mother remained still as a statue. The girl trembled and couldn't stop talking. She revealed that she had been at Dr. Minto's clinic only four months ago. She had refused the doctor's offer of birth control because she was never going to have sex again. Well, not until she was married. Or in college, maybe. Last time, she and her boyfriend were in a good place, but her mom thought a baby was a bad idea. This time, Valé and her boyfriend had broken up. She told only her mom and one girlfriend, who told her that the law had changed. "What do you think the doctor will do? What do you think of abortion? I think it is better when it is safe. Last time, they gave me an IV. The IV helped."
Dr. Minto sat down with the teenager. He took her hands. He looked like the Wizard coming out from behind the curtain, when he wisely but humbly tells Dorothy and her friends that anyone can have a brain, a heart, and courage. "I can only help you if you've tried something."
Valé was suddenly quiet.
"Have you tried something?"
" Yeah."
"Great."
The girl went in. Dr. Minto was his efficient self. But her mother's stoicism finally broke. She wept-copiously but silently. Valé joined her sisters on the Barcaloungers.
Of the women I spoke to at the clinic, all but one said they would have "done anything" to not be pregnant. "Anything," each emphasized. Valé is the one who would have maybe kept "it." Why? She wouldn't have known what else to do.
This September, another provision of Texas's 2013 abortion law is scheduled to go into effect. It requires abortion clinics to become certified ambulatory surgical centers-basically, minihospitals. Currently, only six of the state's remaining abortion clinics operate at that standard, which is not required for facilities doing riskier outpatient procedures. One San Antonio provider has estimated that changing from a clinic to a surgical center would cost $40,000 a month. Another has said retrofitting her clinic would cost $2 million to $3 million. So all but those six clinics are at risk of closing.
Two months after I left Texas, Dr. Minto closed his own doors. Maybe he had come to that painful part of the story where he felt like a good man but a bad wizard-the part where he flies away and everything goes to black and white. Now the closest legal abortion for women is 250 miles away, in San Antonio.
Before they left Reproductive Services of Harlingen, Valé's mother urged her daughter to accept Dr. Minto's renewed offer of birth control. The teenager did. Then the two women walked out, no longer clutching each other, into the Texas heat.
Dr. Minto was washing his hands. "Sometimes," he said, "bullshit wins."
Clinics Under Attack
"No one should have to look up her rights by ZIP code," says NARAL's Ilyse Hogue. If you live in one of these states, your rights are especially endangered.
MISSOURI, NORTH DAKOTA, TENNESSEE, UTAH 
Texas-style hospital admitting restrictions are in force.
ALABAMA, KANSAS, MISSISSIPPI,  WISCONSIN 
Admitting laws held up in court. MS could end up with zero clinics.
OHIO 
Providers must have an agreement with a hospital, but public hospitals are banned from making one.
LOUISIANA 
Admitting law kicks in September 1. Three of the state's five clinics could close.
OKLAHOMA 
Admitting law goes in effect November 1. Two of the state's three clinics could shut down.
SOURCE: ACLU REPRODUCTIVE FREEDOM PROJECT; GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE
Vendors at flea markets, like this one in South Texas, may sell abortion-causing Rx drugs on the black market.
Misoprostol, sold OTC in Mexico, causes contractions and miscarriage-like symptoms and carries risks, like heavy bleeding.
Dr. Minto moved 400 miles from Harlingen when "the death threats got too crazy." He had a six-hour commute.
Undocumented women can't leave the Rio Grande Valley without fear of deportation. The clinic was their only legal option.

Load-Date: October 1, 2014


End of Document
