





Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
April 26, 2004 Monday CITY EDITION


Copyright 2004 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: NEWS; Pg. A1
Length: 820 words
Byline: Bob Dart Washington Bureau
Body


WASHINGTON - Waving a sea of pink and purple "Pro-Choice" signs, hundreds of thousands of abortion-rights activists marched on the nation's capital Sunday and warned President Bush that "reproductive freedom" will be an issue in the fall election.
"We didn't pick this fight, my gosh, but we're going to win it," said former Democratic Texas governor Ann Richards, who came with her daughters, daughters-in-law and granddaughters. "We are in a battle in this country where none of us can rest."
"I came because I believe Bush is going to take away our freedom of choice (by) appointing Supreme Court justices who would vote to overturn Roe v. Wade, " the 1973 decision guaranteeing right to an abortion, said Joyce Polak of Delray Beach, Fla.
Recent public opinion polls have shown an increase in anti-abortion sentiment and apathy in a generation of young women who have grown up with abortion rights and take "choice" for granted. However, abortion-rights leaders believe that Bush has re-energized their movement by promoting a "pro-life" agenda, including signing a bill to ban so-called "partial birth abortions."
Attorney General John Ashcroft's plan to examine records of abortion clinics especially angered the abortion rights activists.
At the march, homemade signs said it all: "If Only Barbara Had Had a Choice." "Vasectomies for Republicans." "If You Can't Trust Me With a Choice, How Can You Trust Me With a Child?" "Keep Your Rosaries Off My Ovaries." "Wax Bush."
There were men wearing pink T-shirts saying "This Is What a Feminist Looks Like." Expectant mothers carried signs saying "Pregnant by Choice." Some women pushed babies in strollers. Others pushed their grandmothers in wheelchairs. College students wore T-shirts with pictures of coat hangers and the vow "Not In My Lifetime."
"Hey. Hey. Ho. Ho. George Bush has got to go," they chanted. "Pro-life. It's a lie. You don't care if women die."
Whoopi Goldberg, Kathleen Turner, Heather Thomas, and Cybill Shepherd were among the celebrities to take part.
The National Park Service no longer gives crowd estimates but this throng filled the mile-long mall between the Capitol and Washington Monument. Organizers said more than a million marched, doubling the 500,000 who demonstrated for abortion rights in 1992. Unidentified police sources told The Associated Press that as many as 800,000 attended. An estimated 500 Miami Valley residents were expected to participate.
Marching near the White House and up Pennsylvania Avenue, the abortion-rights advocates passed a much smaller group of anti-abortion protesters who were scattered along the sidewalk and separated from the parade by barricades and police. Some carried large pictures of aborted fetuses. At one point, a dozen Catholic priests in black robes watched silently as the marchers passed. Others on the "pro-life" side called the "pro-choice" demonstration a "death march."
Tabitha Warnica, 36, of Phoenix told The Associated Press that she had two abortions when she was young. "We don't have a choice. God is the only one who can decide," she said.
When a man shouted "shame, shame" at the marchers, one replied, "Come back when you get a uterus"
Seeing an anti-abortion activist's sign saying "Trust Jesus," the marchers chanted "Trust Women."
Police arrested 16 people from the Christian Defense Coalition for demonstrating without a permit and another anti-abortion protester for throwing ink-filled plastic eggs at rally signs, the AP reported.
Because young women have grown up with the right to an abortion, some apathy has set in even among those who are pro-choice, said some marchers. But that is changing, they said.
"I know tons of young people who came here. Two of my cousins drove from Ohio," said Ashley Bleimes, 19, an American University student from Columbus, Ohio. "A lot of young women are passionate about it."
Debbie Davidson came from Cincinnati with her daughter, Amanda, and a personal story of abortion.
When in college, she said, she had a bad relationship that resulted in an abortion but eventually met the right man "and had two wonderful wanted children."
She said her husband couldn't come to the march because he is a defense contractor in Iraq.
Because young women have grown up with the right to an abortion, some apathy has set in even among those who are pro-choice, said some marchers. But that is changing, they said.
"I know tons of young people who came here. Two of my cousins drove from Ohio," said Ashley Bleimes, 19, an American University student from Columbus, Ohio. "A lot of young women are passionate about it."
Debbie Davidson came from Cincinnati with her daughter, Amanda, and a personal story of abortion.
When in college, she said, she had a bad relationship that resulted in an abortion but eventually met the right man "and had two wonderful wanted children."
She said her husband couldn't come to the march because he is a defense contractor in Iraq.

Graphic

 
PHOTO, GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS/ ,CELEBRITIES (from left) Camryn Manheim, Cybill Shepherd, Whoopi Goldberg, Ashley Judd and Christine Lahti march in Washington on Sunday during an abortion-rights rally.

Load-Date: April 28, 2004


End of Document
