




Newsweek.com
December 15, 2023 Friday 11:02 AM EST


Copyright © 2023 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 721 words
Byline: Billie Schwab Dunn
Highlight: The "Charmed" star is being slammed for a video uploaded to TikTok, in which she says "women don't inseminate themselves."
Body


Charmed actor  has gone viral online, with people slamming a video she uploaded for being "cringe."
As well as her acting career, Milano, 50, has become known over the years for her activism. She most notably  through the use of the hashtag on X, formerly . It sparked a viral movement of women fighting against sexual harassment and assault. She also often speaks about the reproductive rights of women.
On September 14, 2021, she  and now, all of these years later, it is doing the rounds on X. In it, she clicks her fingers while singing the words "women don't inseminate themselves." This video was most likely in response to Texas announcing that month that it was banning abortions beyond six weeks of pregnancy.
As to the legislation, it becomes illegal to end a pregnancy once a fetal heartbeat is found, which can be before a woman even knows she is pregnant. A "medical emergency" is the only exception for the abortion. The state's  failed to rule on an attempt to halt the law, which allows private citizens to sue anyone who assists a pregnant person seeking an abortion after six weeks.
On December 14 of this year, actor James Woods, 76,  to his own social media account with the caption "Newsflash..."
Once most known for roles in films such as The Virgin Suicides and White House Down, in recent years, Woods has become k, where he shares conservative memes, decries  politicians and spreads conspiracy theories. Now, Milano's clip is being roasted in the comment section of his post.
Newsweek reached out to representatives for Milano and Woods for comment via email Friday.
"That's a bit cringe. Might've been better with a different groove," one person wrote.
"Another episode of, 'Great Liberal Minds of the 21st Century,'" said another.
"You kind of get the feeling that recent polling is making the left go hypersonic cringe," a third person wrote.
A fourth added: "I've never danced to an imaginary song. That girl has lost her marbles."
At the time of writing Woods' post had more than 670,000 views and X user @wilderpatriot, who also uploaded the video, had received over 190,000.
However, not everyone was unimpressed with what Milano had posted online.
"Wow, here's me agreeing with Alyssa Milano for the first time ever," someone wrote on X.
Others took to the comment section of Milano's original  video to share their support.
"Exactly!!! Where is the rules about men? Why they don't get any of it? Mandatory vasectomy all I am saying," one person said.
"Sing it louder girl," commented another, with a third person adding: "Louder for those in the back!"
This isn't the only time Milano has spoken out about Texas' abortion law, previously posting on X on September 1, 2021.
"The newest Texas abortion ban, #SB8, gives politicians, neighbors, and even strangers the right to sue those who provide — or just help patients get — abortion after 6 wks. The time to fight for our reproductive health & rights is now! #BansOffOurBodies," she wrote.
In a statement back in 2021, Biden criticized the law too, saying it will "significantly impair women's access to the health care they need, particularly for communities of color and individuals with low incomes."
"My administration is deeply committed to the constitutional right established in Roe v. Wade nearly five decades ago and will protect and defend that right," he added.
Woods hasn't been shy about sharing his conservative beliefs online and has even thrown his support behind  as president. Although he originally backed Carly Fiorina in the 2016 Republican presidential primaries, he has since become a loyal Trump devotee.
On X in 2017, Woods called Trump "a man who is willing to work for free to make his beloved country a better place." In 2019, Woods described the entrepreneur as "the voice of the American people," slamming news outlets that criticized the business mogul.
After Trump claimed the 2020 general election was rigged, the independent analysis site Just Security released a report naming the top purveyors of voter fraud misinformation. Analyzing 49 million tweets, researchers ranked Woods' X account as the #1 spreader of election fraud claims on the site in late 2020.


Graphic

 
Alyssa Milano
Emma McIntyre/Getty Images
Alyssa Milano attends The Creative Coalition's 2023 Television Humanitarian Awards at Kimpton La Peer Hotel on September 14, 2023, in West Hollywood, California. An old video she uploaded online is now going viral.

Load-Date: December 15, 2023


End of Document
