




The Capital (Annapolis, MD)
April 22, 2012 Sunday


Copyright 2012 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: C; Pg.1
Length: 943 words
Byline: ERIC HARTLEY Staff Writer
Body


Standing on the sidewalk in front of a Planned Parenthood health center that offers abortions, Margaret Clemente prayed, as she does there most Tuesday mornings.
The hopes of her and her friends haven't been able to end abortion. But behind her, just across West Street, was something else she'd been praying for.
The Annapolis Pregnancy Clinic, in a white house with tan siding, is a "faith-based" center founded by abortion opponents. It opened a month ago.
"Prayer does work," said Clemente, whose sign read "Abortion stops a beating heart."
Already, she has signed up to volunteer at the new clinic. A bright pink sign in its yard Tuesday said: "Pre Abortion Ultrasounds FREE Today." All the services are free, funded by donations.
Pamela Palumbo, CEO of the clinic, said she knows women have the right to an abortion.
"Our passion is that women have full information before they make that choice," she said.
"Full information" is a subjective term. There's no mistaking what the clinic hopes women do with the information it provides.
"We know from statistics that twice as many women that see the ultrasound change their mind and carry their baby to term," Palumbo said. "But a lot of that's simply human nature in the sense of seeing is believing. We have a lot of young women that are in denial that they're even pregnant."
Donors paid for a $47,000 "3D/4D" ultrasound machine that a nurse said can pick up a heartbeat at just over six weeks into a pregnancy and show a fetus - or a baby, as they say at the clinic - moving as early as eight or nine weeks.
Already, Palumbo said, women have gotten ultrasounds and decided they couldn't have abortions. At least one decided to go through with an abortion across the street.
Palumbo hasn't heard any criticism, but she knows the clinic isn't welcomed by her neighbors.
"They would love it if we were not here," she said, gesturing toward the three-story office building that houses Planned Parenthood.
She's right. No one at Planned Parenthood's Annapolis health center would speak to me. But ChristieLyn Diller, a Planned Parenthood of Maryland spokeswoman in Baltimore, said the organization is concerned the new clinic will confuse patients.
Already, Diller said, women who've made appointments at Planned Parenthood have gone instead to the Annapolis Pregnancy Center, which has a much larger sign. Planned Parenthood staff now make sure to remind patients which building to come to.
"We hope that this center is up front with what services they do, and do not offer, because in our experience, these types of centers mislead women with false information about birth control and abortion," Diller said in an email.
At the new pregnancy clinic, people view Planned Parenthood with the same level of suspicion, believing it has a financial incentive to encourage more abortions.
Objectively, Planned Parenthood is the only one of the two that gives pregnant women "full information," meaning all their legal options.
The Pregnancy Clinic Ministry's website says: "Referrals for abortion providers are not given."
Planned Parenthood's site says on multiple pages that a woman who's pregnant has three choices: "abortion, adoption and parenting."
Diller said 85 percent of the services Planned Parenthood provides are not abortion, but preventive, including sexual health education, contraception, HIV/infection testing, counseling and vasectomies. There were 6,500 patient visits to Planned Parenthood's Annapolis center last year.
About 1,500 people a year visit two other pregnancy centers Palumbo runs. The original, in Bowie, opened in 1982. The second, in Severna Park, opened in 2006. They and the Annapolis center share a dozen paid employees and 45 volunteers.
First-time patients are asked whether they are religious; if so, whether that will play a part in their choice; and whether they'd like a Bible. If they say no, it's not mentioned again.
"We're a faith-based organization, but we serve anyone for any reason," Palumbo said. "We just want people to come in and feel comfortable."
She said close to a third of her staff have had abortions themselves. And even if a woman decides to get an abortion after a visit, she said, staff follow up to make sure she's doing OK and offer help with issues including contraception.
Palumbo hopes people inclined to condemn her clinic because of what they think it does will visit and see how it operates.
No question, the staff seemed sincere and welcoming. But is it misleading women to call this a "pregnancy clinic"?
Forced pre-abortion ultrasounds have been in the news lately, with a new Virginia law requiring women to have one and Texas requiring women not only to have one but to view the image.
No one is forced to come to the Annapolis Pregnancy Clinic. But the reason it offers ultrasounds for free is the same reason lawmakers elsewhere mandated them: to encourage women thinking about abortion to change their minds.
There already were at least five other pro-life centers in the county that offer counseling, including one in West Annapolis and Palumbo's existing clinic in Severna Park. But none appears to be across the street from an abortion provider.
There's an inherent aggressiveness in the new clinic's location and even its hours - it's only open three days a week for now, but one of those is Tuesday because that's supposedly a common day for abortions at Planned Parenthood.
If you believe you're saving lives, such tactics are more than justified. But the clinic doesn't simply offer women information as they make a choice; it nudges them to make the choice the people there think is right.
Whether that's OK depends on which side of the street you're on.

Graphic

 
The Annapolis Pregnancy Clinic just opened its doors across from Planned Parenthood on West Street. The clinic offers high-resolution sonograms in the hope of deterring women from aborting unwanted pregnancies. Abortions are available through Planned Parenthood.
The Annapolis Pregnancy Clinic just opened its doors across from Planned Parenthood on West Street. The clinic offers high-resolution sonograms in the hope of deterring women from aborting unwanted pregnancies. Abortions are available through Planned Parenthood.
Pamela Palumbo, CEO of the Annapolis Pregnancy Clinic, stands with the clinic's state of the art 3D/4D sonogram machine.
Pamela Palumbo, CEO of the Annapolis Pregnancy Clinic, stands with the clinic's state of the art 3D/4D sonogram machine.

Load-Date: April 22, 2012


End of Document
