




 
Wireless News
November 1, 2010 Monday


Copyright 2010 Close-Up Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 368 words
Body


Chesapeake Urology Associates, PA announced that five of its urologists and two of its radiation oncologists have been selected by their peers as Top Docs in Baltimore Magazine.
According to a release, the five urologists are:
Bruce W. Berger , M.D., F.A.C.S., specialist in diseases of the prostate, kidney and bladder, enlarged prostate and kidney stones, (Owings Mills office);
Daniel D. Dietrick , M.D., F.A.C.S., chief of surgery at St. Joseph Medical Center in Towson and specialist in treating prostate cancer, including robotic surgery and enlarged prostate (O'Dea office);
Brad D. Lerner , M.D., F.A.C.S., chief of urology at Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore, urological consultant for the Baltimore Ravens, and specialist in male infertility and microsurgical vasectomy reversal (Union Memorial office);
Marc H. Siegelbaum , M.D., F.A.C.S., chief of urology and medical director of the Urologic Oncology Institute at St. Joseph Medical Center, urological consultant to the Baltimore Orioles, and specialist in robotic prostate surgery, laparoscopic kidney surgery and penile and incontinence prosthetics (O'Dea office); and
Ronald F. Tutrone , M.D., F.A.C.S., director of Chesapeake Urology Research Associates and chief of urology at the Greater Baltimore Medical Center in Towson and specializing in urologic malignancies, laparoscopic treatment of renal and adrenal tumors, kidney stones, urinary incontinence and prostate disorders (GBMC office).
In addition, the Company said two of Chesapeake radiation oncologists were also selected:
Richard Hudes, M.D., chief of the division of radiation oncology at St. Agnes Cancer Center and located at the Chesapeake Urology Prostate Center in Owings Mills, and
Eva Zinreich, M.D., who practices in the Chesapeake Urology Prostate Center in Owings Mills and at GBMC.
"We are proud of all of our physicians who work tirelessly to provide the highest quality care for their patients," says Sanford J. Siegel, M.D., president and CEO of Chesapeake Urology Associates. "To have so many of our physicians acknowledged by their peers is a testament to the work that they do and the care they provide."
((Comments on this story may be sent to ))

Load-Date: November 19, 2010


End of Document
