




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
August 21, 2021 Saturday


Copyright 2021 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 410 words
Body


(PRWeb) - Dr. Michael E. Gribetz is a board certified Urologist with over 40 years of clinical experience. Dr. Gribetz has been reviewed and approved based on merit by NY Top Docs for 2021. He is an attending urologic surgeon at the Mount Sinai Medical Center and an Assistant Clinical Professor at its medical school.
Dr. Gribetzs clinical expertise combines compassionate personalized medical care in a private office setting with state of the art medical testing and surgical procedures, often performed in his in-office certified operating suite, alleviating the stress and anxiety of the hospital experience.
One of the rewards of private practice Urology is the long term relationships with patients and their families, many of whom Ive known for decades. This increasingly unique environment is valued by my patients who too often are exposed to large mass production clinics, says Dr. Gribetz.
We pride ourselves in delivering personalized state of the art care, and have in this stressful time of the COVID pandemic maintained rigorous standards of infection control and cleanliness to keep our patients safe, he adds.
He has been on the cutting edge in performing in his office the minimally invasive Urolift procedure for the treatment of BPH. He is widely acclaimed for providing his patients with state of the art diagnostic tools and treatment alternatives for benign and malignant diseases of the prostate, kidney and bladder. His interests include the management of benign prostatic hypertrophy, prostate cancer sexual dysfunction, kidney stones, urinary incontinence, female urology, and the performance of vasectomies.
Dr. Gribetz has been honored repeatedly by Castle Connolly Americas Best Doctors, New York Times Superdocs, New York Magazine Best Doctors, and of course, NY Top Docs.
To learn more about Dr. Michael E. Gribetz, please visit: 
---
About Us
NY Top Docs is a comprehensive, trusted and exclusive healthcare resource featuring reviewed and approved Top Doctors and Dentists in New York online in an easy to use format. NY Top Docs only reviews and approves providers based on merit after they have been extensively vetted.
NY Top Docs is a division of USA Top Docs which allows patients to meet providers online before making their appointment.
For more information, e-mail us at   and/or visit  .
You can also follow us on Facebook, Twitter, & Instagram.

Load-Date: August 21, 2021


End of Document
