




Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)
March 11, 2004 Thursday City Edition


Copyright 2004 Richmond Newspapers, Inc.
Section: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. F-1; Worth Noting
Length: 452 words
Byline: Compiled A.J. Hostetler
Body


Teaching an old dog new tricks: Juggling bulks up the brain, a new study suggests.
Scientists scanned the brains of people who learned to juggle. After three months, the amount of brain tissue increased in areas of the jugglers' brains that process and store information about how we perceive and anticipate moving objects. Better jugglers also had greater growth in their gray matter.
But when the jugglers stopped performing their new skill, they started losing the expanded volume.
The researchers suggest that as the jugglers were learning their new skill, neurons were extending and making more connections with other neurons. Another explanation could be that there was an increase in the number of neurons and cells that support them, they said.
Either way, the researchers write, the study challenges the assumption that the structure of the adult brain can't change.
Cancer Information
Find out more: The Virginia Breast Cancer Foundation is holding a teleconference on "New Advances in Treating Metastatic Breast Cancer" on Tuesday from noon to 1 p.m. VBCF hopes the free teleconference will allow every Virgian interested in learning more about metastatic breast cancer to participate - whether they live in cosmopolitan or rural areas.
Individuals only need access to a phone and need to register to participate in the teleconference.  Topics to be discussed may include: philosophy of therapy, prognostic factors, treatment options and surgery. An interactive question-and-answer session will follow the presentation by Dr. Nicholas Robert of Inova Health System.
For more information about registering, call (800) 345-8223, e-mail , or check the foundation Web site at   .
infertility, perhaps
A male-infertility specialist suggests that tuberculosis left the father of our country childless.
Like most men of his era, George Washington blamed his wife for the couple's inability to have a child.
But Dr. John K. Amory of the University of Washington has published an article that the most likely cause was a tuberculosis infection that Washington contracted before his marriage.
That probably caused a testicular blockage that gave Washington a kind of nonsurgical vasectomy, said Amory, a specialist in male reproduction.
Historians and physicians have long speculated that illness could have been a factor in Washington's childlessness. Several biographers who specialize in Washington's life said that Amory's theory is consistent with the relatively thin historical evidence about Washington's early years. Philander D. Chase, senior editor of the papers of George Washington at the University of Virginia, says that it's "something that ought to be taken into consideration."

Graphic

 
Photo

Load-Date: March 14, 2004


End of Document
