




St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
September 12, 2007 Wednesday
0 South Pinellas Edition


Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A
Length: 415 words
Byline: MELANIE AVE, Times Staff Writer
Body


John Bryan had already had one family with his first wife, raising two sons and adopting a teenage girl who had been the family's nanny.
By January 2004, the St. Petersburg City Council member and his second wife, Alicia, were more than a decade into their marriage when she became overwhelmed with a desire to nurture and love a child of her own.
But Bryan had had a vasectomy. So the couple became foster parents with the goal of adopting two daughters between the ages of 5 and 10, according to the couple's foster parent licensing file at the Florida Department of Children and Families.
Bryan, according to the records, also seemed to want more children to make their family complete.
"I intend to invest a lot of time and energy in this child, a lifetime's worth," Bryan wrote in the initial application to become a foster parent, the records show.
He imagined a child coming into their home who was "a 7-year-old little girl ... tomboyish, not scared of things, willing to go boating, travel and mesh in with family activities."
The Bryans said they would give their daughters privacy and teach them to knock when doors were closed. "We will not teach nudity as something to be ashamed of, however, we will teach about improper touching by anyone," they wrote.
Bryan admitted that his childhood home wasn't the most loving. He wrote that he wanted something different for the new family he and his wife were putting together.
Child welfare workers did their list of checks on the family - criminal record, finances, personal references. The Bryans denied that any family member had been the victim or perpetrator of sexual abuse.
Everything was approved.
Although Bryan wrote that he was estranged from his two sons, he said his relationship with his adopted daughter was a good one "and she is very supportive of this adoption."
It is unclear if workers talked to any of his three children, including the adopted daughter, who recently told investigators that Bryan sexually abused her.
Just days after the Bryans' application and home study was completed, the couple received their first foster child, a girl who was 9 or 10 years old. By July, they had a second girl, 12.
Both adoptions were completed by October 2005, when the Bryans asked that their foster care license be closed.
Their family was complete.
Child welfare workers wrote in 2005 that the Bryans' home was "above satisfactory in all categories" and the "children are very happy in the home. ... The girls mean the world to them."

Load-Date: September 12, 2007


End of Document
