




St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
January 27, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition


Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
Section: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B
Length: 898 words
Byline: WES ALLISON
Dateline: ST. PETERSBURG
Body


Under the joint operating agreement they can ask Bayfront and other partners to limit procedures for religious reasons.
Bayfront Medical Center's contract with a regional health care alliance gives the group's Catholic hospitals wide latitude to try to further force church doctrine on their partners.
The joint operating agreement of the BayCare Health Alliance, made public for the first time Wednesday, says the Catholic members can ask Bayfront and its other partners to limit medical procedures or make other changes to comply with the ethical and religious directives of the Catholic church.
However, Bayfront officials say the document provides substantial protections for BayCare's secular members, including a provision that allows the two Catholic hospitals, St. Anthony's and St. Joseph's, to quit the consortium if they disagree strongly over religious matters.
BAYFRONT27
"There are no trappings of the Catholic church in Bayfront," said Michael Keane, the hospital's attorney.
He added that Bayfront should have released the agreement earlier - city officials have sought it for months - but "we thought it was going to get in the way."
Bayfront released the agreement in hopes of aiding negotiations with the city, which has threatened to sue over the hospital's concessions to religious directives. But initial reports from City Hall indicate that strategy may not work.
Although they cautioned they were still digesting the document Wednesday, some city officials said it appears to bolster their fears that the directives exert too much control.
"What was at one time represented to us as having very little to say about ethical and religious control turns out, upon initial perusal, to have a lot more than I expected," council member Bill Foster said.
"We can't have ethical and religious directives anymore. This is a . . . facility owned by the city of St. Petersburg, so it can't be bound by religious directives - period."
Bayfront is a private non-profit, but the city owns much of the land and leases it to the hospital. The lease prohibits Bayfront from discriminating on the basis of race, gender or religion, and some council members say the concessions to the Catholics may violate that lease.
Last week, the council delayed discussing a lawsuit after the hospital agreed to release the BayCare agreement. Bayfront officials also have asked to address the council at a workshop today, and council Chairwoman Bea Griswold pushed the meeting up by one hour, to 1 p.m., in case the council agrees.
City Attorney Mike Davis said he's waiting until then to judge the operating agreement, but he still questions the influence of the church.
"At first blush, we have the same concerns we had before," Davis said. "But we want to continue to look at it."
As part of the BayCare agreement, the non-Catholic members - Bayfront, Morton Plant, North Bay and South Florida Baptist - have agreed to follow the Catholic directives as they pertain to non-Catholic hospitals.
That requires them to ban practices considered taboo - called "inimical" - by the church, which now include only elective abortions and euthanasia.
Other practices prohibited at Catholic hospitals, such as vasectomies and tubal ligations, still may be performed at other BayCare hospitals, but only if the "revenues, expenses, governance and management" of those procedures are kept separate from St. Anthony's and St. Joseph's.
The agreement also acknowledges the church may change the directives, or add new ones. If that happens, the Franciscan Sisters of Allegany Health System, which runs the Catholic hospitals, can suggest ways the BayCare partners can comply.
Even if the other members can't agree, BayCare "shall nevertheless be obligated to accept any option presented (by the Catholics) as long as it does not have a material adverse effect" on the other members, the agreement says. Otherwise, St. Anthony's and St. Joseph's can withdraw from BayCare.
"The protections kick in," Keane said.
The Catholic members also have only eight of 23 spots on the BayCare board of trustees.
Also Wednesday, Sue Brody, president and CEO of Bayfront-St. Anthony's Health Care, announced the two hospitals together lost  $ 200,000 in the fourth-quarter of 1999 - a vast improvement over the $ 1-million-a-month losses  in the past.
Agreement details
The operating agreement governing the BayCare Health Alliance includes several concessions to its Catholic members, St. Anthony's Hospital in St. Petersburg and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa. The agreement requires members to:
+Prohibit practices deemed "inimical" - or taboo - by the Catholic Ethical and Religious Directives regarding health care. They now include only elective abortion and euthanasia, which is illegal in Florida.
+Separate the practices deemed "prohibited" by the directives, such as vasectomies, from money or management involving St. Joseph's or St. Anthony's.
+Acknowledge that the directives may be amended by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops or interpreted by the Bishop of the Diocese of St. Petersburg. If that happens, St. Joseph's and St. Anthony's would suggest ways their BayCare partners could comply with the changes.
+Establish at each hospital an ecumenical Medical Ethics Committee, with representatives from a variety of religions.
+Provide pastoral care at every hospital.
- Times staff writer Adam C. Smith contributed to this report.

Graphic

 
COLOR PHOTO, (2); Attorney Michael Keane (ran City & State, Metro & State); Sue Brody (ran City & State, Metro & State)

Load-Date: January 27, 2000


End of Document
