





Marketing News TM
September 11, 2000


Copyright 2000 American Marketing Association
Section: WORLD; Pg. 32
Length: 315 words
Byline: Jill Lawless for The Associated Press
Body


For men in France, obtaining a vasectomy has long been all but impossible, thanks to a 200-year-old Napoleonic law prohibiting self-mutilation.
Now, a new cross-channel "vasectomy tourism service" set up by a British sexual health charity aims to make getting the birth-control procedure a snip.
The service, launched last month by Marie Stopes International, is targeting Frenchmen with the offer of a vasectomy for 200 pounds at one of its clinics in London or Ashford -- both stops on the Eurostar rail line from Paris -- and the suggestion that the operation be incorporated into a day trip to Britain.
"In the spirit of European togetherness, MSI is offering vasectomies to our French neighbors," says Marie Stopes marketing manager Julie Douglas.  "We also hope to raise awareness about the archaic penal codes that limit reproductive choice in France."
Although there have been no prosecutions for more than 40 years, vasectomies still are technically illegal in France under the Napoleonic Code.  Few French doctors will perform the operation, and only two hospitals in the country offer vasectomies, Marie Stopes spokeswoman Franca Tranza says.
However, in Britain, which has the world's highest vasectomy rate, 16% of men of reproductive age have had the operation.
Last year, two of France's leading newspapers -- Le Monde and Le Figaro -- rejected an advertisement promoting the Marie Stopes service, branding it "disgraceful." A recent ad designed for the Paris subway featuring a playfully altered version of Napoleon's classic hand-in-jacket pose -- his hand wasn't in his jacket -- also was turned down.
Marie Stopes now plans to promote its vasectomies on the Internet and through an e-mail campaign to French doctors.
According to the United Nations, about 50 million men worldwide have had a vasectomy -- roughly 5% of all men of reproductive age.

Load-Date: September 13, 2000


End of Document
