




Ebony
June 2015


Copyright 2015 Johnson Publishing Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE RADAR: CULTURE; SPEAK UP; Pg. 32; Vol. LXX; No. 8
Length: 611 words
Byline: ALIYA S. KING
Highlight: AT AGE 36, AL-LATEEF FARMER EXPLAINS WHY HE LOVES MENTORING YOUNG PEOPLE BUT WILL NEVER HAVE A KID OF HIS OWN
Body


By the time I was 14, I knew I didn't want children. My mother had me when she was 14. My dad, three years older, lived just a few doors away from us for the first seven or eight years of my life. But he wasn't as involved with me as he should have been.
I'd see him every Saturday because he ran my youth basketball league. But he didn't know me. He never once came to my school and talked to my teachers or checked on my progress regarding anything besides sports. There were never any in-depth conversations about what it meant to be a man.
I think what was most hurtful was that he was a mentor to many other young people in my hometown. He would take kids who didn't have fathers to our basketball games. People would say, "Your dad is so fun!" And I would think, 'But I only see him when YOU see him.'
I know it's possible that I might've been a good father, but I was so turned o# by the example of fatherhood I saw that it made me decide I didn't want that role for myself.
When I was in my early 20s and in my first long-term, adult relationship, I didn't tell my girlfriend about my decision never to have children; I didn't know how to have that dialogue. And because we were both young and not always making consistent, responsible choices when it came to birth control, she became pregnant.
A few weeks later, we found out she was having twins. I began to mentally prepare for fatherhood even though it wasn't at all what I wanted. Tragically, my girlfriend had a miscarriage and lost the babies in her second trimester.
Although it was an awful situation for us both, it didn't change my mind about not wanting children. We eventually broke up, and I began to date again. This time, however, I knew I needed to be more upfront with the women I got involved with. But many of them just didn't believe me.
I met the woman who'd eventually become my wife when I was 32. After our relationship started becoming serious, she informed me there was something that might change my mind about her: She said she was not having children-under any circumstances. As a social worker, she'd seen neglected and abused youngsters on a daily basis and wanted to put her energy into helping these children. She also didn't experience the best childhood. We were married before the year was out. We're now in our fifth year together and haven't wavered in our joint decision to remain childless.
People ask, "How will you be remembered?" But my wife and I know that in our daily work we have left a worthy legacy. While my wife works tirelessly to help children in need, I am the student development specialist for New Jersey's Mercer County Community College Educational Opportunity Fund program. For more than a decade, I've been working with 200 students each year as they make their way through their first year of college. It's so satisfying to see these young people grow and mature and to know I've helped with that growth. I'm not a biological father - and I won't be. But that doesn't mean I won't have a positive effect on our future generations.
My sister-in-law, who didn't have children, died last year. For a few days, my wife thought about having a baby; she began to wonder if she would one day regret being childless. But after emerging from the grief of losing her sister, my wife realized that the reasons she didn't want to have children hadn't changed and that her worth is not defined by whether she has children. Even when she's no longer living, it doesn't mean the work she's done on this earth doesn't matter. So the feeling passed, and now she wants me to get a vasectomy. I've got an appointment to get the process started, and with absolutely no regrets.

Graphic

 
Picture, JAMEL TOPPIN / MINT IMAGES / CORBIS

Load-Date: May 21, 2015


End of Document
