




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
February 6, 2000, Sunday,
CITY EDITION


Copyright 2000 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: NEWS,
Length: 2506 words
Byline: Tom Beyerlein and Laura Dempsey DAYTON DAILY NEWS
Series: LITTLE GIRL LOST
Body


When 9-year-old Erica Baker vanished from a Kettering park a year ago, her family's tragedy touched an entire community. Despite the widest search in local history, an exhaustive criminal investigation and the efforts of hundreds of volunteers, Erica's family has endured a year of agony, not knowing what has happened to their lost little girl.
This 15-day series looks back at a year of pain, frustration and hope, showing how a family and its community have coped, without Erica.
 
CHAPTER ONE
A family's problems
The sirens were deafening; lights blinding. Police cars drove up, over and around the grassy hills, searchlights sweeping the trees and fields and homes.
The news spread and people kept coming until the area around the Kettering Recreation Center was overrun with neighbors, friends, strangers offering help.
Groups headed out to search the woods, the park.
The family's fear was evident: The father stormed and fumed, the mother wandered in a daze. With hands raised to heaven, the grandmother appealed to God.
It was wet that night, Feb. 7, 1999. It was cold and getting colder.
Rescue boats dragged the pond. Police dogs strained at their leashes.
Helicopters with searchlights and infrared sensors roared overhead.
It was like a war zone. An eight-car pileup. A plane crash.
A little girl was missing.
***
Her brother gave her her name.
Six-year-old Jason wanted to do something special to honor his friend, a little boy named Eric who was killed by a drunken driver. He asked his pregnant mom if they could name the new baby in memory of the dead child.
Misty Baker's fourth child and only daughter was born June 22, 1989 - 7 pounds, 12 ounces of healthy promise.
They called her Erica.
She grew to like Winnie the Pooh and pink, frilly clothes, but she wasn't squeamish about stabbing a slimy earthworm with a fishhook or taking a spiny bluegill off the line.
She liked to swim in Grandpa Baker's backyard pool in the summer and do cheerleading for the Kettering Wee Wildcats in the fall.
She liked her goldfish and the family dog, a Shih Tzu named Jaime.
She didn't learn as easily as her honor-student brothers, but she was working with a tutor and trying her best.
By the time she entered third grade in 1998, Erica Baker had more weighing on her mind than her studies and the things of childhood. She was worried about her mother, and she had good reason.
In December 1998, Misty Baker looked out at her own mother, Pamela Schmidt, through a Plexiglas screen in the visiting room of the Montgomery County Jail. They spoke over the telephone - no physical contact allowed.
Over the past four years, an addiction to crack cocaine had cost Misty Baker her home, her job and her children, who were being raised by Pam and her husband, Mike. Now it had cost her her freedom.
Pam was heartbroken. She couldn't stop crying. Misty was distraught.
"I can't kick this," she told her mom. "I've tried and I've tried, but it has a hold on me. I want my life to be over. I don't want to live anymore, because I don't want to live like this."
Pam reached into her pocket and pulled out four photographs. One by one, she held them to window so Misty could see her children: Jason, Gregory, Logan, Erica.
"These," she said, "are the four reasons you have to make it."
Misty was released a week later. She was scared straight by her two weeks in jail. Ending months of homelessness, she came back to Pobst Drive in Kettering after her release to live with the Schmidts and her children. She was visited by a probation officer and passed random drug tests. She went to Alcoholics Anonymous and Cocaine Anonymous meetings. She helped the children with their homework. She got a job. She put on a Super Bowl party for the kids.
"I was so proud of her," Pam recalls. "She was learning to be the mom again."
"I was a good mother until I was 27," Misty said. "Then I lost my mind."
Melissa Sue Sponaugle, the oldest of Pam Schmidt's three daughters, was a ninth-grader at Studebaker Junior High School in Huber Heights when she got pregnant with Jason, her first-born, in 1981. Pam talked to her about putting the baby up for adoption, but Misty wouldn't hear of it. "If you're old enough to get pregnant," Pam said, "you're old enough to make the decision."
Jason was born July 16, 1982. Misty, then 15, didn't marry the father. Unwed teen-age mothers in high school were rarities - "babies and homework didn't go together then" - and Misty dropped out of school to take care of her new son.
Six months later, mutual friends introduced - reintroduced, actually - Misty and Greg Baker. Greg and Misty first met as kids in Huber Heights, but they had lost track of each other. Now, as young adults, they started dating.
Greg's dad, Earl Baker, was part of the great post-World War II Appalachian immigration to Dayton. He came north to work for General Motors in 1955 after 18 years in Kentucky coal mines, plus four years of Army service in Europe during the war. Earl's wife, Josephine, gave birth to Gregory Earl Baker on April 25, 1965, 13 years after the birth of their other child, Deborah. Josephine Baker died in 1994.
Greg was never a good student - he says a head injury he sustained at age 4 left him with learning disabilities. He attended Wayne High and studied diesel technology at Montgomery County Joint Vocational School, but he only made it to his junior year before dropping out.
Greg was 20 and Misty at 18 was the mother of a 3-year-old when they were married, both clad in white, in his parents' back yard on June 8, 1985. They have solemn expressions on their young faces in a snapshot from their wedding reception, but their responsibilities hadn't even begun to pile up yet.
What were those early years of marriage like? "One baby after another" is how Greg sums them up.
Domestic Relations Court later summed them up this way: "The court finds that . . . three children have been born as issue of said marriage, namely, Gregory Ross Baker, born June 16, 1986, Logan Allen Baker, born June 23, 1987, and Erica Nicole Baker, born June 22, 1989."
After Erica was born, Greg had a vasectomy.
Neither Greg nor Misty has much to say about what went wrong, but their marriage effectively was over when Erica was 6 months old; Greg moved out of their house trailer in Miamisburg on Feb. 7, 1990.
"Just say we grew apart," Greg says now. "I was young and I really wasn't prepared for a lot that was going to happen in our marriage."
They were separated for three years before they pulled together enough money to pay a lawyer to end the marriage with a dissolution in April 1993. Greg got the fishing boat, paintball gun and comic-book collection; Misty got the historic romance books, $ 2,500 in household goods and furnishings, and a 1986 Pontiac worth $ 1,000, co-owned with her mother, on which she still owed $ 1,087.
Greg was making $ 12,672 a year at Builders Square, Misty got $ 10,452 in welfare and food stamps. Greg was ordered to pay $ 339 a month in child support for the three kids, plus $ 55 a month to pay off past-due child support. Misty got sole residential custody, but the kids spent every weekend and breaks from school, including summers, with Earl Baker in Huber Heights, and they often spend time with their dad.
"We have a 'good divorce,' ' Greg says.
Over the years, Greg's lack of education felt like a giant anchor chained to his ankle. He worked at a succession of hardware stores for low wages, hefting packages of drywall and shingles. He'd occasionally take his kids with him, so they could see for themselves how hard a high-school dropout has to work.
Pam thought things were going pretty well for Misty in the years after the split with Greg. Still living in the trailer in Miamisburg with the kids, Misty was in a long-term relationship with "the nicest young man," Pam said, and she got a well-paying job with GM.
But privately, Misty's life was falling apart.
She thought her boyfriend was seeing another woman because he would have long, unexplained absences. Then she found out he was having an affair with crack cocaine.
In November 1994, Misty also started smoking crack and quickly became addicted. "I tried this stuff and that was a big mistake. It was wonderful - it made me forget all my problems. The best thing I've ever had in my life, and the worst thing."
Having a decent-paying job only meant she had money to spend on crack. "It was my downfall, really. Having a good job was my downfall. I made $ 500 a week and I had nothing to show for it."
By the spring of 1996, she didn't have enough money for propane to heat the trailer and cook meals - she used a kerosene heater and the microwave oven or a charcoal grill. She was about to lose the trailer to pay back rent on the trailer's lot. She later lost her car, too.
Misty says she didn't use drugs in the children's presence, and she tried to hide her addiction from them and maintain a normal home life. It grew increasingly difficult as her addiction outpaced her income.
"The kids did not starve," Misty says. Then, with a self-mocking laugh, she adds: "I wrote plenty of bad checks to make sure they didn't starve - the freezer was full."
But her back was against the wall, and she knew it. She enrolled in a drug-rehabilitation program through GM, then met with her mother, disclosed her drug problem and asked for help.
"Come home," Pam told her. "Come home and bring the children." Suddenly, the Schmidt household expanded from three - Pam, Mike and Misty's half sister, Tara Gibson - to eight.
"We aren't an Ozzie and Harriet family," Pam says now. "We're a normal family that has problems like all families have. The bottom line is, regardless, we love each other. We don't love each other because we're perfect, we love each other because we're family."
At first, Pam said, things seemed to be going well. The kids finished out the 1995-96 school year in Miamisburg; they'd transfer to Kettering in the fall. Misty was going to rehab sessions daily. She was on paid leave from GM and helped with household expenses.
But Misty couldn't stay straight. "I went through stages. I would use hard, clean up, use hard, clean up, go to rehab. . . ."
She went through six rehab programs. "Each time I'd pray, 'Please, let this one take, let this be the one that really reaches her,' ' Pam said.
Pam took over the role of mom to Misty's children. Finally, in early 1998, Pam made a hard decision. "I knew she was using, because she'd be gone two or three days at a time. At one point I said, 'That's it, you can't live here anymore. I get (the kids) in a routine, comfortable, and you come back in and disrupt everything and there's chaos, and agony when you're not here, and I can't do that anymore.'
"So she left. For a while she lived on the street, St. Vincent's. I would say, 'Show me one thing, just do one thing for me, get a job, do anything, and you can come home.' I gave her my coat, extra clothing. On Sundays, when the soup kitchens were closed, I'd take food to her at the downtown library, where the homeless people hang out. People said, 'Give up, just give up,' but she's my child. I never saw the addiction. I saw my child."
By this time, Misty's children knew about her drug addiction. "We'd sit around the kitchen table and hold hands and we'd pray," Pam recalled. "That was the only way I thought I could reach her."
The children reacted in different ways. Jason got angry with his mother. Gregory and Logan seemed to roll with it all and did well in school.
But Misty's addiction, and absence, clearly tormented Erica. At times, the principal's office would call Pam because Erica would be in tears, and Pam would have to leave her job as an administrative analyst at Mead and take Erica home. Tara would find Erica crying in her room because she missed her mom. Tara would lie in bed with Erica and hold her to try to take some of the hurt away.
"Erica adores her mother," Pam said. "Erica and Misty have the strongest connection I've ever seen in my life."
Misty and her boyfriend got a one-room apartment in East Dayton. Misty would phone home, but visits were sporadic as 1998 wore on. Sometimes, when she hadn't heard from Misty in a while, Pam would take a photo of her to some of her haunts and ask if anyone had seen her. "I can tell you I've gone to some pretty sleazy places (looking for her)."
Meanwhile, Misty became increasingly desperate. When she first tried crack, she thought, "Wow, no more problems!" Now, she says, she realized the drug meant "no more life." All she thought about was how to get more crack.
"You get suicidal. You're ready to kill yourself just so you won't use anymore. There were several suicide attempts. The only reason I'm here (is) the kids."
Misty says she never intended to leave the children permanently and missed them terribly during the self-imposed exile of her addiction. Sometimes she'd phone home just to hear their voices, then hang up without speaking.
"I knew I was doing wrong," she said, "and I didn't want to do it around them."
The family didn't see much of Misty in October 1998. Then, late that month, her boyfriend got arrested, charged with stealing over-the-counter medication and then trying to return it for cash. With her boyfriend in jail, she couldn't pay for the one-room apartment - and she was out on the streets again.
Misty showed up briefly at the Schmidts' on Thanksgiving. Her visit gave Erica hope. "I know Mom will be home for Christmas, because she was here for Thanksgiving," she'd tell Pam.
Misty had been in jail for a week before she called Pam.
"I didn't want her to know," Misty says. "I also didn't want her to get me out. I thought I needed to be in there to straighten my ass up. I needed a reality check - and that was it."
As it turned out, Misty was home for Christmas. And for the first time in ages, she was making positive moves - job-hunting, attending 12-step programs, spending time with the kids.
She'd been working as a waitress at the Crowne Plaza Dayton hotel for a few weeks by Sunday, Feb. 7, 1999.
The children, as usual, had spent the weekend at Grandpa Baker's in Kettering. Their dad brought them home about 2:15 or 2:30 p.m. Erica went downstairs to the Schmidts' finished basement, where Pam and Misty were sitting with the TV on. She hugged Pam and cuddled with Misty, who was crocheting some slippers. Gregory, then 12, and Logan, then 11, went to Woodman Lanes to play some arcade games. Nine-year-old Erica stuck around to help her aunt Tara with a household chore. Then she went to visit a neighbor girl, but she returned in a few minutes because her friend wasn't home.
Erica had been bored at Earl Baker's earlier in the day, and she was still looking for something fun to do.
'She wanted to take the dog for a walk, but it was raining,' Misty recalls.
Erica persisted.
'She was getting on my nerves, the way little kids do, so I said, 'OK.' I told her to put on a raincoat.'
Erica put her pink raincoat on over her pink Winnie the Pooh sweatshirt. She put Jaime on a leash.
Misty returned to her crocheting as Erica walked out the door.
Monday: Where is she?

Graphic

 
COLOR PHOTOS: (8): (#1) MISTY BAKER SITS in her daughter Erica's empty bedroom at her Kettering home. Erica's favorite doll, a life-sized Barbie, is still dressed as Erica left her, in one of her own shirts. Erica has been missing since Feb. 7, 1999.  CREDIT: LISA POWELL/DAYTON DAILY NEWS (#2) When the doctor told me I had the baby girl I wanted, I told him to quit lying to me. When he laid you in my arms, I started to cry. "Finally, a girl!" (#3) GREG AND MISTY Baker at their wedding in 1985.  (#4) ERICA WITH BROTHER Jason, who named her.  (#5) ERICA, AGE 3, with brother Gregory.  (#6) ERICA, AT 4, with brothers Gregory (left) and Logan.  (#7) IN 1998 AT Paramount's Kings Island.  (#8) ALL DRESSED UP for Easter, age 3.

Load-Date: February 7, 2000


End of Document
