




The Daily Caller
April 9, 2022 Saturday 12:43 PM EST


Copyright 2022 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: DAILY-CALLER-NEWS-FOUNDATION; us
Length: 924 words
Byline: Laurel Duggan, Social Issues and Culture Reporter, 
Body



LGBT activists criticized a first-of-its-kind Alabama that makes illegal the practice of giving children sex change treatments, and punishes offenders with up to ten years in prison.
Several groups claimed the banned procedures, which include castration and genital reconstruction, were life-saving treatments for transgender children.
One activist said banning sex-change treatments for kids would cause a shortage of doctors in the state and hurt the economy.
LGBT organizations slammed an Alabama law signed Friday that criminalizes administering medical sex change treatments to children.
The , which was  by Republican Gov. Kay Ivey late Friday,  medical sex change  for children ranging from puberty blockers and cross-sex hormones to mastectomies, castration, vasectomies, hysterectomies and cosmetic genital surgeries.
“Shame on the cruel, heartless, and power-hungry state legislators that want to take away life-saving medical care from transgender youth in Alabama,” Carl Charles, senior attorney for Lambda Legal,  in a statement. “We are ready to use the full force of the law to come down on this clearly unconstitutional legislation should it come to pass.”
Practitioners who violate the law could be charged with Class C felonies, which carry a penalty of up to 10 years in prison. The law makes exceptions for medical interventions related to medically verifiable sex conditions such as chromosome irregularities.
 Alabama is voting on banning evidence-based, peer-reviewed, consensus healthcare. Every major medical association supports gender-affirming care as safe and lifesaving. 
 - GLAAD (@glaad) 
“They have successfully criminalized critically important care that transgender youth need desperately, and the incredible doctors and care providers who help transgender youth each and every day,” Carmarion D. Anderson-Harvey, Alabama state director for Human Rights Campaign, said in a  Friday. “In doing so they have jeopardized the future of these doctors, families, and transgender youth who are all considering what their livelihoods will be in Alabama.”
“Alabama is voting on banning evidence-based, peer-reviewed, consensus healthcare. Every major medical association supports gender-affirming care as safe and lifesaving,” GLAAD  in a tweet Thursday after the legislature passed the bill.
 BREAKING: Alabama just passed a bill that criminalizes providing gender-affirming care to trans youth.
 This is the first piece of legislation nationwide that would make this care a felony.
 If this bill is signed, we will sue.
 - ACLU (@ACLU) 
Some of the activists who spoke out against the bill threatened legal action if Ivey signs it.
“Alabama just passed a bill that criminalizes providing gender-affirming care to trans youth. This is the first piece of legislation nationwide that would make this care a felony,” the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)  on Twitter. “If this bill is signed, we will sue.”
 BREAKING: SB 184 passes with a 66-28-1 vote. This legislation bans gender-affirming care for transgender youth aged 18 and under. It also requires school administrators to forcibly out trans students.
 It will now go to Governor Kay Ivey for a signature. If signed, we will sue. 
 - ACLU of Alabama (@ACLUAlabama) 
An attorney from the ACLU of Alabama  the legislation “shameful,” according to a press release. 
One activist said the bill targeted transgender people and repeatedly said it would be deadly for transgender children.
“If passed and signed into law, Alabama will have the most deadly, sweeping, and hostile law targeting transgender people in the country,” Chase Strangio, deputy director for Trans Justice at the LGBTQ & HIV Project, said in a statement. “Moving forward with this bill will be deadly for trans youth, push doctors out of a state that has a shortage of medical providers, hurt Alabama's economy, and subject the state to costly litigation.”
  Criminal ban on healthcare for trans youth could pass within the next hour in Alabama. SB 184 and HB 322 will not protect youth, it will put young lives at risk. Join our petition to tell the lawmakers that you to oppose this extreme bill  
 - The Trevor Project (@TrevorProject) 
The Trevor Project, a mental health organization focused on LGBT people claimed the legislation would “criminalize doctors for providing best-practice, gender-affirming care to transgender and nonbinary youth,”  to a press release. The organization also touted statistics demonstrating the high risk of suicide among transgender youth.
“Lawmakers have added last minute votes to push the most extreme anti-transgender agenda we've seen to date - all within a matter of hours,” said Sam Ames, director of advocacy and government affairs for The Trevor Project. “We urge Governor Ivey to reject this extreme package and put a stop to these policies before they threaten more lives.”
Lambda Legal, GLAAD, ACLU, ACLU of Alabama and the Trevor Project did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation's requests for comment.
Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact .

Graphic

 
MONTGOMERY, AL - MARCH 30: Trace Trice, the parent of a transgender child, speaks during a rally at the Alabama State House to draw attention to anti-transgender legislation introduced in Alabama on March 30, 2021 in Montgomery, Alabama. There are so far 192 anti-LGBTQ bills under consideration in state legislatures across the United States. Of those, 93 directly target transgender people. (Photo by Julie Bennett/Getty Images)

Load-Date: April 9, 2022


End of Document
