




Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
August 30, 2022 Tuesday 11:15 AM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 500 words
Byline: Urja Kalyani
Body


Aug 30, 2022( International Business Times News: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 A new study presented at ENDO 2022[1], the annual meeting of the endocrine society in Atlanta, Georgia, has conducted a successful experiment to create a safe male contraceptive regime. 
The drugs used in the experiment include DMAU and 11-MNTDC which are categorized as progestogenic androgens. 
These medications work by lowering testosterone[2] levels, which has a bearing on the reduction in the number of sperm. 
Conventionally, bringing down testosterone levels often results in unpleasant side effects. However, the majority of the men in the clinical trial were not averse to the idea of continuing to take the drugs, reflecting that the side effects were tolerable. 
"Male contraception options are currently restricted to vasectomy and condoms, and are thus extremely limited as compared to female options," said[3] lead researcher Tamar Jacobsohn of the Contraceptive Development Program at the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. 
"Development of an effective, reversible male contraceptive method will improve reproductive options for men and women, have a major impact on public health by decreasing unintended pregnancy, and allow men to have an increasingly active role in family planning," Jacobsohn added, explaining the significance of their experiment. 
The experiment was devised in two Phase 1 clinical trials with 96 healthy male participants. The subjects in each trial were prescribed either two or four oral pills containing the active drug or a placebo. The participants were kept on this medication pattern for 28 days. 
The results were encouraging. It was found that testosterone levels reached below normal after seven days of being on the active drug. The testosterone levels did not budge below the normal range in subjects who took the placebo. 
The study found that 75% of men who took the active drug said they would be willing to use it in the future, compared with 46.4 percent of those taking a placebo. Not surprisingly, men who were on the four-pill daily dose (400 milligrams) exhibited lower levels of testosterone than the ones taking the two-pill daily dose (200-milligram dose). 
Also, no significant differences were observed between the two active treatment groups in terms of satisfaction with the drug or the openness to use it in the future or recommend it to others. 
"Men's positive experiences in clinical trials and high ratings of acceptability for this male pill should serve to excite the public about male birth control being potentially widely available in the coming decades," Jacobsohn noted. 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  [ 3]: / 

Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: August 30, 2022


End of Document
