




USA TODAY
September 10, 2015 Thursday
FIRST EDITION


Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7A
Length: 331 words
Body


REpay EUGENICS VICTIMS
In 1947, 14-year old Willis Lynch of Littleton, N.C., unknowingly inhaled an anesthetic, and then underwent a vasectomy procedure without his consent.
The forced sterilization was ordered by the state of North Carolina, which had deemed Lynch "feeble-minded" and unfit to produce children.
The gross moral injustice perpetrated against Willis Lynch was part of one of the darkest and most shameful chapters of modern American history.
During the 20th century, a majority of state governments created eugenics programs to sterilize more than 60,000 Americans. Many states specifically targeted and coerced unmarried mothers, African Americans and children from poor families into being sterilized.
While no amount of money or benefits will ever return to these individuals what they lost, now is the time for other states to follow the lead of North Carolina and Virginia and pass similar compensation payment programs to help right the wrongs of the past.
Thom Tillis
Republican senator, N.C.
WELCOME SYRIAN REFUGEES
Since non-violent protests broke out in 2011, more than 4 million Syrian citizens have been turned into refugees. More than 7 million of them have been displaced internally.
What to do about the root cause of this humanitarian crisis might be complex, but helping refugees is not: Americans have a long, proud tradition of providing comfort to the weak and weary.
But our policies are falling short of our values. We have accepted only about 1,500 Syrian refugees since the conflict began, and we are set to accept no more than 8,000 next year.
We are a big enough country in size and treasure and heart to do more. We are presented with a similar moral imperative today. How we respond will speak to the type of country we are.
I believe in American greatness. I believe we are a light unto the world, and I intend to work with every family and American who want to help me prove it.
Martin O'Malley
Democratic presidential candidate
Former governor of Maryland 

Load-Date: September 10, 2015


End of Document
