




Slate Magazine
October 18, 2013 Friday 8:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2013 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Section: CORRECTIONS; briefing
Length: 381 words
Highlight: Slate's Mistakes for the Week of Oct. 14.
Body


In an Oct. 17  blog post, Phil Plait misspelled Gordan Ugarkovic's first name.
In an Oct. 17  blog post, Forrest Wickman suggested that Patsey's plea to be put out of her misery in the film adaptation of 12 Years a Slave was artistic license. It was drawn from the book.
Due to an editing error in an Oct. 17 , a headline implied that vasectomies are performed with a scalpel. In many cases, a no-scalpel option is the preferred procedure.
In an Oct. 17 , Laura Helmuth referred to science blogger Danielle Lee as an anthropologist. Lee is a biologist.
In an Oct. 17  blog post, David Weigel misspelled Sen. Susan Collins' first name.
In an Oct. 16  blog post, Phil Plait wrote that immunity develops "a few days" after a flu shot. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, immunity takes up to two weeks. 
In an Oct. 16  blog post, Amanda Hess misspelled researcher Jill Tiefenthaler's last name.
In an Oct. 15 , Matthew Yglesias misstated the timing of Google's founding. Google was founded in 1998 during the original dot-com boom, but did not go public until 2004, after the bubble burst.
In an Oct. 15  blog post, J. Bryan Lowder misgendered Rolling Stone reporter Alex Stone. She is a woman.
In an Oct. 14  blog post, Mac Rogers incorrectly identified a Doctor Who episode recovered in 2011. It was from the serial "The Underwater Menace," not "Fury From the Deep."
In an Oct. 14  blog post, Joshua Keating misspelled Cape Verde.
In a Oct. 10 , David Weigel incorrectly identified Rep. Tim Griffin as an Arizona congressman. He represents Arkansas. 
In an Oct. 10  blog post, David Weigel misstated that Republicans have held the Virginia attorney general's office since 1997. They've held it since 1994.
An Oct. 7  was misattributed to the American Society of Civil Engineers. It was written by Jeremy Dennison. 
In a Sept. 26 , Alan Siegel misspelled the last name of an alt.tv.simpsons user, Jonathan Haas.
Slate strives to correct all errors of fact. If you've seen an error in our pages, let us know at . General comments should be posted in our Comments sections at the bottom of each article.

Load-Date: October 18, 2013


End of Document
