




TheStreet.com
December 20, 2006 Wednesday 20:02 PM EST


Copyright 2006 TheStreet.com, Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: PERSONAL FINANCE; Jim Cramer's Lightning Round
Length: 427 words
Byline: TheStreet.com Staff
At the time of publication, Cramer was long Foster Wheeler, Sears Holdings and Quest Diagnostics.
Jim Cramer, host of the CNBC television program "Mad Money," is a Markets Commentator for TheStreet.com, Inc., and CNBC, and a director and co-founder of TheStreet.com. All opinions expressed by Mr. Cramer on "Mad Money" are his own and do not reflect the opinions of TheStreet.com or its affiliates, or CNBC, NBC UNIVERSAL or their parent company or affiliates. Mr. Cramer's opinions are based upon information he considers to be reliable, but neither TheStreet.com, nor CNBC, nor either of their affiliates and/or subsidiaries warrant its completeness or accuracy, and it should not be relied upon as such. Mr. Cramer's statements are based on his opinions at the time statements are made, and are subject to change without notice. No part of Mr. Cramer's compensation from CNBC or TheStreet.com is related to the specific opinions expressed by him on "Mad Money."
None of the information contained in "Mad Money" constitutes a recommendation by Mr. Cramer, TheStreet.com or CNBC that any particular security, portfolio of securities, transaction, or investment strategy is suitable for any specific person. You must make your own independent decisions regarding any security, portfolio of securities, transaction, or investment strategy mentioned on the program. Mr. Cramer's past results are not necessarily indicative of future performance. Neither Mr. Cramer, nor TheStreet.com, nor CNBC guarantees any specific outcome or profit, and you should be aware of the real risk of loss in following any strategy or investments discussed on the program. The strategy or investments discussed may fluctuate in price or value and you may get back less than you invested. Before acting on any information contained in the program, you should consider whether it is suitable for your particular circumstances and strongly consider seeking advice from your own financial or investment adviser.
Some of the stocks mentioned by Mr. Cramer on "Mad Money" are held in Mr. Cramer's Action Alerts PLUS Portfolio. When that is the case, appropriate disclosure is made on the program and in the "Mad Money" recap available on TheStreet.com. The Action Alerts PLUS Portfolio contains all of Mr. Cramer's personal investments in publicly-traded equity securities only, and does not include any mutual fund holdings or other institutionally managed assets, private equity investments, or his holdings in TheStreet.com, Inc. Since March 2005, the Action Alerts PLUS Portfolio has been held by a Trust, the realized profits from which have been pledged to charity. Mr. Cramer retains full investment discretion with respect to all securities contained in the Trust. Mr. Cramer is subject to certain trading restrictions, and must hold all securities in the Action Alerts PLUS Portfolio for at least one month, and is not permitted to buy or sell any security he has spoken about on television or on his radio program for five days following the broadcast.
Body


To see the full "Mad Money" Recap, please .
Here's what Jim Cramer had to say about some of the stocks that callers offered up during the "Mad Money Lightning Round" Wednesday evening:
Foster Wheeler(FWLT:Nasdaq): "Because I like to play with the house's money, I've done a little schnitzel [sale] now and then, but I'm not selling the rest." Cramer owns it for his  charitable trust. Cramer said FWLT and KBR(KBR :NYSE) "both have the single-best pin action [on] all the new oil that's been found."
O2 Micro International(OIIM:NYSE): We're trying to stay away from mixed signals [circuits]." Cramer told the caller he wanted him to sell the stock.
Conceptus(CPTS:Nasdaq): "An alternative to a way that you currently get vasectomies." Cramer said he liked it but he can't rave about it.
SanDisk(SNDK:Nasdaq): "For a trade it can go to 47, but this stock has got tremendous tax-loss selling. ... Wait till January if you have to own SanDisk."
Dollar General(DG:NYSE): "I see a trade 14, 17, 14, 17. I can't get wild about that." Cramer also was sour on Family Dollar(FDO:NYSE) and Wal-Mart(WMT:NYSE). Cramer offered Sears(SHLD:Nasdaq), which he owns for his Action Alerts PLUS, and J.C. Penney(JCP:NYSE) instead.
UAL(UAUA:Nasdaq): "You are now courting the bear. ... I want you to ring the register. ... You must take that money off the table. I cannot have you turn that money into a loss."
CPFL Energia(CPL:NYSE): "Too dicey. ... I think that a Brazilian 4% yield is not enough to keep you with so-so growth. ... I want you to ring the register. I always fear that Brazil is just a trade."
Brightpoint(CELL:Nasdaq): "Too hard a business. I don't want to touch it."
Arena Resources: "It is a sleeper oil stock but it's up a lot. ... I still like Devon Energy (DVN:NYSE) better."
Indevus(IDEV:Nasdaq): "Lotta ways to win. ... A good speculative play." But Cramer suggested viewers do their homework on this one.
Motorola(MOT:Nasdaq): "Can't get behind the Motester. Been a real House of Pain. I see no momentum there." Cramer said he doesn't like the Nokester (Nokia(NOK:NYSE)), either. "I don't like the cell-phone business," he said.
Bio-Reference Laboratories (BRLI:NYSE): Cramer offered Quest Diagnostics(DGX:Nasdaq) instead. ... "I have been calling a bottom here at 52 bucks [in Quest]." He owns it for AA Plus.
Best Buy(BBY:NYSE): "It was the best of times at Best Buy, it was the worst of times at Circuit City(CC:NYSE). Best Buy should be bought here. They are annihilating Circuit City." Cramer asked if there even should be a Circuit City.

Load-Date: December 21, 2006


End of Document
