




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
October 2, 2008 Thursday


Copyright 2008 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: A; Pg. 1
Length: 617 words
Byline: BEKAH PORTER TH staff , 
Body


GALENA, Ill. - On Oct. 12, 2006, Donnisha Hill walked out of her bedroom carrying a Bounty paper towel decorated with orange and blue flowers. "Mom, I have something," she said, according to court documents. "It came from Dave's shop." 
Her mother asked, "What's on it?" The seventh-grader then held out the towel and said, "Dave's semen." By providing this evidence, authorities say Donnisha did more than spark a sexual abuse investigation against her neighbor, David Damm. They say she also provided him with a motive for her murder. Damm, 60, of Waterloo, Iowa, faces execution if found guilty of hiring Bruce Burt, also of Waterloo, to kidnap and kill the girl. On Wednesday, prosecution witnesses made two announcements - the semen on the paper towel came from Damm, and that police told Damm about the paper towel three days before the girl disappeared. Waterloo Police Department investigator Andrea Frana took the stand to talk about her role as the officer in charge of the sexual abuse case. On Oct. 16, 2006, she told Damm about the allegations. Damm said Donnisha's claims were false, especially since he "couldn't perform." He also consented to submitting a DNA sample. Three days later, Donnisha detailed the alleged abuse to police. She also said that on Oct. 17, 2006, Damm told her to lie about their "relationship," which Donnisha said involved fondling, french kissing and oral sex. On Oct. 24, 2006, Damm came to the police station to be interviewed by Frana regarding the matter. Prosecution attorneys played Frana a videotape of the conversation on Wednesday. Damm sat in the interrogation room wearing grey sweatpants, a sweatshirt and a vest. "I should have told the girl - 'Look, you can't have a crush on me,'" Damm says on the tape. "'You just can't. It's just not right.' But she was always insistent." For about 20 minutes, Damm denies ever touching the girl who defense attorneys and witnesses have said had a "crush" on the much-older man. "I gave her a couple of hugs at her request, but the kind of hug you give somebody at church," he said. When asked if the two participated in oral sex, Damm said he found oral sex "very distasteful." He also told Frana that he had a problem performing sexually ever since receiving a vasectomy. He also implied that Donnisha's parents might have "put her up to this," saying that Donnisha was "scared to death of her father." Toward the end of the tape, Frana said that the DNA evidence test results would not come back for two months, which would have been December. Damm appears dismayed, saying, "You're kidding." Three days later, Burt said during his testimony last week, Damm approached Burt. "He was saying something about DNA coming back in December," Burt said last week. Defense attorneys had said Burt learned about the timing while arranging a plea agreement with the prosecution. Burt will receive life in prison without the possibility of parole in exchange for his truthful testimony. In the afternoon, forensic analyst Kristan Evans from the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigations told the jury that the fluid on the paper towel was Damm's. Her testimony took almost three hours. "I am certain," she said. During a pre-trial hearing, the defense had said the DNA could not belong to Damm, who had undergone a vasectomy, which removed all sperm. Sperm is the main source of finding DNA in a semen sample. However, Evans said sperm is not required to identify DNA in a semen sample. When asked by prosecution how likely it was the found DNA profile matched somebody else, Evans said, "Fewer than 1 out of 100 billion." Testimony will resume at 9 a.m. Friday. Today will be spent arguing matters in the judge's chambers.

Load-Date: October 7, 2008


End of Document
