




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
October 4, 2010 Monday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2010 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FRONT; Pg. A1
Length: 634 words
Byline: By DAVID WAHLBERG , ,  608-252-6125
Body


Family planning advocates hope Wisconsin's bid to make permanent its expanded birth control services under Medicaid is approved before the Nov. 2 election so the program will be harder to cut if Republican Scott Walker becomes governor.
Whether Walker or Democrat Tom Barrett wins the governor's race, opponents say they will fight the program, especially its inclusion of teens as young as 15. Federal officials are reviewing Wisconsin's application, submitted in June before any other state.
The proposal, allowed under the new health care reform law, would let the state provide free birth control pills, vasectomies and other contraceptives to more low-income people than some states without having to periodically reapply as the state must do now.
The state also wants to start giving the services to men and women 15 and older who make as much as $32,940 a year, up from the current annual income limit of $21,660.
Wisconsin's proposed start date for the permanent program is Nov. 1. "It has nothing to do with the election," said Marlia Moore, a benefits policy administrator for the state Department of Health Services. "It's just a coincidence."
But advocates say they hope the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services approves the bid by then to codify the program before the election.
"There is definitely an advantage to getting as much done as we can while we still have (Democratic) Gov. (Jim) Doyle in office," said Nicole Safar, legal and policy analyst for Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin.
Approval by Nov. 1, or at least before January when Republicans could take control of the governor's office, would "hopefully ensure that the program will continue," said Lon Newman, executive director of Wausau-based Family Planning Health Services.
Wisconsin is one of 27 states that provide family planning services - which also include Pap smears and testing for sexually transmitted diseases - to more people than required by Medicaid, the state-federal health plan for the poor. The state's expanded program started in 2003, and men were added this year.
Wisconsin spent $18.4 million to provide the services to 65,000 people in 2008, saving $139.1 million in costs from unintended pregnancies, according to the state health department.
"It's good for the public health, and it's good for the public purse," said Clare Coleman, president of the National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association. She praised Wisconsin's leadership in being the first state to pursue a permanent program.
But Julaine Appling, president of the conservative group Wisconsin Family Action, said spending more money on birth control when the state faces a budget deficit makes no sense. "That's an unwise and irresponsible use of taxpayer money," she said.
Matt Sande, director of legislation for Pro-Life Wisconsin, questioned the state's claim that birth control saves money. Like Appling, he vowed to fight the program and at least get the qualifying age moved from 15 to 18.
"Government-funded birth control, liberally distributed to young women and girls, increases and encourages sexual promiscuity," Sande said. "What comes at the end of that? Abortion."
Pro-Life Wisconsin and Wisconsin Right to Life have endorsed Walker. In a debate in August, Walker said BadgerCare Plus, Wisconsin's main Medicaid program, has become too large and should be cut.
"Scott supports returning BadgerCare to its original purpose," said his spokeswoman, Jill Bader.
Barrett supports the state's application to make the expanded family planning services permanent, said his spokesman, Phil Walzak.
Shinie Tho, a 19-year-old student at UW-Madison, said she has been getting the NuvaRing birth control for free through the program at Planned Parenthood in Madison.
"Most college students are broke," she said. "This helps a lot."

Load-Date: October 5, 2010


End of Document
