




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
April 17, 2013 Wednesday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2013 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FRONT; Pg. A1
Length: 650 words
Byline: DAVID WAHLBERG, Wisconsin State Journal , , , , 608-252-6125
Body


Dean Health System and the owner of St. Mary's Hospital have agreed to merge, the organizations announced Tuesday.
Under an arrangement approved Monday by Dean's board, the Madison-based health care provider would become a for-profit subsidiary of Catholic-run SSM Health Care of St. Louis. That would allow Dean doctors to keep providing birth control services.
It's unclear how many of Dean's 3,850 employees and SSM's 4,034 employees in Wisconsin might be affected by the merger. Leaders plan to "look for economies," said Dr. Craig Samitt, Dean CEO.
Dean shareholders will vote next month on SSM's planned acquisition of Dean, Samitt said. The Wisconsin Office of the Commissioner of Insurance and federal antitrust regulators also must approve the deal.
The merger could be finalized by summer, Dean and SSM officials said. Terms will not be disclosed.
Dean, which is mostly doctor-owned, and St. Mary's have collaborated in Madison and surrounding areas for decades. They started talking more than a year ago about a merger, largely because of health care reform.
Dean "explored partnerships with a variety" of organizations and "evaluated three potential partners in great detail," Samitt said. In the end, the Dean board recommended staying with its longtime partner.
"We selected SSM as the best strategic, cultural, operational and financial fit for the Dean organization," Samitt said.
William Thompson, CEO of SSM, said Dean's high-quality, low-cost care "is something we need to emulate throughout SSM."
SSM owns 18 hospitals and is affiliated with others in Wisconsin, Illinois, Missouri and Oklahoma. In addition to St. Mary's, it owns St. Clare Hospital in Baraboo and St. Mary's Janesville Hospital, and is affiliated with hospitals in Columbus, Dodgeville, Edgerton and Stoughton.
It also owns two nursing homes: St. Mary's Care Center in Madison and St. Clare Meadows Care Center in Baraboo.
SSM and Dean share ownership in Dean Health Plan and in more than half of Dean's more than 60 clinics in southern Wisconsin. SSM also owns 5 percent of Dean, which has 720 doctors and other health care providers.
Dean Health System includes Davis Duehr Dean eye care, Dean Pharmacy, Wisconsin Integrated Information Technology and Telemedicine Systems, and Navitus Health Solutions.
Last July, Dean and St. Mary's together were named an accountable care organization by the federal government. That means they will gain or lose money from Medicare payments through federal health reform, based on quality scores, efficiency and cost.
With an expected increase in "bundled payments" - made to doctor groups and hospitals together - the merger will "accelerate even more our ability to deliver better care at a lower cost," Samitt said.
As a subsidiary of SSM, Dean would continue to be a for-profit, secular organization, Samitt said.
Dean doctors could keep providing birth control services, including tubal ligations and vasectomies, he said. Dean hasn't provided abortions, he said.
Dean Health Plan would continue covering contraceptives.
A "carve-out" contract for Dean obstetrician/gynecologists would allow them to do sterilization procedures at non-SSM facilities on their own time, said Michael Panicola, SSM's senior vice president for mission and organizational ethics.
Dean doctors couldn't do euthanasia, assisted suicide, in-vitro fertilization or artificial insemination, but they haven't been doing those procedures, Panicola said.
Dean doctors would be required to provide a certain amount of care to the poor, possibly linked to local rates of people without insurance, Panicola said.
Staffing at both organizations will be reviewed by an "integration team," Samitt said.
"In the immediate term, we envision no change," he said. "Going forward, we'll look for opportunities to improve efficiency, to look for economies and to enhance collaboration between the leadership teams of both Dean and SSM."

Load-Date: April 18, 2013


End of Document
