




The Daily Barometer: Oregon State University
March 3, 2015 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2015 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: ONLINE FEATURES; Pg. 1
Length: 1082 words
Body


- Conversations with your doctor about birth control can be uncomfortable and often don't take place because of short appointments, not knowing all the options or even being too embarrassed to ask. As a result, many women may stay on temporary methods of birth control, even though they know their family is complete.
Bayer surveyed 1,000 women, aged 25 to 45, who decided they were done having children, in committed relationships and were not on a permanent birth control method, and found that 54% of women who are done having children were interested in permanent birth control but have not brought it up with their OB/GYN or healthcare provider.
A Permanent Option You May Not Know About
In 2011, permanent birth control was the most commonly used method of contraception worldwide among women who were married or in committed relationships.1 However, according to the 2014 Bayer survey, 56% of women who are done having children were not aware of permanent birth control methods other than tubal ligation (having your tubes tied) and vasectomy.
"Since many women do not want surgery and assume that there are no other options, the conversation about permanent birth control doesn't even come up," said Dr. Holly Ray, a board certified OB/GYN and an Essure user herself. "This is why it is important to have an open dialogue when it relates to family planning and birth control."
Essure is a non-surgical permanent birth control procedure in which a soft, flexible Essure® insert is permanently placed in each fallopian tube. A natural barrier forms around the inserts and prevents sperm from reaching the eggs to prevent pregnancy.
How to Prepare for Your Doctor's Appointment
It's important to make the most of your doctor's appointments by doing your research, asking lots of questions and making sure that your doctor is aware of any changes to your health, family or medical needs. That way, your doctor can educate you about your options and help you decide what's best for you and your family.
"The most important thing you can do before a doctor's appointment is to prepare so you can make the most of your relatively short time together," said Dr. Ray, who offers these tips:
If you are considering a permanent method of birth control, like Essure, you need to be sure that you are done having children before you decide to have the procedure. Some questions to ask yourself:
"I knew I did not want any more children, so I opted for Essure permanent birth control," says Dr. Ray. "I got the procedure, and three months later I had the confirmation test which confirmed that I could now rely on Essure for birth control. It was the right choice for me."
You can visit the Essure website for a doctor discussion guide, quiz and to read about real women who use Essure. You will also find physicians in the U.S. trained to perform the Essure procedure by clicking "Find a Doctor."a
Indication
Essure® is permanent birth control that works with your body to create a natural barrier against pregnancy.
Important Safety Information
Essure is not right for you if are uncertain about ending fertility, can have only one insert placed, are or have been pregnant within the past 6 weeks, have had your tubes tied, have an active or recent pelvic infection, or have a known allergy to contrast dye.
Talk to your doctor if you are taking immunosuppressants.
WARNING: You must continue to use another form of birth control until you have your Essure Confirmation Test (3 months after the procedure) and your doctor tells you that you can rely on Essure for birth control. It can take longer than three months for Essure to be effective. Talk to your doctor about which method of birth control you should use during this period. Women using an intrauterine device need to switch to another method. If you rely on Essure for birth control before receiving confirmation from your doctor, you are at risk of getting pregnant.
WARNING: Be sure you are done having children before you undergo the Essure procedure. Essure is a permanent method of birth control.
During the procedure: In clinical trials some women experienced mild to moderate pain (9.3%). Your doctor may be unable to place one or both Essure® inserts correctly. Although uncommon, part of an Essure insert may break off or puncture the fallopian tube requiring surgery to repair the puncture. Your doctor may recommend a local anesthetic. Ask your doctor about the risks associated with this type of anesthesia.
Immediately following the procedure: In clinical trials some women experienced mild to moderate pain (12.9%) and/or cramping (29.6%), vaginal bleeding (6.8%), and pelvic or back discomfort for a few days. Some women experienced nausea and/or vomiting (10.8%) or fainting. In rare instances, an Essure insert may be expelled from the body.
During the Essure Confirmation Test: You will be exposed to very low levels of radiation, as with most x-rays. In rare instances, women may experience spotting and/or infection.
Long-term Risks: There are rare reports of chronic pelvic pain in women who have had Essure. In rare instances, an Essure insert may migrate through the fallopian tubes and may require surgery. No birth control method is 100% effective. Women who have Essure are more likely to have an ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy outside the uterus) if they get pregnant. This can be life-threatening. The Essure insert is made of materials that include a nickel-titanium alloy. Patients who are allergic to nickel may have an allergic reaction to the inserts. Symptoms include rash, itching and hives.
The safety and effectiveness of Essure has not been established in women under 21 or over 45 years old.
Essure does not protect against HIV or other sexually transmitted diseases.
Talk to your doctor about Essure and whether it is right for you.
aBayer maintains a list of physicians who have been trained and are willing to accept referrals. Physicians are listed according to proximity to address and site of service criteria. Physician participation on this list is voluntary and free. Some of the listed physicians may be paid consultants for Bayer. Physicians may be removed from the list at their or Bayer's request. Bayer does not guarantee the accuracy of the listings and is not responsible for the medical advice or care given by the physicians.
1Population Division of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the United Nations Secretariat (2013). World Contraceptive Patterns 2013. New York, NY: United Nations; 2013

Load-Date: March 5, 2015


End of Document
