




 Journal of Economic Issues
June 2005


Copyright 2005 Gale Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved
Business and Management Practices
Section: Pg. 309; Vol. 39; No. 2; ISSN: 0021-3624
Length: 7636 words
Body


In Memory of Allan G. Gruchy
New disputes are always arising in a market. If resolved, they result in new rules. If unresolved, they can accumulate until the market breaks down. I will address seven of the issues around which rules and disputes have swirled: (1) the international payment mechanism, (2) information, (3) second mover advantage, (4) trading rights, (5) property rights, (6) enforcement rights, and (7) sanctions. (See Fernand Braudel's great history[1981]for the long view of the market.) After a brief discussion of these issues, I state my conclusions and suggest implications.
Issue 1: The International Payment Mechanism
The international payment mechanism is extremely important but widely taken for granted. It is also the most complicated of market issues. Therefore, my discussion starts with it and devotes the most space to it. The international payment mechanism is best understood by looking first at the foreign exchange market and then at the Bretton Woods system.
The foreign exchange market works according to a set of rules that are largely informal expectations of appropriate behavior. Those rules have changed dramatically over time. Up until the Great Depression, countries were expected to follow the rules of the gold standard, more or less. Nations had come to rely upon central banks as domestic lenders of last resort and tried to maintain a constant value for their currency in terms of gold. As it evolved, the gold standard also came to use the British pound as a key currency. (A classic financial history is Kindleberger 1996.) The whole system collapsed, however, during the Great Depression. The Bretton Woods system replaced the old gold standard after the Second World War. It started out as a fixed exchange rate system but changed into a floating system when the USA floated the dollar in the early 1970s. Today, each country is expected to maintain an exchange rate for its currency consistent with a rough and ready balance in its imports and its exports, with due allowance made for appropriate flows of financial funds into and out of the country. This expectation of global balance arranges countries into two groups, those who can and those who cannot meet the expectation. (See the technical note at the end of the text for a discussion of balance of payments accounting.)
The countries who can meet the expectations have hard currencies while other countries have soft ones. The countries with hard and soft currencies live on two opposite sides of a great divide separating the haves from the have nots. The countries with hard currencies have highly developed economies. Their currencies have stable exchange rates. They are usually powerful nation-states. Their people are predominantly pale and rich. They are in the "First World," where only a small portion of the human species lives. Their governments make the rules of the foreign exchange market. The rules work in their favor. They can usually follow the rules with ease. They are led by the United States.
The United States not only has a hard currency but it also has the key currency. The key currency has replaced gold as the principal form of official government reserves. The country issuing the key currency is the most powerful country in the nation-state system and is an ongoing contradiction. It is expected to run a balance of trade deficit while maintaining a roughly stable exchange rate. Occasional rate adjustments are to be expected, but the key currency country's trade deficit must result in sufficient payment outflow to provide the growing pool of official reserves needed by the other countries' governments. The U.S. payment deficit provides the liquidity needed for the global trading system to grow. While most countries that run huge trade deficits are accused of living beyond their means and are usually forced into making some very painful choices on pain of the collapse of their currency, the global payment mechanism in use today requires the USA to continue running huge trade deficits. According to the rules of the current global payment mechanism, the motto for the United States-leader of the hard currency nations with developed economies and high incomes--is "let the good times roll."
"Squeeze blood out of a turnip" is the motto for the soft currency countries. They have underdeveloped economies and low incomes. They have no leader, although Cuba would love to give it a try. Their currencies have unstable exchange rates that frequently decline and sometimes collapse. They are usually weak nation-states, frequently former colonies or dependencies. Their people are predominantly dark and poor. They are in the "Third World," where most of the human species live. Their governments do not make the rules of the foreign exchange market. Consequently, the rules work against them and they manage to follow the rules only with difficulty. They are usually countries that suffer chronic balance of payments difficulties and whose currencies constantly teeter on the edge of collapse. Although poor because of their international payments problems, they are said to be "living beyond their means." Their governments are considered incompetent and their people miscreants and malcontents. They are expected to deregulate their economy and to slash their government spending on welfare programs, to increase taxes on wages and wage goods, to raise interest rates, and to offer inducements to lure in more foreign investors. Their poor are just not poor enough and their rich are just not rich enough. When they actually manage to follow the rules of the foreign exchange market, they do so only through Herculean government effort. Such Herculean government effort is described as a reduction in government interference in the free market system. The policies expected of the soft currency countries may or may not reduce their global payments problems, but the policies do destabilize their political systems, cause deep recessions in their economies, and enrich foreign investors.
The Bretton Woods system involves four related organizations: (1) the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), (2) the World Trade Organization (WTO), (3) the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and (4) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD, or commonly known as the World Bank). The system was constructed by the most powerful nations in the world to deal with three related international conflicts that came to a head during the Great Depression. The conflicts were over (1) trade restrictions (GATT and WTO deal with them), (2) manipulation of exchange rates (IMF deals with them), and (3) defaults on international debts (IBRD deals with them).
A Brief History of GATT and the WTO
The market economies dramatically increased their tariffs in the depression in vain attempts to reduce unemployment. However, each time one country raised its tariffs, its trading partners retaliated by raising theirs. Everybody lost because the result was a strangulation of world trade, not an increase in employment. Furthermore, the growing protectionism increased animosity between countries. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade was organized to reduce these high tariffs and the animosity. It did so quite successfully by holding a whole series of negotiated reductions in tariffs.
The last negotiating round organized by the GATT was the Uruguay round launched in 1986 during the Reagan-Thatcher deregulation era. The Uruguay round of negotiations was concluded in 1995. The Uruguay Round also established the WTO. By the Uruguay round it had become clear to the powerful nations led by the United States and the United Kingdom that tariffs were no longer the major barriers to their growing international trade. Regulatory barriers instead of tariffs were increasingly being used to restrict imports. What was needed was regulatory uniformity that treated the goods and services of all countries in a nondiscriminatory fashion. This is regulatory "harmonization," the practice employed by the European Union as it forges the once-separate economies of Europe into a united one. In this economic unification of Europe, the myriad of market rules originally established by each country are being blended into one harmonious set of rules. The same sort of thing is required on the much larger international scale. However, although what is needed is an international organization that supports harmonization, what was provided is one that supports deregulation. The two paths to globalization are strikingly different.
The WTO was created to deal with regulatory barriers to international trade. It has begun doing so in a most alarming manner. It is deregulating international trade. Deregulation is the wrong path to globalization. It will not create equality and abundance. It will bring more sweatshop working conditions, environmental deterioration, and social stratification. The harmonization path is the right path to globalization. Harmonization does not eliminate the social control of business and technology but preserves the opportunity to use such social control to pursue equality and abundance.
The Briefest-Ever History of the International Money Fund
In the depression years, countries slapped tariffs on imports to close off their home market from foreign competition and raise home employment and profits. They also engaged in competitive devaluations of their currencies to achieve the same thing. The IMF was organized to maintain a global trading system based on fixed exchange rates, on rates that could not be manipulated in such a manner. Working together with the GATT and later with the WTO, the IMF was intended to make the practice of "beggaring your neighbor" a thing of the past. It did not, but it has come to exert enormous power over soft currency countries.
In addition to discouraging "beggaring your neighbor" through exchange rate manipulation, the IMF set up machinery to help countries support their exchange rates, particularly when they were experiencing destabilizing balance of payments deficits. This machinery is the source of its enormous power over soft currency countries desperate to borrow from the IMF to keep their currencies from collapsing. Their people are hungry, the electricity is on and off, the water is not fit to drink, disease is running unchecked (HIV/AIDS), crime is uncontrolled, the rebels are massing in the hills, the generals are swaggering in the cities, the schools are closed, and the children are going to hell in the fields, sweatshops, and whorehouses. The people who struggle under these conditions number in the billions. They are the modern-day, international equivalent of Oliver Twist. "Please, kind sir, can I have more porridge?"
To get more out of the IMF, however, the governments of such miscreants and malcontents must meet certain conditions. (Remember how Oliver got clubbed on the head with the porridge ladle when he asked for more?) The IMF designs the conditions to stabilize the borrowing country's exchange rate and to force the desperately impoverished country to stop living beyond its means. The IMF conditions will require higher taxes on wages combined with lower government spending on health, education, and welfare. This fiscal austerity will drive the economy into a recession and reduce its imports. Uppity leaders of labor unions will be put in prison. There, they will join the rebels working for the violent overthrow of the government. Real wages will fall (not overt IMF conditions). This is said to increase exports. The conditions will also include higher interest rates, which will deepen the recession but attract funds from foreign investors. Further conditions usually require that the government sell off any companies, service facilities, or production facilities that it may own. This will bring in foreign money and foreign owners. If the government has tried to regulate business practices, control environmental deterioration, or control foreign investment, the IMF conditions will stop such effrontery to the "free" market. This will bring in more foreign money and more foreign owners. Of course, food riots and explosive political unrest will erupt when the conditions are imposed. The domestic instability will scare foreign investors away, strengthen the rebels and the generals, and deepen the recession. Crime and violence will spread, as will disease and death. The currency may or may not recover as the rebels plant new export cash crops in the hills to finance the revolution and the generals siphon off as much IMF money as they can to fill their Swiss bank accounts before the rebels plant new explosive devices in the cities to blow them and us all to hell.
The Briefest-Ever History of the World Bank
The World Bank was created to deal with the problem of international loan default that began in the 1920s as many countries defaulted on the bonds they issued during WWI. Many U.S. corporations had profited enormously from the war by shipping goods produced in undamaged U.S. factories to the bloody Western and Eastern European fronts. The shipments were largely financed through borrowing, leaving a troublesome debt overhang after the war. In the 1920s the war bonds from the many government combatants had come to rest in the portfolios of leading U.S., British, and European banks. There, they languished. Many of the governments who originally issued them found it hard to start paying them back. In the depression years of the 1930s the debt overhang from WWI collapsed in a crushing avalanche, as most countries defaulted on their war bonds. The crushing weight of the worthless debt added to the already large bad debt losses of the banking systems in Europe and the USA, adding significantly to the financial disasters suffered during the Great Depression.
The United States did not make large war loans to its allies in the Second World War. In place of loans, President Franklin D. Roosevelt instituted the Lend-Lease Program to provide the allies with the U.S. war materials they needed. As WWII drew to a close the USA and its allies realized that massive amounts would be needed to reconstruct war-torn Europe and to finance the infrastructure to develop the European colonies. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was their answer.
However, even though it made some contribution, the IBRD did not finance the reconstruction of war-torn Europe. The Marshall Plan did that with massive U.S. aid. After the reconstruction, the IBRD turned its attention to financing development. Its projects are designed and built largely by U.S., Canadian, and European corporations and use equipment, fuel, and materials supplied largely by same. The projects expand exports of raw materials to Europe and the USA and displace millions of indigenous people who move into the sweatshops, slums, and whorehouses of the cities or join the rebels in the hills. Their displacement constitutes the modern equivalent of the enclosure movement. The projects that displace them are paid for by the host countries (former colonies and dependencies) who borrow from the World Bank. Of course, the World Bank is not controlled by indigenous people but by the powerful governments of the USA and Europe. It cooperates with the IMF, not lending to countries that are in conflict with its sister Bretton Woods institution.
The World Bank and IMF have partly replaced and strongly supplemented the fragmented, unilateral lending of private, commercial banks, insulating them from Third World instability and defending them against international defaults. The U.S. and European banking systems are much stronger, as a result. The World Bank and the IMF have been highly successful in extending and defending the global interests of the USA and Europe. In their hubris, the USA and Europe identify the interests of the Third World with their own.
However, the Third World has fallen deeply in debt to the World Bank. Instead of using aid as the Marshall Plan did to finance reconstruction in Europe, loans were used to finance development in the Third World. Aid should have been used in both cases.
This has had to be a painfully brief sketch of how the nations of the world have dealt with and continue to deal with the disputed issues that drive the evolution of the global payment mechanism. Nevertheless, this little sketch has been sufficient to demonstrate two things. First, the international payment mechanism would not even exist without the continued active participation of government. The global payment mechanism is a product of the nation-state system. Global markets have evolved along with it and would collapse without it. Thorstein Veblen would say that the great opaque fact about the global payment mechanism is government participation, not government intervention. Second, the global payment mechanism makes it possible for global markets to work, but its rules are not intended to be kind. They are intended to work for the benefit of whoever is able to make the rules. (Recent discussions of these international issues can be found in Tabb 2002, Yates 2003, Stiglitz 2003, Wallach and Woodall 2004, and Chua 2004. Also of interest is Darity and Horn 1988.)
Issue 2: Information Rights
In the "free" market, everyone is assumed to have equal rights to information. Nevertheless, in real markets, the possession of the most basic information is extremely limited by the powerful interests who make the rules. Those limitations frequently lead to disputes, and the disputes are settled by collective action, either through the legal system provided by the nation-state or backed up by it.
In the legendary "free" market, there is assumed to be one price for all participants. The "free" market is fair, so everybody has the same opportunity to pay the same price and receive the same price. Everybody knows what that price is. The rules do not support secret discounts or premiums, kickbacks, bribes, rebates, or price discrimination. Everybody is equally treated and equally informed. The little supply and the little demand curves of economic legend cross at one equilibrium price. And in the big rock candy mountain, the bulldogs all have rubber teeth.
"Free" market legend to the contrary not withstanding, however, just one price is seldom found for anything. This statement applies to a wide range of goods and services, including such things as a new or used car, an appendectomy, vasectomy, tracheotomy, Viagra, an airline ticket, a hair cut, pair of sneakers, or a root canal. Try these empirical tests: Students should go to four different surgeons and ask their appendectoray fee (Is that with or without insurance? To which HMO do you belong? Is that Medicare?). Go to four different pharmacies and ask the price of Viagra. Go to four different dentists and ask the cost of a root canal. Add other queries to this list and see how many equilibrium prices are found. You can easily find an average price for anything but not the one, single price that clears the market and that everybody pays, because everybody seldom pays the same price. Besides, if the one real price that everybody pays is found, how certain can we be that everyone is paying it for the same thing? The quality of the product or service may be different from customer to customer. Credit arrangements, time of delivery or performance, penalties for default, and many other factors could be different--another area ripe for empirical testing.
Information is the key, and the flow of information is determined by market rules. The end result of most rules is that consumers and job seekers--the common people--are at a distinct disadvantage when it comes to the market. Unless they have made the rules to begin with, they are usually presented with take-it-or-leave-it contracts, whether or not they understand them and whether or not they have information about alternatives. They can purchase the product or the service and accept the terms offered or walk away. They can accept the job offered, with the accompanying job description and rate of pay, or they can keep looking for a job. However, they can also organize. They can and do take collective action and change the rules to their own advantage. The rules are products of collective action, not divine dispensation and not spontaneous generation. Your students can easily discover these things for themselves if you push them out into the real market system. Besides, they will be delighted if you replace their textbook reading assignment with field study.
Issue 3: Second Mover Advantage
In any market transaction, the first mover always puts herself at risk. The second mover always has an advantage. The first mover's risk is the second mover's advantage. Realizing how risky venturing into the market could be, Veblen called markets the interstices of the industrial system, and he argued that a carefully engineered industrial system was needed in order to avoid the risks of the market (Veblen[1904]1975, 48ff[1921]1965. See also Dugger 1990, 1993, and 1996. Contrast Veblen and Dugger with Williamson 1985.)
Second mover advantage is one of the most effective weapons in the class struggle between workers and capitalists. For folks who earn their living from their work, we must hope that dishonesty can be reduced, because it is difficult for us to be the second mover in the labor market. First, we report to the boss for work and then we hope for the best. Among many other worries, we hope our employers do not cheat us out of our paycheck or pension, injure or poison us on the job, or speed us up without mercy. The labor movement evolved from our struggle to get the power needed to bargain collectively and to protect us from abuse at the hands of the bosses. (The classic treatment of this problem is Braverman 1974. See also Edwards 1979 and Yates 2003.)
Second mover advantage is also prevalent in the product market. (The classic is still Nader 1965.) When consumers buy a product for use at home or when producers buy parts and materials, they put themselves at risk by becoming first movers. They pay for the product or agree to pay for it in a credit arrangement, but they are not sure that the product will be as promised by the seller. The extent of product warranty and of product liability, as well as how to obtain redress, are the leading problems.
When you plug in that new toaster, it should not blow up in your face or set fire to your house. If it does, the manufacturer may give you a new toaster, but you will probably have to sue it to get it to pay for the reconstruction of your face or your house.
Is the manufacturer liable for harm done by the product when it is used as intended and in a reasonable manner? Under what conditions is it liable? What is reasonable use? Should the user have been more cautious? Should toaster users wear safety visors? Should they have a fire extinguisher at the ready? Should they have a sprinkler system in their kitchen and a direct line to the fire department? Even if toaster users stubbornly refuse to wear visors and hold fire extinguishers in their free hands, install sprinklers, and direct lines to the fire department, should manufacturers still be liable if the toaster blows their face up or burns their house down? By how much should they be liable? Should they have to pay something for the pain and suffering of the toaster user? Should they have to pay punitive damages? Suppose the toaster does not blow up the user's face or burn down his house. Instead, suppose the user drops the toaster on her infant's head? Suppose the infant pulls it down on his own head? Toasts his finger instead of his muffin? Toasts muffin instead of finger, but Muffin is the cat?
Suppose the toaster really is seriously defective and burns down the homes of many users. Nevertheless, the manufacturer is an enormous multinational corporation with the best legal defense money can buy. The defense team can easily defeat any individual user who brings legal action against it. Should the individual users be allowed to join together and bring a class action suit against the giant manufacturer? By allowing the individuals to form a legal class, the balance of power is not so heavily weighted against them. They may have a better chance of getting justice because as a legal class they can hire an aggressive legal team.
Of course, if barred by the state from doing so, more direct collective action can be taken by workers and consumers. Such can form the stuff of class conflict. Rules can be broken and markets collapse. Whole systems of rules can be overthrown and economies collapse, to be replaced by other systems. Change and dispute are the only constants. (Discussion of change and dispute in terms of social evolution is in Dugger and Sherman 2000.)
Issue 4: Trading Rights
The right to trade in a market includes the protection of the market's rules. All markets are not necessarily open to all buyers and sellers. This is particularly true with respect to a particular subset of markets known as organized exchanges. An organized exchange is a specialized kind of market that formally restricts trading rights to a self-selected group. Exchanges reduce numerous forms of risk. Organized exchanges have evolved most frequently in securities trading. The New York Stock Exchange is the most well-known example of the market subspecies. Organized exchanges can offer the closest thing to equal information access and to single price trading of any market form because they are able to enforce rules that promote the free flow of information and that restrict the use of insider information.
A simple auction form of market might seem to offer even more accurate price information, without the need to restrict trading rights. Unfortunately, that is not necessarily so. In a simple auction it is possible for bidders to make contrived bids designed to drive the bidding price up. So the prices bidders offer in simple auctions may not be real ones. What you see is not necessarily what the seller gets. How can a trader know for sure? The bidder against whom you are competing might be the seller, or the seller's agent, or the auctioneer's agent. If you are selling something at auction, how do you know the bidders have not conspired to keep their bids low? Only if entrance to the bidding "pool" is restricted and supervised so as to eliminate such false bidding can the prices be trusted. But then, the simple auction has evolved into a more organized exchange where trading is restricted to bidders who have met the requirements and follow the rules set by the organizers. Once the organizers who have established such rules of "membership" begin holding their auction on a regular basis, they will have developed a full-blown exchange. It will be based on an auctioneer system of price determination, but it will be an organized exchange governed by a set of rules that restrict trading rights to a certain group of bidders who meet the requirements of the exchange.
Exchange trading rights are the key to enforcing the rules of the exchange system. Loss of trading rights is a powerful sanction that can be used to ensure that the rules are followed. Trading rights are awarded selectively and limit who can buy and sell within the framework of the rules provided by the exchange. Those who hold trading rights are usually called the members of the exchange. The members of the exchange earn a flow of revenue from the commissions earned by exercising their right to trade on the exchange. The present value of that flow of revenue over cost is the capitalized value of the right. The right to trade is a kind of property right. It is made possible by the collective action of the exchange as it restricts trading rights to selected traders. The more the exchange limits the number of traders with a right to trade, the more valuable the right to trade can become. The rules are established to create the maximum level of trust in the exchange itself so that the exchange members can attract and hold more and more customers for their brokerage firms.
Not only does a broker have to be a member of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in order to trade there but a corporation must meet the standards of the NYSE to have its stock listed on the exchange. Only listed stock is traded. Of course, being listed does not guarantee any specific value or performance of the stock. It means only that the corporation issuing the stock has met certain minimal standards to have its stock listed. The value of such stock can and does collapse, in spite of the minimal standards.
An exchange provides the original owners and promoters of listed corporations, as well as any other insiders and speculators, with an easy way of selling out their interests to outsiders. An exchange not only reduces risk and provides liquidity but it also inadvertently facilitates the formation of stock pools and price manipulations. There are common features to all such stock market manipulations. They rely on price quotations that pass through and are in a sense "certified" by a respected exchange. The rules of the NYSE prohibit such fraudulent schemes. Nevertheless, they happen. Imagine the fleecing to which outsider investors would be subjected in the absence of the minimal rules of the exchange.
The rules of organized exchanges are all important matters for public policy. There is nothing natural, spontaneous, or free about them. They change when organized interests become strong enough to change them through collective action that is backed up by the state. (Welles 1975 still contains the best account.)
Issue 5: Property Rights
Property rights are essential to markets and are defined and defended by states. Much has already been said on this point. (See Commons[1924]1968.) States and markets have more in common than is recognized. Let us approach property rights from this new direction of commonality. Could the New York Stock Exchange really have a lot in common with the United States of America? Yes. They are both restrictive organizations. They restrict membership rights to a select few. They are both organized around the property rights of their members, even though the exchange focuses on narrow trading rights while the state's perspective is much broader. They both acquire and exercise power over their members and over others. The powers of both can be and are used both to pursue the common good and to pursue narrow self interest.
You can get a visitor's pass to visit the floor of the NYSE. You can get a visa to visit the USA. Neither will allow you to make a living there, however. That is restricted to members only (and to holders of highly coveted green cards, i.e., U.S. work permits for noncitizens). The members-only restriction allows for regulation of behavior. The state needs to control its borders to provide for the common defense, fight crime, and protect health. That is true, but only to a limited extent. Only marauders and disease carriers need to be held at the border to control crime and disease. The exchange needs to control trading rights to keep out cheaters. That, too, is true, but only to a limited extent. Only cheaters need to be restrained from trading.
Nevertheless, the state and the exchange go much further in restricting membership than they need to go. They go further in order to regulate property value. The state restricts the entry of aliens, whether or not they are marauders or disease carriers. This makes access to jobs a kind of property right held by citizens only. The exchange restricts the trading of nonmembers, whether or not they are cheaters or conspirators. This reserves commissions on trades for members only. The state restricts the sale of goods or services in the home market to those produced at home. It uses quotas, tariffs, and regulatory barriers to do so. The exchange restricts the sale of stocks or bonds to those issued by selected corporations. It uses listing requirements to do so. In all cases, restrictions create property value.
The outsiders usually are the poor and the powerless, those without property rights. The insiders are the rich and the powerful, those with property rights. Ponder this conundrum: If property rights are so valuable, everyone should have them. However, if everyone has them, they will not be valuable.
For the past few centuries the great struggle over property rights has focused on the class conflict between workers and owners. That struggle is still vital, but today much conflict is also focused on the global status of intellectual property rights. Patents, copyrights, and trademarks are all sets of rules issued by states. Today, the most powerful nations are busy creating intellectual property rights for state citizens and corporations and excluding the use of this property by others--usually the citizens and corporations of Third World nations. There is nothing eternal, natural, spontaneous, or free about patents, copyrights, or trademarks, nor about citizenship, visas, or green cards. They are all products of public policy and are frequently changed by same. They are social constructions, not spontaneous acts of God.
Issue 6: Enforcement
The state is the enforcer for the market. Enforcement that is legal and done above the table must involve state sovereignty because the state is the only legitimate way to organize violence, and violence is the ultimate form of enforcement. A particular market and a whole market system can rely on either a legitimate state with its courts and lawyers, or an illegitimate state with its mafia and gunmen--sometimes even both. The market requires rule enforcement from some type of state. Markets fail without it. That simple truth holds for hamburger or heroin.
A state can outlaw a market. The state withdraws its protections from any rights in the outlawed market and stops settling disputes. It may also apply sanctions to those who continue making the trades. Nevertheless, an outlawed market seldom just shuts itself down simply because it has become illegal. Some traders will continue trading anyway. Either a market without a lawful state eventually will collapse under the accumulating weight of unsettled disputes, or the outlawed market will grow an outlaw state. The outlaw state protects rights in the outlaw market and settles the disputes as they continue arising. The sanctions used will be whatever can be brought to bear under the circumstances. There is nothing eternal, natural, or free about them. (For an offbeat but instructive story about bootlegging, see Padgett 2003.)
Issue 7: Sanctions
Sanctions are punishments for breaking the rules. Sanctions are applied by some kind of sovereign power. A trader who breaks the rules might have his or her right to trade revoked or suspended by the exchange on which he or she trades. In that case, the exchange would be acting as a sovereign power. Rule breakers could suffer stronger sanctions. They could be fined, imprisoned, or executed.
The rules of international trade have always been problematic because they easily fall through the cracks between different sources of sovereign power. The WTO, however, is beginning to fill in some of those cracks for member nations. The most important membership benefit is a member nation's right to use procedures established by the WTO to bring sanctions to bear upon other member nations who cause it harm by violating WTO rules. When a decision is reached against the violating nation, the injured nation is allowed by the WTO to impose tariffs on the violator's goods up to the amount of the harm done. This sanction usually remains in place until the violation is ceased. Violations almost always involve some form of regulatory barrier, and cessation involves removing the regulation. The WTO acts as an enforcer, even though the injured states actually impose the tariffs that punish the rule breaker. Stung by the trade sanctions imposed upon it, the rule breaker usually relents by canceling the offending regulation.
These procedures of the WTO are seriously flawed. (See Wallach and Woodall 2004.) World Trade Organization procedures result in deregulation of international trade while harmonization of international trade is the crying need. There is absolutely nothing eternal, free, natural, or spontaneous about the WTO's conflict resolution process.
Conclusions
Markets are not fixed elements of a natural order that emerge spontaneously and independently when governments are moved out of their way. Markets are evolving social constructs, products of collective action. Markets have never been free from disputes. Markets have never been free from rules that resolve the disputes, nor have they ever been free from states that help resolve disputes and that stand behind the rules. Markets have evolved along with the nation-state system. Markets, rules, states, and change are all inseparable. (For additional discussion see Dugger 1992.) Market systems are the result of collective action backed by the state. The free market is a myth.
Implications
However, the free market myth is not harmless it is certainly not a charming myth comparable to Santa Claus or the Tooth Fairy. The belief that markets can be free from government hinders clear thinking about the actual markets on which we rely for our social provisioning. Those with vested interests in the rules that govern markets attempt to sanctify their interests in order to protect them against further collective action. The sanctification turns the fact of vested interest into the myth of the free market. Nonetheless, markets are never free in the sense intended by those who benefit from them. Instead, markets are always sets of rules that evolve through the exercise of human discretion in the context of state sanctions. The free market myth is of no help in discussing which way is forward, but it is an effective protection of vested interest. (It seems I have come full circle in my intellectual work. See Dugger 1976.)
Dugger's theorem is meant to clear away the ideological fog so we can see how to proceed with the social provisioning process. We have to start with socially constructed markets, with sets of rules that evolve along with an evolving system of nation-states. We have to start there, because that is where we are. Once the fog lifts and we locate where we are, we can begin to evolve into the tomorrow that we desire by continually making and remaking the rules that resolve the disputes--including the great class conflicts--that continually arise along our way. The social provisioning process does not involve a once and forever solution. Instead, we must continue to evaluate and re-evaluate how we are doing so we can take collective action to do better. (Further discussion is in Tool 1979, Dugger 1995, and Dugger and Sherman 2000.)
I have faith that the myth of the free market can be replaced with democratic processes and instrumental values as we continue to construct and reconstruct the institutions by which we live (Dugger 1984 and 1990 see also Gruchy 1972 and 1987).
Technical Note on Balance of Payments Accounts
Aficionados of balance of payments accountancy know that a country's balance of payments accounts are always in balance. The accounts are always in balance for the same reason that a company's books are always in balance. For a company, the debits always equal the credits in its system of double entry accounting. For a country, the inflows always equal the outflows in its international balance of payments accounts. Nevertheless, international decorum requires us to find a way to separate the good countries from the bad countries in order to celebrate one group and stigmatize the other. Here is how it is done.
Balanced Countries
These are the good countries. They have hard currencies. Their officials wear white hats and will retire from public service to sit on the boards of international banks and be given big checks. Whether a country is considered to be balanced or not depends on the expectations of international investors and financial officials. Such investors and officials are the powers that be. The powers that be say that a country is in balance if they expect the country's exchange rate to be sustainable or to rise. Then they will be comfortable holding that currency. The country issuing it is considered proper and its exchange rate appropriate. Some countries are not quite proper, and the exchange rate for their currency is not quite appropriate. Nevertheless, they sometimes manage to insinuate themselves into the ranks of the good countries by pegging their currency to the key currency. As long as the peg holds, the powers that be give the country a temporary waiver or dispensation. They will avoid failing from grace, and their peg will hold as long as it remains expedient to the powers that be to have them serve undervalued goods to the huge import market of the key currency country.
Unbalanced Countries
These are the bad countries. They have soft currencies. Their officials wear black hats and will be removed from office in disgrace and then be roasted in the lowest level of Dante's Inferno. International investors and financial officials, the powers that be, say that such countries have payment difficulties and are living beyond their means. The powers that be are uncomfortable accumulating any more debt denominated in these currencies. Their exchange rates are unsustainable. Look out below, because their currencies are expected to drop. Just before that happens, the IMF will need to step in with loans to hold the currencies up long enough for the powers that be to remove their own money from danger.
Acknowledgements
This essay uses, as its point of departure, the body of theory provided by John R. Commons but is written in the spirit of Thorstein Veblen and uses the walk-around method of Nelson Peach (oral tradition of walk-around economics at the University of Oklahoma during the 1950s, 1960s, and early 1970s). John Henry, Jim Peach, Howard Sherman, and William Waller made excellent comments on earlier drafts of this paper. The errors are mine. Tina Henley provided technical support. Pauline J. Dugger was very helpful. I thank them all.
References
Braudel, Fernand. Civilization and Capitalism: 15th-18th Century, 3 volumes. Translated and revised by Sian Reynolds. New York: Harper and Row, 1981.
Braverman, Harry. Labor and Monopoly Capitalism: The Degradation of Work in the Twentieth Century. New York: Monthly Review Press, 1974.
Chua, Amy. World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability. New York: Anchor Books, 2004.
Commons, John R. Legal Foundations of Capitalism. 1924. Reprint, Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1968.
Darity, William, Jr., and Bobble L. Horn. The Loan Pushers. Cambridge, Mass.: Ballinger, 1988.
Dugger, William M. "Ideological and Scientific Functions of the Neoclassical Theory of the Firm." Journal of Economic Issues 10 (June 1976): 314-23.
--. An Alternative to Economic Retrenchment. Princeton, N.J.: Petrocelli Books, 1984.
--. "The New Institutionalism: New but Not Institutionalist." Journal of Economic Issues 24 (June 1990): 423-31.
--. "An Evolutionary Theory of the State and the Market." In The Stratified State: Radical Institutionalist Theories of Participation and Duality, edited by William M. Dugger and William T. Waller, Jr., 87-115. Armonk, N.Y.: M. E. Sharpe, 1992.
--. "Transaction Cost Economics and the State." In Transaction Costs, Markets, and Hierarchies, edited by Christos Pitelis, 188-216. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers, 1993.
--. "Beyond Technology to Democracy: The Tool Legacy in Instrumentalism." In Institutional Economics and the Theory of Social Value, edited by Charles M. A. Clark, 195-207. Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1995.
--. "Sovereignty in Transaction Cost Economics: John R. Commons and Oliver E. Williamson." Journal of Economic Issues 30 (June 1996): 427-32.
Dugger, William M., and Howard J. Sherman. Reclaiming Evolution. London: Routledge, 2000.
Edwards, Richard. Contested Terrain: The Transformation of the Workplace in the Twentieth Century. New York: Basic Books, 1979.
Gruchy, Allan G. Contemporary Economic Thought: The Contribution of Neo-Institutional Economics. Clifton, N.J.: Augustus M. Kelley, 1972.
--. The Reconstruction of Economics: An Analysis of the Fundamentals of Institutional Economics. New York: Greenwood Press, 1987.
Kindleberger, Charles P. Manias, Panics, and Crashes, 3d ed. New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1996.
Nader, Ralph. Unsafe at Any Speed: The Designed-in Dangers of the American Automobile. New York: Grossman, 1965.
Padgett, Ron. Oklahoma Tough: My Father, King of the Tulsa Bootleggers. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 2003.
Stiglitz, Joseph E. Globalization and Its Discontents. New York: W. W. Norton, 2003.
Tabb, William K. Unequal Partners: A Primer on Globalization. New York: The New Press, 2002.
Tool, Marc R. The Discretionary Economy. Santa Monica, Calif.: Goodyear, 1979.
Veblen, Thorstein. The Theory of Business Enterprise. 1904. Reprint, Clifton, N.J.: Augustus M. Kelley, 1975.
--. The Engineers and the Price System. 1921. Reprint, New York: Augustus M. Kelley, 1965.
Wallach, Lori, and Patrick Woodall. Whose Trade Organization: A Comprehensive Guide to the WTO. New York: The New Press, 2004.
Welles, Chris. The Last Days of the Club. New York: Dutton, 1975.
Williamson, Oliver E. The Economic Institutions of Capitalism. New York: The Free Press, 1985.
Yates, Michael D. Naming the System: Inequality and Work in the Global Economy. New York: Monthly Review Press, 2003.Copyright 2005 Journal of Economic Issues - Association for Evolutionary Economics7350

Load-Date: October 21, 2005


End of Document
