




 Chemist & Druggist
August 2, 2003


Copyright 2003 Gale Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved
Business and Industry
Section: Pg. 26; ISSN: 0009-3033
Length: 2027 words
Highlight: overview of family planning surveys, facts
Body


Much time in the pharmacy seems to be spent either helping women avoid pregnancy or helping them to conceive. Vanessa Sherwood takes a look at family planning
Pharmacists seem to spend a lot of time and energy helping women to avoid pregnancy - dispensing prescriptions for the Pill, selling condoms, providing emergency hormonal contraception - but at some point these women will probably decide that they would like to have a family. An equal amount of energy then seems to be spent by women trying to get pregnant.
Some women become pregnant sooner than they expected while others may take longer to conceive.
How common is infertility?
Although teenagers are frightened into believing that getting pregnant is easy, compared with most other animal species humans have relatively poor natural fertility.
About one in four couples will consult their GP, and one in six will seek specialist help to conceive a child at some point in their lives.
There is a widely held belief that infertility is increasing but guidelines from the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists say that this could be as a result of increasing numbers of couples seeking help.
It may also be that as women are delaying having a baby until later in life, reduced fertility is due to the woman's increasing age and not a general decrease in fertility across the population. In 2002 mothers were, on average, 29.3 years old at the time of the birth of their first child, two and a half years older than the average age 20 years ago. And studies suggesting that sperm counts are falling may have been wrongly interpreted in many countries, apart from in the USA.
General media interest in fertility developments may also have triggered interest among couples who might previously have just accepted that they were going to be childless.
Infertility can be classified as primary (where couples have never achieved a pregnancy) or secondary (previously achieved a pregnancy). According to studies, after one year of attempting to conceive 16 per cent of couples are classified as primarily infertile, and after two years 9 per cent of couples are classified as primarily infertile.
Secondary infertility is thought to affect 16 per cent of couples after one year and 5 per cent after two years.
About half of couples having regular unprotected intercourse will have conceived within three months, two-thirds by six months and 90 per cent by 12 months.
The definition of 'subfertility' is failure to conceive within one year of unprotected intercourse. Although not strictly correct, the term 'infertility' has come to be synonymous with 'subfertility' in routine practice.
Absolute infertility, or sterility, where there is no chance of a natural conception, is rare.
Generally, couples should be encouraged to consult a doctor if they have not conceived within one to two years. However, if the woman is over 35, a doctor should be consulted after a maximum of a year and for women over 40, they should seek advice after six months. This is because the woman's age is the most important predictor of a couple's fertility.
Causes of infertility have been discussed in a previous article ( Update, C&D May 3, p19).
Psychological impact
Problems with fertility can lead to intense psychological and emotional distress for both partners, putting a severe strain on the relationship with each other and with families, friends and work colleagues - especially those who appear to be conceiving with little difficulty.
Timing of intercourse
One or two days before ovulation is the best time to have sex as this is when the woman's cervical mucus is most receptive to sperm. However, focusing only on this time can lead to difficulties as the loss of spontaneity can put more pressure on the couple. If couples are having sex regularly, every two to four days, then the timing in relation to ovulation is not critical.
Stress is only thought to affect the woman's ability to conceive if it is severe.
Contraceptive choices
In 2001-2002 the most common forms of contraception used by women under 50 were:
* the contraceptive pill (28 per cent)
* male condom (21 per cent)
* sterilisation - 10 per cent of women had been sterilised and 12 per cent had a partner who had had a vasectomy.
A quarter of women were not using any method of contraception at all, but half of these (13 per cent of all women under 50 years) were not in a heterosexual relationship at the time.
These figures, from the Office for National Statistics, also show that the choice of contraceptive changes as the woman ages. Those under 30 were more likely to use the contraceptive pill than older women and the use of the Pill and the male condom fell as age increased.
Most women (94 per cent) had heard of emergency hormonal contraception and 49 per cent of these knew that it remained effective for up to 72 hours after intercourse. Seven per cent had used the morning-after pill at least once in the year prior to interview.
Enough choice?
Despite the fact that the number of forms of contraception have increased since 1947 - when 43 per cent of recently married couples used withdrawal as the sole method of birth control - a recent survey carried out by Janssen-Cilag shows that 57 per cent of women think there is still room for improvement.
Sexsensus, the biggest online sex and contraception survey, interviewed more than 5,000 women earlier this year.
Of these women, 28 per cent said that they don't think there's enough choice of contraceptives available to suit their lifestyle, and 72 per cent would prefer a contraceptive that doesn't have to be taken on a daily basis.
Women are also risking unplanned pregnancies: nearly two thirds have had sex without contraception and 57 per cent have had a pregnancy scare. Of the 29 per cent who had had an unplanned pregnancy, half of those blamed difficulties with contraception.
Nearly all women using the Pill (91 per cent) admitted to forgetting to take it, with the most common reasons being:
* just forgot - 33 per cent
* disrupted routine - 27 per cent
* rushing in the morning - 16 per cent
* forgot after a late night out - 9 per cent
* didn't have pills with them - 6 per cent.
Women aged 31-35 are the most likely to "just forget" to take the Pill.
Planning for the future
Data collected in the General Household Survey shows that over the last 20 years there has been a fall in the number of children women are planning to have. Although the latest figures show that the average intention is still about two this is higher than the current fertility rates would predict.
In the early 1990s more than 50 per cent of women aged 21-23 predicted that they would have a baby within five years. Most recent surveys show this figure has fallen to less than 40 per cent. Women's intention to have children at the beginning of the 1980s have not been borne out by their actual fertility.
Something for the weekend, sir?
The old fashioned image of a man walking into a pharmacy to buy a packet of condoms and leaving with an unwanted purchase may no longer be valid as more and more people are choosing to include their condoms with their weekly grocery shopping.
Martin Bradley, Ansell sales manager retail, UK & Eire, confirms this: "Market changes show a shift away from the sales of condoms through pharmacy towards supermarkets. Large retail chains continue to take share simply because they offer the range and the immediate convenience of buying condoms with the weekly shop."
However, the role of the pharmacy in family planning undoubtedly has great credibility and importance, he adds.
"Pharmacies already offer a lot more than they perhaps realise, in the provision of family planning - from trained professionals to areas where private consultations can be made."
He says that the convenience of many pharmacies means that they could be the preferred choice for family planning purchase and advice. "Our research has shown that when it comes to buying condoms, price is not the main priority. People do not go where the condoms are cheapest, they go where they feel most comfortable. In this category the whole purchasing environment is much more important than price." The average person does not spend more than two to three seconds at the condoms fixture.
What are pharmacies able to do?
Although large supermarkets are beginning to lead the market in sales terms, they cannot match the facilities for advice and consultation that pharmacies offer and this reassurance aspect needs to be capitalised on.
Mr Bradley continues: "The NHS primary care trust initiatives have been put in place in a bid to reduce unwanted pregnancies and bring down the rise in rates of sexually transmitted infections.
"As part of this, the NHS is now looking to pharmacies to take on the role and responsibility of offering a complete family planning range. They are often the first port of call for many young people who are looking for advice and guidance.
"Community pharmacies really have the upper hand in being able to offer advice, choice and steerage which many young people are on the look out for."
Mr Bradley offers community pharmacists the following tips:
* Maximise your role
Take on the mantle of offering advice about family planning, especially at a local level. Research has shown that the pharmacy is the preferred location to purchase condoms but quite often they do not offer range or product choice.
* Range
Stock a full range of condoms and other family planning products such as lubricants.
* Merchandising
Merchandise the products sympathetically. Consider the embarrassment factor most people experience when buying condoms. Use point of sale and provide a clearly defined self-selection area at the checkout. If people have to walk across to the other side of the store to make selection and then stand in a queue waiting to pay, this decreases the chance of purchase. For other family planning products, have a clearly defined area that addresses all needs.
* Maximise use of space
Frequently pharmacies have quiet areas that supermarkets don't have, plus pharmacies can offer professional advice and anonymity that large stores do not.
* Consultation services
Most people feel less self-conscious talking to women about family planning matters. Have trained female staff on site who are able to talk about family planning and correct usage of condoms.
* Point of sale
This is very important - don't just display product-led information - also try informative posters and leaflets. This not only enhances the importance of your role, but also indicates that customers are in a place where they can feel comfortable and less embarrassed to seek advice.
THE FERTILITY CALCULATOR
The Fertility Calculator provides a guide to the chances of pregnancy without treatment. It is based on a Canadian study of more than 2,000 couples. The calculator provides a cumulative chance of pregnancy over three years.

HISTORICAL CONTRACEPTION
This 16th century chastity belt is featured as part of the Wellcome Trust Medicine Man exhibition at the British Museum. Although abstinence may have been the most effective form of contraception, others from history include:
* 2,500 years ago Hippocrates used a hollow lead tube to insert pessaries or other objects into the uterus.
* In Roman times the earliest condoms were made of animal bladders
* The Persian physician Al-Razi, who suggested that after sex the woman should sneeze, blow her nose several times, call out loudly and jump violently backwards several times to dislodge the semen. Jumping forwards was guaranteed to cause pregnancy.
HISTORICAL CONTRACEPTION
Information Resources has confirmed that the sales of condoms through pharmacies, including Boots, have fallen over the last year. The 52 weeks ending May 18, 2003 saw sales fall more than 3 per cent from just over #24 million to #23, 331,000. The top 10 condom brands were:

* Durex Featherlite       * Durex Extra Safe
*| * Durex Elite  | * Durex Ribbed | 
*| * Mates Natural  | * Durex Gossamer | 
*| * Durex Select | * Durex Easy-on Extra Safe | 
*| * Durex Performa | * Durex Ultra Strong | 
Copyright 2003 CMP Information LimitedCopyright 2003 CMP Information Limited1958EUCX (European Union)UNK (United Kingdom)WEEX (Western Europe)

Load-Date: February 1, 2005


End of Document
