




The News-Gazette (Champaign, Illinois)
March 5, 2024 Tuesday


Copyright 2024 The News-Gazette (Champaign, Ill.)
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS
Length: 1137 words
Byline: Jana Wiersema, The News-Gazette, Champaign-Urbana, Ill.
Body


Mar. 5—To submit a letter to the editor, click here.
Want to purchase today's print edition? Here's a map of single-copy locations.
CHAMPAIGN — A woman and her daughter are suing Christie Clinic and a deceased doctor who allegedly used his own sperm, rather than a donor's, for artificial insemination 51 years ago.
Paula Duvall and her daughter, Erin Culver, have filed a lawsuit against Dr. Bradley D. Adams and the clinic under the state's new fertility fraud law, which went into effect in January. They are seeking a juried trial and damages in excess of $50,000.
According to attorney Amy Wheatley of Indiana-based Stein Law Office, "In late 2022, Paula Duvall discovered that her fertility doctor, Dr. Bradley Adams, used his own sperm to inseminate her without her knowledge and consent. Dr. Adams told her at the time that the sperm came from an anonymous medical student. Adams' treachery was revealed when Ms. Duvall's daughter got the results from her home genetic testing kit."
"Everything we discussed apparently went totally out the window, because everything had turned upside down once we found the actual details," Duvall said.
Duvall and Culver, who live in Wisconsin, are being represented by both Wheatley and Ellyn Bullock of Champaign's Bullock Law LLC.
In a statement to The News-Gazette on Monday, Christie Clinic General Counsel and Chief Operating Officer Zach Sehy acknowledged receiving the lawsuit, saying "our legal team is currently reviewing the allegations which are said to have occurred in 1973."
"Christie Clinic won't be able to answer any questions regarding the deceased Dr. Bradley Adams or comment until at least this review is complete," Sehy added. "We are taking these allegations very seriously."
According to a complaint filed on Feb. 26 in Champaign County Circuit Court, Duvall's husband had undergone a vasectomy prior to their marriage, so she sought treatment from Adams, who was employed by Christie Clinic.
Duvall said she had requested Adams find a donor who closely resembled her husband, and he agreed to do so. He told her the sperm was from an anonymous University of Illinois medical student.
"Dr. Adams then informed Plaintiff Duvall that she would need to pay him $20.00 to perform the procedure and that she was to personally hand him the money and not make payment at the front office," the complaint states.
Duvall said that she began undergoing insemination at the clinic in November 1973. Each time, she would pay Adams directly, and he would perform the procedure.
During her fourth such visit, Duvall "observed Dr. Adams walk in a side door holding a specimen cup containing what appeared to be fresh sperm, and he looked at her, clearly embarrassed," the complaint states.
Duvall gave birth in August 1974, with Adams providing all of her prenatal care and delivering her daughter.
According to the suit, Adams died in 1989, and Duvall and her daughter moved away from the Champaign area several years later.
In 2019, Culver submitted her DNA to ancestry.com and 23andme.com in hope of learning more about the donor for her mother's insemination, the complaint states.
Duvall told The News-Gazette that Culver, who has an autoimmune disease, had been interested in the "health aspects" of her genealogy.
"When she received her results, they did not show anyone who was related to her through her biological father, so she set up alerts on both platforms so that she would be notified should someone show up as a match at any point in the future," the complaint states. "In December of 2022, Plaintiff Culver received a notification from Ancestry.com that someone named Katherine Adams matched with her on her biological father's side."
Culver then reached out to Katherine Adams about the match and explained that she was looking for information about her biological father. Katherine Adams replied that the only person in her family tree who would match the description was her paternal grandfather, who was a gynecologist in Champaign during the relevant time period.
Culver told her mother, who confirmed that she had been a patient of Dr. Adams.
Duvall said she was "dazed" by the news.
"I could not believe it," she said. "In my wildest dreams, it never occurred to me that the physician was the donor."
Culver said that while she was relieved that she wouldn't have to keep waiting to learn who her father was, she was "just mortified that that's what he did to my mom."
"I'm hoping that someone else would come out of the woodwork saying that they got fertility treatment by him," she said. "And it would be nice to have another sibling out there that is kind of going through the same thing."
The suit states that both women "sustained injuries and suffered mental and emotional damages" due to the actions of both the doctor and the clinic.
The complaint asserts that Christie Clinic either did not have protocols in place "requiring the identification of the source of sperm donated for intrauterine insemination by those practicing under its auspices" or failed to utilize the protocols.
Duvall and her counsel said they believe this is the first lawsuit filed under Illinois' new fertility fraud law, which took effect on Jan. 1.
"It carves out a cause of action for someone who uses their own genetic material without the consent of the patient in an artificial insemination or artificial reproductive procedure," Wheatley said.
The law states that a plaintiff who prevails in their suit is entitled to attorney's fees, as well as either "compensatory and punitive damages" or liquidated damages of $50,000. They are also entitled to the costs of the fertility treatment.
Additionally, a child born as the result of fertility fraud is entitled to an order providing access to the perpetrator's medical records and health history.
Wheatley said that in a similar case she is litigating in Kentucky, the doctor claimed that he used his own genetic material because the donor didn't show up.
When asked if she thought Dr. Adams might have had a financial motive, given that he sought direct payments, she replied, "I don't know what his incentive was."
In discussing the next steps, Wheatley said that once the defendants' response has been filed, the discovery process will begin, followed by depositions.
"I don't foresee this being at trial in court anytime this year," she said.
Duvall and Culver said that they hope their suit will raise awareness and encourage other individuals with similar experiences to come forward.
"People need to — people especially that are donor-conceived or have been inseminated by a fertility doctor — get their DNA tested to make sure that it really is who they thought it was," Culver said.
___ (c)2024 The News-Gazette (Champaign, Ill.) Visit The News-Gazette (Champaign, Ill.) at  Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

Load-Date: March 5, 2024


End of Document
