




Veterans Affairs Department Documents and Publications
January 19, 2017


Copyright 2017 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.
Section: REGULATORY DOCUMENTS
Length: 1718 words
Body


SUMMARY: The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) amends its regulation regarding fertility counseling and treatment available to certain veterans and spouses. VA currently provides certain infertility services other than in vitro fertilization (IVF) to veterans as part of the medical benefits package. IVF is the process of fertilization by manually fertilizing an egg, and then transferring the embryo to the uterus. This interim final rulemaking adds a new section authorizing IVF for a veteran with a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment. In addition, we add a new section stating that VA may provide fertility counseling and treatment using assisted reproductive technologies (ART), including IVF, to a spouse of a veteran with a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment. VA will provide ART treatment, including IVF, to these veterans and spouses as specified in the Continuing Appropriations and Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017, and Zika Response and Preparedness Act to the extent such services are consistent with the services available to enrolled veterans under the medical benefits package.
DATES: Effective Date: This rule is effective on January 19, 2017.
Comment date: Comments must be received on or before March 20, 2017.
ADDRESSES: Written comments may be submitted by email through ; by mail or hand-delivery to Director, Regulation Policy and Management (00REG), Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Room 1068, Washington, DC 20420; or by fax to (202) 273-9026. (This is not a toll-free number.) Comments should indicate that they are submitted in response to "RIN 2900AP94--Fertility Counseling and Treatment for Certain Veterans and Spouses." Copies of comments received will be available for public inspection in the Office of Regulation Policy and Management, Room 1068, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday (except holidays). Please call (202) 461-4902 for an appointment. (This is not a toll-free number.) In addition, during the comment period, comments may be viewed online through the Federal Docket Management System (FDMS) at            .
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia M. Hayes, Ph.D., Chief Consultant, Women's Health Services, Patient Care Services, Veterans Health Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20420. (202) 461-0373. (This is not a toll-free number.)
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 260 of the Continuing Appropriations and Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017, and Zika Response and Preparedness Act (Public Law 114-223) states that VA may use appropriated funds available to VA for the Medical Services account to provide fertility counseling and treatment using assisted reproductive technology (ART) to a covered veteran or the spouse of a covered veteran, or adoption reimbursement to a covered veteran. This rulemaking expands the types of ART treatment available to certain veterans and makes fertility counseling and treatment including ART treatment available to spouses of those veterans, consistent with this statutory authority. Reimbursement of adoption expenses will be the subject of a separate rulemaking.
According to this law, Veterans who will receive this benefit are those with a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment. The ART treatments referred to in this law are those relating to reproductive assistance provided to a member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or illness on active duty pursuant to title 10 of the United States Code (U.S.C.) section 1074(c)(4)(A), as described in a policy memorandum issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, titled "Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty Service Members," and the guidance issued to implement such policy, including any limitations on the amount of such benefits available to such a member. See Public Law 114-223, section 260(b)(2) and (3). The implementing guidance is contained in a document attached to the policy memorandum. We will refer to the April 3, 2012, policy memorandum and guidance issued by the Department of Defense (DoD) to implement that policy collectively as DoD policy guidance. DoD has established a system for categorizing injured servicemembers for purposes of coordinating care. Those in Category II have a serious injury or illness, are unlikely to return to duty within a time specified by their Military Department, and may be medically separated from the military. Servicemembers in Category III have a severe or catastrophic injury or illness, are highly unlikely to return to duty, and will most likely be medically separated from the military.
ART is defined at Public Law 114-223, section 260(b)(3) to mean the benefits relating to reproductive assistance in DoD policy guidance, including any limitations on the amount of such benefits in that policy. DoD policy guidance addresses assisted reproductive services available to servicemembers, providing specific guidance on the availability of IVF, as well as a wide range of services that VA considers as fertility treatment. Under this statute, VA is authorized to provide ART benefits, consistent with DoD policy guidance, to a veteran with a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment, as well as the spouse of that veteran. The conference report accompanying this legislation makes clear that the implementing guidance developed by the Secretary shall not be materially different from, and in no way more expansive than, DoD's policy. Joint Explanatory Statement. 162 Congressional Record at S6011 (2016).
The Veterans' Health Care Eligibility Reform Act of 1996, Public Law 104-262, mandated that VA implement a national enrollment system to manage the delivery of healthcare services. A key component of managing delivery of healthcare services to eligible veterans is identifying the medical services provided by VA. The medical benefits package, defining the medical services provided to all enrolled veterans by VA, is found at 38 CFR 17.38. VA may provide services under the medical benefits package that are determined by appropriate healthcare professionals to be needed to promote, preserve, or restore the health of the individual and to be in accord with generally accepted standards of medical practice.
As part of the medical benefits package, VA provides many different types of fertility treatments and procedures to veterans. These include infertility counseling, laboratory blood testing, surgical correction of structural pathology, reversal of a vasectomy or tubal ligation, medication, and various other diagnostic studies or treatments and procedures. This list is not all-inclusive. Most of the ART evaluation and treatment modalities offered by VA are consistent with DoD policy guidance. The exception is IVF. DoD offers IVF to servicemembers who have sustained serious or severe illness/injury while on active duty that led to the loss of their natural procreative ability, while IVF is excluded from VA's medical benefits package under SEC 17.38(c)(2). IVF is the process of fertilization by manually fertilizing an egg, and then transferring the embryo to the uterus. IVF is a common and medically accepted procedure for addressing infertility that cannot be overcome with other types of infertility treatment. Although we are not revising the medical benefits package itself, we are revising paragraph (c)(2) to add a note referencing the benefit available in SEC 17.380, as discussed below. We believe that this clarification will help veterans better understand the benefits available from VA.
Pursuant to Public Law 114-223 section 260, VA is adding new SEC 17.380 which states that IVF may be provided when clinically appropriate to a veteran who has a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment, as well as a spouse of such veteran. Per 38 U.S.C. 101(2), the term veteran means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable. Under this provision, IVF services available to such veterans are the same as those provided by DoD to a member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or illness on active duty pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1074(c)(4)(A), as described in DoD policy guidance, including any limitations on the amount of such benefits available to such a member. For the purposes of this section, "a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment" means, for a male veteran, a service-connected injury or illness that prevents the successful delivery of sperm to an egg; and, for a female veteran with ovarian function and a patent uterine cavity, a service-connected injury or illness that prevents the egg from being successfully fertilized by a sperm. This definition parallels requirements in DoD policy guidance for an active duty service member who is seriously or severely ill/injured (Category II or III) to receive fertility counseling and treatment using ART. Public Law 114-223 provides appropriations for FY 2017. The benefits authorized under section 260 are thereby limited to FY2017. Paragraph (b) of SEC 17.380 states that the authority to provide IVF to covered veterans under this section expires September 30, 2017. If the authority is extended, we will amend this section accordingly.
--This is a summary of a Federal Register article originally published on the page number listed below--
Interim final rule.
CFR Part: "38 CFR Part 17"
RIN Number: "RIN 2900-AP94"
Citation: "82 FR 6273"
Federal Register Page Number: "6273"
"Rules and Regulations"

Load-Date: January 19, 2017


End of Document
