




Basin Republican Rustler (Wyoming)
September 30, 2010


Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
 All Rights Reserved
SmallTownPapers, Inc.
Copyright 2010 Basin Republican Rustler


This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without express, written consent from 
Length: 441 words
Byline: BRENDA TENBOER
Body


Dr. Joel Pull and the Grey-bull Family Clinic are named as defendants in a negligence lawsuit filed Aug. 26 in District Court.
The lawsuit filed by Thomas Miller through Vehar Law Offices alleges Pull was negligent in providing care and failed to perform the correct procedure when performing a vasectomy on June 13, 2008.
According to court documents, shortly after the initial procedure Miller was advised to go home and lie down in an effort to stop substantial bleeding. He returned on June 17 complaining of pain, swelling and bruising and was advised by Pull to go home and put his feet up and allow time to heal.
On examination, Pull noted the swelling and bruising seemed to have improved since the previous Saturday, but there was no record of the weekend visit. Pull again advised Miller to stay off his feet, according to the lawsuit.
On June 20, Miller again returned to the Greybull Family Clinic for a re-check and Pull noted he saw improvement but Miller said he was still in pain with symptoms still present.
Miller then sought a second opinion through his primary care physician and was referred to a surgeon. On his second visit, July 1, 2008, with no improvement, surgery to remove a clot was recommended, according to court documents.
On July 3, 2008, Miller again saw Pull as a patient and told Pull he was proceeding with the surgery.
According to court documents, Pull told Miller at that time that he had made very good progress.
"Defendant Pull stated that he felt Plaintiff would be best off continuing to give it time and advised him of such, " documents state.
Vernon Miller, M.D. performed the surgery on July 7, 2008, and tests confirmed the presence of an infection.
The suit alleges that Pull had a duty to provide reasonable and adequate surgical and medical care. Because that duty was allegedly breached Miller is asking for unspecified dollar amount for physical and mental injury, lost income and medical expenses among other things, according to court documents.
The Greybull Family Clinic, as Pull's employer, is liable for Pull's actions, according to the lawsuit. Miller is seeking more than $6, 275 for medical expenses, and also for future medical expenses. He is also seeking compensation for past, present and future pain and suffering and loss of enjoyment of life with an amount to be determined at trial.
The case has been reviewed by the Rules of the Wyoming Medical Review Panel of 2005.
Pull filed a response to the allegations on Tuesday and confirmed Miller was a patient and that he performed a vasectomy, but denied any negligence or wrongdoing. The case will now be scheduled for trial at a future date.

Load-Date: June 21, 2011


End of Document
