




Newstex Blogs 
Gates of Vienna
August 18, 2024 Sunday 3:31 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 Gates of Vienna 
Length: 9555 words
Byline: Baron Bodissey
Body


August 18th, 2024 (   - Delivered by   )
Drive-by shooters fired several rounds at US Air Force security guards early this morning at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland in Texas. When the shooters returned two hours later and opened fire again, the Air Force guards returned fire with their service weapons. No injuries were reported.
In other news, a British man has been sentenced to eight months in prison for 'stirring up hatred' by allegedly mocking Muslims at an anti-migration protest.
To see the headlines and the articles, click 'Continue reading' below.
Thanks to Dean, JW, McN, MM, Reader from Chicago, SS,  
Notice to tipsters: Please don't submit extensive excerpts from articles that have been posted behind a subscription firewall, or are otherwise under copyright protection.
Caveat: Articles in the news feed are posted 'as is'. Gates of Vienna cannot vouch for the authenticity or accuracy of the contents of any individual item posted here. I check each entry to make sure it is relatively interesting, not patently offensive, and at least superficially plausible. The link to the original is included with each item's title. Further research and verification are left to the reader.
 
USA                                
Canada 
Europe and the EU       
Israel and the Palestinians  
Middle East  
Russia      
Australia - Pacific 
Latin America 
Immigration        
Culture Wars 

Illinois' latest employment figures for July paint a picture of slow job growth and persistently high unemployment.
Illinois' unemployment rate for July tied for the 2nd-worst in the U.S., jumping to 5.2%, according to new data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. This translates to 341,630 Illinoisans looking for work.
Illinois' unemployment rate continued to exceed the national average of 4.3% in July. It was higher than in any neighboring state.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

57 percent of likely voters believe that the media has favored Vice President Kamala Harris in her bid to win the 2024 presidential election against former President Donald Trump so far in the 2024 election race, according to a new poll from Rasmussen Reports.
The view is shared across the political spectrum, with 65 percent of Republicans, 53 percent of Democrats, and 54 percent of unaffiliated voters agreeing that the media has been more favorable to Harris so far in the election cycle.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Chicago's population is lower now than it was in 1920, with steady drops in each of the past nine years.
According to the most recent U.S. Census Bureau estimates, Chicago's population was 2,664,452 in July 2023. Chicago's population has not been this low in more than 100 years.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Justice Juan Merchan has once again rejected President Donald Trump's motion for recusal in a key New York criminal case over the Democrat judge's clear conflict of interest.
Trump's bid for Judge Merchan's recusal was denied, marking the third such rejection over alleged conflicts.
The conflict involves the judge's daughter, Loren Merchan, who works on the election campaigns of top Democrats, including Kamala Harris, President Joe Biden, and anti-Trump Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA).
As Slay News reported, Judge Merchan also has a history of donating to Democrats, including Biden's 2020 election campaign.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

A California bike mob ransacked three separate 7-Eleven stores in under 20 minutes just hours after Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom signed a 'landmark' package to crack down on retail thefts.
Approximately 20 bicycling riding thieves targeted the Hollywood area convenience stores two miles apart on Friday night, according to NBC Los Angeles, citing the LAPD.
The brazen bunch broke into each store and stole food and drink items beginning with the 7-Eleven located at 7040 West Sunset Boulevard just after 8 p.m.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Anti-Israel radicals at Columbia University are pushing for the 'total eradication of Western Civilization' - and threatening even more extreme tactics to accomplish their twisted goal until the 'empire crumbles.'
Columbia University Apartheid Divest, a coalition of 116 student groups at the Ivy League School whose members set up encampments on the Manhattan campus and stormed Hamilton Hall this past spring, made the explosive claim after 'comrades' in Bangladesh ousted former Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina following weeks of bloody anti-government protests.
'We are Westerners fighting for the total eradication of Western civilization,' the group wrote in an Aug. 7 Instagram post. 'We stand in full solidarity with every movement for liberation in the Global South.'
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Protesters are expected to wreak such havoc at next week's Democratic National Convention, some members of Congress have been told not to book hotels in their own names, according to a new report from Axios.
They've also been warned to avoid staying in certain area's of the host city, Chicago, and one Democratic lawmaker told the website they were 'very concerned' about personal security.
At least some area hotels have been getting calls from people with random requests for names.
'The protesters aren't staying in a designated protest site and there are people who are going to go and really try to cause trouble,' the lawmaker added.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The Democratic party is scrambling to boot a fringe socialist group's presidential candidate from statewide ballots in a pair of critical swing states.
Operatives launched two legal challenges in Pennsylvania on Aug. 8 to the nominating papers of the virulently anti-Israel Party for Socialism and Liberation's candidates, Claudia De La Cruz and her vice presidential running mate, Karina Garcia.
A political action committee called ClearChoice is leading the effort, with funding from Democratic moneymen like venture capitalist Ronald Conway and LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman. The group is also going after other pesky third-party challengers in various states, including Robert F. Kennedy.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Attendees at the Democratic National Convention (DNC) in Chicago will have the opportunity to receive free vasectomies and abortions blocks away from the proceedings at the United Center.
Planned Parenthood Great Rivers, which operates in parts of Missouri and Illinois, will park its mobile health clinic near the DNC on Aug. 19 and Aug. 20, according to The New York Times. Medication abortions are reportedly available on both days, with vasectomies being exclusively offered Monday.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Emerson College announced in an email on Tuesday the layoffs of nearly a dozen staffers, citing low enrollment projections for the coming school year. The institution attributed a decline in enrollment to the 'negative press' the college received over its anti-Israel Gaza camp demonstrations this past Spring.
President Jay M. Bernhard laid off 10 employees and notified faculty and staff about the decision in an email writing, 'College leadership has made the difficult decision to eliminate ten staff positions to help us realize our necessary cost savings.'
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

You might still think about Eric Schmidt as a '(big) tech guy' and businessman, but his passion for (geo)politics was always evident, even while he served as Google's CEO.
These days, Schmidt is the chair of the Special Competitive Studies Project (SCSP), a think tank that would like to position itself as a reference point to a military alliance, NATO, and get it to 'monitor disinformation in real-time.'
SCSP's ambition is no less than to help craft new national security strategies, always with an eye on the alleged attempts to increase disinformation (here AI is to blame) - but also ways to combat that, and here, SCSP says (the US) must strengthen its 'AI competitiveness.'
The goal is to 'win' what's referred to as the techno-economic competition by 2030 - there's that deadline, favored by many a controversial globalist initiative.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Authored by Ross Pomeroy via RealClearScience
Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly integrating into everyday life - as chatbots, digital assistants, and internet search guides, for example. These artificial intelligence (AI) systems - which consume large amounts of text data to learn associations - can create all sorts of written material when prompted and can ably converse with users. LLMs' growing power and omnipresence mean that they exert increasing influence on society and culture.
So it's of great import that these artificial intelligence systems remain neutral when it comes to complicated political issues. Unfortunately, according to a new analysis recently published to PLoS ONE, this doesn't seem to be the case.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

A former advisor to Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump claims his Virginia home was raided by FBI agents this week.
Dimitri Simes, whose name came up over 130 times in former special counsel Robert Mueller's 2019 report into Russian interference in the presidential election, told the Rappahannock News he was out of the U.S. and wasn't notified ahead of Tuesday's search.
He also insisted he's not aware of being the focus of any law-enforcement investigation.
The Russian-born policy analyst advised Trump's 2016 campaign.
The raid 'clearly is an attempt to intimidate, not only somebody from Russia, but just anyone who goes against official policies and particularly against the deep state,' he later told the Russian government-owned Sputnik News.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

General Michael Flynn has blown the whistle and warned the American people that COVID-19 was created as a 'bioweapon' that was unleashed onto the public in order to rig the 2020 election for the Democrats.
Flynn explains how Covid was a bioweapon aimed at influencing the 2020 election to prevent President Donald Trump's re-election.
He also explains that the effort sought to alter future election systems to keep Democrats in power.
Flynn, who served as the 24th U.S. national security advisor in the Trump administration, said:
'The whole purpose of Covid was to make sure that the 2020 election was in the bag once they did that, the real part of Covid, introduction of Covid, of the bioweapon by China, was to ensure that we could change our election system and process.'
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Minnesota Democratic Gov. Tim Walz doubled down in 2020 on a policy that allowed patients that tested positive for COVID-19 into nursing homes.
Eighty percent of COVID-19 deaths were among senior citizens in Minnesota, according to a report Friday from Fox News.
The policy allowing COVID patients into nursing homes is no longer on the state government's website, but was found through the Wayback Machine, which archives pages and links that are no longer available at their original site.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Vice President Kamala Harris's presidential campaign mandates the COVID-19 vaccine for those who want a job with the campaign.
On Harris's campaign website, there is a statement that says all employees of the campaign have to be up to date with COVID-19 vaccines.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The House Judiciary Committee has issued a stern critique of the European Union's actions, which they perceive as an attempt to 'silence great Americans like Elon Musk,' and is considering launching an investigation into what they deem an 'infringement on free speech.'
Committee Chair Jim Jordan escalated tensions on Thursday by dispatching a strongly worded letter to EU Commissioner Thierry Breton, accusing him of employing legal measures to target Musk.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Only California has higher gasoline taxes than Illinois. Gov. J.B. Pritzker's automatic gas tax boost just bumped the rate to 47 cents per gallon. It was 19 cents before Pritzker took office.
Illinois motorists face the second-highest gas taxes in the country, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
With a total of 85.5 cents per gallon, Illinois trails only California in combined federal and state gas taxes. This high tax burden especially hits middle- and lower-income families who spend a larger portion of their budget on fuel costs.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson is about to host the Democratic National Convention. He'll be a party cheerleader that nearly 2 in 3 Chicagoans would rather not follow.
As Chicagoans prepare for the 2024 Democratic National Convention, Mayor Brandon Johnson faces a difficult challenge: rallying Chicagoans to his party's cause when most don't like his leadership.
New polling numbers show 63% of Chicago voters polled disapproved of Johnson's record, according to an Illinois Policy Institute poll in early August of 456 registered Chicago voters conducted by M3 Strategies.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Democrat nominee Kamala Harris's campaign has accused President Donald Trump of playing 'games' and rejected his proposal to have three presidential debates.
The Harris campaign is accusing Trump of playing 'games' as he ramps up pressure on the vice president to begin taking questions from reporters.
The Harris campaign agreed to debate Trump on ABC News on September 10 and debate again sometime in October.
Trump has proposed debating three times in September, a timeline that would give voters more opportunities to see the candidates on stage before early voting begins.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The hashtag 'Kamunism' trended on X on Saturday morning after Kamala Harrisreleased details about her economic policies this week, with some of them being similar to communist-style price controls on food and other services in the US.
This week and during a North Carolina rally, Harris unveiled economic policies that she would be taking in the United States, including forcing taxpayers to subsidize first-time home buyers up to $25,000, controlling prices on groceries, housing, and prescription drugs.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Morton Salt is relocating its headquarters to Overland Park, Kansas, adding to the growing list of companies leaving Illinois, a state known for its hostile business climate.
Morton Salt, known for its iconic blue and yellow umbrella girl logo, will soon join Citadel, TTX, Boeing, Caterpillar and Tyson Foods by moving its headquarters out of Illinois.
The company's departure follows a series of high-profile corporate exits that have plagued Illinois in recent years. Hedge-fund giant Citadel moved its headquarters to Miami, citing a better corporate environment and concerns over crime in Chicago.
CNBC ranked Illinois 33rd in the U.S. for business friendliness, an improvement from their 2021 rankings. Yet corporations continue to flee. Compared to neighboring states, Illinois saw the largest drop since 2018 in the Tax Foundation's Business Tax Climate 2024 rankings.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

An new image of Donald Trump's would-be assassin sitting on a wall looking and at his phone emerged Friday, showing the moments before he took a shot at the ex-president's life.
Thomas Matthew Crooks can be seen perched on a wall in a grassy area of the Butler Farm Show Grounds in Butler, Pa., on July 13 as he waited for Trump, 78, to take the stage.
In the picture taken from above, Crooks, 20, appears to be scrolling on his cellphone, which was found alongside a remote transmitter after he was killed by return fire from a Secret Service sniper.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

A notoriously lenient Manhattan criminal court judge discovered bullet holes in the bedroom of her apartment - but didn't bother calling cops, The Post has learned.
Judge Valentina Morales, an appointee of former Mayor Bill de Blasio who has sprung at least four violent criminals in the last three years, discovered holes in and above her bed, and a shattered ceiling fan light bulb on July 31, according to a criminal complaint.
The judge, who was not home when the shot was fired, also found 'a hole in a plastic box underneath her bed' and a bullet fragment inside the box, authorities said in the complaint.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Scores on Algebra 1 Regents exam plummeted by 14 percentage points at south Queens schools that used a controversial new curriculum teachers have blasted as 'a complete disaster,' a superintendent revealed this week
Josephine Van Ess, superintendent of Queens South High Schools, told parent leaders Wednesday that the 29 high schools under her watch, all but one of which used the Illustrative Mathematics curriculum, saw their average pass rate plunge from 59% to 45%.
The commercial curriculum - which forces teachers to give scripted lessons on a rigid schedule, expects students to 'discover' solutions with little instruction, and frustrates kids lacking prerequisite skills - is partly to blame.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

'I surrender,' Marty said, putting his hands up, blood streaking down his cheek, 'You got me good.'
Marty, according to Joshua Mundy and Jay Carnicom, allegedly arrived at in the Days Inn parking lot in Fort Wayne, Indiana, that day to meet a 13-year-old girl for sex. Instead, he met Dads Against Predators (DAP), an organization that confronts alleged pedophiles and films the encounters for social media.
Public humiliation is the primary MO for the vast majority of vigilante pedophile hunters, but DAP is different. These guys draw blood, often releasing videos where they openly assault their targets. The Marty sting was brutal.
The Daily Caller is withholding images and identification of some alleged predators, including Marty's video, because some appearing in this story have neither been charged nor convicted of a crime.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

A foreign national from Saudi Arabia who had 'Jihad' journals has admitted to stealing a school bus in New Jersey and driving it to Pennsylvania. The journals contained notes such as: 'F*** you privileged whitey,' 'Blood, blood, destruction, destruction. Allah,' and 'Jews control everything.'
According to a press release from the Department of Justice, Bader Alzahrani, 24, of Saudi Arabia, pled guilty earlier this week to stealing a New Jersey school bus and driving it across state lines to Pennsylvania. The press release stated, 'On Jan. 17, 2023, the Livingston, New Jersey Board of Education reported that a school bus was stolen from a parking lot' that was across from an 'unoccupied residential home where [a] break-in was reported' two days earlier.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Security guards at the entrance to a training annex at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland twice came under fire early Saturday morning from unknown assailants. The second ambush sparked a brief gun battle. No injuries were reported.
The first attack occurred around 2:15 a.m., when Air Force Security Forces personnel at the entrance gate of the Chapman Training Annex on the Southwest Side saw a sedan drive past and heard gunshots and the sound of bullets whistling past them, police and Air Force officials said.
The guards called for back-up in case the attackers returned. Shortly before 5 a.m., the same sedan stopped just east of the gate at Ray Ellison Boulevard and Medina Base Road. 'For a second time, shots were fired at the Air Force security personnel,' said Sgt. Washington Moscoso, a spokesman for the San Antonio Police Department.
This time, the Air Force guards returned fire with their service weapons, typically 9mm handguns, and the sedan sped off. No one was injured in the exchange of gunfire, said JBSA spokeswoman Stefanie Antosh.
Police said they found shell casings near where the car had stopped, but it wasn't known how many rounds were fired.
Antosh said there was more than one shooter in the sedan but the exact number was unknown, as was the attackers' motive. No details of the car's make, model or color were released.
Authorities closed the gate to the annex and directed motorists to use other routes. The gate reopened around 9:40 a.m., and the installation's security condition remained unchanged at Force Protection Condition Bravo.
- Hat tip:   

A trio of shoplifters have nearly 300 arrests between them, yet they keep getting sprung to steal again, fed-up cops told The Post this week.
The worst of the bunch is Ian Mullen, a Queens man with 119 arrests under his belt since 2000, including three since June, police said.
Mullen, 49, of Flushing, has been arrested for 15 felonies, 80 misdemeanors and 20 violations.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Donald Trump on Saturday ripped Vice President Kamala Harris' plan to slap socialist price controls on groceries, saying she's gone 'full Communist.'
The Republican presidential nominee compared economic proposals to reduce inflation that 'Comrade Kamala' announced a day earlier - which includes cracking down on price gouging - to infamously failed communist plans pushed in Venezuela and the former Soviet Union.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Former President Donald Trump reiterated a campaign promise to eliminate taxes on Social Security income for seniors.
While speaking from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, on Saturday, Trump criticized Vice President Kamala Harris for copying his campaign promise to eliminate taxes on tips.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

US Air Force security guards returned fire at a drive-by shooter who attacked the entrance of Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland twice in as many hours early Saturday, officials said.
The mystery attacker fired several rounds at around 2:15 a.m. - then returned two hours later, racing away after a short gunfight, police said.
'It was an off-base shooting from a passing vehicle that fired shots towards the gate, prompting our security forces to respond,' base spokesperson Stefanie Antosh said in a statement.
There were no injuries and there is no further threat to the base, she said.
San Antonio Police Department is still investigating a motive, but the suspects are not believed to be affiliated with the military.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The Washington Post is investigating its controversial columnist Taylor Lorenz after she was accused of posting a photo to social media branding President Biden a 'war criminal.'
In a screenshot of the Instagram story posting obtained by The Post, a mask-clad Lorenz is seen taking a selfie at a 'Creators' Summit' at the White House, as Biden greets attendees in the background. 'War criminal' reads the caption with a sad face emoticon.
Lorenz allegedly made the post this week using the 'close friends' feature - indicating it was viewable only to a select group of friends of her choosing.
Instagram stories automatically delete after 24 hours.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The Trudeau government is again warning Canadians to be prepared for a potential new virus that could cause food and fuel shortages.
The Centre for Occupational Health and Safety came out with a second edition of its Flu and Infectious Disease Outbreaks Business Continuity Plan Handbook in June. It focuses on a 'hypothetical virus' that the center suggests could lead to lockdowns, food scarcity, and a public health crisis that accompanied Covid-19.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau severely restricted the lives of Canadians who refused to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. People could not travel, go to restaurants, or, in many cases, work without being vaccinated. The mandates were challenged by a massive trucker protest that forced change even though it was brutally suppressed by Trudeau.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The face masks that people were forced to wear during the Covid pandemic do far more harm than good, a new study is warning.
The scoping-review study reveals that the masks expose wearers to toxic particles.
Led by Professor Kai Kisielinski, the study was conducted by a team of leading researchers in Germany.
In the 'Conclusion' section, the researchers note:
'Undoubtedly, mask mandates during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic have been generating an additional source of potentially harmful exposition to toxins with health-threatening and carcinogenic properties at the population level with almost zero distance to the airways.'
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Investigations by the Wall Street Journal last week revealed that Ukraine was involved in the sabotage of the Nord Stream pipelines in September 2022. However, President Zelenskyy vehemently denied this. The information about the planned sabotage of the gas pipelines came from the Dutch secret service at the time. Now Geert Wilders and other PVV politicians want to know from Prime Minister Schoof and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defense who else in the Netherlands was aware of the sabotage, NRC reported.
The Dutch Military Intelligence and Security Service (MIVD) is said to have informed the Americans about the sabotage plan shortly before the explosion of the Nord Stream pipelines in the Baltic Sea. The MIVD claims the information came from a Ukrainian source. According to Zelenskyy's advisor, Mychailo Podoljak, Russia was responsible for the attack, he told the news agency Reuters on Thursday.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Authored by Matt McGregor via The Epoch Times (emphasis ours),
Geologists may have solved the mystery of the origin of the Altar Stone central to the ancient monument of Stonehenge on the Salisbury Plain in Wiltshire, England.
The Altar Stone was long believed to have traveled 150 miles from Preseli Hills in Southwest Wales with the other megaliths until later work discounted that theory.
According to new research published in the scientific journal Nature, the 6-ton Altar Stone may have taken a longer journey of 600 miles from Northern Scotland.
'The difficulty of long-distance overland transport of such massive cargo from Scotland, navigating topographic barriers, suggests that it was transported by sea,' the study said. 'Such routing demonstrates a high level of societal organization with intra-Britain transport during the Neolithic period.'
According to the study, ancient Britons began construction of Stonehenge as early as 3000 B.C. and continued for two millennia.
Stonehenge was constructed with sarsen stones and bluestones-or rock 'considered exotic to the local area,' the study said.
The Altar Stone, the study said, is the largest of the bluestones in the ancient monument.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

WARSAW, Poland (AP) - Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk on Saturday reacted to reports that revived questions about who blew up the Nord Stream pipelines in 2022, saying the initiators of the gas pipeline project should 'apologize and keep quiet.' That comment came after one of his deputies denied a claim that Warsaw was partly responsible for its damage.
The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday that Ukrainian authorities were responsible for blowing up the Nord Stream 1 and 2 pipelines in September 2022, a dramatic act of sabotage that cut Germany off from a key source of energy and worsened an energy crisis in Europe.
Germany was a partner with Russia in the pipeline project. Poland has long said its own security interests have been harmed by Nord Stream.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

A British man has been jailed for 'stirring up hatred' at a non-violent anti-migration protest in Leeds, during which he allegedly mocked Muslims and made 'slurs' against Allah.
Phil Hoban, 48, the founder of the 'paedophile hunter' Predator Exposure group, has been sentenced to eight months in prison after pleading guilty to racial abuse towards pro-Palestinian counter-protesters during a non-violent anti-mass migration demonstration in Leeds on August 3rd, the BBC reports.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Three days ago, in the aftermath of the WSJ report seeking to radically shift the narrative over the Nordstream sabotage, where instead of the CIA being blamed for the explosion of the critical gas pipeline from Russia to Europe, unnamed 'intelligence' sources forged on with a hilarious script according to which a top Ukraine general (operating initially under the instructions of Zelensky but then going rogue when Z got 'cold feet') was responsible for coordinating the sabotage using a handful of rank amateurs who somehow managed to sneak to the bottom of the Baltic sea and conduct an unprecedented military operation, we said that - no matter the laughable veracity of the report - relations between Germany and Ukraine are 'about to turn ugly', and we asked why this story is coming out just now?
We didn't have long to wait to get the answer: as German media reports, this U-turn in the narrative (which according to some meant that NATO should now unleash its full military power against Ukraine, which had single-handedly attacked German assets by blowing up the Nordstream) was meant to soften the blow from Germany's decision to finally cut off Ukraine's - and Zelensky's - unprecedented grift.
According to a Saturday report in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ), the German government will stop new military aid to Ukraine as part of the ruling coalition's plan to reduce spending. The report, which cited non-public documents and emails as well as discussions with unnamed sources, goes on to note that the moratorium on new assistance - which is already in effect - will affect new requests for funding, not previously approved aid.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Police are offering zombie knife owners cash to hand over the menacing blades before they are officially banned in the UK.
- Hat tip: SS[ 

Israeli soldiers inspecting an underground Hamas compound earlier this year allegedly uncovered the terror group's grisly plot to exhume British and Commonwealth World War I and II soldiers buried in the Gaza Strip.
Hatched in 2022, the seven-page plan apparently called for Hamas to dig up the soldiers' bodies and hold their remains hostage, the Telegraph reported.
The Israeli Defense Forces claims the plot was conceived as a way to keep the UK from moving its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, a move announced by then-British Prime Minister Liz Truss.
The Hamas plan, the IDF contends, was concocted by the terror group's leader Yahya Sinwar and the its military commander, Muhammad Deif, who was killed in a July airstrike.
A little more than 3,000 Christian and Jewish British soldiers are interred in a cemetery in central Gaza.
- Hat tip: McN[ 

Hamas is under pressure to accept the United States 'bridging proposal' for a Gaza hostage deal as US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to arrive in Israel on Sunday in advance of what Washington hopes will be a final round of negotiations set for Cairo on Wednesday.
'There is no answer from Hamas,' a source told The Jerusalem Post on Saturday, explaining that 'there is heavy pressure on Hamas' from the United States, Egypt, and Qatar to 'give a positive response.'
Those two Arab countries have been the main mediators for the deal, with the support of the US.
The US and Israel expressed cautious optimism after CIA Director William Burns held two days of talks in Doha that ended Friday.
- Hat tip: JW[ 

A commander in Hezbollah's al-Hajj Radwan Force was killed on Saturday in Lebanon, the group confirmed.
The Israeli Defense Forces released footage that showed the drone strike that reportedly killed Hussein Ibrahim Kassab, according to the New York Post.
The Times of Israel reports that Kassab was killed while riding his motorcycle through Tyre, a city in southern Lebanon.
The IDF says that the death of Kassab is the 412th killing of a Hezbollah operative since Oct. 7 when Hamas attacked Israel from Gaza, killing about 1,200 people and taking 251 hostage, which started this current, ongoing war.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Video caught the moment fists went flying in the Turkish parliament Friday after an opposition lawmaker called President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's party a 'terrorist organization,' Fox News reported.
The brawl started when Justice and Development Party (AKP) member Alpay zalan attacked Workers Party member Ahmet Sik after Sik made the 'terrorist' claim, Fox Newsreported.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

A large explosion was heard on Sunday morning in the town of Kurchatov, where the Kursk Nuclear Power Plant is located, in west Russia's Kursk region.
- Hat tip: Dean[ 

Russian state media outlets are sounding the alarm in the overnight hours, alleging that Ukrainian forces are preparing to strike the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant (ZNPP) in Enerhodar, Ukraine, and the Kursk Nuclear Power Plant (KNPP) in Russia with radioactive warheads, all in an attempt to create a false flag and blame Moscow. Conversely, the Kyiv Independent quickly brushed off these claims as totally baseless. The situation unfolding in Eastern Europe underlines the growing uncertainty and chaos, thickening the 'fog of war' as tensions escalate.
Concerns over a 'nuclear catastrophe' have soared in the last week after Russia and Ukraine traded blame for a drone strike on ZNPP that sparked a fire in the nuclear power plant's cooling tower. The Russia-Ukraine conflict is entering a new phase, with Ukraine invading Russian territory for the first time.
Now, several Russian state-controlled media outlets, including Russia Today, citing 'intelligence received by Russia,' warned on Friday night that 'Ukrainian forces have begun preparations to target nuclear waste storage sites at a Russian power plant with radioactive warheads and to then blame Moscow.'
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Russia is 'rapidly approaching' a key military hub in eastern Ukraine, a local official has said, as Moscow continues its advances despite Kyiv's surprise gains in its enemy's Kursk region.
While Pokrovsk is not a major city - about 60,000 people lived there before the war and many have left since the start of the full-scale invasion - it serves as a key hub for the Ukrainian military thanks to its easy access to Kostiantynivka, another military center.
Ukrainian troops use the road connecting the two to resupply the front lines and evacuate casualties toward Dnipro.
Serhii Dobriak, head of the Pokrovsk city military administration, urged the community there to evacuate without delay.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Safety at Ukraine's occupied Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant is deteriorating after a drone strike on the road surrounding it, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said on Saturday.
Zaporizhzhia is the largest nuclear facility in Europe and has been occupied by Russian soldiers since the early stages of its war with Ukraine.
Earlier today, the IAEA Support and Assistance Mission to Zaporizhzhia (ISAMZ) team was informed that an explosive carried by a drone detonated just outside the plant's protected area.
A visit by the team found no casualties and no damage to nuclear equipment - but the surrounding road and gates were impacted.
The impact site was close to the essential cooling water sprinkler ponds and about 100m from the Dniprovska power line, the only remaining 750-kilovolt line providing a power supply to the plant, the team said.
IAEA Director General Grossi commented: 'Yet again we see an escalation of the nuclear safety and security dangers facing the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant.
'I remain extremely concerned and reiterate my call for maximum restraint from all sides and for strict observance of the five concrete principles established for the protection of the plant.'
- Hat tip: MM[ 

Ukrainian Himars artillery has destroyed a key bridge across a river in the Kursk region that Russia was using to reinforce its embattled soldiers.
Russian military bloggers said the destruction of the road bridge across the Seym River outside the village of Glushkovo would force Russian reinforcements on a dangerous detour.
'If (when) the enemy manages to destroy all good crossings, it will cut off the entire group of the Russian Armed Forces defending in the Glushkovo district,' the Russian Telegram channel Military Observer posted.
Glushkovo lies about 15 miles north of the border with Ukraine and is roughly 40 miles west of Sudzha, the focus of Ukraine's initial cross-border assault last week.
The Russian ministry of defence has not commented but Tough Kursk, a local Russian Telegram channel, confirmed the strike.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

(AP) - A Russian missile strike sparked a blaze in the Ukrainian city of Sumy Saturday, while Ukrainian forces continued to push into Russia's Kursk border region.
Two people were injured in the Sumy strike, which also damaged cars and nearby buildings, said Ukraine's State Emergency Service. It said that the hit had involved an Iskander-K cruise missile and an aerial bomb.
Ukraine's air force also said it had shot down 14 Russian drones overnight, including over the Kyiv region.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Outraged dad Tamer Mousa has said his son's school is in denial of what he alleges is ongoing bullying that led to the boy being seriously injured and hospitalised.
- Hat tip: SS[ 

As part of a dramatic escalation of conflict between private sector principles and local judiciary mandates, X announced the immediate cessation of its operations in Brazil this Saturday. The company attributed its decision to direct threats against its legal team by Brazilian Supreme Court Justice Alexandre de Moraes, who issued secret orders demanding compliance with censorship directives.
According to a statement from X, Justice de Moraes threatened to arrest their legal representative in Brazil unless the platform adhered to these orders. The company disclosed this information publicly, sharing the secretive order to highlight what it perceives as an abuse of power. 'Last night, Alexandre de Moraes threatened our legal representative in Brazil with arrest if we do not comply with his censorship orders. He did so in a secret order, which we share here to expose his actions,' the statement read.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Newly released body camera footage captured the arrest of the illegal migrant accused of killing Maryland mom Rachel Morin.
In footage released by the Tulsa Police Department and obtained by FOX 5, officers encounter Victor Martinez Hernandez at a bar in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
His arrest came 10 months into an intense nationwide manhunt.
The mother of five, whose children range in age from 8 to 18, was raped before being murdered in August while jogging on the Ma & Pa Trail in Harford County, Maryland.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The number of suicides among US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) employees in 2024 is already nearing the total recorded for all of 2023, raising alarms within the agency.
So far this year, seven CBP employees have taken their own lives, just one short of the eight suicides reported in 2023. The agency's worst year was in 2022, when 15 employees died by suicide, according to a report from the New York Post citing Dr. Kent Corso, CBP's former 'suicidologist.'
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The mayor of Chicago is warning that thousands of migrants could arrive in the city ahead of the Democratic National Convention.
While previous estimates of over 20,000 migrants arriving in the city seem to have been assuaged, Mayor Brandon Johnson's administration still expects several hundred migrants ahead of the convention - arrivals via bus that Texas Gov. Greg Abbott's office has confirmed.
'Until President Biden and Border Czar Harris step up and do their jobs to secure the border, Texas will continue busing migrants to sanctuary cities across the country like Chicago to provide much-needed relief to our overwhelmed border towns,' Abbott's office told the Daily Mail this week.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

After illegally entering the country at the southwest border and being released by Border Patrol agents, violent criminals continue to be arrested thousands of miles north near Boston.
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement-Enforcement and Removal Operations (ICE-ERO) Boston agents recently arrested a 34-year-old Haitian illegally in the country convicted of aggravated rape, assault and battery with a dangerous weapon on a pregnant victim among other charges.
Marc Kervens Beauvais illegally entered the U.S. on June 26, 2021, in Del Rio, Texas. Instead of being processed for removal, Border Patrol agents released him into the U.S. with a notice to appear before an immigration judge at a date later in the future.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Dozens of sunbathing tourists watched in shock as 20 suspected migrants disembarked from a dinghy onto a packed beach in the Spanish islands.
The vessel pulled into the cove and stopped on the shoreline in Cala Gran Santanyi, Mallorca, Spain, on Tuesday around 6pm.
Video shared on social media shows how roughly 20 people - mostly young men - got off the boat and dodged beach towels as they walked in single file across the sand.
The migrants appeared to be in good health and physical condition. But most seemed to have with them only a small rucksack or the clothes they were wearing.
The boat was reportedly the fifth to arrive in the Balearic Islands on Tuesday.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

The 'Great Replacement' comes to Ireland? Public concerns surrounding government supported open immigration plans in the UK have been consistently treated as 'xenophobic' and 'overblown' by the media and authorities alike. The typical M.O. of politicians has been to ignore all scrutiny and attack anyone that dares to question the agenda.
Reports that migrant relocation programs were going to flood rural Irish locations with foreign elements raised eyebrows (and raised questions) last month as to the purpose of transplanting the third-world into outlying villages in the UK. These same villages have been demographically unchanged for centuries.
The theory, which holds considerable validity, is that western countries are being destabilized from within by corrupt progressive leaders with the intent to upend traditional western society and replace it with a self-devouring multicultural soup that is easier to convert to globalism. Rural areas of the west are commonly viewed as safe havens away from the corrosive politics of woke socialism, and the targeting of these places seems to verify everyone's worst fears about open borders.
This brings us to the tiny hamlet of Tipperary in Ireland (population 165), where the Gardai assisted Department of Integration had used a manor property called the Dundrum House Hotel to bring hundreds of Ukrainian refugees into the country. Locals noted they had few problems with the Ukrainians because they seemed to easily integrate into the already existing community. However, now that the government has their foot in the door of the village, they have decided to move the Ukrainians out and replace them with third-world migrants with non-western value systems.
Because of numerous examples of rampant criminality and violence (from rape gangs to mass stabbings) brought by such migrants to major cities throughout Europe and the UK, locals worry that same ideology of dominance and exploitation will now take over their once quiet corner of Ireland. The fact that around 80% of these migrants are single military age men gives little comfort to the residents.
Protests have erupted in Tipperary after it was revealed that at least 265 migrants would be relocated there, greatly outnumbering the indigenous population.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

Police have snared a criminal gang which used Facebook to advertise 15,000-a-head illegal immigration packages to Britain for thousands of Vietnamese migrants.
The gang's 'VIP service' included air tickets to Europe, fake visas, stays in a Paris hotel, taxis to Calais, and finally a place on a small boat crossing the English Channel.
Discounts were offered for those who agreed to smuggle drugs, or to spend time working as prostitutes. The shocking details emerged after five members of the network were given jail sentences in France last week.
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 

ROME (AP) - The U.N. refugee agency, which has expressed serious concerns about Italys deal to process some migrants asylum requests at holding centers in
- Hat tip: SS[ 

Apple is offering several free, multi-day entrepreneurship camps to help improve participants' apps. However, to apply, your company's main leadership or software development representative must be black, Hispanic, Indigenous, or female - unless you are a male who identifies as a woman.
According to the entrepreneurship camp website, those awarded admission to the camp will receive 'one-on-one code-level guidance from Apple engineers,' a free year-long membership to the Apple Developer Program, support from Apple Developers and access to a 'world-class group of inspiring ambitious leaders.'
- Hat tip: Reader from Chicago[ 


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: August 18, 2024


End of Document
