




Newstex Blogs 
Futurity.org
April 18, 2023 Tuesday 6:05 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2023 Futurity.org 
Length: 683 words
Byline: Sara Zaske-Washington State
Body


 The discovery of a gene in multiple mammal species could pave the way for a highly effective, reversible, and non-hormonal male contraceptive for humans and animals.
 The researchers identified expression of the gene, Arrdc5, in the testicular tissue of mice, pigs, cattle, and humans. When they knocked out the gene in mice, it created infertility only in the males, affecting their sperm count, movement, and shape.
 "The study identifies this gene for the first time as being expressed only in  , nowhere else in the body, and it's expressed by multiple mammalian species," says Jon Oatley, professor in Washington State University's School of Molecular Biosciences and senior author of the study in   .
 "When this gene is inactivated or inhibited in males, they make sperm that cannot fertilize an egg, and that's a prime target for male contraceptive development."
 While other molecular targets have been identified for potential male contraceptive development, the Arrdc5 gene is specific to the male testes and found in multiple species. Importantly, lack of the gene also causes significant infertility creating a condition called oligoasthenoteratospermia or OAT.
 This condition, the most common diagnosis for human  , shows a decrease in the amount of sperm produced, slowed mobility, and distorted shape so that the sperm are unable to fuse with an egg.
 In the study, the male mice lacking this gene produced 28% less sperm that moved 2.8 times slower than in normal mice—and about 98% of their sperm had abnormal heads and mid-pieces.
 The study indicates that the protein encoded by this gene is required for normal sperm production. Oatley's team will next work on designing a drug that would inhibit production or function of that protein.
 Disrupting this protein wouldn't require any hormonal interference, a key hurdle in male contraception since testosterone plays other roles beyond sperm production in men including building bone mass and muscle strength as well as red blood cell production. Designing a drug to target this protein would also make it easily reversible as a contraceptive.
 "You don't want to wipe out the ability to ever make  —just stop the sperm that are being made from being made correctly," he says. "Then, in theory, you could remove the drug and the sperm would start being built normally again."
 Because the gene is found across mammalian species, this knowledge also holds promise for use in animals, Oatley says. The team analyzed available biological data on DNA and protein sequences in mammals and found the gene in almost every known mammal species. This opens the potential to develop male contraception for use in livestock, perhaps replacing castration in some instances as a way to control reproduction, and in wildlife when managers seek to limit overpopulation of a species.
 The initial focus, however, is on giving humans more control over their own reproduction. While there are many forms of birth control for women, they are not always effective or widely available, and more than half of pregnancies worldwide are still unintended, according to the United Nations.
 "Developing a way to curb population growth and stop unwanted pregnancies is really important for the future of the human race," says Oatley. "Right now, we don't really have anything on the male side for contraception other than surgery and only a small percentage of men choose  . If we can develop this discovery into a solution for contraception, it could have far-ranging impacts."
 Oatley and study first author Mariana Giassetti have filed a provisional patent for the development of a male contraceptive based on this gene and the protein it encodes.
 This study received support from the National Institutes of Health and WSU's Functional Genomics Initiative, a multi-year university investment to support development of genetic technology research.
 Source: 
 The post   appeared first on  .


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: May 25, 2023


End of Document
