




Internal Medicine News
February 15, 2007


Copyright 2007 Elsevier Inc., International Medical News Group All Rights Reserved
Section: Pgs. 6-7; Vol. 40; No. 4; ISSN: 1097-8690
Length: 849 words
Byline: Robert A. Hatcher, M.D.
Body


DR. HATCHER is professor of gynecology and obstetrics at Emory University, Atlanta. He has no financial relationships with companies that make contraceptives or contraceptive devices.
        
Contraceptives are remarkably expensive. We need to be aware of this, and promote strategies to help make contraception more affordable.
    
Not only is contraception expensive, but prices vary widely between clinics and sometimes even from month to month within a clinic. My colleagues and I have found that, even for us, it is difficult to obtain information about costs through phone calls to hospitals, health departments, or clinics such as Planned Parenthood. So it's not too helpful to tell patients to call around to find the best deal on the method they want to use.
    
Full-paying patients who visit an Atlanta hospital for contraception could pay $715 for a Mirena insertion, $293 for a ParaGard insertion, $200 per year for oral contraceptive pills, $128 per year for patches, and $99 per year for NuvaRing. Even with insurance, a woman may pay $30 per cycle in copays for birth control pills, which adds up to $390 per year. These costs are a major expense for many women.
    
Each night in the United States, 10 million women who do not want to become pregnant have intercourse. Of these, 1 million use absolutely no method of birth control. Adding pregnancies caused by contraceptive failure to those caused by unprotected intercourse, we see that nearly half (49%) of the 6.4 million pregnancies and about one-third (34%, or 1.4 million) of the 4 million births each year in the United States are unintended.
    
Although the ultimate responsibility for contraception resides with the patient, there are steps we can take to help women deal with the high cost of contraception.
    
Three options that cost nothing could protect each of those 1 million women from having unprotected sex tonight: abstinence, outercourse, and withdrawal. Each approach works well only if there has been careful discussion in advance and a clear understanding has been reached.
    
Abstinence is traditionally viewed as a long-term decision, but we should focus more on promoting other types of abstinence. We should encourage abstinence "for a while," which might mean until a woman starts using contraception, until the contraceptive becomes effective, until the contraceptive prescription is refilled, or perhaps until her partner's semen has no motile sperm post vasectomy. We need to focus on explaining and promoting this kind of abstinence. Just because a couple is in the habit of having intercourse does not mean that they can't put it off until effective contraception can be arranged.
    
Outercourse is perhaps a more pleasurable alternative to abstinence. A couple can do many enjoyable things that don't involve penis-vagina intercourse and that are unlikely to produce a pregnancy.
    
Withdrawal is another alternative that costs absolutely nothing. If a couple uses withdrawal correctly at times when no other contraceptive is available, the chance of the woman becoming pregnant from one act of intercourse is about 1 in 2,000.
    
Another immediately available contraceptive is the condom, and we should do a better job of promoting them, as they are inexpensive (about $40 per year), widely available, and effective. Free condom distribution seems to be the best method for providing the most condoms.
    
Intrauterine devices are the most cost-effective reversible contraceptive, and we should encourage women to consider this option. Providers should look into obtaining free IUDs for eligible women from programs such as the Arch Foundation.
    
Male sterilization remains the most cost effective of all contraceptive methods.
    
In terms of hormonal contraception, it is important to educate women about what to do in case of missed pills. This way, women may avoid the unnecessary use of backup protection if they are still within the recommended window.
    
Free starter contraceptive rings can be requested directly from Organon USA Inc.'s representatives and are available on the manufacturer's Web site. Teaching patients how to insert the ring-and then leaving the exam room and having them insert the first ring in the office-is the best way to encourage ring use.
    
Women who may require emergency contraception need to obtain the pills in advance; this makes the contraception less expensive and more effective. Individual clinicians and clinics should keep emergency contraception in stock for patients.
    
Finally, when an abortion is desired, the early diagnosis of pregnancy and early performance of the termination procedure are the two most important steps to take to decrease the cost of an abortion.
    
There are some remarkably effective contraceptives available today, but our society has failed to deliver affordable contraceptives to couples who are hoping not to become pregnant. We in the health care field must be advocates for changes that will bring safe, effective contraceptives inexpensively, or at no cost, to all persons looking to avoid unintended pregnancies.
   

Load-Date: July 31, 2009


End of Document
