




Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)
November 2, 2007 Friday
Final Edition


Copyright 2007 Richmond Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FLAIR; Pg. C-6
Length: 787 words
Byline: Douglas Durden

Times-Dispatch Staff Writer
Body


 Talkative women in groups-preferably with lots of problems to discuss-are a TV staple. Think of the well-dressed, constantly kvetching foursomes of "Sex and the City" and "Desperate Housewives."
 This season, TV is welcoming men in packs.
 Since late September, network TV has introduced five new series featuring a core group of male characters with issues.
 Unlike the traditional guy-centric series, these aren't action shows.
Like "Sex and the City" and "Desperate Housewives," these are men discussing their feelings-or lack of. These men range from the clueless
teenagers of CW's "Aliens in America" to the successful but sometimes
tormented CEOs of ABC's "Big Shots."
 There are many reasons for Guy TV. It works for cable: look at FX's "Rescue Me" and HBO's "Entourage." There are lots of talented, unemployed male actors out there ("Big Shots'" Dylan McDermott and Michael Vartan among them). And soul-searching certainly pays off for shows with female characters.
 Consider these men behaving sadly.
CBS' "The Big Bang Theory"
(8:30 p.m. Mondays)
 Who: Super-smart roommates Leonard and Sheldon (Johnny Galecki and Jim Parsons) and their equally smart but socially inept friends Wolowitz (Simon Helberg) and Rajesh (Kunal Nayyar).
 What's bothering them: Besides being cursed with an incredibly odd title for a TV show, these guys are geeks who want to be accepted by the regular world, but on their own terms.
 Fears: Girls.
 Coping mechanism: Establishing that they are smarter than the rest of the world through sarcasm; dressing like superheroes or favorite Hobbits.
 Guy talk: Rajesh: "I have such difficulty talking to women, or around women, or sometimes even effeminate men."
CW's "Aliens in America"
(8:30 p.m. Mondays)
 Who: Justin Tolchuck (Dan Byrd), 16, unhappy teenager in Medora, Wis., and Raja Musharaff (Adhir Kalyan), 16, a foreign exchange student from Pakistan.
 What's bothering them: High school; specifically the fact they aren't in with the in crowd. Actually, Raja isn't that concerned. He loves America and his American family.
 Fears: Bigger guys; cooler girls.
 Coping mechanism: Mom, played as a cheerful enabler by Amy Pietz.
 Guy talk: "If I could bring only one thing with me to a desert island, it would be Justin Tolchuck. He's my best friend and he's the one thing I can't live without" - an innocent remark from Raja that gets Justin even more grief at school than usual.
ABC's "Cavemen"
(8 p.m. Tuesdays)
 Who: Joel, his brother Andy, and his best friend Nick (Bill English, Sam Huntington and Nick Kroll). They're like three single guys anywhere, except they're cavemen, making them especially hairy - and apparently sensitive.
 What's bothering them: Society's preconceived notions of what "those people" are like.
 Fears: Reverting to primal instinct - or being seen as such.
 Coping mechanism: High-tech material goods.
 Guy talk: Nick: "I hate bumming rides off you because it's never just a ride. It's about control, rules, cleanliness, structure. It's like getting a ride in a prison bus." Joel: "Fine. Feel free to take a bus. But until then, you're not eating in my car."
ABC's "Carpoolers"
(8:30 p.m. Tuesdays)
 Who: Gracen, Laird, Aubrey and Dougie (Fred Goss, Jerry O'Connell, Jerry Minor and Tim Peper) - friends and fellow carpoolers.
 What's bothering them: Depends on the day and the character. Could be their children (small or adult), wife, girlfriend, sperm count or finding a parking space.
 Fears: Aging, not finding a parking space.
 Coping mechanism: Male bonding - and one-upmanship. Laird (O'Connell as a single dentist) sulks if he's not treated as the alpha male.
 Guy talk: Gracen: "Leila [his wife] wants me to get 'the surgery.' " Group groan. Laird: "She wants you to get a vasectomy? . . . Before you unplug the life support, you might want to think about getting tested. A guy your age might not even need to get a vasectomy."
ABC's "Big Shots"
(10 p.m. Thursdays)
 Who: James, Brody, Karl and Duncan (Michael Vartan, Christopher Titus, Joshua Malina and Dylan McDermott), a collection of successful senior vice presidents or CEOs working in New York.
 What's bothering them: Attempts to reconnect with an ex-wife or a current wife who's new best friend is your ex-mistress, or adjusting to ex-wife's new boyfriend.
 Fears: Mistresses who talk; corporations looking for new CEOs.
Coping mechanism: Golf, heart-to-hearts in the steam room, paying off blackmail.
 Guy talk: "It's not bad enough the board is breathing down my neck. Now some strange guy is picking my kids up at soccer practice. And what do I know about him?" complains the newly separated James. "That's how it was with me," confides Duncan, divorced. "Before long, some other guy was dad and Cam was calling me Duncan."

Notes

TV CHAT

Graphic

 
PHOTO

Load-Date: November 6, 2007


End of Document
