




Special Sections
August 9, 2023 Wednesday
1 Edition


Copyright 2023 Special Sections All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A3
Length: 1565 words
Byline: By, Shari Rudavsky, Indianapolis Star
Body


Planned Parenthood clinics in Indiana ceased performing abortions and hospitals began limiting them as of Tuesday, nearly a year to the day Gov. Holcomb signed a law banning the procedure under most circumstances.
Until now, legal action had prevented the law from going into effect. It's unclear what day, precisely, the law will go into effect, but the state sent out guidance and health care providers are moving forward as if it's effective Tuesday.
Here's what you need to know.
Who can have a legal abortion in Indiana?
There are three exceptions to the ban on abortions, according to the law: Fatal fetal anomalies, when the mother's life or health is in danger up to 20 weeks post-fertilization, and in the case of rape or incest up to 10 weeks post-fertilization.
Pregnant people cannot be prosecuted under the law for having an illegal abortion but a provider who performs the procedure can face losing his or her license.
Where can you get a legal abortion in Indiana?
The law passed last year limits abortions to be performed in hospitals. The vast majority of the more than 9,500 abortions that took place in Indiana occurred in outpatient clinics; fewer than 200 of the procedures occurred in hospitals, according to the state's annual terminated pregnancy report.
In Central Indiana last year, the only hospitals where doctors performed abortions were Eskenazi Health and Indiana University Health's downtown facilities.
IU Health officials said that as of Tuesday the hospital system would only perform abortions that conform to the three exceptions the law contains, exceptions that abortion providers say will severely restrict the procedure.
How will hospitals decide whether an abortion is legal?
Last fall as the initial date for the law to go into effect neared, Indiana University Health created a 24/7 rapid response team consisting of a clinician, ethicist, and legal representative to assist providers. The team will provide immediate answers to pressing dilemmas and provide less-urgent advice as well.
In the intervening months IU Health has used the rapid response about once a month, hospital officials say.
The previous months have allowed the hospital system to prepare for a day when the law that passed last year will go into effect.
"The IU Health team has been working to ensure that all the systems are ready when it does go into effect because it's pretty confusing for everybody," said Dr. Caroline Rouse, a maternal fetal medicine specialist for IU Health.
Eskenazi Health also has formed a consult team of medical and administrative leaders to provide support for staff on any questions that may arise, hospital spokesman Todd Harper said in an email.
Where can you go near Indiana for a legal abortion?
While providers will only be performing abortions in a few limited cases in Indiana, it is legal for pregnant people to seek abortion care in another state that allows the procedure.
Abortion remains legal in Illinois, Michigan and Ohio with slight differences in the laws. Ohio, where abortion is illegal until 22 weeks after the last menstrual period, requires two appointments 24 hours apart.
Michigan, where medication abortions are legal until 10 weeks and surgical abortions until nearly 20 weeks, requires that patients fill out an informed consent form at least 24 hours before the appointment but allows patients to do that online.
Illinois, which allows abortions until fetal viability - around 24 to 26 weeks of pregnancy - has no waiting period. At least one clinic in the Chicago area accepts walk-in patients, according to its website.
How can you find an abortion provider out of state?
Multiple websites exist to help people find abortion providers in states where abortion is legal. These include abortionfinder.org, ineedana.org and prochoice.org.
For those who need help funding expenses related to an abortion, such as travel, child care or lodging, All-Options, a pregnancy resource center in Bloomington, has the Hoosier Abortion Fund that will help callers finance out-of-state abortions and associated costs.
Planned Parenthood has created patient navigation teams that can also help those who want abortions find providers out of state. The teams have been place in Kentucky, where abortion is illegal, for the past year, said Rebecca Gibron, CEO of Planned Parenthood of Great Northwest, Hawai'i, Alaska, Indiana and Kentucky.
Can you find help
to go out of state?
All-Options helped about 3,300 people find abortion care last year. About 90% of those lived in Indiana. About 35% of those helped crossed state lines for their care because of the difficulty of getting an abortion in Indiana, said Jessica Marchbank, state programs director for All-Options.
Marchbank said she did not expect to see an immediate huge upswing in requests for help, given what happened during the one week the abortion ban went into effect last fall. The number of calls the organization fielded dropped from about 90 a week to about 10 over a few days.
"It plummeted because people are not sure what is okay," she said. "They're not sure if they can go across state lines because there has been so much fear mongering."
Right after the Dobbs decision, All-Options saw a bump in donations that allowed them to help more people. Typically they had helped 30 to 50 people a month. In the recent there have been weeks where they have been able to support more than 100 people.
But with donations dropping, the organization will likely be funding fewer people in order to remain sustainable, Marchbank said.
All-Options returns all calls and texts and if the organization can't help with financial support, staff will work with the caller to make sure their needs are met.
How are other states preparing?
Abortion bans in other states such as Tennessee and Kentucky have already led to longer wait times in clinics in places such as Illinois, Marchbank said.
Over the past year, about 25% of the patients who received abortion care at an Indiana Planned Parenthood clinic came from out of state, some from as far as Louisiana or Texas, Gibron said."Indiana has been a beacon of hope for many patients in this region who've been traveling to Indiana for abortion care," she said.
Planned Parenthood of Greater Ohio has already been preparing for an influx of patients, said Dr. Adarsh Krishen, chief medical officer.
The organization, which has two ambulatory surgery centers, and its sister organization Planned Parenthood of Southwest Ohio, which has one center, provide the bulk of abortion care in the state.
The clinics are looking to hire some additional providers to expand hours to serve more patients and minimize waiting periods, Krishen said.
"Any time there's any sort of restrictions placed, surrounding states will feel the squeeze," he said. "Any patient who reaches out to Ohio, we will take care of them, we have the capacity to provide care to them."
What legal actions are out there?
Monday the ACLU, Planned Parenthood among others filed a request for the state Supreme Court to clarify the exemptions contained in the law. The petition asks the court to rehear the case.
Until the court decides whether or not to deny the request, the abortion ban cannot go into effect, according to the Associated Press. Health care providers, though, are moving forward as if started Tuesday.
Providers say that there is no agreed upon list that encapsulates all the scenarios that could fall under the lethal fetal anomalies exception or when the life of the mother may be at risk.
The ACLU of Indiana also sued on behalf of a group of plaintiffs last year who argued that their religions allow for abortion and preventing them from such care violates the state's Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
That case has been appealed and oral arguments are scheduled before the state Supreme Court for December.
In June, a Marion County Superior Court judge signed an order certifying that as a class action suit, meaning that it would apply to individuals beyond the five plaintiffs. Later that month, however, Indiana State Attorney General Todd Rokita appealed that decision.
With a final ruling in limbo, IU Health will not be providing abortions for pregnant people on the basis of religious objections, hospital officials say.
What happens next?
Planned Parenthood says that it has no plans to close any of its 11 clinics in the state, which provide a range of health services beyond abortion care. About 10% to 15% of clinic visits in the past were for abortions, Gibron said.
The health organization provides birth control, emergency contraception, cancer screenings, pregnancy consultation, and gender affirming hormone for adults. Area Planned Parenthoods will offer vasectomies as well, Gibron said.
In the past Planned Parenthood did consolidate some clinics but has no plan to do that again, Gibron said.
"I'm not worried about our future. We're not shuttering," Gibron said. "I know that's what far right extremists would love to have happen. But that is not where we are at and that is not what I'm concerned about."
Maternal health experts, however, are concerned about the impact of ending abortion on maternal mortality rates in Indiana, already among the highest in the nation. Others have warned that the new laws may detract young physicians, especially obstetricians, from opting to remain in the state.
Contact IndyStar reporter Shari Rudavsky at 

Graphic

 
Rebecca Gibron, CEO of Planned Parenthood Great Northwest, Hawaii, Alaska, Indiana, Kentucky, speaks Tuesday, Aug. 1, during a press conference at the Planned Parenthood Georgetown Health Center in Indianapolis. "Unfortunately, as of today, abortion is banned in the state of Indiana," she said. "The state of Indiana sent out guidance clarifying that August 1st was the day, the Supreme Court could certify this decision at any moment. And so as of today, providers across the state are no longer able to provide abortion services."
photos/Mykal McEldowney/IndyStar
Dr. Katie McHugh, an independent obstetrician-gynecologist, speaks Tuesday, Aug. 1, 2023, during a press conference at the Planned Parenthood Georgetown Health Center in Indianapolis. "We will fight for the reproductive freedom to control and define our futures," she said. "And we will fight against abortion shame and forced pregnancy, no matter the landscape. Abortion is here to stay, and so are those of us who provide abortion care. We are here to help the people in Indiana access the health care that they need."
Mykal McEldowney/IndyStar

Load-Date: August 9, 2023


End of Document
