




Newstex Blogs 
Dissident Voice
October 29, 2024 Tuesday 2:23 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 Dissident Voice 
Length: 978 words
Byline: Binoy Kampmark
Body


October 29th, 2024 (   - Delivered by   )
For decades, the cultural phenomenon known as Americanisation has taken place with diffusing ease. Momentum was gained with the retreat of communism from Europe's eastern states with the end of the Cold War and the eventual termination of the Soviet Union in 1991. Global brands of Americana from fizzy drinks to Dallas became pervasive cultural presences. Not even children's programming was exempt.
Converts and devotees would mimic accents, adopt terms of reference, and emulate patterns of behaviour. In terms of children's programming, Sesame Street, the work of the non-profit organisation Sesame Workshop, has been the global standard bearer. Jenny Perlman Robinson and Daniela Petrova,  
In 2018, Australia made its own contribution in the field. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation released an animated series that has since become a giddying global phenomenon. The US has not been spared, suggesting that Americanisation, at least in some areas, can also be given hearty doses of its own medicine. The series in question, Bluey, features an Australian dog of the Blue Heeler variety: one Bluey, a six-year-old cattle dog who lives in the Queensland city of Brisbane with sister Bingo, and parents Bandit and Chilli.
By the end of March 2020, the series had won an International Emmy in the children's preschool category, something no doubt helped by the enforced isolation brought on by the coronavirus pandemic. In 2023, Bluey became the  
Such success was due, in no small part, to a distribution deal struck between the BBC and Disney in 2019. 'The warmth and authenticity of Bluey's family dynamic is what first captured our interest in the show,'  
The fascinating aspect about Bluey is its central premise: neither the viewing parents nor their engaged children are treated like passive imbeciles. Both groups can partake in the themes of the series without feeling infantilised. 'It trusts,'   
Fantasy and imagination mingle with testing, even potentially contentious issues. There  
Given such a format, it was bound to interest academics keen to tell us the obvious after generating the usual quantitative quarry of data. In a   
The influence of Bluey has also been noted in another respect. In 2022, a father in Massachusetts revealed that his child had begun using the term 'dunny' instead of 'toilet'. This brought much pleasure to ABC Sydney radio presenter, Richard Glover. 'Finally,'  
According to Glover, US popular culture had ensured that Australians of his generation had 'enrolled in a PhD program' on the subject. 'We paid the price for our enthusiasm, regularly scolded by our parents for 'using those terrible American words.' These included 'sidewalk' instead of 'footpath' and 'trash' instead of 'rubbish'.' Now, it was time for those in the US, notably children, to learn that breakfast could be called 'brekkie', a chicken a 'chook', and 'tradie' a skilled tradesperson.
Little wonder that we can find a Master of Arts thesis  
Something else is at play here. If Bluey is naturalistic, touching on the raw end of life in parenting and children's lives, it functions in a digital world that is less adult, increasingly infantile and increasingly disabling. Children and adults are becoming increasingly estranged from relations through technological parting and an addiction to the screen. Funny that it should fall to a family of animated Australian cattle dogs to tie parents and children in a gentle knot of play and accommodation.
The post   


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: October 29, 2024


End of Document
