




The New Yorker
August 7, 2017 / August 14, 2017


Copyright 2017 The Conde Nast Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: PERSONAL HISTORY; Pg. 24; Vol. XCIII; No. 23; ISSN: 0028-792X
Length: 3999 words
Byline: LAUREN COLLINS
Highlight: Notes from a names obsessive.
Body


There are clearer criteria for naming dogs than there are for naming people.
Our son's room is almost ready. From the previous tenant-his sister, who's two years old-he has inherited a changing pad, a pile of herniated books, and an armchair and ottoman, the color of whose upholstery, now flecked with who knows what, might politely be called gray heather. I wanted him to have something pristine, all his own, so I ordered a personalized baby pillow. With fifteen days to go until my due date, it's turning into the "DEWEY DEFEATS TRUMAN" of soft furnishings.
We were going to call him Pierre. Then we were going to call him Louis, but Louis turned out to be the tenth most popular boys' name in France, and the seventh most popular in Paris, where we live, and, even in this age of nominative nonconformity, we worried that he might enter school and find it crawling with more Louises than a chart of Bourbon monarchs. He'd have to become the Stammerer, or the Pious, or the Universal Spider (that was Louis XI, 1423-83, who apparently wove a lot of plots and conspiracies). Then we were going to call him Pierre again, until we realized that his initials would spell out a French-language homophobic slur. For a while, we didn't care. (It was during this period that I bought the pillow.) Then an acquaintance with the same monogram deemed our choice "a bit risky," and we decided that maybe we did. (It was during this period that the pillow was delivered.) We were beginning to resemble Mr. and Mrs. Johnson, the expecting couple in an old "Saturday Night Live" skit. They're sitting on the couch, trying to come up with a baby name. The wife makes a series of benign suggestions. The husband, played by Nicolas Cage, shoots them down on increasingly far-fetched grounds.
Wife: O.K., I'll just keep trying. What about Fred?
Husband (sighing): Please . . . Fred, Frank . . . please, the "F"s are no good. If he's fat, it's just a disaster.
Wife: O.K., all right. Um, Sam?
Husband: Great. Sam. "Uncle Sam." "I want you . . . to be ostracized!"
The doorbell rings. It's a deliveryman, with a telegram for Asswipe and Emily Johnson. "That's Oss-wee-pay," Cage says.
A name can rack a person from the hospital bracelet to the gravestone. Or it can boost his confidence, help him make a positive first impression, and, supposedly, give him better chances of everything from excelling in school and ascending the corporate ladder to not going to prison. (I checked, but neither author of a study claiming that professional baseball players whose names begin with "K" have a higher rate of strikeouts bears the initials "B.S.") Carl Jung wrote of "the sometimes quite grotesque coincidence between a man's name and his peculiarities." Is it any wonder that States Rights Gist, the son of a nullificationist South Carolina governor, attended Harvard Law School but died at the Battle of Franklin, in 1864, leading his brigade in a charge against federal troops? In Austin, Texas, there is actually a urologist, specializing in vasectomies, named Dr. Richard Chopp.
"Nomen omen," the Romans said: the name is a sign. You don't have much choice in last name-and, if it's more than twelve letters long, your kid, no matter what his achievements in mineralogy or hydraulics, will never join the ranks of famous scientists immortalized on the side of the Eiffel Tower-but scrawling a first name upon a clean slate of a human being is a momentous responsibility. The problem is, there's no consensual semiotics. Naming a baby is like trying to buy a house with no asking price and then trying to predict what that house will be like in thirty years, even if it moves to a different city or comes out as a transgender woman. (In 2016, the four girls' names whose popularity dropped the most drastically were Caitlin, Caitlyn, Katelynn, and Kaitlynn.) Recently, I was surprised to learn that my surname, Collins, has become a more common first name for girls (No. 647) than Claudia, the name we gave our daughter (No. 761). "Until recently, no 's' surname had ever come close to the girls' top 1000," the Web site Baby Name Wizard notes. "Collins has changed that, leaping from obscurity thanks to Collins Tuohy, the adoptive sister of football player Michael Oher, seen in the film 'The Blind Side.' Tuohy was given a family surname in classic Southern fashion, and parents who saw the movie liked the style." Luckily, my parents chose to use my mother's maiden name as my middle name, rather than calling me Zurn.
In Switzerland, one baby-naming consultancy promises to "create a new and independent name for your child," for around the cost of a car. Unfortunately, the company's name is Erfolgswelle. According to the Times, grandparents in the U.S. are increasingly offering things like family businesses and ten thousand dollars in exchange for the naming rights to their grandchildren. However, anyone who has followed the fate of a polar-research ship that the British government asked the public to name, via an Internet poll, will be sensitive to the perils of crowdsourcing. The public, by a margin of three to one, chose R.R.S. Boaty McBoatface. The British government took one look and thought, He's really more of an R.R.S. David Attenborough. Unless you want to somehow reconcile the proclivities of every aunt who doesn't like diminutives and every neighbor who knew a mean James, you end up drafting in solitude, even secrecy, one of the most public-facing statements you'll ever make.
Unlike a friend of mine, whose parents, dabbling in Eastern religion in the seventies, each independently decided that they wanted to name a future daughter Lila-pronounced "Lee-lah"-and who, when it came time to name her own children, got Philo from the street her husband grew up on (it's also the name of the inventor of television, the field in which they both work) and Winslow from, of all things, a birthing video (his namesake was a bow-tied septuagenarian obstetrician), I come from a family that is not strong on compelling nomenclature. My parents are John and Sue. My mother's eight siblings-Marianne, Wendy, Nancy, John, Philip, Betsy, Jane, and Bob-sound like characters from a series for early readers. My husband's French family had already laid claim to a problematic portion of the indigenous male names that did not sound like medieval troubadours and worked well in English. Did I mention that my brother and his wife were expecting a baby boy the same week? They had dibs on Henry. The pillow sat there like an unread diary. Your name is what you are. Your child's name is what you want to be.
In the U.S., as the law professor Carlton F. W. Larson has written, the selection of a child's name falls within "a legal universe that has scarcely been mapped, full of strange lacunae, spotty statutory provisions, and patchy, inconsistent case law." Generally, you can't use a pictograph, an ideogram, a number, an obscenity, or a name that is excessively long, but the regulations vary wildly from state to state and are often the domain of randomly applied "desk-clerk law." It's unclear whether you can call your son Warren Edward Buffett, Jr., when you have not actually procreated with Warren Edward Buffett. There are stricter and clearer criteria for naming dogs and horses than there are for naming people. (The American Kennel Club prohibits, among other things, the words "champ," "champion," "sieger," "male," "stud," "sire," "bitch," "dam," and "female," while the Jockey Club recently went to court to block the registration of a filly named Sally Hemings, which has since been rebaptized Awaiting Justice.) Some of the rules have more to do with keyboards than with child protection. In California, amazingly, you can be Adolf Hitler Smith, but not José Smith, because of a ban on diacritics.
The exuberance of American names has been one of the country's hallmarks since its founding. In sixteenth-century England, the Puritans started using their children's birth certificates as miniature sermons. They produced some doozies: Humiliation Hynde, Kill-sin Pimple, Praise-God Barebone (whose son, If-Christ-had-not-died-for-thee-thou-hadst-been-damned Barebone, eventually went by Nicholas Barbon). Charles II largely stamped out the trend during the Reformation, but the Puritans continued the practice in the New World. The Claps-a Roger and Johanna who immigrated to Dorchester in 1630-produced a virtue-themed progeny that included Experience, Waitstill, Preserved, Hopestill, Wait, Thanks, Desire, Unite, and Supply, making them perhaps the Kardashians of Colonial Massachusetts.
"These names excite the derision of the English; an American comic character, in an English play or novel, always bears one of them," H. L. Mencken wrote, in 1919, in "The American Language," before remarking upon the habits, in this country, of using last names as first names, particularly "in families of any consideration"; "of making given names of any proper nouns that happen to strike the fancy"; and of coining new names by blending existing ones. Mencken ignores African-Americans, who under slavery were deprived of their identities and the right to determine their children's, except to claim that they, "like the white immigrants, have a great liking for fancy given names." (Interestingly, many of the names he cites-Evelyn, Olivia, Isabelle, Violet-are ones you might hear on the playground in any recently gentrified neighborhood today.) "I don't feel like no JoAnne, or no Negro, or no amerikan," the Black Liberation Army member Assata Shakur, born JoAnne Deborah Byron, wrote in her autobiography, of shedding her "slave name." We are the land of Cotton Mathers and Ima Hoggs, Newt Gingriches and D'Brickashaw Fergusons. More than six hundred Americans answer to Ikea. There are babies named Moo, Charger, Paizlee, Blip, and Cheese.
The downside of our freedom is that many of us are paralyzed by the tyranny of choice. In naming, as in other matters, anxiety runs particularly high among upper-middle-class parents, who, likely overestimating their own importance, seek to endow their children with supernames-the social equivalent of the superfoods that fill their lunchboxes-to power them through life. Naming is an "enormously outsized marker of 'look how thoughtful we were,' with a side of 'we have been known to read books,' " Duana Taha, the author of "The Name Therapist," said recently. To some people, names are as important an indicator of compatibility as taste in music or opinions about politics. A friend recently told me about a colleague, a screenwriter in his late twenties. Single and childless, he has already decided that any future daughter of his must bear a certain name. Not a fan of Abra? Swipe left.
The advent of search engines has made the process all the more fraught. Whereas a child might once have grown up never knowing that he shared a name with, say, a porn star, now he's bound to find out. Could you in good conscience name your child Thelma or Martha after reading, on a blog, that the once common "th" sound "is not currently deemed stylish"? What do you do with the knowledge that roughly a third of American boys' names end with "n," or that newly invented names like Brayden and Nevaeh tend to be big in red states, while blue states are bastions of traditional favorites such as Joseph and Sophia? (The made-up names of yore include Jessica and Miranda, coined by Shakespeare, and Vanessa, from Jonathan Swift.) The ultimate in-group signifiers, names are the sites of the sort of snobbery and even bigotry that comes through in the fascination with "stripper names" and urban legends about twins named Oranjello and Lemonjello, after the hospital food. The Web site Nameberry ("Baby names, only smarter") provides a list of names inspired by the Rockefeller family. I have a friend from high school named Eric Harvard Chen. Proving that even the most conscientious parent can't control for the vagaries of adolescent cruelty, someone started calling him Erection.
I've been a names obsessive since childhood, when I'd pass afternoons addressing letters to grand-sounding personages of my own concoction. I comb obituaries and police blotters and alumni magazines for treasures, finding as much delight in a Rupert Louis Ferdinand Frederick Constantine Lofredo Leopold Herbert Maximilian Hubert John Henry zu Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg, Count of Löwenstein-Scharffeneck (the Rolling Stones' longtime manager), as in a Trudie Love Pickle Hathcock (a Mississippi resident with nine children: Vernie, Verla, Velma, Napolean, Alvis, Xenia, Eddie, Dorothy, and Edison). Names are a window into human psychology. You wonder what made Mrs. Hathcock give her first three children "Ve-" names and then switch to Napolean, what she felt Edison brought to the table that Eddie didn't.
In my own family, I longed for stories of who named whom what and why, but when I asked my parents how they had settled on Lauren, they could never come up with much more than "We just kind of liked it." In contrast to the nearly two thousand members of the Jim Smith Society, who gather every July to celebrate their common moniker ("Our only requirement is that your name be Jim Smith"), I've never been very fond of my name. It has always seemed too easily placed in the suburbs of the nineteen-eighties, a decade during which American parents were churning out almost fifteen thousand Laurens a year. The fact that I grew up in North Carolina, surrounded by Spruills, Garrisons, Faisons, Ramseys, and MacRaes-Mencken's last-name-as-first-name trend endures in the South-exacerbated my sense that my parents hadn't tried hard enough, that my name was neither particularly distinguished nor meaningful. People who would never have been named Lauren, because they're not thirty-seven, would probably say that it's a little basic.
The most famous Lauren Collins is Lauren Collins the Canadian actress, whom I've gotten to know on Twitter, simply because of the novelty of seeing our shared name pop up on each other's feed. "It's not that I dislike our name," she wrote to me in an e-mail. "I think it's strong and goes well together, but it's just . . . forgettable." She continued, "I spent a large chunk of my formative years being referred to by another name altogether, Paige Michalchuk, the character I played on TV. Paige evokes a daringness that I never felt as Lauren. Paige Michalchuk is one of a kind. Lauren Collins blends into a crowd." Such is the name shame of a Lauren Collins that I've almost enjoyed moving to France and being mistaken, quite frequently, for a Monsieur Laurent Colline.
As part of a bicultural family, my husband, Olivier, and I had to consider every name from two often irreconcilable angles. Was Louis too Sun King, or was it too Lou (DiMaggio) Gallina, the guy who killed several people with a baseball bat in "The Sopranos"? While pondering that question, we hit upon Jean, which had the appeal of being simple, classic but not overused, and nicely resonant with the names of both of our fathers, John and Jacques. "I think we've finally got it," I texted Olivier. "Jean!" I wrote, only to find that my English-language autocorrect had replaced the letters with a tiny pair of denim pants.
Jean, then, was out. We'd agreed on our daughter's name, Claudia, over the course of a spaghetti dinner, before she'd even been conceived, so I couldn't believe that we were still stuck. "The Internet says he's the size of a Swiss chard!" I warned. "I could go into labor any second." I'd always looked down on those parents who made a split-second decision in the delivery room or, worse, took several days trying names on their newborn, like outfits bought on approval. They'd had one job-for nine months!-and failed to complete it. It was bothering me, on a spiritual level, that this clearly sentient little thing, kicking and undulating, remained anonymous. I started to think of my growing stomach as the Womb of the Unknown Soldier.
France has a more rigid naming culture than America. This, like many things, goes back to the French Revolution, when the National Convention, in an effort to upend the mores of the ancien régime, passed a law that made it easy for people both to give their children whatever names they wanted and to change their own-giving rise, for a brief period, to citizens like Mort aux Aristocrates (Death to Aristocrats) and Droit de l'Homme Tricolore (Tricolor Right of Man). In 1803, Napoleon revoked the law, decreeing that French babies could only be named after Catholic saints. Tweaked in 1813 to permit "names of persons from ancient history," the law remained in force until 1966, when a Breton man who'd named six of his twelve kids-Adraborann, Brann, Diwezha, Gwendal, Maiwenn, and Sklerijenn-after Celtic heroes sued to have them recognized by the state. In its ruling, the Ministry of Justice instructed registrars to accept an expanded range of names, including those derived from mythological figures (Hercule, Diana), those popular in foreign languages ("like Ivan, Manfred, or James"), and certain abbreviations (Ginette for Geneviève), while continuing to exclude names derived from "things, animals, or qualities" and "names referring to political events." A Muslim living in France could, at last, name his child Mohamed, but the government urged officials to "tactfully suggest" that he be given a second name that corresponded to their definition of French.
It wasn't until 1993, when a Minister of Justice took up the cause of a woman who wanted to name her daughter Méloé, that French parents gained a greater degree of autonomy. Today, a registrar is required to accept any name, except one he deems not in a child's best interest, in which case he will refer the matter to a judge. In recent years, French courts have rejected such names as Nutella, Prince-William, and, for a pair of twins, Joyeux (Happy) and Patriste (a phonetic take on Not Sad). "The names of 'Joyeux' and 'Patriste' are of a nature, because of their fanciful, even ridiculous, character, to create difficulties and embarrassment for the child," the opinion read. "It is therefore necessary to confirm the judgment taken with regard to the suppression of these two names, which must be replaced by the first names of 'Roger' and 'Raymond.' "
We wanted something squarely French, but not, as John F. Kennedy once warned Jackie in advance of a state dinner, "too Frenchy." Our main criterion, which was also our main problem, was that all our parents needed to be able to pronounce it. This eliminated a frustratingly huge number of options, including our coup de coeur, Valentin, which my people were sure to shorten to Val and associate with cheap chocolates. I loved the name-the way it connoted heart and valor, even the physical shape of it-but I wasn't entirely sure that I could pull off yelling it down a city block. Explaining to Olivier why Camille wasn't an ideal option for a Franco-American boy, I thought of a recent episode of "Black-ish," in which Dre, the main character, explodes at Rainbow, his biracial wife, who doesn't share his affection for the name DeVante: "Rainbow is the name that white people give cocker spaniels!" (Rainbow, incidentally, is the name that Eric Chen's parents gave his sister.)
I knew the Hundred-Year Rule, which holds that it takes a century for a forgotten baby name to make a comeback, but I was struggling to grasp the hidden codes of a culture that was still new to me. Olivier, whose interests tend more toward aviation than amateur sociology, hadn't given much thought to whether Calixte sounded precious or Côme was too stuck-up. Out of my zone, I haunted francophone baby-name boards; scoured Le Figaro's social page, Le Carnet du Jour; studied the birth announcements in the window of the local stationery shop. Librairies became purveyors of names, not books. (The British Museum, a few years ago, tried pitching itself as a name trove. "Get your baby something special from the British Museum. A Name," one advertisement read, boasting of a selection from Abydos to Zenobia.)
Even when I liked a name, I could never tell whether I was projecting onto it the same associations that our son's peers and neighbors were bound to. It wasn't until a recent story in the magazine Marianne-"BRIGITTE," the cover read, "the crazy history of a first name that tells the story of France"-that I had any clue that the French public's affection for Brigitte Macron might have to do with her name, which is apparently both charming and a little cheesy, "evoking irresistibly a prosperous France, sure of herself, optimistic: les trentes Glorieuses, sexual liberation included." How was I to know that Kevin-a perfectly respectable name, as far as I was concerned-was a national punch line, until I read a notice in Le Gorafi, the French version of the Onion, announcing the death of "the first Kevin," at thirty-two years of age? Jim, an American I know, abdicated naming privileges to his French wife, Elisabeth, on one condition: that, with the chosen name, their son could play shortstop for the Baltimore Orioles. Jim's father, a lifelong Orioles fan, was to arbitrate.
"Jean-Baptiste?" Elisabeth suggested.
"Hairdresser," Jim's father replied. "Jean-Baptiste is a hairdresser."
"Christian, then."
"You cannot call him Christian. He is Catholic. We are Catholic. People will think he is a Christian Scientist or a Fundamentalist. If you want to go down that path, just call him Jesus."
The boy was eventually christened Theodore. His French passport has an acute accent, but his American one doesn't.
For us, the clock was ticking. We solicited another friend's advice on Pierre, and the feedback was not good: "Better to avoid." "WE HAVE TO PICK SOMETHING NOW," I texted Olivier, after another fruitless afternoon perusing "Un Bébé, un Prénom," a book we'd acquired out of desperation. It did little to spackle the holes in my cultural knowledge, listing as a celebrity Achille "the clown Achille Zavatta."
Olivier, who tends to take a rational approach to problem-solving, came home that night with a spreadsheet. He had input the top two hundred and fifty Parisian boys' names for 2016, the number of births corresponding to each, and his comments on the entries. Sacha: "Too Russian?" Neil: "Ask Lauren." Leonardo: "Too DiCaprio." Ferdinand: "1st World War." Aurèle: "J'aime bien." Charlie: "Charlie Hebdo." Sure enough, next to Kevin he'd written, "Silly."
We went through the list together, filling in the missing cells.
"Timothée," I read out.
"Timothée douche," Olivier said.
"What's Timothée douche?"
"A bath gel."
No. 90 was Lenny, one of a number of English names that have recently gained traction with French parents.
"You put 'Why not?' next to Lenny?" I said. "Have you ever heard of a book called 'Of Mice and Men'?"
Something that our acquaintance with the difficult initials had said kept coming back to me as we went through the list. "I would say that it's essentially a matter of self-confidence," he'd concluded, suggesting that any name we chose could go in any direction, depending on how our son embodied it. He was right. We had no idea if the particular individual we were bringing into the world would be sensitive to sticks and stones or schoolyard taunts, if his name could ever hurt or help him. This was especially true when he'd be part one thing and part another, either half inoculated or doubly vulnerable. Your child's name is what you want to be, but what he is is really up to him.
On the two-hundred-and-fifty-first day of my pregnancy, we decided on Louis. Lew-ie. Lou-wee. I never would have guessed that it would be my son's name, but suddenly I could see myself cooing it into his neck, writing it in his clothes, declining it into a thousand endearments. I put the pillow inside the ottoman, thinking that I might show it to him one day. If he asked me how he got his name, at least he'd have a story. "We just kind of liked it," I'd say.  

Load-Date: August 9, 2017


End of Document
