




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
November 21, 2019 Thursday


Copyright 2019 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 539 words
Body


The development of a safe and effective male contraceptive pill remains a challenge for scientists working in this field for years, although its the need of the hour. While theres ongoing research into a male contraceptive pill, there isnt one available yet. However, researchers at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are getting closer to launching the worlds first injectable male contraceptive.
According to a study published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, the ICMR has developed a male injectable contraceptive called Reversible Inhibition of Sperm Under Guidance (RISUG), which has been synthesised and found to be effective, safe and reversible in various animal species. As per ICMR, RISUG is an intravasal, non-hormonal once injectable male contraceptive found to be safe, effective and acceptable by the males of all religions.
Reportedly, the male contraceptive has been sent to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for approval after successfully passing the clinical trials. The product is ready, with only regulatory approvals pending with the Drugs Controller. The trials are over, including extended, phase-3 clinical trials for which 303 candidates were recruited with 97.3% success rate and no reported side-effects. The product can safely be called the worlds first male contraceptive, said Dr RS Sharma, a senior scientist with ICMR, was quoted as saying by a newspaper.
Male contraceptive RISUG found to be safe, effective
To test the efficacy and safety of RISUG in humans, the researchers recruited 139 young males, who have at least two children and are living with their wives. These volunteers had no history of any disease having associations with secondary infertility, diabetes and recurrent epididymitis.
They were given 120 l of RISUG as bilateral vas intraluminal injection. After the single-dose administration, they were followed for six months, evaluating their general health and semen parameters. The researchers also followed their wives to determine the onset of pregnancy. During the follow-up, no significant adverse effects were observed on the health of male volunteers and their wives. The researchers observed that RISUG intravasal injection appears to be a safe clinical procedure with no significant adverse effects. The male contraceptive has high sustained contraceptive efficacy.
Further, the study noted that the significant features of the RISUG technology were the localised intervention and continued contraceptive action on single-dose administration.
Access to a wide range of safe and effective methods of contraception is a key element of reproductive health. But the contraceptive methods available to men are limited, with vasectomy/non-scalpel vasectomy (NSV) and condom being the only contraceptive options at the moment. A dual protection approach to contraception can help prevent pregnancy and transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
It is believed that the development of an effective male contraceptive injection could have a potential impact on averting unwanted pregnancies as well as protecting sexual and reproductive health, especially in a country like India, where the use of male contraceptives is very low. 2019 Global Data Point.

Load-Date: November 21, 2019


End of Document
