




The Daily Vidette: Illinois State University
October 7, 2014 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2014 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: VIEWPOINT; Pg. 1
Length: 422 words
Byline: Matt Johnson Vidette Editorial Board Matt Johnson Roshaunda Coleman Roshaunda Coleman
Body


Matt Johnson / Columnist
In today's culture, the word feminism from a male's perspective has become skewed with a concept which most closely resembles "man hating."
This could not be further from the truth.
Feminism, at its core is the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities. It is trying to eliminate the oppression of the patriarchal structure and obtain social equity.
The politics of patriarchy have suppressed women's voices over the years and patriarchal power has dominated social discourse.
Consciously, men may never see the issue because subconsciously they have been flooded with images which reinforce the norms of a male-prevailing culture.
A common characteristic of privilege and power is for the dominant group to never look introspectively. To remain invisible in a discourse which is primarily about them, according to Jackson Katz, creator of the gender violence prevention and education program, Mentors in Violence Prevention.
For example, many people don't identify heterosexuality as a sexual orientation.
The examples are prevalent and rampant today. Erectile dysfunction, vasectomies, vacuum erection devices and even penile implants are still covered in health insurance programs.
On the other hand, when rumors swirled about birth control being covered by health insurance, everyone threw up a red flag. In cases of sexual assault, the media still blames the victim.
In the famous words of former Rep. Todd Akin, "If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down."
Women in ads and commercials are objectified as matters for consumption. If those roles were reversed to males, I think men would see how bizarre these situations are.
It is crucial men take a part in the feminist agency.
Can I personally relate to the struggle of women over the years and currently? No, I cannot, but I can understand my role as a male in the uneven power structure of today.
As an avenue to help end the oppression and bring about gender equality, men can contribute by recognizing imbalances in relationships between men and women. They can challenge themselves and others to end patriarchy.
A male who believes in the feminist movement is not less of a man. Simply, you see the inherent problem our society has with gender equality. Men still make more than women in the workplace and women are clearly underrepresented in politics.
I am a male and I identify with feminism. It is about gender equality, plain and simple; not the idea that women are better than men.

Load-Date: October 7, 2014


End of Document
