




The Pantagraph (Bloomington, IL)
January 2, 2002, Wednesday


Copyright 2002 The Pantagraph
Section: SPORTS; Pg. B1
Length: 637 words
Byline: RANDY KINDRED
Body


NEW ORLEANS - They call it The Big Easy, presumably because of the culture, the ambiance, the lifestyle.
The locals don't seem to know for sure. Take Joe, a congenial, white-haired man in the lobby of the Hyatt Regency New Orleans.
Joe is a native son, a Louisiana resident of more than 60 years. A New Orleans Saints season ticket holder, his front door is 12 miles from his seat in the Louisiana Superdome.
"So why do they call it The Big Easy?" he was asked.
"Well ...," Joe replied. "I'm really not sure. I expect someone around here would know. Or if they don't know, they'll make something up for you."
Fair enough.
Seemingly, The Big Easy is loosely defined, a term of endearment with few boundaries, something a little different to everyone who visits.
Indeed, it is big, at least for someone who grew up in a town of 1,800. And yes, it is easy … easy to forget why you came.
Coach Ron Turner brought his University of Illinois football team here on Christmas Eve, perhaps setting a Sugar Bowl record for earliest arrival.
His intent?
To allow the Illini to experience New Orleans - from Bourbon Street to a nearby swamp - and still have time to focus on preparing for Tuesday night's game against LSU. In short, to minimize the distractions.
A solid game plan. But forget the players. What about the sportswriters?
We are, by nature, creatures of the night and easily distracted. Thus, while we were drawn here by football - that was it, wasn't it? - there has been far more than flanker screens and safety blitzes.
All due respect to New York, this is the city that never sleeps.
Or sweeps.
Dirt and grime are industries unto themselves. Perhaps one day, garbage collection will be as well.
Yet, it is all part of the experience, just as painted faces, gold leather pants and truckloads of Bud Light are for Saints' home games.
They played one Sunday night, and the home team's performance in a 40-10 loss to Washington was dreadful.
Yet, it was twice as bad for the locals who jammed the Superdome. They were seeing two of everything, which means most weaved home believing Saints' quarterback Aaron Brooks had been intercepted eight times, not four.
Some may have passed and/or sideswiped a billboard on the outskirts of town boldly displaying a phone number for the following:
MICROSURGERY: VASECTOMY REVERSAL
Talk about your game-day adjustment.
Some things, mind you, do NOT have to be part of the experience.
However, an apparent must is to secure and sport some form of leather … a hat, a pair of pants or, most commonly, a jacket.
Arthur Fonzarelli would feel at home here. Everyone wears leather, from the shuttle bus driver to the bartender (rumor has it) to the teenager in boots and a cowboy hat.
What's next? Leather underwear?
Hmmm.
Regardless, leather is a staple in this land of bourbon and blues, hurricanes and hangovers.
A voice on the radio Sunday revealed another tradition, that of eating cabbage and black-eyed peas on New Year's Day.
Cabbage is said to represent money, black-eyed peas to bring good luck.
Some advice?
Eat all the cabbage you can get your hands on. Money disappears quickly here.
Among the items for sale: an Osama bin Laden voodoo doll. The kids will love it.
In truth, there is a lot to love about this place. The people are friendly and hospitable, even to the intruders in orange and blue.
With LSU's campus in nearby Baton Rouge, Illinois fans were a smattering of Hatfields among a throng of McCoys. Still, Illini merchandise received equal billing in souvenir shops, and any number of Bourbon Street establishments professed to be "the official Illinois headquarters."
All in all, it's a great place to be, with or without football.
Oh, yeah … football.
Randy Kindred is a Pantagraph columnist. He can be reached by voice mail at (309) 829-9411, extension 402, or by email at .  

Load-Date: January 9, 2002


End of Document
