




College Heights Herald: Western Kentucky University
December 10, 2020 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 329 words
Body


Jeannie Mai almost died before undergoing emergency throat surgery.
The 41-year-old TV star was competing on 'Dancing with the Stars' but was forced to quit the show after being diagnosed with epiglottitis, which can cause swelling and block airflow to the lungs.
During a new episode of 'Hello, Hunnay', seen by 'Entertainment Tonight', she says: "Some of you may have heard that I recently got really sick. I saw a doctor who correctly diagnosed me and saved me from possibly losing my ability to breathe.
"I'm going to be honest with you. Even when I was diagnosed, I did not take it seriously. I was not focused on saving my life, I was focused on competing in 'Dancing With the Stars'."
Jeannie was determined to win the competition, and was initially keen to downplay the seriousness of her health issues.
She said: "I'm gonna keep it trill, we really thought we could take that mirrorball.
More from this section
Natalie afraid of her own sexuality
Harry Styles approached to play Boy George in biopic
Ronan Keating thinks 'it's time' for vasectomy
"I got sick, but it was just, what I thought, a sore throat. That morning that I felt my sore throat I went to go rehearse with Brandon [Armstrong] at seven in the morning and I was very tired but I had a long day of shooting after that.
"I went from Brandon's rehearsal then to a long shoot that was freezing cold where the illness I had quickly caught on and got worse because I was sitting under an air conditioning vent that just got me freezing cold and made me plummet into actually getting sick."
Jeannie was initially misdiagnosed with a simple sore throat.
But upon returning to training, it was apparent that the situation was much more serious.
She recalled: "The next day, of course I stayed consistent and rescheduled the rehearsal with Brandon.
"I was almost dying in that room, but I didn't know it [at the time] because I was pushing through and hyped up on steroids."
This article originally ran on celebretainment.com.

Load-Date: December 11, 2020


End of Document
