




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
May 31, 2019 Friday


Copyright 2019 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 708 words
Body


(PRWeb) - Join board certified reproductive urologist, Cori Tanrikut, M.D., host of Shady Grove Fertilitys (SGF) Male Fertility webinar on June 27, 2019. This event is intended for anyone who might suspect male factor infertility is impacting their ability to conceive or for those interested in learning more about male fertility.
With male factor infertility accounting for nearly 40 to 50 percent of all infertility cases, SGFs Center for Male Fertility, led by Paul R. Shin, M.D., and Dr. Tanrikut, offers a range of male services including basic evaluation and testing to state-of-the-art microsurgical techniques including varicocele repair, vasectomy reversal, and vasectomy, as well as sperm injection and extraction techniques that have nearly eliminated infertility among couples with a severe male factor.
What many couples dont realize is that infertility affects men as often as women and yet our research tells us that only 44 percent of couples complete fertility testing at the same time. Without testing the male partner up front, some patients waste precious time, money, and effort by beginning fertility treatment without having all of the vital information. To save time and money and potentially heartache, we always recommend female and male testing be completed simultaneously before any treatment begins. A simple, private semen analysis can help uncover if theres an issue with the sperm that we need to consider, added Shin.
During the live virtual event, viewers will learn about male and female reproduction and the role they both play in the ability to conceive, the simple tests used to evaluate male fertility, common causes of male factor infertility, lifestyle changes that can improve a mans fertility, effective treatment options, and treatment success rates. Viewers will also learn about SGFs Center for Male Fertility and how SGF reproductive urologists provide a collaborative approach to care by working closely with SGF reproductive endocrinologists to optimize treatment outcomes. This unique integrated care model provides comprehensive male and female infertility services to ensure continuity of care and communication for both partners before, during, and after treatment.
Another advantage to the Center for Male Fertility at SGF is that patients outside of the practice may be referred directly to Dr. Shin or Dr. Tanrikut for diagnostic testing, evaluation, and/or treatment for male infertility or SGFs unique no needle, no-scalpel vasectomy services.
Its important for men who are trying to conceive to take inventory of how long theyve been having unprotected intercourse with their partner if she hasnt become pregnant. If its been 1 year and shes under 35, or 6 months and shes 35-39, or 3 months if shes 40 or older, its time to see a fertility specialist. Also, I remind my patients, if there are any existing conditions that could be affecting their ability to conceive, such as low testosterone, erectile dysfunction (ED), or problems ejaculating, its time to see a specialist, advises Tanrikut.
After the presentation, Dr. Tanrikut will host a live, anonymous question and answer session. Register today to participate in this informative, free webinar on Thursday, June 27 at 12:00 p.m.
While all SGF in-person and online events are complimentary, interested parties must register to attend by visiting the Shady Grove Fertility calendar of events.
To view SGFs library of free, on-demand webinars, E-books, and other education resources on topics such as mens health and much more, visit  /resources/educational-resources.
To schedule a consultation with an SGF physician or for more information, call 888-761-1967.
About Shady Grove Fertility (SGF) SGF is a leading fertility and IVF center of excellence with more than 50,000 babies born and counting. With 34 locations throughout MD, PA, VA, D.C., GA, and FL and one location in Santiago, Chile, we offer patients individualized care, accept most insurance plans, and make treatment affordable through innovative financial options, including treatment guarantees. More physicians refer their patients to SGF than any other center. Call 1-888-761-1967 or visit ShadyGroveFertility.com. 2019 Global Data Point.

Load-Date: May 31, 2019


End of Document
