




 Business Insurance
March 10, 2003


Copyright 2003 Gale Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved
Business and Industry
Section: Pg. 1; Vol. 37; No. 10; ISSN: 0007-6864
Length: 1068 words
Highlight: brief items
Body


PBGC to take over WHX pension plan
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. said it would terminate a plan sponsored by New York-based WHX Corp. The plan covers employees and retirees of two subsidiaries-bankrupt steel manufacturer Wheeling Pittsburgh Steel Corp. of Wheeling, W.Va., and Handy & Harman, a diversified industrial manufacturer. The plan, which has about 9,400 participants, has about $443 million in liabilities and $300 million in assets. The PBGC estimates that it will be liable for about $65 million of the $143 million in total underfunding.
Workers comp trends hit Costco bottom line
Trends in workers compensation costs-especially in California-contributed to a $26 million pretax charge in Costco Wholesale Corp.'s second-quarter results. Costco said the charge reflects an increase in workers comp loss reserves stemming from adverse development of prior years' loss costs and other developments, particularly rising costs and legislative changes in California, where one-third of its U.S. employees work.
Judge rejects challenge to Blues' conversion
A New York state judge has turned down attempts by a consumer group to challenge the conversion of the former Empire Blue Cross & Blue Shield into a for-profit insurer. The Consumers Union objected to the conversion last year and obtained an order freezing the $417 million that the health insurer raised in its November initial public offering under its new name, WellChoice. Among other things, the group disputed how the proceeds of the IPO would be used. The judge extended the freeze on the IPO proceeds, however, and gave the Consumers Union 30 days to file an amended complaint.
N.H. puts The Home into rehabilitation
The New Hampshire Insurance Department has placed The Home Insurance Co. into rehabilitation. New Hampshire-domiciled The Home, which is in runoff, had been operating under regulatory supervision since 1995, when it breached risk-based capital requirements. The latest move was prompted by concerns about the need to take greater control of the insurer amid growing concerns about commercial insurers' asbestos liabilities, said Nick Williams, a partner at White & Case L.L.P. and counsel to the New Hampshire Insurance Department.
Air Algerie coverage led in London
Air Algerie has $1 billion of commercial aviation liability insurance to cover losses arising from the March 6 crash of a passenger jet-the airline's first crash involving paying passengers in more than 23 years, according to sources. All but one of the 97 passengers and six crew aboard the Boeing 737 were killed when the jet crashed while taking off from an airport in Tamanrasset, Algeria. The flight was bound for the country's capital, Algiers, via Ghardaia. Al Algerie's hull and liability coverage was led by Lloyd's of London syndicate 2488, managed by ACE Global Markets, according to sources.
Female rail workers seek contraceptive cover
Three female Union Pacific Railroad Corp. workers filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in Oregon alleging the railroad is in violation of Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964 because its health plan won't cover a prescription birth control drug used only by women. The suit seeks class-action status. A Union Pacific spokeswoman said that the railroad's benefit plan is not discriminatory. ''We don't pay for vasectomies or condoms for males,'' she said.
W.R. Berkley forming U.K. liability insurer
W.R. Berkley Corp. is forming an insurer in London to write specialty casualty business in the United Kingdom. The company, which will concentrate primarily on professional indemnity risks, including errors and omissions coverage for architects and engineers as well as lawyers, is expected to begin operating in the third quarter, subject to regulatory approval. Stuart Wright, former director of professional liabilities at ACE Global Markets, will be chief executive officer of the new insurer.
Oxford to self-fund most of settlement
Oxford Health Plans Inc. will self-fund most of a $225 million settlement of securities litigation. The class-action suits, which stem from a 1997 drop in the managed care company's stock price after earnings restatements, were scheduled to go to trial on March 10. Oxford will take a charge of $40 million to $45 million in the first quarter of 2003 because of the settlement. That charge is in addition to a $151.3 million charge it took in the third quarter of 2002 to fund its original settlement offer.
St. Paul closing some surety offices
The St. Paul Cos. Inc. will close 11 surety bond offices around the country as part of an effort to improve efficiency in its surety bond business. Although the action will result in cutting 84 jobs, a St. Paul spokeswoman said many of the affected employees will find jobs elsewhere in the company. St. Paul will close surety offices in Cincinnati Detroit Los Angeles Philadelphia Pittsburgh Edison, N.J. Hartford, Conn. Jericho, N.Y. Richmond, Va. Syracuse, N.Y. and Tampa, Fla.
Briefly noted
Reps. Robert Goodlatte, R-Va., and Rick Boucher, D-Va., have introduced class-action reform legislation. The Class Action Fairness Act would permit many class-action suits involving more than $2 million and parties from more than one state to be moved from state court to federal court, among other changes.... Maryland Insurance Administrator Steven Larsen has rejected as ''not in the public interest'' an application by CareFirst Blue Cross & Blue Shield, the largest health insurer in Maryland, to convert to for-profit status. Following the proposed conversion, CareFirst would have been purchased by WellPoint Health Networks Inc....Washington state Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler has assumed control of Bellvue-based Washington Casualty Co., which provides medical liability coverage for nearly 70 community hospitals and medical clinics in the state. Mr. Kreidler filed a court petition Thursday seeking to place the company into receivership after finding the insurer's liabilities exceed its assets....A.M. Best Co. has downgraded Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. to A from A+. The downgrade reflects deterioration in Liberty Mutual's capitalization and weak operating profits over the past several years, the rating agency said.
CAPTION(S):
An Air Algerie Boeing 737 crashed last week, killing all but one of the 97 people on board.Copyright 2003 Crain Communications Inc.Copyright 2003 Crain Communications Inc.968

Load-Date: January 31, 2005


End of Document
