




The State Press: Arizona State University
March 15, 2012 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2012 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 320 words
Byline: Letters
Body


UN-AMERICAN
(In response to Thania A. Betancourt's March 12 story, "Senate judiciary committee endorses controversial contraceptive bill.")
What a contorted use of the First Amendment and religious freedom.
For Father Muir, Ryan McCarthy and the rest of the Arizona's Judiciary Committee, let me ask this:
Can an employer fire an employee who is disabled? Can an employer fire an employee who is gay? Can an employer fire an employee who is overweight? I would hope the answer is "no."
What if the employer is a Democrat and fires an employee because they learn they are Republican?
Religion should not be a condition of employment unless it is stated upfront and critical for the job. Your employer should not be able to impose their religious beliefs on an employee. They can choose not to provide health insurance to all their employees, or pick an insurance with only limited coverage - again for all employees, but they should not be able to single out an individual employee for their beliefs and certainly their choices in regards to their personal health - just because it is not what they would do.
What's next? Allowing an employer to fire an employee for sleeping with someone before marriage? What about allowing a male to be fired for having a vasectomy unless they can proof its for "medical" reasons versus sexual ones? Well, as long as we don't put any restrictions on lobotomies in Arizona - because I truly believe anyone who actually believes giving the employer the first to impose their religious beliefs on a single employee (unrelated to their job) falls under the protection of the First Amemdment - as opposed to protecting the rights of the individual under the First Amendment - well, basically should get one! Ms. Lesko ... this is as un-American as it gets!
John Bornstein
Statepress.com reader
Follow us on Twitter or like us on Facebook. Click here to subscribe to the daily State Press email newsletter.

Load-Date: January 18, 2018


End of Document
