




The Philadelphia Inquirer
May 11, 2022 Wednesday


Copyright 2022 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. A10
Length: 1459 words
Byline: Diane Soifer
Body


Send letters to . Limit length to 150 words and include home address and day and evening phone number. Letters run in the Inquirer six days a week on the editorial pages. Letters are not published online.
Philadelphia energy hub
If global energy constraints and domestic challenges related to access to affordable energy weren't enough to show America's need for more energy infrastructure, the barriers to providing support for our geopolitical allies send a clear signal that it's time to build.
In Pennsylvania, a combination of well-funded, myopic activists and unnecessary regulatory barriers have hindered the construction of the infrastructure necessary to get natural gas to market. Because energy security hinges on the ability to connect the supply to demand, Americans and our global partners are missing out on the economic and environmental benefits associated with Pennsylvania-produced natural gas.
I'm excited to see lawmakers on both sides of the political aisle support a path to making Philadelphia an energy export hub. Facilitating discussions among industry, labor, business, and political leaders is a critical step to ensuring Pennsylvania capitalizes upon its energy-rich resources. The time is now to build.
Jim Snell, business manager,
Steamfitters Local 420, Philadelphia
Drexel acquisition of Philadelphia History Museum collection
The authorization to transfer the ownership of the Philadelphia History Museum's collection to Drexel University represents the privatization of public patrimony at its worst. Drexel, where I worked for 30 years, has no facility to house or properly display the more than 100,000 items in the collection. It has no funds in hand to undertake such a responsibility, no plan to execute it, and no staff trained to carry it out. Rather, Drexel itself has long been marked by financial and administrative mismanagement. It was brought to the brink of bankruptcy in the mid-1990s. I cannot think of a less qualified custodian for a nationally significant treasure that represents Philadelphia as does no other, nor any valid reason for the city to so cavalierly shirk its own responsibility to honor and maintain it.
Robert Zaller, Bala Cynwyd, 
A voice of reason
As a pro-choice person, I very much appreciated the op-ed by the Rev. Ryan Whitley (May 10). It is a relief and encouraging to hear a Christian voice who has seen and can understand the critical need for abortion in certain situations. I would hope any rational human would understand that these necessary situations require a very hard and emotional decision by the pregnant person. I applaud the Episcopal Church's opposition to national or state legislation that would deny such a personal decision. However, Iwish he would have further clarified the Episcopal Church's opposition to abortion as a means of family planning or "any reason of mere convenience." Is a requested abortion by an expectant teenager with no spouse and no/little income not allowed because it is a mere family planning decision? I sincerely hope not.
Diane Soifer, Philadelphia
Wild gardening
I read with much gratitude the Associated Press' Julia Rubin's article "More American yards are going wild" (May 8). In light of the number of threatened bee, butterfly, bird, and bat populations in our local area alone, and the estimated 10,000 overall species lost globally each year to extinction, we need to recognize that wild (native) gardening and other eco-friendly lifestyle changes are not a passing fad. They are a grave duty that we owe to future generations.
Joe Pugh, Phoenixville
So few Black teachers
It is a frustrating but not surprising reality that the number of teachers of color continues to decline in Philadelphia ("There are fewer Black teachers in Philly today than 20 years ago, report finds," April 29). I am the principal investigator of the Merrimack College Teacher Survey, a national survey of more than 1,300 teachers that found teachers were deeply disillusioned and dissatisfied. I believe we are facing a once-in-a-generation crisis in our public schools. In 2008, 62% of all teachers were very satisfied with their job. Today, it's 12%. We found that teachers in urban schools have the highest dissatisfaction rates, and Black teachers work longer hours and are significantly more likely to say they plan to leave the profession in the next two years. It is time to face the reality that we must do better if we want to provide an equitable and powerful education for all of our youth.
Dan Sarofian-Butin, North Andover, Mass.
No forced pregnancies
Mitch McConnell says a nationwide ban on abortions is "possible." Pregnancy is a life-threatening, mental/physical health-altering condition that no one should be forced to endure against their will. Forced pregnancies have dire consequences. Women will die during forced pregnancies and illegal abortions. They will be forced into poverty without paid maternity leave and affordable child care. They will be forced out of the workforce. They will be forced to live in poverty with the children they already have. Women will be forced to endure life-threatening pregnancies/childbirth, only to feel forced to surrender their newborn into the foster system and pray they are adopted by a family who won't abuse them.
I propose that the government enable every woman to receive IUDs and every man to receive vasectomies since these are the only reliable forms of birth control.
It is no longer safe for women to have sex with any man, including their husband, unless they both agree that they want to conceive a child today.
Kathleen Strykowsky, Mount Laurel
Antiquated thinking
In the op-ed "Elect a Pa. governor who'll abolish abortion," Michael J. McMonagle tells you all you need to know about the pro-life movement. Because abortion occurs 90% of the time among unmarried women, there is a crisis of sexual promiscuity that must be addressed. And his answer is to deploy young adult chastity educators. Not better access to birth control, no comprehensive sex education in schools, no paid parental leave, no fortifying of the social safety net. Could more misogynistic language be used? Misogyny because women (gasp!) have sex. (And who gets them pregnant?) Shameful and not at all a reflection of actual American society.
Beth Grimm, Malvern
¢
I was appalled by the jejune sophistry of Michael J. McMonagle's May 8 op-ed ("Elect a Pa. governor who'll abolish abortion"). Most egregiously, he equates abortion rights to slavery, "treating one human being as the property of another human being." An enslaved person is not physically dependent on the enslaver, while a fetus (or, more commonly, a blastocyst) is an intrinsic part of the woman carrying it, and she has the right to control it. Ironically, abortion restrictions make a woman's body the "property" of a state entity. By that logic, the state can deny any woman agency - and even force them to bear a rapist's child or die if the state decides to deny abortions to those with hopeless ectopic pregnancies. Despite his self-righteous protestations, Mr. McMonagle's position is really the immoral one.
Brian Daly, Plymouth Meeting
College is a personal growth experience
To look at college only for career reasons and preparation for income-earning is narrow-minded. College is also for mixing with people outside of your box, other religions, other backgrounds, and other philosophies. It is also the only exposure many will have to literature (thought-provoking), art, music, science (abstract concepts and open-mindedness), stimulating professors, and new friends, potentially for a lifetime. College is not a fancy academic trade school. Stop thinking of it in that way.
Rod Meyers, Philadelphia
A solution to what ails the court
Perhaps we should accept that the Supreme Court is political since it is constituted by humans burdened by religious, policy, social, economic, and other baggage in their lives. With that as a departure point, why not codify a court composition of six Democrats and six Republicans as associate justices, with the question of the political orientation of the chief justice not a matter of law but at the discretion of the sitting president? Moreover, have the chief justice vote only to break a deadlock among the associate justices. An evenly split associate justice corps might encourage more compromise and lessen polarization, and minimize the occasion for tie-breaking votes. Even if the associate justices deadlock, the chief justice, being human, may be acutely aware that their legacy (memorialized by their name appended to their court for posterity) depends upon arriving at a decision weighted toward consensus, not acrimony.
Robert M. Haas Jr., Devon, 

Load-Date: May 11, 2022


End of Document
