




Anchorage Daily News (Alaska)
June 15, 2004 Tuesday, FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2004 Anchorage Daily News
Section: ALASKA; Pg. B6; Staff
Length: 1542 words
Body


Putting article above funeral story was an insult to President Reagan
In the past I have endured your left-wing slant to the news; however, on Friday you lowered the bar too far! I will never spend another cent for your paper after your disrespect of President Reagan's funeral by placing a minor article above his story on the front page. Is your paper printed in China or Cuba? Oftentimes, even during war, your paper seems less than favorable to America and our values and ideas.
-- Sean Hitchcock
18-year Army veteran
Wasilla
Explain why abortion is a man's issue, but leave religion out of it
I would like to hear a cogent and persuasive argument from the persons who contest my position that whether abortion is legal or illegal is not a male issue. They must tell me why men should have a say in what a strange woman should do with her body after finding herself abandoned and pregnant. The argument should be based on hard facts and attend to how it would affect their lives if she should decide upon an abortion. The argument also should consist of good reasons for making abortion illegal for her without including any reference to God and/or the Bible, as this would make it into an argument for their own personal supernatural beliefs.
I would never deem to tell a man he could not have a vasectomy nor condemn him for practicing coitus interruptus, yet both of these acts show his unwillingness to create life. No laws have been passed restricting men's nonreproductive rights, but much has been attempted to restrict women. Nearly all attempts have been by men who inject their right to be involved by thumping and quoting their Bibles or holy books.
Let's have an earthbound, intelligent discussion this time.
-- Dick Palmatier
Willow
People 'blinded by the right' still cling to Bush's war justifications
Concerning Bob Andrews' letter ("Mainstream media's anti-Bush agenda keeps Iraq war facts buried," June 13), I found the following info.
The occasion was a press conference with U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair in the White House on Jan. 31, 2003. Here's the key portion:
Adam Boulton, Sky News, London: One question for you both. Do you believe that there is a link between Saddam Hussein, a direct link, and the men who attacked on September the 11th?
The president: I can't make that claim.
The prime minister: That answers your question.
President Clinton stressed repeatedly that terrorism is a threat to be dealt with. Bush, and particularly Rice, put enforcement on the back burner, preferring to spend their energies prosecuting glassblowers on trumped-up drug charges (Tommy Chong) and taking long vacations at the Pretend Ponderosa.
The other seven points have been repeatedly disproved. Only those "blinded by the right" still cling to them as justification of a still wildly illegal and immoral war plan.
David Northrup wonders why certain Saudis were allowed to leave the country without being questioned ("Voters can end unsavory policies of the Bush administration," June 13). Read "House of Bush, House of Saud" by K. Unger or "American Dynasty" by K. Phillips, both of which outline the decades-long relationship between the Bushes and the people who were the actual perpetrators of 9-11.
I am not saying we do not need to punish those responsible, but so far those (Saudis) have gotten a pass even as we are deceived.
-- Fred Hall
Kasilof
'New' info on war nothing more than the same old neocon stuff
Bob Andrews (June 13) misses the point, as usual.
* Clinton may have made Iraqi regime change U.S. policy, but he didn't advocate an illegal war over worldwide objections to obtain it.
* The source of Andrews' "new" information, funneled through a right-wing news rag, is none other than Douglas Feith, a notorious neoconservative who ran the Pentagon's Counter Terrorism Evaluation Unit and Office of Special Plans, groups set up by Dick Cheney to circumvent the professional intelligence officers in the Pentagon who had more sense. In essence, Feith is the one who gave us untrustworthy information from Ahmed Chalabi and the Iraqi National Congress, as well as the discredited intel on aluminum tubes and yellowcake uranium from Niger. There is a long list of fully Republican whistle-blowers refuting Cheney's Feith-based intelligence.
What is more important is that even if Feith's "facts" were true, it doesn't excuse the inept and strategically disastrous decision to invade a sovereign Muslim nation without making the case to our allies and the world that it was truly necessary. The War on Terror is about allies and ideas, not body counts. In less than two years after the huge outpouring of sympathy and support from the entire world following the attacks on 9-11, we became the most feared and hated country on the planet … and we have Bush to thank for it.
-- Simon Trout
Anchorage
Caregivers of Alzheimer's patients face difficulties and challenges
Nancy Reagan is best known for her role as America's first lady. But just as important was her role of family caregiver. In 1994 Ronald Reagan publicly announced that he had Alzheimer's. For the next 10 years, Nancy Reagan cared for her husband. She was there as the disease slowly erased the memories and personality of a man who had led an incredible life as a Hollywood movie star and, later, as an American president. She was there as the disease claimed her beloved Ronnie.
In Alaska, there are about 4,000 people with Alzheimer's disease or related disorders (ADRD). It is estimated that by 2010, that number will be more than 6,000. As the number of people affected by Alzheimer's grows, so does the need for more support and assistance for family caregivers. Sadly, Alaska is one of only two states in which a person whose sole diagnosis is Alzheimer's is not eligible for Medicaid assistance for nursing homes or home- and community-based services.
The Alzheimer's Disease Resource Agency of Alaska recognizes the difficulties and challenges caregivers encounter on a daily basis. We send our deepest sympathy to Nancy Reagan. We also send our highest admiration to each and every dedicated family caregiver in Alaska.
-- Dulce Nobre, executive director
Alzheimer's Disease Resource Agency of Alaska
Anchorage
Changes to pesticide ordinance would give people a heads-up
To minimize health risks, I've proposed updates to the pesticide ordinance for better notification of pesticide applications in our public parks and playing fields. According to the city Health Department, the pesticide control ordinance needs updating. There have been instances of spraying in town that the public was not made aware of. The updates would provide 48 hours' notice of pesticide sprayings, with notices remaining 48 hours after application.
Pesticide notification gives a simple heads-up to people.
Some people are chemically sensitive or have cancer or other illnesses that make them susceptible to the toxicity of certain pesticides. Notification would enable them to take the precautions that would keep them safe.
Additionally, certain pesticides have been found to present particularly high risks to developing infants and children. Pets are also at risk. Children and pets have closer contact with the grass and tend to put things in their mouths. We need to let parents know when pesticides are being used.
In addition, the updated ordinance gives more timely and complete information to neighbors when neighbors have their properties sprayed by professionals. The ordinance doesn't prohibit pesticide spraying. It only establishes better notification. The public has the right to know about pesticide spraying. This is a simple proposal to protect public health and safety. The Assembly will take public testimony on this topic June 22.
-- Brian Whittle, Assemblyman
Anchorage
DEC should acknowledge that pesticides can be dangerous
Pesticides are poison, and imazapyr and glyphosate are no exception. This point seems lost on the DEC (see "Klukwan application to aerially apply pesticides" at ). This notice lists the effects of these chemicals, and there's not one bullet point indicating anything negative about either one. Worse, the "Risk" paragraph is so disarming that one might think it safe to spray the chemicals on a dinner salad.
Studies show adverse effects of these chemicals on humans and animals. It's unconscionable for the DEC, when soliciting public comment, not to acknowledge actual, or even possible, harm to human health and the environment. When facts are misstated or omitted, the public process is undermined. If DEC truly seeks a fair and meaningful public process, it must first level with the public.
This glaring bias makes one wonder if the DEC's commitment last year to "clean air; clean water; clean land; safe food; safe handling of oil and chemicals; safe public facilities, businesses; pollution prevention" (April 2003 DEC home page) still holds. The new DEC home page states: "It is the policy of the state to conserve, improve and protect its natural resources and environment and control water, land and air pollution, in order to enhance the health, safety and welfare of the people of the state and their overall economic and social well being."
So, where do the DEC's loyalties now lie?
-- John Strasenburgh
Talkeetna

Load-Date: June 15, 2004


End of Document
