




St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
October 1, 2008 Wednesday
THIRD EDITION


Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. B10
Length: 1377 words
Body


Metro and MetroLink are an investment in the community and its people
The St. Louis transportation system and the public it serves are facing a major problem. With gasoline prices reaching historic highs this summer, and many of us scrambling to find affordable means of transportation, cutting back bus service is absolutely the wrong response.
Metro officials have warned that proposed service cuts would affect more than 25 percent of its riders, many of them students whose only option is public transportation. Eliminating service would have a devastating impact on their options for getting around town and their ability to complete their educations and secure future employment.
Metro isn't just a service; it's an investment in the community and its citizens. The bus system provides the means to transport these students to a place where they can further their education, better their lives and become professionally qualified employees and taxpayers.
A transit sales tax measure that goes to St. Louis County voters on Nov. 4 would help bankroll the failing Metro system with $80 million annually. Officials at the transit agency say that if the tax passes, service cuts would not be necessary. If that's the case and if every budgetary option has been exhausted by Metro leaders, then the proposed half-cent sales tax is an absolute necessity to ensure bus service continues for the thousands of students and workers who depend on public transportation.
Obviously, no one likes the idea of increasing taxes, especially during such challenging economic times. But as our roadways become more clogged and fuel prices take a bigger bite out of everyone's budget, more and more people will rely on a public transportation system as a cost-saving measure.
As the need becomes more paramount, city leaders here and around the country must make public transportation a priority and advance a transit-first policy. Otherwise, the public will tire of Band-Aid solutions, and everyone - students, workers and employers - will suffer.
Samuel Varghese | Earth City
Barriers to real solutions
Some people like to rail against MetroLink's barrier-free, proof-of-purchase ticket system, demanding that gates be installed and the "undesirables" prevented from riding the system. As with most things in our world, this simplistic approach that seems so straightforward is not a cost-effective solution.
The barrier-free "honor" system is used by many other light-rail systems across the country and has been proven by several studies to be more cost-effective than a gated system for light-rail transit. This is particularly true for light-rail systems that run some portion of their routes on surface streets with either sidewalk or median stations. Most light-rail systems in the country operate in this fashion, and eventually some future extension of MetroLink will include these open, street-level stations. Such stations are extremely difficult and costly, if not totally impossible, to gate. In designing the original system, MetroLink planners took this fact into consideration.
A recent commenter also suggested that gating the transit system "could make Metro self-funded and self-sufficient." Again, the real world turns out to be more complicated. No metropolitan transit system in the country, gated or barrier-free, covers anywhere near all of its costs from the farebox (which also is true for our interstate highways, our hospital emergency rooms, our B-2 bombers and our Zoo).
In spite of recent difficulties, Metro operates a very successful light-rail system while receiving less funding from its home state than nearly any other rail system in the country.
Joe Leindecker | University City
Meet the new boss
Regarding "New leader of city schools looks to road" (Sept. 27): So, the St. Louis Public Schools have a new superintendent. Ho hum.
Earl F. Birkicht | St. Louis
Stonewalling sterilization
Regarding "States, medical groups fear abortion rule consequences" (Sept. 25): I know that abortion is controversial, but I was amazed to learn that a proposed Bush administration rule also could have an impact on sterilization. Legislation already exists that permits health care practitioners to refer patients to another doctor for procedures to which they object.
The total fertility rate for the United States currently is 2.1, one of the highest among developed countries. The U.S. Census Bureau projects that the U.S. population will exceed 439 million in 2050 if current rates continue; that's a 40 percent increase.
Women who seek information about tubal ligation and men who express interest in vasectomy should be applauded. They should not be stonewalled.
Cecily Westermann | St. Louis
Societal ill
A recent letter to the editor about the "web of life" seems to imply that there are many issues at least as important as opposition to abortion. The letter, following the "Seamless Garment" concept of the late Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, attributed the same moral value to the death penalty, the minimum wage and abortion.
This understanding had its origin in the writings of Jean Jacques Rousseau, one of the founding fathers of the bloody French Revolution. He taught that man was perfectly good and that it was society or social institutions that caused corruption and evil. The letter suggested giving billions to potential criminals so they would be good persons and not rob or kill anyone.
What the letter writer, a nun, failed to understand is that abortion is a cultural icon that symbolizes an approach to social issues that has been advanced for generations by the intellectual heirs of Machiavelli, Marx and Gramsci. Unfortunately, I see too little of Jesus Christ in it.
W.A. Borst | Richmond Heights
Loquacious and wrong
I will be watching the vice presidential debate and waiting to see if the loquacious but error-prone Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware, the Democratic vice presidential candidate, will put his foot in his big mouth again - as he did when he mentioned Franklin Delano Roosevelt on television in 1929.
What planet is this guy from?
Dick White | Belleville
In time but out of touch
Regarding the editorial "Foreign substance" (Sept. 28), about the first presidential debate: It obviously was written Friday night in order to make the early Sunday edition. It had no reference to what the viewers thought of the debate. Most polls, almost without exception, put Sen. Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee for president, ahead.
No need to go into the reasons, but now I can add the Post-Dispatch to the electronic media as being out of touch with the general public. That's usually the mantra of the conservatives, but apparently it now can be echoed by other segments of the political spectrum.
Jim Groetsch | Webster Groves
On the brink
We stand on the brink of the next Great Depression. Those who bear a large amount of the responsibility tell us to trust their proven bad judgment and ask us to let them borrow $700 billion to $1 trillion at the taxpayers' expense to fix it. This "fix," of course, must be done immediately and without any forethought, accountability, oversight or controls.
Everyone in Washington must be licking their pork chops over this game. For the Republicans, it represents what might be their last opportunity for some time to exploit their power and plunder the treasury to profit their friends. The Democrats can use this to throw money to their special interests and blame the Republicans. And for the lobbyists, it represents an enormous trough of taxpayer money upon which to feast without fear.
Of course, in every game there must be a loser, and, as usual, the losers are the taxpayers. While the majority of us did not gamble our money on risky investments or make the foolish decision to purchase a house beyond our means, we are expected to allow those with poor judgment to profit at our expense.
And, again, the politicians, bureaucrats, lobbyists, plutocrats and others responsible walk away from their crimes wealthier for the experience and laughing at the taxpayer sheep they just have fleeced again.
Mike Geries | Smithton
On the ash heap
Former President Ronald Reagan said that we could lay communism on the ash heap of history. We now can put GOP laissez-faire capitalism there, too.
Wes Griffith | O'Fallon, Mo.

Load-Date: October 1, 2008


End of Document
