




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
January 9, 2024 Tuesday


Copyright 2024 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 433 words
Body


(PRWeb) - Board-certified urologist, Dr. Justin Houman, is one of the top men's health specialists and leading urological surgeons in the Los Angeles area.
LOS ANGELES, Jan. 8, 2024 /PRNewswire-PRWeb/ -- Dr. Justin Houman, a highly esteemed board-certified urologist and renowned men's health specialist, has received the Top Patient Rated Doctor award from Find Local Doctors. This recognition is a result of his five-star ratings and exceptional reviews from patients. Find Local Doctors is a trusted online directory that allows patients to locate and connect with the best physicians in their area. Dr. Houman's practice offers a comprehensive approach to men's health, specializing in the diagnosis and treatment of various urological conditions. With his expertise and commitment to patient care, he has become a trusted authority in his field. Dr. Houman's state-of-the-art practice is centered on enhancing his patients' quality of life through comprehensive male urology. He specializes in male fertility, erectile dysfunction, sexual performance, testosterone management and Peyronie's disease. The clinic has been recognized as a Xiaflex Center of Excellence for the treatment of Peyronie's disease. Also, as a top minimally invasive microscopic surgeon, Dr. Houman provides skill and expertise in microsurgical varicocelectomies, vasectomy reversals, sperm retrievals, penile implants and male incontinence.
"It is an honor to earn this award from Find Local Doctors. It is my goal to offer exceptional male urological care, with a true commitment to patient satisfaction and successful results," says Dr. Justin Houman.
More about Dr. Justin Houman:
Dr. Justin Houman earned his medical doctorate degree at the University of Rochester School of Medicine. He completed his general surgery internship and urology residency at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in LA. Dr. Houman continued his training at UCLA Medical Center, having completed a fellowship in the highly specialized field of male reproductive medicine and surgery. He is a member of the American Urological Association, Sexual Medicine Society of North America, International Society of Sexual Medicine and Los Angeles Urologic Society. He is fluent in English, Spanish and Farsi. Dr. Justin Houman's clinic is located at 8635 W 3rd St, Suite 1W in Los Angeles, CA. To find out more information or schedule an appointment with Dr. Houman, please visit  or call 310-854-9898.
Media Contact
Dr. Justin Houman, Justin Houman MD, 310-854-9898,  , /
SOURCE Justin Houman MD

Load-Date: January 9, 2024


End of Document
