




Forbes
April 7, 2008


Copyright 2008 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved


Section: OUTFRONT; Pg. 44; Vol. 181; No. 7
Length: 284 words
Byline: Monte Burke
Highlight: As a rule of thumb, urologists schedule vasectomies for Fridays and instruct patients to take the weekend to recover.
Body


As a rule of thumb, urologists schedule vasectomies for Fridays and instruct patients to take the weekend to recover. So when Eric Harnden, a 38-year-old cofounder of a Boston software company, decided to get snipped last spring, he knew exactly when he wanted it done: the weekend of the Masters golf tournament. Harnden, father of four kids under the age of 6, reveled in his indolent, duty-free weekend watching the golfing drama unfold on his TV. "Basically I had an intense 20 minutes of discomfort that was paid back a hundredfold," he says. Only downer: His favorite golfer, Tiger Woods, lost to a player named Johnson.
Anything to make the vasectomy--surely among the most angst-filled and wince-inducing male surgical procedures--more palatable. The sports TV angle has even become a marketing strategy for some clinics: In March the Oregon Urology Institute ran promotions prior to the NCAA men's basketball tournament, selling it as an excuse to "stay at home in front of the big screen."
"It gives people something to look forward to," says Dallas urologist Richard Bevan-Thomas, who says he sees an increase in vasectomy bookings for all major golf tournaments. Emanuel Friedman, a Boston urologist, says he performs double the number of vasectomies before big football weekends. "I encourage it because patients need to rest and ice to keep the swelling down," he says.
William Walker, a 37-year-old father of two and a trader at an investment firm in Wilmington, Del., says he had trouble scheduling his vasectomy in 2006. "I tried the Masters weekend, the NCAA Final Four and the Super Bowl, but they were all booked," he says. He eventually settled on the September 2006 Ryder Cup golf matches. 

Load-Date: March 24, 2008


End of Document
