




The Pacifican: University of the Pacific
January 29, 2015 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2015 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 413 words
Byline: Thomas Levy
Body


Chicago Tribune
Serious advances have been made in the market for male contraceptives, which is totally revolutionary seeing as there have been such limited options for a very long time.
Birth control for men in a more convenient form has at no point been an afterthought for many pharmaceutical developers, who have been trying to realize the idea for the better part of a century now.
Researchers from Parsemus Foundation have come up with a solution that takes the form of an injection, an effect more convenient than condoms and more reversible than vasectomies, which require surgery.
How the foundation's product, Vasalgel, works is pretty simple to grasp. An injection full of a polymer formulated to halt the flow of sperm during ejaculation is injected into the vas deferens and acts as a plug. As unpleasant as that may sound to some gentlemen, the effects are highly rewarding, as a long term study of a similar injection from the same company used on men in India shows that the polymer has been in place and effective for roughly fifteen years. The Parsemus Foundation claims that within the next couple years, men will likely see an injection adapted to FDA regulations for the U.S. market.
The injection is scheduled to be fully reversible, requiring a second injection to flush out the initial polymer and return full function to the vas deferens.
This revolutionary form of contraceptive is set to be a huge advance in science, technology, men's health and, according to Daily Beast writer Samantha Allen, women's health as well. A polymer injected into men once every fifteen years is potentially less damaging to the body than women ingesting a cocktail of hormones on a daily basis. This procedure also leaves more of the responsibility of the consequences of intercourse in the hands of men.
By offering varying methods of birth control to both normative genders, each side of safe sex is now being represented more thoroughly.
However, one aspect of sex Vasalgel neglects to improve is the potential of transmitting STDs. We have to remember that babies aren't the only thing we can be stuck with for the rest of our lives after having sex. For proper disease protection, Vasalgel offers literally nothing compared to prophylactics.
Nonetheless, Vasalgel by Parsemus Foundation is a step in the right direction for sexual health. Joined by a number of different firms with similar goals, they are progressing the cultural norms of sexual health in the United States.

Load-Date: January 29, 2015


End of Document
