




University Wire
August 23, 2006 Wednesday


Copyright 2006 Oklahoma Daily via U-Wire
Length: 559 words
Byline: By Karen Thimell, Oklahoma Daily; SOURCE: U. Oklahoma
Dateline: NORMAN, Okla. 
Body


Sometime in the next 10 years, men could be toting discrete pill packs and become slaves to the daily ding of reminder alarms from their cell phone.
For years, women have shouldered the contraceptive burden, popping the little pills daily to prevent pregnancy.
That could change, however, as research into a new male "pill" for birth control continues to progress in clinical trials and experimentation in the U.S. and abroad.
Today, contraceptive options for men are limited. The lack of a prescription contraceptive restricts men to awkward drug-store stops for condoms or the invasive surgery of a vasectomy.
Condoms are effective 85 percent to 98 percent of the time, whereas the female birth control pill has proven effective 92 percent to 99.7 percent of the time.
The hormonally-based birth control for females hinders the release of eggs from the ovaries.
The male contraceptive expects to hit the market in a pill, injection, patch, and gel in the next 5 to 10 years.
The prospective male birth control would hinder sperm production to zero, without negative long-term consequences to fertility.
The pill uses testosterone, mimicking an overproduction of sperm, to fool the brain. The brain inhibits the natural production of sperm, until the patient's sperm count dwindles to zero.
Researchers are focused on developing a product that is safe and effective without negative and costly side-effects.
Currently, researchers are experimenting with hormones in the pill, predominantly testosterone, that cause problems in physical functions for men, such as breast growth, weight gain, and the development of liver tumors, according to the Population Council, a nonprofit medical research group.
Experimentation with synthetic hormones and similar versions of testosterone may assist in reducing such problems, the council's Web site states.
George B. Witman, a professor of cell biology at the University of Massachusetts, has looked into non-hormonal options for a male contraceptive. Witman has researched the effects of proteins in sperm cells.
Witman said the drugs target proteins that allow a sperm to propel itself through a female to fertilize the egg.
This procedure ensures a safe and natural block of sperm, Witman said.
"There are a couple advantages," said Witman."It would block the sperm and prevent fertilization of the eggs, not the implantation of the eggs, which can cause an abortion."
While the scientific community may be ready to put pill packs in the hands of males across the country, the question remains if boys will be comfortable with diminishing returns on their sperm counts.
Nick Humphrey, a junior majoring in sociology, said he might take male birth control pill, as long as it was safe.
"Femininity is associated with childbirth too and they're giving up that femininity now," said Humphrey. "You've got to give up something.It's really not a big deal as long as the side effects were curbed down to where it didn't happen to the majority of the people."
Some women could be worried if their significant others are willing to take on the responsibility, when they don't have to carry the consequences for nine-months.
"Personally, I would support a guy taking it, too, for double protection," said Mandy Hardin, a junior majoring in English. "But I wouldn't say I'm bitter that it's taking a while."
(C) 2006 Oklahoma Daily via U-WIRE

Load-Date: August 23, 2006


End of Document
