




University Wire
December 8, 2004 Wednesday


Copyright 2004 Daily Forty-Niner via U-Wire
Length: 455 words
Byline: By Robin Grodin, Daily Forty-Niner; SOURCE: California State U.-Long Beach
Dateline: LONG BEACH, Calif. 
Body


In the not to distant future a male birth control contraceptive could be available to any male who wants it.
Currently, all that is available to men who wish to control their options against future fatherhood are condoms, which cause sensation loss, or a vasectomy, which is almost always irreversible. In contrast, women have many options including the birth control pill, the morning after pill, a diaphragm and a new patch.
Why the imbalance between the sexes? In order to control a woman's reproductive capabilities the contraceptive must control the release of one egg per month. A man's reproductive capabilities are much harder to control since they release thousands of sperm every few seconds.
"Let the men take on some of the responsibility for a change," said CSULB student Drue Wawrzynski. "Women shouldn't have to carry all of the responsibility for birth control."
Female birth control has been available since the 1960s so if male birth control becomes available at the anticipated date of 2010 then female birth control would have been available for roughly 50 years more.
Studies show that more than one-third of all contraception use is male oriented and only 10 percent in couples who are married.
"I would be relieved to know that the fate of my future as a parent is in my own hands for once," CSULB student Sean Guerin said. "A male contraceptive would be great just because sex with a condom is never as good as sex without a condom."
The various types of male contraception are still in the trial testing phase. There are studies being conducted, like the one at the University of Washington, that control a hormone called progestin that affects the pituitary gland in the male brain. What this does is cut back on the type of hormones that tell the testes to create sperm.
A drawback is the lack of testosterone that the male will then produce. This affects the male libido and muscle mass. Countermeasures such as a testosterone cream and testosterone injections have been also included in testing of the contraceptives.
Another route of male contraception has nothing to do with male hormones. It involves a type of protein called eppin. This protein acts as a vaccination. This type of male contraception is not as advanced as hormonal studies, but the plus side is that it does not affect the testosterone in men.
It will be at least five years until any form of male contraception will be legally distributed in the United States, but when it is available it would be great so "the burden doesn't always rest on the women," said Larry Harvey, the Clinical Coordinator at the on-campus health center. But Harvey does caution, "The possibility for pregnancy will still be real."
(C) 2003 Daily Forty-Niner via U-WIRE

Load-Date: December 8, 2004


End of Document
