




Legal Monitor Worldwide
August 3, 2013 Saturday


Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company All Rights Reserved


Length: 541 words
Body


A man with learning difficulties could become the first in the country to have a vasectomy on the orders of a judge in a case lawyers insist is "not covered by a shadow of eugenics". 
The 36-year-old, identified only as DE, has a young son with his girlfriend, who also has learning difficulties, but does not want more children and does not have the mental capacity to use contraception. 
The Court of Protection heard it was "inevitable" that if they had another baby it would be taken into care, causing significant psychological distress. 
Angus Moon QC, for the Official Solicitor, appointed to represent DE's best interests, told the court the "truly exceptional case" could make legal history when judgment is handed down later this month. 
"It would be the first judgment in this jurisdiction in which permission had been given to carry out a vasectomy," he said. 
But Mr Moon cautioned that the case should not be seen as a "green light" for applications for others with learning difficulties to have a vasectomy. 
He noted that it was "unusual" for two people with learning difficulties to maintain a relationship of more than 10 years as this couple had done, highlighting that they already had a child and that another would cause great emotional trauma. 
"This case is not about a youngish man being given a vasectomy against his will," he said. 
"The evidence is compelling that (DE) does want to have a vasectomy and therefore this case is not covered by the shadow of eugenics." 
DE, who lives with his parents in the Midlands, has effectively been banned from having intercourse since last November, when an interim court order declared that he lacked the mental capacity to have a sexual relationship. 
This meant that anyone he slept with could be charged with sexual abuse or rape and all visits to his girlfriend have since been supervised in order to "keep him safe". 
As a result, he had lost his independence, causing him considerable distress, the court heard. The order is expected to be overturned. 
The court heard that DE did value his relationship with his son, with whom he plays for up to an hour at a time. 
However, he has made it clear that he does not want any more children. His relationship with his girlfriend was said to be of the utmost importance to him and Mrs Justice Eleanor King indicated that she would consider it a priority when she makes her ruling later this month. 
John McKendrick, for the Local Authority, said: "By granting this application the court has the power to return (the man's) independence to him." 
He said a vasectomy was "the least restrictive option" and was in his best interests, a view echoed by the man's parents and his GP. 
Judgment will bring to a close a three-year legal battle undertaken by DE's parents, which began with a simple visit to their son's GP. Mrs Justice Eleanor King praised the way the couple had coped with the ordeal and expressed her "utmost admiration" for them both. 
There is only one known previous case involving an application for male sterilisation and it was refused in 1999. 
The court ruled that a vasectomy would not be in the best medical and emotional interests of the 28-year-old man, who had Down's syndrome, despite his mother's wishes to the contrary.

Load-Date: August 3, 2013


End of Document
