




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
March 1, 2018 Thursday
Main Edition


Copyright 2018 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: A; Pg. 004
Length: 461 words
Byline: Associated Press
Body


Today's birthday bunch
 Actor Robert Clary ("Hogan's Heroes") is 92. Singer Harry Belafonte is 91. Actor Robert Conrad ("The Wild, Wild West") is 83.  Singer Roger Daltrey of The Who is 74.  Actress Catherine Bach ("The Dukes of Hazzard") is 63.  Actor George Eads ("CSI") is 51.  Guitarist Ryan Peake of Nickelback is 45. Actress Lupita Nyong'o is 35. Singer Kesha is 31. Singer Justin Bieber is 24.
 People
 Meghan Markle said Wednesday that she hopes to "hit the ground running" as a member of the British royal family and use her position to highlight the empowerment of women.
 Markle, who is due to marry Prince Harry in May, attended an event in London alongside Harry, Prince William and the Duchess of Cambridge.
 The first joint engagement by the two couples celebrated the work of the Royal Foundation, which supports charities including the Heads Together mental-health campaign and the Invictus Games for injured troops.
 Markle said during a question-and-answer session that she was still new to her role but "it's very important to want to hit the ground running."
 The 36-year-old American actress said that with the Me Too and Time's Up campaigns against sexual harassment, "there is no better time than to really continue to shine a light on women feeling empowered and people really helping to support them."
 Harry, 33, said he and Markle were "pretty tied up with planning a wedding at the moment," but looked forward to working with William and Kate on charitable projects.
Richards apologizes for  Jagger  vasectomy comment
 Keith Richards says he regrets saying that Mick Jagger needed a vasectomy after recently having his eighth child.
 In a story posted Wednesday morning, the Wall Street Journal magazine reported that Richards said "it's time for the snip - you can't be a father at that age. Those poor kids!"
 The 74-year-old Jagger welcomed his eighth child in December 2016.
 But Richards says "I deeply regret the comments I made about Mick" in a statement released Wednesday afternoon. He says his words "were completely out of line" and that he apologized to the Rolling Stone frontman in person.
 Richards famously wrote about his issues with Jagger in his 2010 memoir, "Life."
Native American actor relishes rare Oscar invite
 Wes Studi will take the stage at Sunday's Oscars to present an award. But as one of the few Native Americans to be included in the ceremony's 90-year history, he has reason to feel like a winner.
 Studi says he sees the invitation as recognition of his work over the years. The veteran actor's credits include "Avatar," "The Last of the Mohicans" and "Dances with Wolves."
 Participating in the Oscars also signifies something larger, Studi says: a time when diversity is being embraced and Hollywood is reflecting that.

Load-Date: March 1, 2018


End of Document
