




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
November 24, 2013 Sunday


Copyright 2013 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: E; Pg. 9
Length: 378 words
Byline: alison johnson For the TH
Body


Dr. Alison: My cat grooms herself all day long. I even hear her at night licking and biting herself. Why would she do this? - Miranda
Miranda: Most cats are meticulous groomers, but when the behavior goes into overdrive, your cat is communicating a problem.
For a variety of reasons, some cat licking, scratching and chewing behaviors become compulsive, which can annoy you and damage your pet's skin and coat.
If your cat is scratching, licking, or chewing herself compulsively, it is likely you regularly catch her in the act. But if you don't, your first clue might be the disappearance of your cat's fur, often in strips along her back or stomach.
Cats with self-mutilating behaviors also might cause red, irritated areas called hot spots to form, but they are less likely than dogs to do so.
Although compulsive cat scratching, licking, or chewing behaviors can develop in any animal, they are more commonly observed in Siamese cats and other Asian breeds. Female cats are more likely than males to lick, chew or pull on their fur.
Because there are a number of medical problems that might result in scratching and licking behaviors, be sure to consult with your veterinarian to help determine the cause and the best course of action. They will help determine if your cat has parasites, is in pain, or if there is anxiety or boredom at the base of the grooming obsession.
neutering can be good for your pet
Dr. Alison: I would like my dog to have a vasectomy instead of a traditional neuter. Why won't veterinarians offer this as an option to owners? - Jeffrey
Jeffrey: Neutering in the traditional manner provides the greatest number of health benefits. The surgery prevents unwanted litters of puppies and also prevents prostatic disease, testosterone-induced tumors and behaviors linked to testosterone production.
Surgical removal of the testicles is the current standard of care in both dogs and cats. This surgery renders a male dog or cat unable to reproduce and also removes the major source of the male hormone, testosterone.
Removing the source of testosterone eliminates mating behavior in males and also plays a role in eliminating other unwanted dog behaviors.
Johnson, DVM, is the owner of Pet Med Animal Hospital, in Dubuque. Email her at 

Load-Date: November 24, 2013


End of Document
