




The Dominion Post (Morgantown, West Virginia)
July 18, 2007 Wednesday


Copyright 2007 The Dominion Post
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News
Section: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS
Length: 2152 words
Byline: Brandy Brubaker, The Dominion Post, Morgantown, W.Va.
Body


Jul. 18--CHARLESTON -- Michelle Michael says she isn't fully convinced her husband was murdered, despite a medical examiner's findings that he died from a lethal injection of a paralyzing drug.
Michael, 35, took the stand in her own defense Tuesday, the seventh and final day of testimony in her first-degree murder and arson trial.
It was the first time she has discussed the details of the case publicly. The jury will hear closing arguments today and then will begin deliberations.
During cross-examination, Monongalia County Assistant Prosecuting Attorney Perri DeChristopher asked Michael if she believed her husband was murdered.
"I guess so," Michael responded.
"So you agree James Michael was murdered?" DeChristopher asked again.
"I don't know what happened to my husband," Michael answered.
Police allege Michael knows exactly what happened to her husband Nov. 29, 2005. They say she poisoned James Michael with Rocuronium, a drug that causes paralysis, and set their Killarney Drive home on fire to cover up the crime.
DeChristopher continued her questioning.
"So you think that James Michael killed himself?" she asked.
"Not in my heart," Michael responded. "In your mind?" DeChristopher asked.
"I don't want to believe it," said Michael, dressed in a black skirt suit with a light blue collared shirt underneath.
She never broke down on the stand, nor did she cry. On occasion, she wiped her nose with a tissue.
Michael said she didn't think it was her job to figure out what happened but did say that her husband was sad in the days leading up to the fire.
DeChristopher didn't seem to buy it.
"You're here to tell this jury that James Michael injected himself with Rocuronium?" DeChristopher said. "That's what you want this jury to believe?"
"No, I don't know," Michael said. DeChristopher then turned her attention to the fire at the Michael home. "Do you agree it was an arson?" she asked Michael. "I don't know," Michael answered. "Do you believe it was an accident?" DeChristopher continued. "For a long time, I did," Michael answered.
DeChristopher then asked Michael if she believed the person who murdered her husband also was responsible for the fire. "If that's what happened, yes," Michael said. At about this point, Michael's attorney, Tom Dyer, stepped in, asking the judge if the attorneys could approach the bench. They discussed something -- out of earshot of the jury and audience -- for a few minutes.
During that time, Michael sat on the witness stand, taking a few sips of water and looking around. DeChristopher resumed crossexamination. "You were desperate to have your family, friends, law enforcement and insurance investigators believe this fire was accidental?" she asked. Michael said she wasn't.
DeChristopher then focused on Michael's affair with Bobby Teets, her husband's friend and employee. She asked about the trip to Chicago where Bobby Teets said he and Michael slept together for the first time. Michael didn't deny it. She asked about the second time -- at Michael's house, three days before the fire.
Michael admitted they had sex in the bed she and her husband shared -- the very bed where his body would be found after the fire.
DeChristopher asked Michael why she didn't confess the affair to her husband and Teets' wife, Michelle's friend.
Michael said she did plan to tell him but didn't have the chance before James Michael died.
DeChristopher asked Michael why, after all she had put her through, would Michael agree to have Kelly Teets subpoenaed to testify on her behalf.
Michael said her defense team wanted to call someone to testify who had been with her after the fire to testify.
DeChristopher then wanted to know about the life insurance money Michael would have inherited after her husband's death had she not become a suspect in his murder -- $500,000.
"You agree that $500,000 is an awful lot of money?" DeChristopher asked.
"Not necessarily," Michael responded.
DeChristopher said that's not what Michael told police -- she said, in an interview, that the insurance agent told her she was going to receive the $500,000. Michael called it an "awful lot of money," DeChristopher said, referring to the transcript of the interview.
DeChristopher then pointed out items Michael claimed for the personal property value of her homeowner's insurance. Twelve bottles of nail polish equaled $72.
Dozens of pairs of James Michael's dress socks for a couple hundred dollars. Framed copies of the couple's wedding vows for $40.
She appeared to question Michael's truthfulness in filling out the forms.
DeChristopher also wondered about the title to James' truck.
She said Michael forged her husband's signature on the title and dated it Nov. 27, 2005 -- two days before his death -- before giving or selling the truck to a relative after his death.
Michael said she gave the old, unworkable truck to a family member because it was just sitting in the driveway of their fire-damaged house. Rather than go through the estate, she backdated the forged signature to when her husband was still alive.
DeChristopher continued to paint Michael as a liar.
In her interview with police, Michael described herself as an honest person, rating herself as a 9 out of 10 in truth telling. DeChristopher asked if that's still how she views herself today. "Yes, that's what I want to be," Michael responded. The assistant prosecutor said Michael lied to her husband and her friend about her affair. Lied to her boss about leaving work that morning. Lied to law enforcement. She expanded on those lies.
DeChristopher said, during Michael's interviews with police, she lied 57 times about moving her car the morning of the fire and 48 times about her affair with Bobby Teets.
When told she was the No. 1 suspect in her husband's death, Michael kept lying, DeChristopher said.
But Michael stuck close to the final story she gave to police after first denying she ever left the hospital where she worked that morning.
She said she drove past her son's school and then drove to her house to pick up papers, realized they were in the car with her, and turned around. One detail she added in court Tuesday, though, was that she got out of her car to put the papers, already in an envelope and stamped, in the mailbox across from her driveway.
Michael said she drove to her son's school most mornings she worked to meet her ex-husband, Rob Angus, or his wife, and her daughter. Her son's school started a half hour before her daughter's. If she had time, she'd go and sit with her daughter so Angus could go to work, she said.
The morning of the fire, Michael said, she drove past the road where the school sits, didn't see Angus' truck, and kept going to her house.
DeChristopher said there was no way Michael could have seen if Angus' truck was there from where she claimed to be on the road because of trees and a large apartment building. She also said Michael didn't leave the hospital until 8:11 a.m. -- one minute after her son had to be at school.
That morning, DeChristopher said, Angus was at Burger King with their daughter -- where he almost always took her between dropping off her brother and taking her to school.
DeChristopher then questioned Michael about the fire.
She asked Michael if she had turned the iron on high, set it face down on the ironing board and left for work that morning hoping it would catch the house on fire.
Then, when she didn't get a call about a fire at her house, she left work around 8 a.m. to set the fire herself, DeChristopher said.
Michael said no.
She asked why Michael didn't demand someone search for James Michael in the fire since his car was in the garage.
"Every extra minute James' body burned in that fire is an extra chance that nothing would be left for toxicology," DeChristopher said.
"Do you agree that [Rocuronium injection] would be a gruesome, gruesome death?" DeChristopher asked.
Monday, a doctor testified that someone injected with Rocuronium who isn't sedated and ventilated would struggle to breathe for at least 10 minutes while fully alert before dying.
"Yes, it would be," Michael said.
Dyer also questioned Michael on the stand Tuesday.
He started off with family background.
Michael married her first husband, Rob Angus, in July 1995. They separated in January 1999 and divorced that October.
Although she was friends with James Michael from work, their relationship didn't become anything more than a friendship until spring 1999, after she was separated from Angus but not yet divorced.
She and James Michael married May 26, 2000.
Dyer asked Michelle Michael about rumors flying around in Morgantown after her husband's death that she had had an abortion. James Michael had had a vasectomy.
Michael said yes, she did have one abortion, but that was in the early '90s, before she and Angus were together.
Michael said her children and James Michael's children got along well. Their daughters, both age 10, became best friends.
The family moved into the Killarney Drive house in May 2002. She and James became active in the Suncrest community -- she teaching Sunday school and coaching youth cheerleading, he hosting Bible studies and coaching youth football.
Dyer showed two photos of Michael and her husband -- one taken in 2000 and one in 2005, just months before the fire. She sat on his lap; both smiled brightly.
He asked her to describe her husband of five years.
"He was very kind, loving, very giving," she said.
"His children were the most important thing in the world. He was very handsome."
She glanced at the picture of the two of them.
"He was very spiritual," she said.
Dyer asked about their love life. James Michael never cheated on his wife, she said.
They were intimate about once a week, she said.
Their intimacy level was an issue between the couple, witnesses have testified.
"That was not enough for Jimmy?" Dyer asked.
"No, sir," Michael said.
Michael said her husband was upset that a former boss of his and presumably a friend was calling his patients and telling them he was unethical -- some sort of sabotage. He also was upset that Child Protective Services had become involved with his children after James Michael hit one of them. She said he felt very guilty about that.
Michael also said her husband did not have a good relationship with his ex-wife, Stephanie Estel, toward the end of his life, despite what Estel testified to earlier.
She said although he wasn't on any medication and was only seeing a pastor for emotional support, James Michael seemed "a little depressed."
Dyer asked Michelle Michael about Bobby Teets.
She said she didn't want a future with him.
Then, Dyer showed Michael a picture of a cute young boy smiling for the camera with a group of other kids.
She said that was one of her and Jimmy's favorite patients in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit at Ruby Memorial Hospital. They had gotten special permission from the sick boy's doctor to bring him to her son's birthday party. He died not long after.
Dyer asked Michael to describe her and her husband's activities leading up to his death.
The night before the fire, Michael said, she spent the day at cheerleading practice with her daughter while her husband hunted in Maryland with his father. He got back to the house around 8 or 9 p.m., after attending his son's basketball practice.
They stayed up until about 11 p.m., joking about his hunting failures and discussing the embroidery business they and the Teetses planned to start.
Michael said that on Nov. 29, 2005, the day of the fire, she got up at about 5 a.m. and spent an hour getting ready for work. She left around 6 a.m.
James Michael was still sleeping, as he always was that early, she said.
After she learned about the fire and her husband's death, Michael said she sat at a neighbor's house, surrounded by friends and family.
"I remember sitting on the couch and feeling numb," she said. A paramedic checked her blood pressure and pulse, she recalled.
Dyer asked her why she lied to police about stopping at the house. Michael said she was afraid she'd get in trouble with her boss for leaving the hospital.
Dyer then asked why she lied to police about sleeping with Bobby Teets. "I was ashamed," Michael said. "I had just cheated on my husband." Dyer asked her about Jimmy's murder. "Michelle, did you have anything to do at all with the death of your husband?" he asked. "No, I did not," Michael said, shaking her head. "Did you have anything to do with the fire?" he asked. "No, I did not," Michael answered. "Do you know who killed your husband?" Dyer asked. "No," Michael answered.
To see more of The Dominion Post or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to . Copyright (c) 2007, The Dominion Post, Morgantown, W.Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email , call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

Load-Date: July 20, 2007


End of Document
