




Newstex Blogs 
MarketersMedia News Hub
February 2, 2022 Wednesday 5:12 AM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 734 words
Byline: Interwire
Body


Feb 02, 2022( MarketersMedia News Hub:  Delivered by Newstex)  
 Microsurgical Vasectomy Reversals by Dr. Mark Hickman (830-660-0600), a medical practice located in New Braunfels, Texas, has launched its vasectomy reversal procedures. 
New Braunfels, United States - February 1, 2022 /PressCable/ —  
The newly announced treatments are designed to help couples have a baby when the male patient has already undergone a vasectomy in the past. It is normal for patients to regret getting a vasectomy when they realize they want to add another member to their family. Luckily, the practice offers them the solution at an affordable cost. 
 More information can be found at [1] 
 Dr. Mark Hickman's vasectomy reversal procedures cost $3,300, which is an all-inclusive price. It covers the procedure itself, as well as the use of local anesthesia and an oral sedative. 
 The doctor will perform a microsurgical repair of the patient's vas deferens with a Zeiss OPMI-MDM operating microscope and fine nylon suture, which is even thinner than a human hair. Most commonly, the procedure may require the patient to get ten to fifteen stitches. 
 After utilizing local anesthesia, the doctor will make a tiny incision on each side of the patient's scrotal skin. From there, he will locate the two ends of their vas deferens and release them from the surrounding scar tissue. A fluid sample will then be taken and analyzed with a laboratory microscope to determine if there is sperm and how much of it there is. Additional details can be found at [2] 
 This procedure is the ideal option for couples desiring a natural pregnancy without requiring multiple doctor visits. It takes approximately 3 hours to complete and has a high rate of success. 
 Dr. Mark Hickman has developed multiple surgical instruments that were awarded U.S. patents and is an expert in laparoscopic procedures. With over 26 years of experience, he has become a leading professional in the field of minimally invasive surgeries. 
 A satisfied patient said: 'I found Dr. Hickman's office online. From the moment I contacted them, I was helped through the process and made to feel at ease the entire time. The process was seamless. I had no complications and felt only mild discomfort after the procedure and the following weeks. My wife became pregnant within the first cycle. We now have a little girl. Thank you, Dr. Hickman.' 
 Interested parties can find more information by visiting [3] 
 Contact Info: Name: Dr. Mark Hickman Email: Send Email[4] Organization: Microsurgical Vasectomy Reversals by Dr. Mark Hickman Address: 598 N Union Ave #200, New Braunfels, TX 78130, United States Phone: +1-830-660-0600 Website: /[5] 
Source: PressCable 
Release ID: 89062494 
 [ 1]: / [ 2]:  [ 3]:  [ 4]:  [ 5]: / 
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: February 2, 2022


End of Document
