




The New York Times
August 21, 2005 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company
Section: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2
Length: 644 words
Body


INTERNATIONAL  3-16

A Political Fight in Gaza
Israel's evacuation of its Gaza settlements has touched off a fierce political campaign between Hamas and Fatah, the more secular faction of Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president. The outcome may determine whether Mr. Abbas can succeed in governing and eventually making peace.  1

Mr. Abbas, moving to capitalize on Israel's evacuation of its Gaza settlements, declared that one site would be used to build housing and another to develop a seaport. Mr. Abbas also announced that legislative elections will be on Jan. 25.  13

A Glint in South Korea's Eye
South Korea, facing plummeting birthrates after decades of promoting smaller families through policies like free vasectomies, is seeking ways to get people to have more babies -- including free vasectomy reversals.  4

Search for Clues in Jordan
The Jordanian police continued to sift through evidence from a rocket attack the day before in the commercial port of Aqaba, and a search for at least six suspects continued.  9

Pope Urges Unity Against Terror
Pope Benedict XVI used his first meeting with Muslims to deliver a blunt message that Christians and Muslims have no choice but to work together to quell terrorism.  16

Iraqi Talks Move Forward
Iraqi leaders trying to complete a new constitution moved toward deals on such contentious issues as Shiite autonomy and Kurdish self-rule. But a tentative agreement that would have given Islam an expanded role in the state appeared to unravel.  10

  Plan to Counter Bad News
Karen P. Hughes, who took office this week as under secretary of public diplomacy, plans to set up ''rapid response'' teams to counter bad news and defend administration policies around the globe.  6

NATIONAL  18-26

Rise in Bankruptcy Filings
Rushing to beat an October deadline when the biggest overhaul of the system in a quarter century goes into effect, Americans are filing for personal bankruptcy at significantly greater rates this summer.  1

More Gifts to Lower Grades
In the last few years there has been a quiet revolution in education philanthropy, as a new generation of wealthy entrepreneurs has begun pouring so much money into projects for kindergarten through 12th grade that such grants now outpace foundation giving to higher education.  21

Challenging Darwin
The Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture has emerged in recent months as the ideological and strategic backbone behind the eruption of skirmishes over science in schools by pushing a ''teach-the-controversy'' approach to evolution.  1

Roberts's Conservative Roots
When John G. Roberts Jr. arrived at Harvard in the fall of 1973, a nascent conservative from a Catholic boarding school, conservatives were casually dismissed as a joke. But a striking number among the small cluster of conservatives at Harvard when he was there went on to become important figures in the conservative resurgence.  1

Texas Church Expands Camp
The Redeemed Christian Church of God, a fast-growing evangelical church that espouses a multicultural mission, is building its North American headquarters on the outskirts of Greenville, Tex.  18

OBITUARIES  27

Francois Dalle
A prominent French industrialist who guided L'Oreal in the years it became a worldwide cosmetics empire, he was 87.  27

NEW YORK/REGION  29-34

Officials Draft Bird Flu Defense
Health officials in New York are working with increasing urgency to develop a defense in case a deadly strain of influenza begins to spread widely. The dangerous strain of avian flu continues to sweep across Asia, infecting million of birds, and officials hope to have an updated response plan ready in the next few weeks.  29

Manhattan's East Side to Grow
After years of debate over development in Lower Manhattan and the West Side, developers are now moving forward with three large projects on the far East Side of Manhattan.  1

Chess  34
Weather  35



Load-Date: August 21, 2005


End of Document
