




SheKnows
July 2, 2021


Copyright 2021 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved


Length: 442 words
Body


 had the perfect response when addressing new comments  with his new wife Shay Shariatzadeh. While promoting Fast & Furious 9, Cena shared in a June 28 interview with  that he's "a little bit older, a bit wiser. I'm realizing there is life and life exists and it's beautiful - and I think part of that is being a parent, so we'll see." After Bella, who was previously engaged to Cena from April 2017 until , heard of the comments, a source close to the Total Bellas star revealed how she really feels about her ex's new thoughts on having kids.
"No matter what decisions John makes, that is his and Shay's business. Nikki is happy for him and wishes him all the best, she's happy living her own life," a source shared with . "Nikki knows that  in life and that they make the best decisions based on where they're at during that point in time. She would never imagine holding something like him changing his mind about having a baby against him and thinks it's an amazing blessing that would bring such joy to his life, if that's what he wants."
When Bella and Cena were together back in the late 2010s, planning for their future was a slight point of contention. Cena initially had a vasectomy, but insisted while on Total Bellas that he would be willing to reverse it . Bella, however, never wanted to "force" Cena to do anything he wasn't completely comfortable with - or committed to - at the time. "Even in the end when he was willing to give me kids, I could just tell it's not what we wanted. And that's really, like, you know, what pushed me in the end, was like, if I'm going to force someone to be a father," she said in an interview on Better Together with Maria Menounos in May 2020.
After their breakup, Bella went on to get engaged to her Dancing with the Stars partner Artem Chigvintsev. The couple welcomed their precious bundle of joy, son Matteo Artemovich Chigvintsev, on July 31, 2020. Meanwhile, Cena quietly wed his new wife, Shay Shariatzadeh, in an intimate ceremony in October 2020. Since their highly publicized split, Cena and Bella have grown to only have  and kind remarks for one another. It's great that these two can maintain a cordial relationship in the public eye while living their best lives and making plans for the future.
Before you go, click  to see celebrity exes who will always be friends.
Launch Gallery: 
More from SheKnows


Load-Date: July 2, 2021


End of Document
