




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
September 27, 2009 Sunday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: SUNDAY OPINION; Pg. B2
Length: 691 words
Body


In State Journal reporter Doug Erickson's article in Sunday's paper, he addresses rumors and questions regarding the Society of Jesus Christ the Priest.
One statement is: "Regardless of age, men and women who have had tubal ligations or vasectomies are told that they must reverse the procedure." The Rev. Jared Hood is quoted stating that Catholics who are truly repentant would want them reversed.
In my many years of OB/GYN practice in Madison, I have performed hundreds of tubal ligations. The decision to do these procedures is not taken lightly by me or the patients. In many cases these procedures are medically necessary for the health of the patient.
To suggest to Catholics that they must have a surgical procedure for penance to have a perceived sin forgiven is extraordinary. To make people feel so guilty that they consider undergoing an operation which is not without risks is mean-spirited, immoral and probably medically unethical.
Religion is supposed to help people live their lives. The people in Sauk City have a lot to think about with regard to their spiritual advisors.
- Dr. Gerald Shay, Mount Horeb
Group more restrictive than original church
Regarding Sunday's piece about changes toward traditional Catholic theology in the Sauk City area, they are, as one person interviewed said, truly Catholic with a capital "C." But things were not this way originally.
Women had a more active role. In Romans 16, for example, Paul says "I commend to you Phoebe, our sister who is also a minister of the church at Cenchrae..." In Acts 18, Priscilla and her husband take Apollos aside and "explain the way of God more adequately."
Further, interrogation by the priest during confession is not the kind of reconciliation described in the Sermon on the Mount. Quite the opposite, it must be voluntary.
What I fear is a modern version of the church's past reactions to scandal. Blame has been directed at Vatican II and lay moral laxity, although, as is now being revealed, abuse predates any of this by decades. The church's response has been new attempts to reestablish authority, peripheralize the laity and set back the role of women.
I became a Catholic in 2000 in the hope of better ministering to my paralyzed wife. I went on to serve in the church and care for the poor. For this the Catholic church has no parallel. I wish church hierarchy to never lose sight of this.
- Dr. Thomas Roberts, Madison
Bishop Morlinio's focus on doctrine, not Jesus
Regarding last Sunday's article, "Inspiring some, alienating others," it comes as no surprise to me that Bishop Robert Morlino has embraced the Society of Jesus Christ the Priest.
Instead of looking at today's world and seeing how the beautiful teachings of Jesus Christ - loving your neighbor, helping each other, bringing people together - make an impact in a positive way, he is focused only on the doctrine of the church.
Now he cannot even accept the changes brought about by Vatican II, and wants to step further back in time. "Girls distract and intimidate boys" - what century are we in?
At this time in the history of the Catholic church, after the sex abuse scandals when it needs to show the good it can do, the love it can bring, Bishop Morlino manages only to show an ugly, controlling side in his leadership.
I disagree that people leaving the church because of Bishop Morlino need to do a gut check. Bishop Morlino is the one who needs a gut check by asking himself, "What would Jesus do?" I don't think Jesus turned his back on women, gays or those of a different race, and a leader in the Catholic church should not either.
- Pam Smith, Stoughton
Recall devoutness of Pope John the 23rd
It is sad that the Madison Catholic Diocese has chosen conservative priests from Spain rather than priests who would continue to promote the teachings of Pope John the 23rd.
Catholicism should encourage a Christian spirit and not dictatorship.
I have attended many masses with the priests from the Society of Jesus Christ the Priest and know that they are turning away Christians from our Catholic church. We are taking steps backward with the teachings of these priests.
- Madeline Laufenberg, Middleton

Graphic

 
Andy Manis photo

Load-Date: September 29, 2009


End of Document
