




The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)
November 25, 2022 Friday


Copyright 2022 The Columbian Publishing Co. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. Ax
Length: 643 words
Highlight: Lesson for Republicans
The reported Republican "red wave" has turned out to be just a bloody drip. Lindsey Graham, Mitch McConnell Republican hypocrites can twist in the wind Trump is spewing out. Trump says Blake Masters' "electron" was stolen; is that like someone's mojo? Perhaps Austin Powers can help the ignorant Trump with that, or at least teach him how to spell.
If Republicans had impeached Trump as he deserved, they could have elected an honest man and avoided their own demise. Read Barbara Tuchman, "The March of Folly." I know some Republicans can read and spell.
Body


Lesson for Republicans
The reported Republican "red wave" has turned out to be just a bloody drip. Lindsey Graham, Mitch McConnell Republican hypocrites can twist in the wind Trump is spewing out. Trump says Blake Masters' "electron" was stolen; is that like someone's mojo? Perhaps Austin Powers can help the ignorant Trump with that, or at least teach him how to spell.
If Republicans had impeached Trump as he deserved, they could have elected an honest man and avoided their own demise. Read Barbara Tuchman, "The March of Folly." I know some Republicans can read and spell.
Bill Kelley
Yacolt
Help hummingbirds in winter
If you feed hummingbirds in the summer, keep doing it in the winter because one species stays over. Food supplies including insects and flower nectar are in short supply, so they need you more than ever to survive the winter. If the temperature is going to drop below freezing, it does make it easier to manage if you bring the feeders inside overnight.
Grace Teigen
Vancouver
Quickly phase out gas plant
As a 17-year customer of Clark Public Utilities, I've always been happy with their service. Rates are reasonable, the system works well, and problems are fixed promptly.
I encourage the commissioners to take another step toward better serving their customers by speeding up the timetable for phasing out the River Road Generating Plant. The current plan calls for phasing out power generation at the gas-burning plant by 2045.
Keeping the plant in operation for another 23 years will needlessly expose local residents, especially in the nearby Fruit Valley neighborhood, to toxic pollutants like benzene and toluene. It will also prolong greenhouse gas emissions, when we need to do everything possible to combat climate change.
Local climate advocates aren't calling for the plant to be shuttered immediately. We simply want Clark Public Utilities to show us a plan for phasing it out much more quickly, something that can be done without affecting rates, reliability and system resilience. As a customer, that's something I would applaud.
Mark Leed
Vancouver
Cut emissions without delay
I found The Columbian's editorial about upgrades to the River Road Generating Plant very troubling ("In Our View: Power plant upgrades serve people, planet," The Columbian, Nov. 13).
I am no expert on energy production or how the upgrades work. However, common sense tells me that if you spend a lot of money "improving" something, you will be much more reluctant to phase it out before you absolutely have to.
The Columbian is right to point out that an investment of this magnitude raises doubts about the PUD's sincerity in addressing climate concerns. The editorial mentions carbon emissions from "natural" gas. However, there's more to it than that. This is fracked gas that also emits methane and toxic air pollutants. Methane is a potent greenhouse gas. It readily leaks in every step of the fracking process, from wellheads and through pipelines.
It is clear, and we're hearing it again from COP 27, that we must move away from fossil fuels without delay. I hope the utility can show us that it's really moving to more renewables like solar and away from harmful sources like gas. I hope that plans to improve this plant are not just the la-di-da, business-as-usual greenwashing that it looks like to a layperson like me.
Diana Gordon
Washougal
How to avoid unwanted pregnancies
In regards to Mr. Hartley's letter "Women should take responsibility," (Our Readers' Views, Nov. 13), here is another option: require all males to have a vasectomy at puberty. When a woman wants to get pregnant, she would have to give written consent for a male to have the vasectomy reversed so the pair could conceive. This would virtually eliminate unwanted pregnancies.
I wonder how many men would tolerate someone else having such control over their own body?
Cal Stone
Camas

Load-Date: November 25, 2022


End of Document
