




The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)
November 18, 2022 Friday


Copyright 2022 The Columbian Publishing Co. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. Ax
Length: 659 words
Highlight: Thankful for election results
Congratulations, Maria Gluesenkamp Perez, on a very well-deserved win in a hard-fought race. Thank you, Clark County, for showing up and voting and keeping another kook from getting a House seat. FYI, the 2020 election was not stolen, and there was no "funny business" going on in this election.
Whoop whoop, women will be able to decide what is best for their bodies! What a concept! Keep voting, young people; the future of this country is in your hands.
Body


Thankful for election results
Congratulations, Maria Gluesenkamp Perez, on a very well-deserved win in a hard-fought race. Thank you, Clark County, for showing up and voting and keeping another kook from getting a House seat. FYI, the 2020 election was not stolen, and there was no "funny business" going on in this election.
Whoop whoop, women will be able to decide what is best for their bodies! What a concept! Keep voting, young people; the future of this country is in your hands.
Denise Duncan
Camas
Debate is about sexual freedom
Mr. Hartley's letter "Women should take responsibility" (Our Readers' Views, Nov. 13) proves several facts: Men have no clue about reproductive biology, and the Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health decision and legislation across the country to rein in women is not about reproductive freedom, but about sexual freedom.
Women ovulate once a month for about 30 years. Then they can't bear any more children. Men, on the other hand, produce sperm from the onset of puberty, every day, until they die. One study estimates that men produce 525 billion sperm over their lives, and one ejaculation emits 40 million to 1.2 billion sperm.
Based on biology alone, reproductive responsibility should be on men's shoulders.
Men don't want us to enjoy recreational sex. Why are we seeing legislation limiting circumstances under which a woman can get an abortion? That legislation judges women based on perceived morality. Rape victim? Not your fault, sweetie. Have an abortion. Pregnant due to incest? Not your fault, sweetie. Have an abortion. Ectopic pregnancy? Not your fault. Have an abortion.
Accidental pregnancy because you just wanted to have sex? Totally your fault. No abortion for you.
Men should get reversible vasectomies. Women deserve abortion on demand. No exceptions. No excuses. No apologies to men like Mr. Hartley.
Nancy Schultz
Vancouver
Letter shows lack of understanding
Oh, Mr. Hartley, only a man could and would write that letter to the editor. Only a man would think about pregnancy as simple as he seems to believe getting pregnant to be. I am sure he meant well: attempting to buoy women's spirits to think we are totally in charge and all that. But really, only a man would, as they have for centuries, attempt to place full responsibility on the woman for the results of the sex act for a resulting pregnancy.
Just when we begin to think men are coming to understand their equal responsibility in the sex act, someone like Mr. Hartley comes along, wanting to take the heat off themselves and their buddies. Really?! Either go back to your cave or make the effort to gain better understanding of this matter. Please.
Marj Casswell
Vancouver
Perez defies prognostications
Washington's 3rd District can take credit for electing Marie Gluesenkamp Perez for Congress; for most of the campaign cycle, the national Democratic Party ignored this race, most notably the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. This may be due to the polls that were taken, which are now known to have been wildly off this year, and which drive funding.
For example, the "deluxe" model at fivethirtyeight.com had Marie Gluesenkamp Perez at a 2 percent chance of winning the race; its "lite" model had a 16 percent chance. And while the national party ignored this race, Joe Kent got absurd in-kind contributions (free advertising) as a result of numerous appearances on national right-wing media.
In a year like this, it was ridiculous for pollsters to massage data to try to extrapolate, say, trends from 10 years ago. We have never come out of a pandemic, had privacy rights assaulted by the Supreme Court, and had to manage inflation in part caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine before, all in one year. Any one of these events might have been considered a rare "black swan" event.
It's clear we have to reform the way we fund elections, and it's been clear for decades. Thankfully, Marie Gluesenkamp Perez gets this.
John M. Kowalski
Vancouver

Load-Date: November 18, 2022


End of Document
