




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
July 11, 2004 Sunday
REGION EDITION


Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: SPORTS,
Length: 419 words
Body


"They were there for Dahl," said Sox fan Rich Battaglin, who was at the game with his brother, Ron. "He was the pied piper."
 The 11-year-old son of now-retired White Sox manager Don Kessinger was so worried about what he saw at the game that he asked to sit in the press box rather than the stands.
"It was just a bad atmosphere," Kessinger recalled. "Even the aroma in the ballpark was a bit different."
 Late in the first game, records started flying from the stands. Fans got into the ballpark for 98 cents if they brought a record. Obviously, not all the albums were handed over at the gate.
 "Some of them were just knifing in the grass and others were exploding on the infield," former White Sox second baseman Alan Bannister said.
 Dahl said people threw beers and cherry bombs at him "lovingly," as he demolished records following the Sox' 4-1 loss in the first game.At some point, thousands of people rushed the field.
 People started fires, burned records and knocked over the batting cage. Others played imaginary baseball. They ignored the pleas of then-White Sox announcer Harry Caray to stop.
 "It was like nothing you ever saw," said Blair Libby, then a 17-year-old Dahl fan watching from the upper deck. "Bottle rockets, M-80s, all sorts of (stuff) whizzing over your heads."
 People who didn't have tickets scaled the walls to get in.
 "It looked like medieval times when they go after a castle, pouring over a wall," Ron Battaglin said.
 He still remembers the sharp pain in his head, "like someone dropping an ax on me" -- a record had struck him, leaving a 2-inch gash. Rich Battaglin couldn't believe what happened.
 "Donna Summer, like her or hate her, you don't put M-80s on her albums and throw them at people," he said.
 Police came out on horseback to disperse the crowd. In all, there were only minor injuries and about three dozen arrests.
 Twenty-five years later, Dahl continues to hear about that night.
 "It gave me a bond with the city that so far has been unbreakable," said the DJ, still on the air in Chicago.
 As for Veeck, he hasn't stopped looking for creative ways to bring fans out to watch the five minor league teams he part owns. Though while "Tonya Harding Bat Night" happened, "Vasectomy Night" didn't.
 A couple years ago, Veeck appeared with the leader of KC and the Sunshine Band before a Florida Marlins game, kind of a summit of long lost enemies.
 "So we shake hands on the mound, and KC looks at me and said, 'Now we have closure.'"
 "I said, 'No, KC, we have cheap theatrics.'"

Load-Date: July 11, 2004


End of Document
