




Chicago Daily Herald
June 17, 2000, Saturday, Cook,DuPage,Fox Valley


Copyright 2000 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: News;; Editorials;
Length: 395 words
Body


Don't violate others' beliefs
No one should be forced to do something that goes against their religious beliefs or their core ethics.
That is why the American Medical Association acted wisely this week when it rejected a measure that would have forced Catholic hospitals to provide pregnancy-prevention services.
Catholic Church teaching forbids most forms of birth control, and the measure would have required Catholic hospitals to perform vasectomies, tubal ligations and other procedures that violate the church's belief system.
The California delegation of the AMA came to the association's annual meeting in Chicago this past week and asked it to approve the resolution requiring all hospitals to provide pregnancy- prevention services. The California doctors said that, because of mergers and acquisitions, many towns are served by only Catholic hospitals, and residents do not have access to reproductive services.
They make a point. People who want pregnancy-prevention services ought to be able to receive them. But the services are available in the health-care market, even though patients may have to travel somewhat to get to them. Making these services available in every town would be desirable, but is not necessary. Certainly, it does not outweigh Catholic hospitals' right to refuse to perform procedures that violate their religion.
Chicago's Cardinal Francis George and other Catholic leaders spoke out against the resolution, calling it an attack on religious freedom. The cardinal also said passage of the resolution could result in Catholic hospitals closing. He noted that Catholic hospitals often do things that for-profit health care does not, such as serving patients regardless of their ability to pay.
The cardinal asked AMA delegates to consider that some towns do not have alternatives to Catholic hospitals because private hospitals have deemed them unprofitable markets. He noted that the loss of Catholic hospitals would leave those communities without adequate medical care.
While those are important points, they are only adjuncts to Catholic hospitals' fundamental right to religious freedom.
The AMA decided to work with Catholic hospitals to direct patients to other facilities in their areas that offer reproductive services. That is a fair compromise that protects both Catholic hospitals' principles and patients' rights to seek services.

Load-Date: June 22, 2000


End of Document
