




The New York Times
December 5, 2004 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company
Section: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7; Caught!
Length: 987 words
Byline: By SARAH LYALL
Dateline: LONDON 
Body


BRITISH government officials probably do not, on balance, have more extramarital affairs than government officials in other countries; it only seems that way. For various reasons -- its tabloid press, its adolescent obsession with naughty behavior, its long dark winters -- Britain has become the unofficial world capital of the salacious politico-sexual scandal.
 The most notorious such affair took place at the height of the cold war, when John Profumo, then the war secretary, resigned in disgrace after it emerged that his sometime girlfriend, Christine Keeler, was also the sometime girlfriend of a Soviet spy. But romantically restless British officials (male, always) have invariably proved spectacularly incompetent at three things:
 1) remaining faithful to their wives;
 2) keeping embarrassing details of their extramarital affairs out of the newspapers;
 3) and, as a consequence, keeping their jobs.
 The latest imbroglio, concerning the bitter demise of a three-year affair between David Blunkett, the divorced British home secretary, and Kimberly Quinn, the married publisher of The Spectator magazine, is different on a number of counts, starting with the 57-year-old Mr. Blunkett's singular position in British politics. 
 With a broad portfolio that includes immigration, criminal justice, social welfare and antiterrorism, the tough, combative Mr. Blunkett is among the most powerful people in the government and one of Prime Minister Tony Blair's closest allies. 
 He is also blind. He does not like to make an issue of his disability, a fact of his life since birth. He uses a guide dog and reads government documents by having them transcribed into Braille or recorded onto audiotapes. 
 His blindness, and the way he used his prodigious intellect and steely determination to overcome a childhood of nearly Dickensian grimness (among other things, his father died after falling into a vat of boiling water at the factory where he worked) mean that he inspires unusual personal sympathy even among his opponents. 
 ''I hope they will clear him,'' Michael Howard, the Tory leader, said. ''I bear him no ill will.''
 It is a complicated situation, full of media-fueled feints and counterfeints, but here is a trimmed-down version. In 2001, Mr. Blunkett, who had been divorced for years, began an affair with Mrs. Quinn, who had just married her second husband. They appeared in public together; he began wearing a wedding ring; they spent weekends and took vacations together. 
 While this was going on, Mrs. Quinn was trying to have a child. Her husband, Stephen, had an operation to reverse an earlier vasectomy; the couple had fertility treatments and she became pregnant. Two years ago, she gave birth to a son, William, whom Mr. Blunkett regularly saw until August, when his affair with Mrs. Quinn collapsed.
 Mr. Blunkett claims the boy is his son, saying that he ordered a private DNA test and that Mrs. Quinn herself told him at the time that the results were positive. He is now fighting Mrs. Quinn in court for the right to have regular access to William. 
 This, of course, is the opposite of the usual scenario, where a married man toys with the affections of his unmarried mistress but stays with his wife, and then runs screaming for the hills at the first hint of paternity. In 1982, Cecil Parkinson, the British trade secretary, returned to his wife (and lost his job) after his mistress of 12 years, Sara Keays, said she was expecting their child. 
 Last week, Mrs. Quinn's supporters threw a little bomb Mr. Blunkett's way. In leaks to the newspapers, they accused Mr. Blunkett of improperly intervening last year in a visa application by Mrs. Quinn's former nanny. The visa, which gives her the right to remain in Britain indefinitely, was granted in an unusually short time.
 Mr. Blunkett has admitted to having an aide check the application, but has said he did nothing else. An independent investigator is examining the matter.
 But it's even more tortuous. Mrs. Quinn, 44, is now seven months pregnant with a second child, of whom David Blunkett may or may not be the father, and she is in the hospital suffering from stress. Her husband has stuck by her, telling reporters that he considers William and the unborn child to be his own, no matter who their biological father is. 
 Mr. Blunkett's cabinet colleagues have rallied around him, with Mr. Blair declaring his belief that even politicians have a right to private lives. ''Everybody knows he is a straightforward and honest man who has always done his best,'' said the chancellor of the exchequer, Gordon Brown. 
 But others do not see it that way. Lisa Jardine, a feminist scholar, objected to what she said was a widespread notion among the men of Westminster: namely, that Mrs. Quinn is a classic scarlet woman who seduced and then discarded a vulnerable man when he no longer suited her purposes. 
 The home secretary should respect that fact that Mrs. Quinn is pregnant, ill and married, Ms. Jardine said in an interview. ''I find it extraordinary that we are bound to be on his side because he wants to see his child, as if there is some overwhelming benevolence that overrides his bad behavior toward this woman.'' 
 Nor, Ms. Jardine added, does Mr. Blunkett deserve special treatment, or special sympathy. ''The British public has been asked to ignore his blindness entirely, and therefore we must ignore it in this case,'' she said. ''He cannot be exonerated by virtue of his disability.''
 Right now Mr. Blunkett's future looks uncertain, but he is a tough fighter and may well stick it out. Or he may not. Sex scandals involving cabinet ministers almost always end, after the inevitable twisting in the wind, with forced resignations.
 ''In the end, it is Mr. Blunkett who must take a lot of the blame,'' Trevor Kavanagh, The Sun's political editor, wrote last week. ''He may be blind, but he walked into this one with his eyes open.''




Graphic

 
Photos: In Britain's most infamous sex scandal, John Profumo resigned as war secretary in 1963 after it emerged that his girlfriend, Christine Keeler, above, was also the girlfriend of a Soviet spy. (Photos by Lewis Morley/Gallery Luisotti
 left, Scott Barbour/Getty Images)                                                    

Load-Date: December 5, 2004


End of Document
