




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
March 18, 2012 Sunday
TWO STAR EDITION


Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. F-3
Length: 993 words
Byline: Sally Kalson
Body


For all the Republican apoplexy over women and contraception, you never hear any of the party's male politicians manning up with a male chastity pledge that would make birth control less necessary.
It takes two to tango, as they say, but only one gets pregnant, or called a "slut," or is subjected to so much punitive legislation -- most of it authored by men who would faint en masse at the prospect of going through labor and delivery.
There have been some rumblings of a Lysistrata-style rebellion, with women refusing all male advances until they quit waging war (against the female population, in this case).
Yet there's very little mention of the male role in acts of potential procreation. If Republican men have so much reverence for what goes on inside a woman's womb that they will personally stand guard at the entrance, it's time they held themselves to the same standard.
These guys could end their convulsions over birth control tomorrow if they just stopped having sex with women and forced other men to do the same. Or if they underwent vasectomies. Or if they had sex only when both partners intend pregnancy and parenthood to result -- and then they'd better pray that everything goes right because state lawmakers may well be overruling doctors on what type of emergency care for pregnant women is "morally" acceptable.
How would such a chastity pledge read, and how could it be enforced?
"I solemnly swear to abstain from sexual intercourse with any and all human females, paid or unpaid, regardless of age, ethnicity, national origin and marital status, including my own wife, who hasn't let me near her anyway since this whole birth control thing began.
"I further swear to hold my sperm sacred for its zygote-creating potential and to account for every single one my body produces, verified by monthly tests and exams.
"My employer has the right to question me and see the test results, in order to avoid providing medical coverage for behavior he finds morally objectionable."
Pledges, unfortunately, are voluntary and can be broken without penalty. That's why some female legislators are not just fighting against intrusions into the female womb; they're also talking up "revenge legislation" that would give men a taste of their own nasty medicine. Like bills that require annoying and unpleasant prerequisites for obtaining erectile dysfunction drugs -- rectal exams, celibacy lectures, affidavits from ex-partners swearing impotence problems, forced viewing of a video about side effects.
Nina Turner, an Ohio state senator, introduced such a bill recently, saying she wants to "protect" Ohio's men "from the risks of PDE-5 inhibitors, drugs commonly used to treat symptoms of impotence." Since the state's male politicians won't be happy until they have banned both abortion and contraception, she said, turnabout is only fair: "If you want to be preoccupied with regulating women's wombs, we're going to do the same thing with men," she said.
Joke or not, women would have a long way to go before imposing on men anywhere near the punishment that male lawmakers are heaping on women. Most of the laws they're pushing are anti-abortion -- longer waiting periods, redundant clinic visits, "personhood" amendments and more. But by far the most offensive is the forced transvaginal ultrasound, conducted with an internal probe.
Normally, ultrasounds are done externally through "jelly on the belly." But in the first trimester, when 88 percent of abortions take place, the fetus is too undeveloped for a regular ultrasound to show much. So some states are requiring women to submit to an internal one.
Pennsylvania may be headed that way, but Republican Gov. Tom Corbett is blithely dismissive of any undue burden such legislation might cause. After all, women don't have to look at the ultrasound image if they don't want to.
"You just have to close your eyes," he said, sounding for all the world like a 19th-century mother giving her daughter advice on the wedding night. "As long as it's not obtrusive," he added, meaning "intrusive" -- as if a wand forced inside a woman could be anything but. Under other circumstances, it would be considered rape.
The clear goal of all these measures is to surround a perfectly legal procedure with so many land mines that fewer and fewer women will exercise their rights or, if they do, get through the process unscathed.
But even leaving abortion aside, it's the anti-contraceptive efforts that really reek of hypocrisy, seeing as how contraception reduces unintended pregnancies and, hence, abortions.
In Texas, for example, cuts in funding for women's health have brought widespread closure of clinics that provided birth control, as well as screenings for cancers and STDs. The closures have left the state's most vulnerable women with few or no options. These clinics did not provide abortions, but lawmakers, in their zeal to defund Planned Parenthood (97 percent of whose services are not abortion-related), were only too eager to mow down the states' poor and low-income women no matter where they were receiving care.
In Arizona, the Senate Judiciary Committee now wants to ban birth control pills from being used for birth control if they are obtained with health insurance from anti-contraception employers -- unless women show the boss a prescription proving the pills are for some other purpose, such as acne.
Such proposals obviously represent a rebellion against President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act, which exempts religious employers from paying for contraceptive coverage but requires insurers to cover it anyway -- saving the insurers money because preventing pregnancies costs so much less than aborting them or carrying them to term.
But that's not good enough for religious and other objectors who don't want anything that makes birth control more accessible or affordable. That, after all, would mean sex without dire consequences. And we can't have that -- at least, not for women.

Notes

Sally Kalson is a staff writer and columnist for the Post-Gazette (, 412 263-1610)./

Load-Date: March 20, 2012


End of Document
