




The Tampa Tribune (Florida)
March 13, 2008 Thursday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company
Section: NATION/WORLD; Pg. 9
Length: 425 words
Byline: BUZZ KELLY, Community Columnist
Body


By BUZZ KELLY
Community Columnist
Some folks are complaining that Americans are not reproducing enough. They want more fecundity, more new babies.
I suspect there's a different phenomenon at work, which I call Natural Self-Selection: the theory that, having brains and wanting to see humanity evolve to a higher level, some of us choose not to over-produce our own genes.
I'm not talking "eugenics," here. Not suggesting euthanasia. Not recommending racist stereotyping. Just plain old informed choice. Why leave the whole job up to Darwin?
Proof of Darwinian Natural Selection comes in our daily papers. The motorcyclist who tries to joust with an 18-wheeler. The drunk who imbibes heavily and swiftly, then tries to drive home with one eye closed, weaving all over the road. And, most recently, the idiot who went SCUBA diving in shark-filled waters where the boat captain - also an idiot, albeit a pecuniary one - liberally chummed the waters with fish parts, blood, and guts.
The captain provided no shark cage to protect divers, offering the thrill of mimicking prey in front of apex predators. The diver was bitten and died. Cue the weeping for the victim.
I say, praise Darwin, beach the captain, and have pity on the shark.
I've been swimming and diving in saltwater more than 50 years, and rarely seen a shark. Sharks don't like people; they go where fish are and, generally, where people aren't. Leave them alone and they'll leave you alone - that is, as long as you don't act like a wounded fish or a seal on a surfboard.
So can't you just imagine that poor shark, happily chomping fish guts, suddenly finding a piece of idiot human in his mouth, and going "PATOOEY! HURL!" then finding himself blamed for the idiot's death? It's not fair.
A guy naturally selected himself to dive in blood-filled water with hungry sharks and no cage. That's asking for it. That's saying, "I don't care if I live or die, I just want to be thrilled." And it's Darwin's way of saying, "OK, out of the gene pool!"
I'm not exempting myself, by the way. Although I had high hopes for my own progeny, Son No. 1 is into extreme winter sports, and recently separated his shoulder (could have been his neck). Son No. 2 bought a Harley and was promptly side-swiped by a cell-phone-talking housewife in a mini-van.
They've survived so far, but, still ... it makes me glad I had a vasectomy.
Buzz Kelly is a Tampa native, former advertising executive, and freelance writer.
Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without permission. E-mail 

Notes

OTHER VIEWS

Load-Date: March 27, 2008


End of Document
