




The Columbian (Vancouver, WA.)
November 19, 2002, Tuesday


Copyright 2002 The Columbian Publishing Co.
Section: Opinion; Pg. c7
Length: 654 words
Byline: MICHAEL ZUZEL, Columbian editorial writer e-mail address:  e-mail address: ,    
Body


They've been a couple for a while. Their relationship has reached a level of profound emotional intimacy. The moment seems right to express their closeness physically, without fear or inhibition.
But first comes a question: "Are you taking The Pill?"
And this time, he must answer her.
For decades, medical researchers have been looking for a way to balance the family-planning scales -- to develop an oral contraceptive for men that would be as safe and reliable as the birth-control pill has been for women.
Finally, that day may be coming. Researchers claim they're within a few years of marketing a birth-control pill for men. Just a couple of weeks ago, The National Institutes of Health announced a five-year, $ 9.5 million grant for the University of Washington to launch a new Male Contraception Research Center.
But those who predict a second sexual revolution, one in which males share equally in the responsibility for preventing an unwanted pregnancy, may be giving guys too much credit.
Forty-two years have passed since the female pill forever changed women's relationships with men and with their own bodies. So it may seem strange that no pharmaceutical counterpart for men has yet appeared.
In part, blame simple sexism: In the West and most other cultures, child-bearing is still seen as primarily a female problem. It's women, not men, who "get pregnant"; it's unmarried women, not single men, who "have a child out of wedlock"; it's girls, much more than boys, at whom we click our tongues over "teen pregnancy."
But science and physiology are factors, too. It's simply much easier to stop the migration of one female egg per month than it is to immobilize or neutralize the 300 million to 600 million sperm in every male ejaculation. The female birth-control pill works because a woman's hormonal cycle can be fooled into thinking she's pregnant. Men, by contrast, have no cycle: They're always able (and pretty much always willing).
Nonetheless, progress is being made on a male version of The Pill. Researchers in Scotland claim to have found a way to suppress the production of sperm while still maintaining normal testosterone levels -- and without any side effects. A Netherlands-based pharmaceutical company, Organon, is developing an oral contraceptive based on that research and says it will be ready to market by 2005.
Some experts doubt that timetable. Dr. Brad Anawalt, associate professor of medicine at UW and a co-investigator in the Male Contraception Research Center, says it will likely be 10 years or more before any such product hits the pharmacy shelves.
Tables turned
And when it does, so what? My guess is the male birth-control pill won't be a big seller in the United States -- unless maybe it's packaged with Viagra.
Men already have the easier choices in family planning but too often ignore them. Condoms are cheaper and easier than female barrier contraceptive methods, and they help prevent sexually transmitted diseases. Yet up to two-thirds of the 500 million or so condoms sold in the United States each year are purchased by women, not men.
Vasectomy is a much simpler procedure, with fewer risks and side effects, than female sterilization. Yet every year 700,000 American women undergo tubal ligation -- and just 500,000 men get vasectomies.
Anawalt thinks the male pill will prove a popular alternative to vasectomy. "Men … are cowards," he told Seattle public radio station KUOW last week. "If we can avoid surgery, we will, particularly in an area we regard vital to our sensibility and soul."
True, but a lot of guys also will avoid a pill that kills millions of their own sperm particularly if, as always, they can simply leave the woman to deal with the consequences on not taking it.
For 42 years, we've heard men accuse women of lying about taking The Pill and "tricking" them into making a baby. Soon the tables will be turned. And it will be so much easier for the men to lie.

Load-Date: November 22, 2002


End of Document
