




University Wire
July 24, 2006 Monday


Copyright 2006 The Collegiate Times via U-Wire
Section: FILM REVIEW
Length: 611 words
Byline: By Duncan Vick, The Collegiate Times; SOURCE: Virginia Tech
Dateline: BLACKSBURG, Va. 
Body


Marriage changes a man. The first to notice is generally the best friend, who can recognize the many tell-tale signs of domesticity. Poker nights become less frequent, and drinking on a Wednesday afternoon is suddenly "irresponsible."
In theory, a film about the complications that arise between married men and their ex-wingmen has the potential to be funny. And who better to play the role of the 37-year-old who never grew up than Owen Wilson? Insert Joe and Anthony Russo, the directors of the critically acclaimed series "Arrested Development," and all the elements of a successful comedy seem to be in place. That is precisely what makes the failure of "You, Me, and Dupree" so surprising. A dry script, unconvincing characters and a lack of chemistry between Wilson and his cast mates turns this promising premise into 110 minutes of watch-checking boredom.
In the film, Randy Dupree (Owen Wilson) is forced to deal with the loss of his best friend Carl Peterson (Matt Dillon) to the beautiful Molly Thompson (Kate Hudson). After taking off work to be in the wedding as Carl's best man, Dupree loses his job and finds himself broke, homeless and on the newlywed's doorstep. Despite protest from Molly, Carl decides to let Dupree stay with them until he gets back on his feet. It does not take long for the free-spirited Dupree to come into conflict with Carl and Molly's new toned-down lifestyle. Dupree's carefree attitude and fondness for nudity quickly make him an unwelcome guest. He must find a way to make up for his recklessness and renew his relationship with Carl, or be forced back onto the street.
With the exception of one scene in which Dupree eludes a 400-pound security guard using "seven different kinds of smoke," this film is wholly unremarkable. Wilson, best known for his roles in various buddy movies such as "Zoolander" and "Wedding Crashers," fails in his first attempt to go solo in a comedy. The vast majority of the film is slow-moving and tedious.
A handful of funny scenes are spread sporadically throughout the movie -- but they are few and far between. Too much of the screen time is spent trying to develop the dull relationship between Carl and Molly. This problem is compounded by the fact that neither Dillon nor Hudson is particularly funny in this film. The result is a movie that relies on Wilson, who also produced it, to be the sole source of comedy throughout.
However, Dupree cannot be on screen for two and a half hours (thank goodness), and when he is absent the film tries unsuccessfully to be touching and romantic. Even recycling a popular line, word for word, from "Wedding Crashers" couldn't breathe life into this dull comedy. ("I'll make it rain out here" again? What were the writers thinking?)
One bright spot in the film is Michael Douglas' performance as Molly's overbearing father. After focusing almost entirely on drama, Douglas' return to comedy is amusing and fresh -- something sorely needed in this film. He plays Mr. Thompson, an egocentric CEO of a land development company -- and Carl's boss. Thompson is ruthless in his attempts to come between Carl and his baby girl -- attempts that include suggesting that Carl get a vasectomy, as well as adopt the Thompson surname in place of his own. Thompson's frequent clashes with Carl provide much of the film's humor. Unfortunately, it is not enough to salvage this sluggish comedy.
After hitting box-office gold in films that pair him with Ben Stiller and Vince Vaughn, this movie shows that that an Owen Wilson production missing 50 percent of the usual star power creates a film that is roughly half as entertaining.
(C) 2006 The Collegiate Times via U-WIRE

Load-Date: July 24, 2006


End of Document
