




USA TODAY
October 26, 2006 Thursday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS; Pg. 1C
Length: 1201 words
Byline: Tom Weir
Body


Imagine being blanketed by two tons of humanity. It happens to poor souls throughout the NFL every Sunday, whenever there's a pileup and bodies fly onto the heap.
Pileups are the NFL's hidden torture chamber, where dirty tricksters often get away with pokes, gouges and worse.
Denver Broncos defensive tackle Gerard Warren prefers not to discuss the misery in those stacks of flailing arms and legs as players grab and grope for the ball. Ask about pileups, he shakes his head. "Man, the bottom of the pile is a place you don't want to be."
His reticence is understandable, given the details that come with full disclosure. Consider Miami Dolphins defensive tackle Vonnie Holliday's account of a below-the-belt play early in his nine-year career.
"I remember one time an offensive lineman grabbed my genitals," Holliday says. "I mean, he grabbed my genitals. I couldn't believe it."
Even so, Holliday and other players believe pileup abuse has been reduced in today's game. "It seems like everything you do now is caught on tape," he says. "And if you do it, you are going to get caught, and I think guys have realized that."
The NFL's harder line on dirty play was made clear after the head-stomp by Tennessee Titans defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth on Dallas Cowboys center Andre Gurode on Oct. 1. Getting up from a goal-line running play, the 320-pound Haynesworth used his cleats to dig seven facial lacerations that required 30 stitches for the helmet-less Gurode.
Haynesworth's stomp was replayed dozens of times and set off an immediate media demand for severe punishment. His five-game suspension is the longest in NFL history for an on-field act, and Tennessee law enforcement volunteered to assist criminal prosecution. But Gurode declined.
"There is less going on today because everything is on TV," Chicago Bears linebacker Brian Urlacher says. "If they see something like that, you can get fined, suspended. You saw what happened to Haynesworth."
But Urlacher, who had one scratched eye when an opponent poked him in a pileup, says it still can get gruesome when there's a stack of 300-pound linemen fighting for the ball. "Most of the stories you hear are about guys getting their (testicles) grabbed and twisted. That's the main thing."
Pileup abuse is nothing new
Dolphins defensive tackle Jeff Zgonina, a 14-year veteran, says most of the legendary dirty players have retired. "In the old days, they were a lot dirtier. The old, crusty guys would get you."
What Zgonina sees now is, "They'll take a couple extra jabs at you in the pileup, a couple low blows here and there, a couple shots to the eyes."
Seattle Seahawks center Robbie Tobeck says: "People think a lot goes on there, and I have been punched and gouged. But to be honest, the last few years in the league have been pretty tame. I think the game has cleaned up a little bit. I really do."
Most celebrated of the old-time cheap-shot artists was Conrad Dobler, an offensive lineman from 1972-81 with the then-St. Louis Cardinals, New Orleans Saints and Buffalo Bills. The title of his autobiography? They Call Me Dirty.
Dobler, 56, capitalized on his bad-boy reputation in Miller Lite commercials but in recent years has downplayed it, although he says he still fields a media call nearly every week.
Dobler has long maintained that, contrary to his image, he only bit one player, Minnesota Vikings defensive lineman Doug Sutherland. He adds it happened at the line of scrimmage, not in a pileup.
"If I'm going to punch someone, I want a good angle and a lot of room to work," Dobler says.
He also says finger-biting didn't originate with him. "Lee Roy Jordan did it to me before I did it to anyone," Dobler says of the former Cowboys linebacker.
Still, one of Dobler's most oft-quoted lines is, "Some people get vasectomies. I used to give 'em."
The biggest difference between today's pileups and the ones from his era, Dobler says, is the increase in players' weights. Dobler played at 250 pounds; most linemen today are at least 300.
"I look at those guys, and I wonder how they're going to do in retirement," he says. "I don't think half of them are going to see 55."
As for the Haynesworth incident, Dobler says, "That guy should have had criminal charges pressed against him and been thrown out of the league."
Anything goes -- if you're not caught
Pileups are viewed as a safe place to exact revenge for any cheap shots from an adversary.
"It's never happened to me," Titans linebacker Keith Bulluck says. "If it does go on, whoever they do it to probably deserves it."
Most of the time,  former NFL defensive lineman Mike Golic says, the violence in a pileup is inspired by trying to win the game.
"What usually goes on in there has nothing to do with what Haynesworth did," says Golic, co-host of ESPN Radio's Mike & Mike in the Morning show. "Usually it's about going for the ball."
When bodies fly to grab a fumble, Golic says, "Quite honestly, anything goes."
"You do what you've got to do, and anything is open, if you know what I mean," he says. "A finger will get bent back, and some guys will break it."
Golic, who played in the NFL from 1986-93, says his most memorable anything-goes moment came while with the Philadelphia Eagles. On the bottom was one of his closest friends, then-Eagles punter Jeff Feagles.
"Two guys had hit him, and by the time I got over, there were a couple of guys on his back," Golic says. "I reached down and I started choking the guy. I just started squeezing.
"I was just, as we like to say, getting his attention."
When pileups occur, Golic says, the smart thing to do is yank opponents off rather than jump on.
"Pull off the different colored jerseys," he says.
Although ball possession does sometimes switch hands, Golic believes NFL referees usually get the call right because of their aggressiveness.
"The thing I love is that referees dive right in there, these guys who don't have pads," he says. "They don't stand back, like in the NHL when they watch a hockey fight. These guys jump in."
Perhaps the most important change of possession that's claimed to have occurred in a pileup happened in Super Bowl XXII. The Denver Broncos had taken a 10-0 lead on the Washington Redskins late in the first quarter. The Redskins' Ricky Sanders fumbled the ensuing kickoff, setting off a wild scrum.
Denver's Ken Bell contended he recovered the loose ball, but when the pileup was pulled apart the ball was in the hands of Washington's Ravin Caldwell. Washington then scored the first of five second-quarter touchdowns en route to a 42-10 win.
As Buffalo Bills defensive end Chris Kelsay says, "You see it happen so often -- the guy who gets the ball first is rarely the guy who comes out of the pileup with it."
Kelsay had that in mind when he got his first NFL fumble recovery in 2004. "My forearm was cramping up I was squeezing the ball so hard," he says.
Haynesworth aside, Kelsay agrees the NFL's dirtiest days have passed.
"For the most part, everybody has genuine respect for those who play the game," Kelsay says. "You never want to hurt anybody intentionally."
Unless, of course, you're sure no one can see.
Contributing: Chris Colston
*Talk football with USA TODAY's
Larry Weisman at 2 p.m. ET today
at nfl.usatoday.com 

Graphic

 
PHOTO, Color,Thomas B. Shea,US Presswire
PHOTO,color,Rick Hossman,AP
PHOTO, B/W,Brian Bahr,Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W,John Russell,AP

Load-Date: October 26, 2006


End of Document
