




Tampa Bay Times
May 14, 2021 Friday


Copyright 2021 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pinellas
Length: 492 words
Byline: Jack Evans
Body


A Pinellas County Sheriff's deputy made unwanted sexual overtures to multiple women who called the agency for help, leading to his firing Monday, Sheriff Bob Gualtieri said.
Brian Overton, a former St. Pete Beach police officer who joined the Sheriff's Office when it took over that jurisdiction in 2013, admitted that he regularly used his position as a law enforcement officer to pursue sex with women he met on the job, Gualtieri said.
Overton comes from a prominent family in the Florida legal world: His father, William Overton, served for decades as a Pinellas County Court judge, and his grandfather, Ben Overton, was a Florida Supreme Court justice.
Multiple complaints precipitated Overton's firing, Gualtieri said.
In August 2020, Gualtieri said, Overton responded to a call from a woman in St. Pete Beach whose father had just died. Afterward, Overton "started having contact with her trying to start a relationship with her, telling her he wanted to help," Gualtieri said.
Overton never initiated physical contact, Gualtieri said, but what he did was inappropriate. He was given a written reprimand.
Then, in February of this year, Overton responded to a child abuse complaint from a woman who was in a custody battle with her ex-husband, Gualtieri said. He found no evidence of child abuse, but he told the woman that he'd still have to file a report with the Department of Children and Families.
Early the next morning, Gualtieri said, Overton texted the woman to ask if she had any animals in the house, because the Department of Children and Families was asking. But this was a rouse to get her attention, Gualtieri said: He didn't report the case to the Department of Children and Families until hours later.
Later that morning, the woman responded, Gualtieri said. Over the course of more than 30 text messages, Overton commented on her looks, told her he'd had a vasectomy and made other sexual comments.
The woman told her current husband that the texts upset her but that she feared going to the Sheriff's Office, should Overton retaliate, Gualtieri said. The husband filed a complaint later that day.
While investigating that complaint, Gualtieri said, deputies learned about another incident: When Overton responded as backup to a traffic stop in the Seminole area, he looked at the woman behind the wheel and immediately turned around. Gualtieri said deputies learned Overton left the scene when he realized he knew the woman, who was suspected of driving under the influence - they had met on the dating app Plenty of Fish.
Investigators interviewed Overton, who admitted that he regularly passed out business cards to women he met on the job, hoping the connections would result in sex. He sometimes used photos of himself in uniform in his come-ons, Gualtieri said.
"This is a predator," Guatlieri said.
"He's using the Sheriff's Office, as a deputy, as his playground for his sexual escapades," the Sheriff added. "It's a terrible situation."

Graphic

 

Brian Overton, a member of a prominent Florida legal family, admitted to using his position as a deputy to pursue sex with civilian women, Pinellas County Sheriff Bob Gualtieri said.

Load-Date: May 17, 2021


End of Document
