




Special Sections
August 24, 2022 Wednesday
1 Edition


Copyright 2022 Special Sections All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A7
Length: 1206 words
Byline: By, Shari Rudavsky, Indianapolis Star
Body


Clinics that provide abortions in Indiana are seeing more patients than ever these days as pregnant people from as far as away as Texas travel here for care.
That could change dramatically next month when the state's near total ban is scheduled to take effect, limiting not only who can have abortions but also where they can be performed.
The state's new policy not only restricts abortions to cases of rape, incest for the first 10 weeks or to prevent serious risk to the life or health of the mother, it also mandates that abortions can only be performed in hospitals or their ambulatory surgical centers.
Less than 2% of the abortions in Indiana in 2021 occurred in a hospital, according to the Indiana Department of Health; the vast majority took place in one of seven free-standing abortion clinics across the state that would not qualify under the law.
Now those seven centers are bracing to either shut their doors completely or find a way to pivot resources on Sept. 15, when the ban is set to go into effect.
Just over half of the abortions in Indiana are performed at one of four Planned Parenthood clinics. The organization is currently exploring "every legal option available to us to stop this law from going into effect," said Rebecca Gibron, interim CEO of Planned Parenthood of Great Northwest, Hawaii, Alaska, Indiana and Kentucky.
If their efforts do not succeed, the Indiana Planned Parenthood clinics will remain open and continue providing the health services they currently offer outside of abortion care, which include wellness visits, gender affirming care, and sexually transmitted infection care, Gibron said. A little less than one-fifth of the visits to Planned Parenthood of Great Northwest, Hawaii, Alaska, Indiana and Kentucky clinics in 2020 were for abortion care, according to the organization's annual report.
Planned Parenthood clinics will also continue to provide whatever care they can under the law to patients seeking abortions, Gibron said. The organization has invested in its patient navigator team to help patients who want to seek abortion care out of state.
"Unfortunately we anticipated this moment," Gibron said. "We have been preparing for this moment and are ready to help our patients access care.... Unlike the extreme lawmakers in this state, we're not going to turn our backs on our patients."
Much remains unknown about the future of abortion in Indiana. It's not clear how many of the more than 8,000 abortions performed in 2021 would be legal under the new law. It's also unclear whether in the absence of independent clinics the handful of hospitals that currently perform the procedure will be able to handle care, Gibron said.
While Indiana law does allows limited exceptions, experts predict that no matter what happens, pregnant people will suffer. A total abortion ban is expected to result in a 21% increase in pregnancy related deaths for all women, and a 33% increase for Black women.
Some clinics will likely close
Staying open is not an option for some other independent abortion clinics in the state. Last month the Women's Medical Center saw twice as many patients in Indianapolis office as in past months, treating people from Kentucky, Tennessee, and Texas said a clinic spokesperson in an email who asked not to be identified for security reasons.
Although Ohio's fetal heartbeat law went into effect the day the Dobbs decision came down, the center's sister clinic in Dayton has continued offering terminations for "just several" patients a week who are less than six weeks pregnant, the spokesperson said. About 50 patients a week who don't qualify are seen in Dayton pre-op and then drive to the Indianapolis clinic for abortions.
Most likely the clinic will close its Indianapolis site shortly after Sept. 15, the spokesperson said, after specializing in abortion care for more than four decades.
Similarly, Whole Women's Health of South Bend plans to close its doors unless there's a successful legal appeal to the law. The half dozen employees affected have been told to prepare for layoffs and, if they're willing to relocate, to apply for internal jobs.
"With the limited services that we would be able to provide, it's just not financially viable for us to be open," said Sharon Lau, Midwest advocacy director for Whole Women's Health Alliance.
About five years ago when the organization began planning its South Bend clinic, which opened three years ago, no one foresaw the overturn of Roe, Lau said. Providers at the site have performed more than 1,100 first-trimester medication abortions in the past three years.
Since the Dobbs decision, patients have come from Ohio, Kentucky, Texas and even Illinois, as wait times for abortions in that state have increased, Lau said.
Whole Women's Health has a clinic in Bloomington, Minn., which has absorbed some patients and the organization is looking at options in Illinois, Lau said. It's not clear what will happen with the South Bend clinic, which is owned by Whole Women's Health Alliance.
Some abortion clinics might pivot care
Mate Fertility, a consortium of fertility clinics that aim to provide affordable fertility care, has been talking with abortion providers in states unfriendly to the procedure, said Traci Keen, CEO of the consortium of clinics in Oklahoma City, San Luis Obispo, Calif., Fairfax, Va. and Wichita, Kan. Some abortion clinics might opt to pivot to offer fertility treatment to those who might not otherwise have had access to such care, due to geographic or financial barriers.
The company focuses on finding OB-GYNs in smaller cities, where patients seeking fertility treatment might otherwise have to travel for the highly expensive care. Mate Fertility pricing tends to be about 30% more affordable than typical, Keen said, costing about $8,900 a cycle.
"A lot of providers of both services, what they really care about is providing equitable access to reproductive care," she said. "A lot of these providers are facing shuttering their doors. This is a way for them to continue providing care."
Doctors at Planned Parenthood clinics will continue to provide services outside of abortion such as cancer biopsies, navigating patients' complex contraceptive needs and helping with difficult IUD insertions and removals, said Dr. Amy Caldwell, an OB-GYN who works at clinics in Indianapolis and Louisville.
Earlier this year the organization started offering gender affirming care and could expand services further. One area that's been speculatively mentioned is expanding into services like sexual health and libido disorders, pelvic pain and vasectomies, she said.
Some Planned Parenthood clinics in other states already offer the surgical sterilization procedure for men. Those in Indiana currently do not.
For now, however, Planned Parenthood has made no definitive decisions about expanding care.
"Right now we are focused on really deciphering what the law will and will not allow us to do. What impact that has on the needs and what we can do for our patients I think will only be revealed with time," Caldwell said. "We're committed to be here for the foreseeable future but a lot is still unknown."
Contact IndyStar reporter Shari Rudavsky at  Follow her on Twitter @srudavsky.

Graphic

 
Anti-abortion rights protesters hand out anti-abortion literature, outside the entrance to Planned Parenthood - Georgetown Health Center on Tuesday, Aug.16, 2022, in Indianapolis.
Michelle Pemberton/IndyStar

Load-Date: August 24, 2022


End of Document
