




Centralmaine.com
November 21, 2024 Thursday


Copyright 2024 Kennebec Journal and Morning Sentinel  All Rights Reserved


Length: 530 words
Body


Volunteers Marian Starkey, right, and Sheera LaBelle let people into the building that houses the Planned Parenthood clinic in Portland in September 2022. Gregory Rec/Staff Photographer
Planned Parenthood of Northern New England says requests for long-acting reversible contraceptives has nearly doubled at its clinics since the Nov. 5 election that resulted in Republicans gaining control of Congress and the White House.
In the week after the election, Planned Parenthood of Northern New England received 215 appointment requests for the long-acting contraceptives, including birth control implants and intrauterine devices, at its clinics in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont, almost twice as much as its normal weekly bookings of 111. In Maine, bookings went from an average of 26 weekly appointments to 48 in the week after the election.
While President-elect Donald Trump has said he would not support a national abortion plan, reproductive rights advocates have doubted that he would refuse to sign such a bill.
Advocates have also raised concerns that the Trump administration will restrict access to reproductive health services and could try to use a 19th Century law - the Comstock Act - to forbid shipping mifepristone, the abortion pill, across state lines - a claim Trump said denied during the campaign.
Abortion rights advocates also warned that a Trump administration could also make it more difficult to access contraceptives.
Almost all Republican politicians are anti-abortion, and starting in January Republicans will control all levers of the federal government, with the presidency, both houses of Congress and the U.S. Supreme Court has a conservative majority.
Advertisement
Nicole Clegg, CEO of Planned Parenthood of Northern New England, said in a statement that "our patients are worried."
"They are concerned that they may not be able to access the care they need or make the best choices for their health. Election outcomes shouldn't have this type of impact on people's lives. People shouldn't wake up one morning and find that getting the method of birth control they want or need is now out of their hands. These are personal decisions and shouldn't be subject to political whims."
The Supreme Court in 2022 reversed Roe v. Wade, leaving decisions about whether abortion is legal up to the states. While Maine passed laws increasing access to abortion, 21 states either banned abortion outright or placed strict restrictions on abortion care.
The first Trump administration, which ran from 2017-20, instituted a gag order on what abortion clinics could say about abortion care to their patients, resulting in a cut in federal funding to Planned Parenthood.
In addition to the spike in long-acting contraceptives,  the number vasectomy consultations in the first two weeks of November, 26, had already surpassed Planned Parenthood of Northern New England's monthly average of 23.
Also, Planned Parenthood has experienced an increase in patients reaching out about potential reduced access to gender-affirming care during the Trump administration, although there was no data released about an increase in these concerns.
This story will be updated.
Copy the Story Link

Load-Date: November 21, 2024


End of Document
