




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
April 10, 2016 Sunday
Main Edition


Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: C; Pg. 003
Length: 313 words
Byline: Vince Grippi From the Sportslink blog
Body


GRIP ON SPORTS
 Friday: It's one of the rites of spring, isn't it? Watching the Masters, listening to the birds around Augusta National sing their songs and wondering if CBS is piping in special effects.
 Being someone who has sat in CenturyLink with earplugs embedded deeply, I'm not going to accuse anyone else of magnifying natural sounds. I don't think the Hawks do it - despite the occasional rumor around the league that they do - so I'm going to give CBS the benefit of the doubt.
 Still, the bird noises can get annoying loud, especially on the online feed. One of the featured groups on Masters.com yesterday was Jordan Spieth's, so I had that on my computer as I worked.
 It only took a few minutes of sparrows and robins and whatever else chirping away before I employed the mute button, though the announcers picked to call the action online also had something to do with it.
 The lack of sound didn't curtail any of the enjoyment of watching an excellent golfer dice up an excellent course. It was precision over power. And even the birds seemed to enjoy it.
 Thursday: If you know of my oft-professed enjoyment of watching the Masters, you may think that what is to follow is, well, my version of a vasectomy. Far from it. How in the heck does one get through the entire winter healthy and then, when the weather turns nice, come down with a cold? How do the ears plug up, the nose begin to hurt, the head ache when it's finally 60 degrees outside? I don't know. But it's happened. Happened yesterday afternoon actually. After a nearly hour of walking around in the glorious sunshine. So here I sit, the throat burning, the phone ringing without actually ringing and the video feed from Augusta National on my computer as I type. Hey, the complaining is not an excuse for a short post. Honestly. It's just what it is. Hopefully, I'll feel better by, I don't know, Monday.

Load-Date: April 15, 2016


End of Document
