





The Columbian (Vancouver, WA.)
July 30, 2000, Sunday


Copyright 2000 The Columbian Publishing Co.
Section: Opinion; Pg. c10
Length: 940 words
Byline: Columbian editorial writers
Body


PRIMARY LISTS SET
September choices provide plenty of fodder for discussion about directions of civic life
Will Don Bonker finally break the jinx against people from Southwest Washington winning election to statewide office?
Will Mike the Mover at last catch the attention of voters after changing his name and getting a spot on every ballot for many years?
Will Republican candidates for governor tear each other up so severely in the primary that neither will have left what it takes to defeat incumbent Gov. Gary Locke in November? Will Locke be distracted by his primary challenger, Meta Heller of Olympia?
Will the state Supreme Court eventually fill up with people whose names sound sort of familiar but whose legal credentials are thin or questionable?
Those are some of the questions Washington voters will answer between now and the Sept. 19 primary.
Unfortunately for the value and validity of the process if not necessarily for the eventual outcome too few qualified electors among us may deem the exercise worth their while.
Who really cares, they may wonder, which of an ambitious gaggle nails down the beginning of the next dynasty in the secretary of state's corner of the Legislative Building in Olympia now that Ralph Munro is giving it up?
Why take the trouble, they may muse, to sort out all those people who put their names on the list of would-be Clark County freeholders?
The former question is more valid than the latter, in fact. Munro has been a champion secretary of state, but not because he acquitted himself well in the duties spelled out for the office. There really isn't all that much to do spelled out in statues. Munro shone because of what else he made of the office, most notably as a bully puppet for preaching expanded suffrage in Washington.
The discussions the freeholders' conduct and the new county charter they propose in a couple of years could have a lot to do with Clark County life for a long time to come. The 52 people who are seeking those positions are our friends, neighbors, civic leaders and public pests. The voters will decide whether the board of freeholders will be best served by a long-time courthouse denizen or by the county's most loudly public lawyer. In at least once case, voters will decide whether a husband and wife should be elected to sit on the board together. All of the 18 contested seats will be on the September ballot. Ten seats sought by more than two candidates each will be settled in November unless a candidate gets more than a majority of the primary votes cast for that position.
Bonker, Lowry back
One of the interesting sets of primary decisions will be whether the general election ballot features as many as four former congressmen. Apart from Bonker, who served the 3rd District of Southwest Washington for several terms, former Gov. and former U.S. Rep. Mike Lowry and former Rep. Mike Kreidler are in primary contests. Bonker has three Democrats to beat in his quest to succeed Munro as secretary of state. Lowry faces four, including Mike the Mover, in his try to become state commissioner of public lands.
Kreidler probably has the clearest shot at the november ballot as he faces only one other Democrat in his try to succeed Insurance Commissioner Deborah Senn.
Senn will be half the action in the primary where most money will be spent. She hopes to defeat yet another former member of Congress, Maria Cantwell, for a shot at Sen. Slade Gorton, R-Wash.
D. Michael Heywood, for the editorial board
FACE TO FACE
As a current lawsuit contends, is it sexual discrimination for a company not to include contaceptives in its health plan?
Yes:It's especially so if an insurance provider pays for vasectomies, Viagra and other male-specific types of reproductive health care, as many currently do.
Even if it doesn't cover those things, though, any basic health plan ought to include female contraception. For most of the 60 million U.S. women of child-bearing age, 70 percent of whom are sexually active, birth control is the only kind of medical attention they'll typically need. Pregnancy has profound implications for a woman's physical, mental and emotional health. To refuse to pay for contraceptives while covering other prescription medications discriminates against women in the most serious and far-reaching aspect of their lives.
Anti-abortion advocates ought to be pushing hardest for contraception coverage. Forced to choose between paying $ 300 a year out of pocket for birth control or risking pregnancy, some women may end up rolling the fertility dice and relying on abortion as their form of birth control.
Michael Zuzel
No:Birth control is not a right. It is a benefit, as is all company-provided health insurance. Additional coverage points cost money. And despite common myth, birth control coverage does not save money in the long run, Regence BlueShield reports.
Still, an employee of Bartell Drug Co., with help from Planned Parenthood, is suing her employer. She doesn't like paying for her own pills. The lawsuit insists such pills are part of a woman's basic health care and further, that not including contraceptives in the company plan is sexual discrimination never mind that the plan also does not cover Viagra or infertility drugs, or that preventing pregnancy is both a men's and women's issue. How ever false, using words like sexual discrimination aims to arouse girl power in 51 percent of the population to win the suit at least in the public square.
Should a company pay the extra money it takes to offer this benefit? Certainly, if it can. Pleasing employees is great business. But not doing so is hardly sexual discrimination.
Elizabeth Hovde

Load-Date: July 31, 2000


End of Document
