




Salt Lake Tribune (Utah)
March 31, 2001, Saturday


Copyright 2001 The Salt Lake Tribune
Section: Final; Pg. B1
Length: 731 words
Byline: ASHLEY ESTES , THE SALT LAKE TRIBUNE
Body


At age 5, Anthony is just learning to crawl and stand. He is one of 10 babies born to the same drug-addicted mother. Each was addicted to drugs at birth.
Anthony's older brother is brain-damaged, still in diapers at age 7. Seven of his other siblings are developmentally delayed. Four are HIV-positive. To date, taxpayers have paid more than $ 5 million for the siblings' combined care.
Children like Anthony are what prompted California mother Barbara Harris to found Children Requiring a Caring Kommunity, or C.R.A.C.K., a group with a controversial mission. Since its 1997 inception, C.R.A.C.K.'s Project Prevention has paid drug-addicted men and women $ 200 to obtain long-term or permanent birth control.
Drug addicts care about drugs, not babies, Harris said Friday as Project Prevention unveiled its Salt Lake City chapter. And addicts are motivated by money.
Kathryn Kair, a Salt Lake psychologist who regularly evaluates drug-addicted children and their parents, is trying to spread the word about the new group.
"I really felt like I had to do something," Kair said. "I see this all the time."
But how the proposal -- which has drawn fire even in the most liberal communities -- will be received in Salt Lake City remains to be seen. Organizations such as Planned Parenthood Association of Utah and Utahns for Choice voiced their opposition to the plan.
"We don't believe in coercion of any kind when it comes to contraception or family planning," said Carrie Galloway, executive director of Planned Parenthood Association of Utah. Utahns for Choice referred questions to Galloway.
C.R.A.C.K. and its proponents claim male and female drug addicts are often responsible for multiple pregnancies, resulting in children they cannot care for. These children frequently are born addicted to drugs and bear lasting effects from their parents' drug use. Many are released into burgeoning foster-care systems.
Harris insists participation in the program is voluntary. Of the nearly 400 men and women who have taken advantage of the program, none has regretted the decision, she said Friday. Some applicants have been pregnant up to 12 times, often undergoing multiple abortions.
"To me, that's very hypocritical," Harris said of the groups' stance. "We also think it's immoral to subject women to repeated abortions."
Harris, the mother of four adopted children born to the same drug-addicted woman, founded the group after unsuccessfully pushing legislation in California that would have made drug treatment and birth control mandatory for any woman giving birth to a substance-exposed child. Women refusing the treatment would have been subject to jail time.
C.R.A.C.K.'s Web site, , features glowing recommendations and testimonials from foster parents, nurses, and others including controversial radio talk-show host Laura Schlessinger.
"I wish you had come to me with your birth control offer years ago so I wouldn't have had 14 babies," says one comment from a client.
To receive payment, addicts must obtain birth control like Depo-Provera, Norplant or tubal ligation. Males are eligible for the payment if they receive vasectomies. Clients are paid when they verify treatment with written notice from a clinic. Females choosing methods such as Depo-Provera receive the $ 200 every year when it is renewed, Harris said.
But C.R.A.C.K.'s proposal raises the issue of whether drug addicts are capable of making informed decisions on such matters, Galloway said. "The people we're talking about providing incentives to are some of our most vulnerable populations."
Addicts are indeed capable of making decisions, Harris said Friday. "They decide how to get their next fix. They decide who to have sex with."
But most importantly, she said, "they don't want to have any more kids. I don't know why people can't understand that."
She said she refers addicts to treatment programs, but can't make them seek help.
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has criticized Harris' group, saying it targets black women and calls to mind the "population control" programs among blacks in the early 1900s in the South.
But Harris, whose husband and adopted children are black, said more white addicts have taken advantage of the program than black ones. "Those [who accuse her of racism] are just minds that you can't change," she said.
e-mail:   

Load-Date: March 31, 2001


End of Document
