




The New York Times
June 2, 2004 Wednesday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14
Length: 858 words
Byline: By DEAN E. MURPHY
Dateline: REDWOOD CITY, Calif., June 1 
Body


For a year and a half, the deaths of Laci Peterson and her fetus have been among the most talked-about crimes in America, with every detail, true or supposed, picked apart on television, in newspapers and over bowls of popcorn on living room couches.
 On Tuesday, the process finally moved into a courtroom as the murder trial of Ms. Peterson's husband, Scott, 31, got under way in San Mateo County Superior Court here. This time it was Rick Distaso, the lead prosecutor in the case, who delved into detail after detail in an opening statement that was so exhaustive that the judge had to delay until Wednesday the response by Mr. Peterson's lawyer, Mark Geragos.
 ''We will just go along with the program,'' the judge, Alfred A. Delucchi, said in announcing the delay.
 It was clear from the outset that Mr. Distaso, a senior deputy district attorney in Stanislaus County, where the Petersons lived, assumed that the jurors knew a lot about the case. He spent no time on the basics or even introducing the Petersons. At one point, when showing the photograph of a woman scheduled to testify, he suggested to the jurors that they had already seen her many times.
 ''Think back to Dec. 24,'' Mr. Distaso said in beginning his remarks, a reference to the day in 2002 when Ms. Peterson was reported missing from her home in Modesto, a farming town about 70 miles east of here where she lived with Mr. Peterson, a fertilizer salesman. Mr. Peterson has been charged with two counts of murder in the deaths.
 Mr. Distaso then spent the morning and much of the afternoon methodically flipping through the pages of the calendar, building the prosecution's case against Mr. Peterson piece by piece, mostly raising doubts about Mr. Peterson by pointing out contradictions in his alibi and suspicions voiced by friends and relatives. Much of the information was not new, having been discussed at Mr. Peterson's preliminary hearing or on the countless television shows that have been devoted to the case.
 But Mr. Distaso had little choice. Though Ms. Peterson's body, and that of her fetus, were found in April 2003 in San Francisco Bay, they were so decomposed that experts could not determine how or when she died. With no cause of death, no witnesses and no murder weapon, Mr. Distaso spent his day laying out a circumstantial case against Mr. Peterson that one lawyer friendly to his cause characterized as a double-themed prosecution based on Mr. Peterson's ''secrets and lies.''
 ''On television there are smoking guns, but in real life, prosecutors are faced with the challenge of building a house brick by brick,'' said the lawyer, Gloria Allred, who represents Amber Frey, who was having an affair with Mr. Peterson. Ms. Frey is considered the prosecution's star witness, but it is unclear when she will testify in a trial that court officials say could last five or six months.
 In summing up late in the afternoon, Mr. Distaso sounded his core contention. ''Ladies and gentlemen,'' he said. ''This is a common-sense case.''
 Mr. Distaso told the jurors that the doubts about Mr. Peterson began with his first phone call to his mother-in-law, Sharon Rocha, on Dec. 24, and continued through the day of his arrest on April 18, 2003, when he was found in Southern California with his brother's driver's license, nearly $15,000 and a car full of clothing and camping equipment.
 ''He says, 'Mom, Laci's missing,''' Mr. Distaso told the jury of Mr. Peterson's first phone call after returning home from a fishing trip Dec. 24. ''Right then, Sharon Rocha knew that things were very seriously wrong.''
 Many of the suspicions revolve around Mr. Peterson's relationship with Ms. Frey, whom he had told in a tearful exchange more than a month before Ms. Peterson's disappearance that he had ''lost'' his wife, Mr. Distaso said. Ms. Frey has said she did not know he was married until she heard about Ms. Peterson's disappearance in the news.
 ''I worry, hope and desire to make you happy,'' Mr. Peterson was quoted telling Ms. Frey in one of several cellphone conversations taped by Ms. Frey at the request of the Modesto police. In another conversation, Mr. Distaso said, he told Ms. Frey that he did not want to have children and said he was considering having a vasectomy.
 On Dec. 31, when friends and relatives in Modesto held a prayer vigil for Ms. Peterson and her fetus, Mr. Peterson was on his cellphone several times speaking with Ms. Frey, Mr. Distaso said. He told her that he was in Europe on a business trip, Mr. Distaso said, though he was in fact in Modesto. 
 A day earlier, Mr. Distaso said, when shown a photograph by the police of himself with Ms. Frey, Mr. Peterson replied incredulously, ''Is that supposed to be me?'' 
 The trial had originally been set to take place in Modesto, but was moved here after a judge there determined Mr. Peterson could not get a fair trial. Even here in San Mateo County, about 15 miles south of San Francisco, it took three months to whittle through the pool of potential jurors to find 12 who had not made up their minds about Mr. Peterson's guilt or innocence.                                                          



Load-Date: June 2, 2004


End of Document
