




The Tampa Tribune (Florida)
March 14, 2006 Tuesday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: METRO; Pg. 1
Length: 550 words
Byline: DANIEL RUTH, , 
Body


You have to hand it to John Palm. It certainly takes a lot of - uh, er, hmm, well, it just takes an awful lot of - G-string to ride down Bayshore Boulevard on a bicycle wearing nothing more than a court jester's hat and what looked like a hairnet covering his - oh, never mind.
Then again, I didn't look that closely.
Sunday marked World Naked Bike Ride Day in Tampa, a festive occasion marked by people doing unspeakable things to bicycle seats.
The obvious problem, though, with something called World Naked Bike Ride Day is that while in places like infidel Seattle people do all sorts of things in public in the nude, had Palm and his fellow buff bikers fully disrobed in Tampa to protest the war in Iraq, the dependence on foreign oil and just stuff in general, they would have been carted off to the hoosegow by the city's appointed genitalia gendarme, police Lt. G.P. McNamarra.
Modest Affair
McNamarra and her T-Back troops were fully prepared with hospital gowns to confront Palm and his birthday-suit bikers if they even thought about exposing themselves during their protest ride from Bayshore Patriots Park to MacDill Air Force Base, which was fully staffed to repel an assault of unpastified bare breasts should it have come to that.
As it turned out, Sunday's protest was a relatively modest affair, or about as modest as something can get that looks like a convention of plumbers' cracks pedaling down Bayshore Boulevard.
About 13 riders participated, including nine men in G-strings and four women who opted out of giving it up for free speech.
Palm explained the need to go au naturel was to symbolize "the vulnerability of the human body to war."
It also could be argued a naked man on a bike could fall prey to that weapon of mass sterilization, the bicycle seat, or as it is otherwise known, a bris on wheels.
It's Tampa
Palm agreed: "There are some obstacles; that's why it's good to wrap the seat with a soft cushion," which seemed a good time to move on to other questions because the subject of bike vasectomies had pretty well been exhausted.
All in all, Sunday's World Sort of Naked Bike Ride was in the classic tradition of American peaceful protest. Thomas Jefferson would have been proud, especially if more women had participated. Ben Franklin, too.
Even Palm had to cover up.
"Tampa was more than gracious," Palm said of the police's help and cooperation. Well, it is Tampa, John, a city whose official seal ought to have a brass pole, silicone implants and lap.
Still, the MacDill guys with guns, who had all the sense of humor of Grand Ayatollah Sistani, had to feel just a bit silly to turn out in such force at the Bayshore Boulevard gate complete with disgruntled German Shepherds.
After all, about the only security risk Palm and his fellow mountain-bike mooners posed was a crime against aesthetics.
Let's face it: You could make an argument that although political protest is a wonderful, cherished, time-honored American tradition, doing it in any form of public nudity - unless it is being conducted by the Jessica Alba Look-A-Like Citizens Against the War - should be considered an act of good-taste treason.
Daniel Ruth's column appears Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without permission. E-mail 

Graphic

 
You have to hand it to John Palm. It certainly takes a lot of - uh, er, hmm, well, it just takes an awful lot of - G-string to ride down Bayshore Boulevard on a bicycle wearing nothing more than a court jester's hat and what looked like a hairnet covering his - oh, never mind.

Load-Date: March 16, 2006


End of Document
