




USNEWS.com
January 7, 2025 Tuesday


Copyright 2025 U.S. News & World Report All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Health News; Healthiest Communities Health News; Vol.; No.
Length: 1098 words
Byline: Steven Ross Johnson
Highlight: Researchers found increases in young adults opting for permanent forms of contraception after the Supreme Court rolled back the constitutional right to an abortion.
Body


In the more than two years since the overturned Roe v. Wade and effectively eliminated the constitutional right to , research has pointed to health implications associated with policies limiting access to the procedure -- most notably, rising rates of. 
Now, new data suggests the high court's 2022 decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization may have played a large role in an increased number of young adults opting to seek permanent forms of contraception. 
Researchers behind a recent analysis of medical claims data from January 2021 through December 2022 found the number of tubal sterilizations increased 70% among women between the ages of 19 and 26 years in August 2022 compared to May 2022, the same month the was leaked. Vasectomy services among men in the same age group rose 95% during that time frame. The study was published Monday in the journal
"The Dobbs decision has had a profound effect on young adults' reproductive choices, leading many to opt for permanent contraception in the months following the decision," says study co-author Julia Strasser, director of the Jacobs Institute of Women's Health at the George Washington University Milken Institute School of Public Health. Previous research found a similar increase in the number of adults opting for permanent contraceptive methods after Roe was overturned. A study published in April in found increases in both tubal sterilizations and vasectomies among adults ages 18 to 30. 
Strasser says the increase among young adults seeking tubal sterilization or vasectomy was greater in states that were likely to ban abortion at the moment the draft was leaked. The analysis also collected survey responses from more than 600 people between the ages of 14 and 24, where Strasser says many of the adult women expressed concerns over the future of their reproductive rights in a post-Dobbs environment as a factor for their decision to get tubal sterilization. 
Among those 19 to 26 years old, the study found there were about seven more tubal sterilizations and three more vasectomies performed per state per month from May to December 2022 in states that were likely to ban abortion compared with states unlikely to ban abortion. 
"Young adults expressed themselves that the decisions related to these methods were based on fear or concerns about their safety and that those are playing a role in their contraceptive decision-making," Strasser says. 
Strasser spoke with U.S. News about the study's findings and what they say about how state policies around reproductive rights health care might be influencing the contraceptive choices of young adults moving forward. 
The interview was edited for length and clarity. 
Do you think young adults are fully aware of the long-term consequences involved in deciding to receive permanent contraception?
It's a question that clinicians have faced a lot, and I think a lot of contraceptive counseling for young adults on methods like tubal sterilization or vasectomy may be based on the perception that there might be regret or requests for reversal. 
There might be a concern among clinicians about young people making these choices that are permanent. But what we know from more recent research is that the opposite is, in fact, true -- that younger people who are confident in their choices experience a lot of barriers to being able to access this type of care and that they encounter a lot of difficulty in finding the clinician who will provide these services for them. 
Is the increase in demand for permanent contraception part of a general rise in all methods of contraception?
What we're seeing in terms of early data on that is that there hasn't been huge shifts in demand for other methods. I think there is a lot of concern about people shifting -- young people in particular -- their contraceptive choices in relation to other factors like social media, misinformation and disinformation about contraception on top of the effects of the Dobbs decision. So, there may be underlying population trends that are showing shifts, but I don't think we are seeing huge shifts in other contraceptive method types in the way we are finding them here for vasectomy and tubal sterilization services. 
Why was the increase seen in adults ages 19 to 26 years but not in older adults?
We know from other research that young adults are paying attention to and making decisions related to changing policy environments -- in particular related to abortion -- and I do think that young adults are uniquely vulnerable in a way older adults aren't. They might not have financial support or transportation, or have the type of job that they need to access abortion care or even contraception care. So, there's a lot of different factors that uniquely affect this population. 
Why do you think there was an increase in vasectomy services?
I think it's possible what we're seeing here is more of a willingness (by men) to take a more active role in contraceptive decision-making. But even though we find that increase in vasectomies, visit rates for tubal sterilization were still substantially higher, and so we're still seeing this big gender disparity even with the increases in vasectomy services. 
How can lawmakers use these findings to help make better policy decisions concerning reproductive health?
Contraception has sort of been considered a safe policy issue. But in the text of the Dobbs decision, Justice (Clarence) Thomas raised the possibility of removing federal protections for contraception as well. If that happens, then we'll be in the same situation that we are with abortion except it will be for contraception and every state will have the option to make their own restrictions related to contraception. So, state-level policies that protect contraception access are more important now than they've ever been. 
Steven Ross Johnson is a public health reporter for . He joined U.S. News & World Report in 2021 after previously reporting on public health issues for Modern Healthcare magazine. He also has written for the Chicago Tribune, Progress Illinois, The Chicago Reporter and as a government affairs reporter for The Courier-News in Elgin, Illinois. He is a graduate of Columbia College Chicago with a bachelor's degree in communications and received a master's degree from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism. You can follow him on , connect with him on , or email him at .

Graphic

 
Picture, A man exits the Planned Parenthood Mobile Health Clinic after getting a vasectomy on Aug. 19 in Chicago., (Stacey Wescott/Chicago Tribune/Tribune News Service/Getty Images)

Load-Date: January 8, 2025


End of Document
