




The Shorthorn: University of Texas - Arlington
April 12, 2017 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2017 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: LIFE_AND_ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 1
Length: 626 words
Byline: Renee Yan
Body


Texas Rep. Jessica Farrar, D-Houston, filed a satirical bill dictating rules about male masturbation habits last month.
House bill 4260 proposed the government fine men for "unregulated masturbatory emissions" to promote men's health. However, men may masturbate inside health care and medical facilities if they choose. It would also regulate other men's health experiences, like elective vasectomies, Viagra prescriptions and colonoscopy procedures, while encouraging a lifestyle of abstinence.
The satirical bill charged the Texas Department of State Health Services to create and distribute informational pamphlets titled "A Man's Right to Know," which should follow the exact format of the booklet, "A Woman's Right to Know."
This parody pamphlet would contain medical information about the benefits and issues of elective vasectomies, Viagra prescriptions and colonoscopies, as well as illustrations of each procedure. Health care professionals have the right to refuse to perform these procedures due to personal, moral or religious beliefs, according to HB 4260.
Farrar said in an interview that if a man's semen is not used to conceive, then it's a waste, because it could have been used to create life, according to a Texas Tribune article. Farrar said she knows this bill will not pass, but she hopes it will provoke people to think and discuss the obstacles women face to access health care.
The article states Farrar also criticized bills that would infringe on women's right to choose, including one proposed by Rep. Tony Tinderholt, R-Arlington.
The bill also requires the Texas Department of State Health Services to keep track of masturbatory emissions in health facilities and the storage of semen, which will be maintained to use for conception purposes.
If a man violates these regulations, he will be charged $100 each time, and it will be considered an act against an unborn child and failure to preserve the sanctity of life, according to HB 4260. Penalties collected will go to the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services for children in their care.
When he first heard the bill, management senior Lorenzo Rivas said he got a chuckle out of it. He immediately recognized its sarcastic nature.
The bill serves to emphasize a point, Rivas said. It takes something outrageous to light a fire under people and make them think about a subject as touchy as a person's reproductive rights.
Legislating over a woman's body is different from legislating over a man's, he said. Most lawmakers are men and restricting a woman's reproductive rights don't directly impact them, but these bills pass because they want to please their more conservative constituents.
The bill struck a chord with journalism senior Lane Oliver.
HB 4260 is an implicit statement about how ridiculous it is for lawmakers to use archaic religious ideologies to justify invasive legislation, Oliver said.
"It's government overreach to tell women what to do with the bundle of cells growing inside of them," he said. "You don't see the same effort being put into protecting foster children who are already here and in greater need than an embryo."
Ryan Buckingham, mechanical engineering junior and Pro-Life Mavericks president, understands the basis of Farrar's argument, but he disagrees with the underlying premise, he said.
Life begins the moment sperm fuses with an egg, Buckingham said. Comparing masturbation to abortion is a faulty analogy. The fundamental difference is that sperm does not equate to a human being. People come from sperm and eggs, but that is not what they used to be.
"You become a human being at the moment of conception, and because you are human, your life should be protected from then on out," he said.
@RunReneHua


Load-Date: April 12, 2017


End of Document
