




University Wire
April 6, 2009 Monday


Copyright 2009 UWIRE via U-Wire
Length: 1297 words
Byline: By Staff reports, UWIRE
Dateline: NEW YORK CITY 
Body


From raunchy shenanigans to research studies, college sex columnists and student journalists rarely shy away from printing stories on students' favorite topic: sex. A new column is posted every week. Quick - check your phone. That text message you just received may send you to jail. One sexpert has the details... But that's not all - this week, we bring you the intricacies of porn and strip bars, plus the connection between bondage and relationships. 
What can we say - college sex columnists never stop. Sexperts explore between the sheets April Fool's hijinks led to eHarmony adventureSource | The Observer This week the April Fool's Day jinks were very high amongst me and my friends. My roommate (fellow Observer columnist Brad Blomstrom) awoke to find thousands of post-it notes stuck to his car. Another friend found fish swimming in her bathtub, while some others participated in the traditional 'RA fake busts some freshmen drinking beer hoax'. However, the worst joke of all the jokes was saved for me as some yet to be determined friends of mine signed me up for eHarmony.com. Read more. Â  Talking dirty can help bring sexy backSource | Daily Texan A few weeks ago I attended a sex-technique workshop at Forbidden Fruit, an intimate boutique specializing in creating erotic awareness. The first exercise the workshop's facilitator had us do was share our favorite "sexy word or phrase" that we either like to hear or say during sex. As I tried to think of the hottest thing that I have ever heard said or had been said to me, a gentleman from the back of the room blurted, "Juggle my balls!" I turned bright red and realized that I needed some serious help with my dirty talk. Read more. Â  Illegal sex acts throughout the United StatesSource | The Clemson Tiger There are quite a few wonky sex laws floating around America, some of them originating from antique social protocols, and some... well, it is curious as to how they became laws in the first place. You know SOMEONE had to do it, offend someone and therefore have it outlawed. Read more. Â  Sex toy rundown: the good and badSource | The Sagebrush Though not necessary by any means, toys add a certain flavor and adventure to an encounter, especially since most humans don't vibrate or secrete flavored water. Read more. Â  Porn: the Cirque du Soleil of sexSource | Sagebrush Porn confuses me. It makes a mockery of the very thing it is trying to portray by exaggerating elements of sensuality. The girl's moans are so loud and frequent that they sound like the howls of a dying cat. The guy is so intent on showing off every inch of his female counterpart that he barely touches her with anything except his hard-on. Eventually, the sex on the screen more closely resembles a circus act than real sexual behavior. Read more. Â  Economy down, vasectomies upSource | Iowa State Daily It's Vas Madness!!! No, that's not a typo. The economy is down, and the number of men seeking a (mostly permanent) vasectomy is way up, according to cnn.com. The report said some doctors have seen a more than 50 percent increase in procedure requests since November - following one of the worst months in Wall Street's history. Read more. Â  'Sexting' not cause for legal interventionSource | Daily Collegian A 14-year-old girl in New Jersey has earned the dubious honor of possibly becoming the youngest person ever to be charged with the distribution of child pornography. The girl, from Passaic County, was charged with possession and distribution of child pornography after police say she posted nearly 30 explicitly nude photographs of herself on Myspace. Read more. Talkin' Dirty... An excerpt from an explicit exploit "There I was, watching very thin, very flexible women take off their clothes and swing around a pole for about a minute each. There was no tease to this strip, no tension, no build-up. A woman would come onstage wearing almost nothing, untie a few things here and shake off some things there. Once you got a couple good long looks straight at her vagina, she picked up her clothes and left the stage." Nice guys don't do 'sex tango'Source | Cornell Daily Sun Naughty News Northern Illinois U. psychology professor studies connection between bondage and relationshipsSource | Northern Star For Northern Illinois University associate psychology professor Brad Sagarin, studying bondage sex is just another day at the office. But he and his team of researchers made some surprising conclusions after conducting the study, which took place at parties the researchers attended in Arizona and Colorado. "Despite the pain and discomfort in [sadomasochism] done consensually, the activities ended up bringing people closer together," said Sagarin, the study's lead researcher. A lot of research shows a fair number of people are interested in sadomasochistic activities and bondage, Sagarin said. Read more. Â  Freshman dorm hides haven of sex, drugs and video gamesSource | Washington Square News Within the walls of one freshman dorm exists a magical place, known to most first-year students only as "Narnia." Narnia's mythical reputation as a refuge in which students sip beer and smoke marijuana without RA interference has spread like wildfire throughout the freshman class. Indeed, the rumors are based on truth. The party never stops in Narnia: nearly every day of every week, four suitemates invite friends and strangers alike to celebrate life with sex, music, alcohol and weed. Read more. Â  La Salle U. professor discusses 'hooking up'Source | The Collegian In an alcohol-fueled, hook-up culture, exacerbated by the media and our peers, where do we draw the line? Kathleen A. Bogle, a sociology and criminal justice professor at La Salle University, posed this question to University of Richmond students and professors Monday night. In front of a packed Jepson Hall auditorium, Bogle discussed what the term "hooking up" meant, how it had replaced traditional dating and how it was inextricably linked to alcohol and sexual assault. Read more. Â  Harvard professor arouses condom controversySource | Harvard Crimson Edward Green, the director of the Harvard AIDS Prevention Research Project and senior research scientist at the Harvard School of Public Health, drew attention last week when he agreed with Pope Benedict XVI's statement that the answer to the African AIDS crisis lies in the promotion of faithful partnerships rather than increasing the availability of condoms. "I knew that if I agreed with anything the Pope said it would cause a fire-storm," said Green. "I took the opportunity to cause an uproar and focus on the evidence." Read more. Ask the Sexperts Can you get in trouble for sleeping with a professor?Source | The Collegian I have fantasies about one of my professors! Can you talk a little bit about making those fantasies a reality - can I get in trouble for sleeping with my professor? Or can he get in trouble? Read more. Â  How do I ask right guy to get STD test?Source | The Collegian I just started dating this guy that I'm falling pretty hard for. I've recently been thinking that this could really be the person I have sex with for the first time. I didn't wait 20 years for the right guy to get an STD now, so having my partner tested is a big duh. But my question is, when is it too early to ask him to do this for me? Read more. Â  What is an orgasm?Source | Daily Princetonian Are there different types of orgasms? What is the best type? Read more. Â  Ask the Sexpert Archive: Answers to common sex and dating questionsSource | UWIRE Sex columnists at college newspapers from around the nation answer young people's questions about sex and dating. Click for a selection of the most interesting or frequently answered queries. Read more. (C) 2008 UWIRE via UWIRE

Load-Date: April 6, 2009


End of Document
