




Newstex Blogs 
The Wrap
June 11, 2021 Friday 1:05 AM EST


Copyright 2021 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 308 words
Byline: Alex Noble
Body


Jun 11, 2021( The Wrap: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 Ryan Reynolds plays bartender in a new ad for Aviation Gin in which he shows you how to make a drink 'as refreshing as fatherhood,' the Vasectomy. 

The 'Hitman's Bodyguard's Wife' star has held a stake in the 100-year-old gin brand since 2018. He has since starred in a number of irreverent 'Aviation' ads, the most recent being a cocktail tutorial ahead of Father's Day on June 20. In the video, the actor talks about the 'pleasures' of parenthood while delivering his trademark quips.  

 Ryan Reynolds' Vasectomy[1] 

'First, fill a tall glass with ice,' Reynolds begins, 'The way children fill our lives with so much joy.' 

'Next, pour 1 ounce of cranberry juice,' he says, 'Sweet, just like their little smiles.' 

'Then pour 3 ounces of tonic, so bubbly.' 

The bottle of tonic water sputters out as Reynolds twists off the cap, warranting a Take 2.  

 'So bubbly,' Reynolds repeats, 'just like I feel everyday I wake up after a long full night's sleep.'  

'Now, add a dash of lemon juice,' the actor says. He recommends you use juice from a fresh lemon if you have some spare time to squeeze one but that store-bought is fine if the little ones have you running around. 

'Finally, we're going to add 1.5 ounces of Aviation American Gin, the world's highest-rated gin for the world's highest-rated job, dad.' 

To finish your Vasectomy off, simply stir the drink, Reynolds says, and 'garnish with a slice of sunshine,' AKA an orange rind. 

'Now that is as refreshing as fatherhood. Well, something I call the vasectomy for no f—ing reason at all,' Reynolds joked upon taking a sip, 'Happy Father's Day everyone.' 

Reynolds is a father to three daughters: James, 6, Inez, 4, and Betty, 1, who he shares with wife Blake Lively. 
 [ 1]:  

Load-Date: June 10, 2021


End of Document
