




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
February 26, 2008 Tuesday
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: WORLD; Pg. A-3
Length: 437 words
Byline: ROBYN DIXON, LOS ANGELES TIMES
Dateline: JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 
Body


South Africa yesterday announced that it would allow the killing of elephants as a population control, a move strongly condemned by animal welfare groups.
Beginning in May, the government will lift a 13-year ban on elephant culls, which are usually carried out by shooting entire herds, including youngsters, from helicopters.
The move could hurt the country's tourist industry, with animal welfare lobbies calling for a tourist boycott to protest culling.
South Africa slaughtered more than 14,500 elephants from 1967 to 1995, before halting the practice because of international pressure.
"From 1 May, there will no longer be as a policy a moratorium on the culling of elephants. We will allow culling in certain parts of the country. But there is no intention of wholesale slaughter," Environment Minister Marthinus van Schalkwyk said.
The guidelines call for "humane" killing, specifying that a rifle of at least .375 caliber be used. Sharpshooters usually kill entire herds because of the complex social structure of elephants and because young animals need to be taught social behavior by adults in order to survive.
Animal welfare organizations, which strongly oppose the reintroduction of culling, yesterday said there was no humane way to kill elephants. Animal Rights Africa vowed to campaign for a tourist boycott against South Africa.
Although elephants are endangered in other parts of Africa, the population in South Africa is robust. But the issue of culling is emotional for many, because of elephants' keen intelligence and elaborate social behaviors. Elephants are known to grieve for their dead.
There are 18,000 elephants in South Africa, including more than 12,500 in Kruger National Park, one of the country's most famous tourist attractions. SANParks, the government agency in charge of parks and national game reserves, called for culling in a 2005 report to the government, arguing that too many elephants threaten other species.
Mr. Van Schalkwyk said there was also concern about the impact of elephants on the landscape and the livelihoods and safety of people living near the herds.
Before culling, reserve managers will have to prove that they have excess elephants, and that killing is the only effective option.
"We don't support culling in any shape or form," said Christina Pretorius, Cape Town-based spokeswoman for the International Fund for Animal Welfare. "We don't believe there's any humane way to cull."
Some researchers are working on elephant vasectomies and female contraceptives, but these are expensive and practical only in limited populations, where individual elephants are identifiable.

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Denis Farrell/Associated Press: South Africa is permitting culling of elephants such as these, photographed in January 2007 at a watering hole in Tembe Elephant Park in the Northern KwaZulu Natal province.

Load-Date: February 26, 2008


End of Document
