




Cosmopolitan(US)
August 1, 2014


Copyright 2014 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: LOVE, LUST & OTHER STUFF; Pg. 169; Vol. 257
Length: 541 words
Body


No-BS responses to questions you can only ask Cosmo
Ducking in the shower can be totally hot.
Q Real talk: How can I enjoy shower sex more? To me, it's just a lot of awkward positions and hot water in my face. Not really as "romantic" and "steamy" as they make it in the movies.
A Okay, so shower sex is obviously not your thing. Don't force it! Instead, think of it as foreplay plus H2O, and use the time to massage and wash each other, saving the actual sex for once you're out. If you're determined to make shower sex work, Megan Andelloux, a clinical sexologist in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, recommends Sex in the Shower, a brand of sex toys with suction handles and footrests that are specially designed to make getting it on in the tub or shower easier. (If anyone asks what that thing attached to your shower wall is, you can just say it's for shaving.) "I would also suggest silicone lubricant because it stays on in the water," Andelloux says. But hazard warning: Silicone lube does its job so well, it increases your slippage factor if it gets on your shower floor.
Q Are there any other means of contraception for my man besides a condom? I've heard about this shot he can get. I'm getting sick of having to deal with all the BC responsibility.
A In short: no. Although there have been some attempts at making a birth-control option for men-from pills to outpatient procedures-nothing is on the market. Unfortunately, it's just a lot easier to stop one egg than it is to stop thousands of sperm. And even more unfortunately, there just doesn't seem to be a lot of interest from the public (aka men) and, therefore, not a lot of funding for male BC research. So right now, condoms and vasectomies are our best defense against his swimmers, as well as, obviously, birth-control methods for women. Maybe someday, sister.
Q Sometimes I get sharp pains in my stomach after sex. It's totally messing with my libido. What the eff is going on?
A Before you freak yourself out with terrifying WebMD scenarios, know that there are a lot of nonserious explanations: It could be gas, constipation, or cramping that occurs from your tensing up during sex. Or "it could be that your orgasm is giving you discomfort because of the contractions of your uterus combined with the compression of someone on top of you," suggests Deborah Ottenheimer, MD, an NYC ob-gyn. Despite the myriad of potential no-biggie explanations, recurring pain during or after sex is worth getting checked out by a doctor. Get thee to a gyno, girl!
Q I feel like I have to pee every time I orgasm. What's up with that?
A Okay, quick anatomy refresher: Your bladder sits in front of your uterus and the upper part of your vagina. So if you're having intercourse or getting your G-spot stimulated, it's common for pressure on the bladder (from a penis or a sex toy) to make you feel like you have to urinate. With orgasms, it's the same deal. "When you have an orgasm, your pelvic-floor muscles contract," says Lauren Streicher, MD, an ob-gyn in Chicago and author of Love Sex Again. "These muscles also support the bladder and that's why you feel like you have to pee." Easy fix? Pee before sex. You might still feel pressure, but at least you'll know your bladder is empty. -Chiara Atik

Load-Date: September 2, 2014


End of Document
