




University Wire
March 28, 2006 Tuesday


Copyright 2006 Daily Pennsylvanian via U-Wire
Section: COLUMN
Length: 1004 words
Byline: By Cara Reardon, Daily Pennsylvanian; SOURCE: U. Penn
Dateline: PHILADELPHIA 
Body


Sexual activity is rampant on this campus. No, not everyone is doing it, but a vast majority of those on this campus will have a sexual encounter at some point in their four years at this university, whether it is outercourse or intercourse. Outercourse refers to those actions such as holding hands, hugging, kissing, petting above and below the belt, oral-genital contact, touching, massaging -- you get the idea.
Intercourse, as we all know, refers to anal and vaginal penetration. For those that are involved in the latter, two major health issues arise when two consenting heterosexual adults engage in vaginal intercourse -- sexually transmitted diseases and pregnancy. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) aside (because that is a separate but critical issue), pregnancy is a significant concern for those engaging in sexual intercourse. The most effective method to prevent pregnancy is abstinence. For many a horny college student, abstaining from sexual behavior proves to be too challenging a task, especially when one might be under the influence of alcohol. In response, those that have chosen to become sexually active and want to prevent pregnancy use some form of contraception.
The most popular form of contraception is the condom. While condoms provide a reliable way to prevent some STDs and pregnancy, they are not foolproof. To ensure that one does not become pregnant, many females will choose to go on an oral birth control or what is popularly referred to as "the pill," which if taken correctly can prevent pregnancies up to 99 percent. There are a little over 11.5 million women in the United States alone and 100 million women worldwide that are using an oral contraceptive pill. However, this means that for those that are using the pill as a means to prevent pregnancy, the brunt of the responsibility lies in the hands of the female who must take the pill at the same time everyday to ensure its effectiveness. In an ideal relationship, each partner has a shared responsibility in the outcome if one were to get pregnant. That seems fair enough. However, why must it be the female that must restrain her reproductive power in order to prevent such an outcome from occurring? Why are there no oral contraceptives for males?
The market for contraceptives for females is astonishing compared to what is offered to males. Besides oral contraceptives, such options for women include the female condom, depo-provera, diaphragm, cervical cap or shield, contraceptive sponge, the patch, NuvaRing, surgical (tubal ligation) and non-surgical sterilization. There are currently no oral contraceptives for males and the only forms of contraception offered to them are condoms, and if they so choose, a vasectomy.
The reason for this lack of options for males is partly due to anatomy. Males are not cyclical in their production of sperm and scientists have found it difficult to control the male reproductive system. In a healthy male, about one-half billion sperm are produced each day. To reduce the sperm count to a very low level to prevent pregnancy would require a cocktail of hormones that would not take effect for up to two to three months. To produce such a pill that would be effective and reversible has been challenging to scientists, however, it is not impossible. Scientists in Great Britain have created a pill that combines the female hormone progestin and the male hormone testosterone to "switch off" the signal in the brain which produces sperm. In this study, there were no side effects or failures with the male pill and normal sperm production returned six to seven months after discontinuing use. According to the research being done, the male version of the pill would also pose less of a health risk to males as the pill does for females, which include the risk of heart disease, high blood pressure, blood clots and blocked arteries. Though, in another study done in the United States, some side effects (which males expressed fears of experiencing) included mood swings, weight gain, lack of libido, impotence and long-term infertility; however, this has not been followed up on. Those side effects, which are far less daunting than blood clots or a risk of heart disease, are experienced by many females who are already on the pill. Research is currently being conducted to discover the long term effects of the pill on female fertility, which means females are inherently risking their reproductive capacity. Why are males not willing to take that same risk? Why, in this society, is there a push for research for female oral contraceptives but the promotion for more male oral contraceptives is almost non-existent? Furthermore, why are there far less male contraceptives than female contraceptives? This suggests to me that there is far more responsibility pushed on females to control their bodies and reproduction in general. It would follow, in my mind, that since females are held to a higher accountability for their abilities to reproduce, they should also have sole authority of the outcome if the contraception were to fail. Consequently, males should have no say in the outcome if termination of the pregnancy is desired by the female, until there is a product available which assumes the same amount of responsibility on their part to control their reproductive capacities.
There is no rush to become sexually active, and more importantly, sexual activity is highly unfair. There are critical risks associated with engaging in such behavior and at this time in our lives, it is simply not worth it. It is especially not worth it to the females of this society to harbor the greater amount of reproductive responsibility and certainly unfair that there are not a greater amount of contraceptive products available for males. Until there is a comparative oral contraceptive for males made just as readily available as the pill is for females, the responsibility of sexual activity will remain a higher burden for females everywhere.
(C) 2006 Daily Pennsylvanian via U-WIRE

Load-Date: March 28, 2006


End of Document
