




USA TODAY
May 16, 2014 Friday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS; Pg. 6C
Length: 747 words
Byline: Brent Schrotenboer, @Schrotenboer, USA TODAY Sports
Body


Former NFL star Darren Sharper will not face rape charges in Miami, authorities announced Thursday, citing a lack of evidence.
The decision regarding the case in Miami Beach was not a surprise, largely because the  accuser did not file a complaint until months after the alleged incident.
Sharper, 38, still faces charges in Tempe, Ariz., and Los Angeles, where he has been in jail without bail on similar date-rape charges since Feb.27.
He also has been under investigation for other alleged date rapes in Las Vegas and New Orleans, though no charges have been filed in those cases.
The Florida case could be revived if new evidence arises. But the assistant state attorney in Miami said no criminal charges should be filed at this time against Sharper for the following reasons: "It is a one-on-one allegation. It is a delayed disclosure. The subject has made no admission. ... No physical evidence. Inconsistent statements made by the victim regarding knowledge of the people she was with night/morning of the incident as well as her description of the sex itself. No corroborating witnesses, despite detective's best efforts to locate the people the victim said were present the night/morning of this incident."
Sharper is due in court today in Los Angeles, where his attorneys are expected to ask a judge to produce evidence they say supports Sharper's innocence. They said in court documents filed this week that the prosecution had failed to disclose exculpatory evidence in all five states where Sharper has been under investigation for rape.
In the Arizona case, they accuse a detective of giving misleading testimony in court last month that helped keep Sharper behind bars. A grand jury there indicted Sharper in March, charging him with drugging and raping two women in November.
The Arizona charges didn't provide for bail, a stipulation cited by a Los Angeles judge when she ruled Sharper should remain locked up there indefinitely.
Sharper's attorneys argued last month in a hearing in Tempe that the evidence wasn't strong enough in that case to deny him bail. A judge disagreed after hearing testimony from Detective Kevin Mace, a witness for the prosecution.
"The court finds proof evident and the presumption great that Victim B was the victim of a sexual assault committed by Mr.Sharper," Judge Warren Granville said then.
In making his ruling, Granville cited evidence that showed DNA that partially matched Sharper's DNA was found inside the vagina of a woman referred to in court documents as Victim B. According to Mace's testimony, Victim B did not know Sharper before the night of the incident.
Sharper's attorney, Skip Donau, said no sperm was found on any of the alleged victims in Arizona. But Arizona prosecutor Yigael Cohen countered that with testimony from Mace about Sharper having had a vasectomy. Mace said he learned of the vasectomy from Los Angeles police and Victim A, the other alleged rape victim in Arizona.
After the hearing, Mace advised Cohen that he misspoke when he said in his testimony that Los Angeles police told him they had medical records about the vasectomy. He confirmed Victim A told him about the vasectomy. Sharper's attorneys have not denied Sharper has had a vasectomy but said Mace's inaccurate statement about where he learned about this information taints his testimony.
"Detective Mace has lied under oath, which has caused Mr. Sharper to be held without bond," Sharper's attorneys stated in asking the Arizona court to reconsider its decision to deny bail.
Sharper's attorneys also said Mace gave misleading testimony when he said there was DNA in the form of semen on Victim B's leggings and that it matched Sharper's DNA.
Under questioning from Donau, Mace clarified this statement to say the DNA was in the form of prostate-specific antigen, which is a constituent of semen and is produced in the male prostate but also can be found in other sources, such as blood.
Law enforcement authorities allege a similar pattern with Sharper: They say he partied with his victims, then raped them while they slept after he spiked their drinks with a sleep aid.
Sharper has pleaded not guilty in Los Angeles.
His attorneys there stated in court filings this week that both accusers in Los Angeles had the DNA of other men on them, including sperm on one of them, at the time they claim to have been assaulted by Sharper.
"Sharper has been excluded as being the major contributor identified in the sperm fraction," Sharper's attorneys stated. 

Graphic

 
photo BOB CHAMBERLIN, AFP/Getty Images

Load-Date: June 6, 2014


End of Document
