




University Wire
October 30, 2007 Tuesday


Copyright 2007 Oklahoma Daily via U-Wire
Section: EDITORIAL
Length: 503 words
Byline: Staff Editorial, Oklahoma Daily; SOURCE: U. Oklahoma
Dateline: NORMAN, Okla. 
Body


Contrary to popular belief, if a man holds a gun loaded with blanks to your head and pulls the trigger, you will -- in all probability -- die. Similarly, although male contraception promises to prevent unwanted pregnancies, it will not protect users from sexually transmitted diseases.
Always use a condom, unless you're in a monogamous (and faithful) relationship and both you and your partner have been tested and are disease-free.
With that said, we support the idea of male contraception and are excited about the possible consequences it will have on gender equality and sexual responsibility.
Since the creation of female birth control in the 1960's, the onus of preventing unwanted pregnancies has fallen squarely on women.
Although condoms have been available -- in one form or another -- for millennia, the advent of "the pill" gave people the power to control the reproductive process on a biological level.
Because "the pill" was designed to alter female physiology, that power went to women -- as did the responsibility that came with it.
As the saying goes, however, it takes two to tango, and requiring women to take a disproportionate share of sexual responsibility is unfair.
The introduction of male contraception in the foreseeable future promises to right that wrong by providing men a non-surgical avenue to prevent pregnancy.
It will level the sexual playing field, most likely decreasing the number of unwanted pregnancies in the process.
Before male contraception hits the shelves of local pharmacies, though, there are some kinks that need to be worked out.
Reversibility is among the most pressing concerns. A chemical contraceptive that renders a man permanently sterile is no better than a vasectomy, which -- though costly -- can be reversed.
Although it's important to keep the ball rolling, extensive clinical tests are needed to ensure the treatment doesn't irreparably harm the male reproductive system.
Minimizing the number and severity of side effects is another concern.
Aside from the possible side effects, however, perhaps the biggest roadblock to marketing male contraception on a large scale will be getting men to use it.
There may be a stigma associated with male contraception. Initially, it will be awkward for a man to say "I'm on the pill." But this stigma should diminish over time as it becomes increasingly accepted.
Above all, though, our concern is that the primary reason men currently use condoms -- to avoid impregnating a woman -- will disappear.
Psychologically, a baby and the myriad of responsibilities that come with it are tangible; a sexually transmitted disease is not. In the heat of the moment, we fear men will forego using a condom and risk infection, as long as pregnancy is off the table.
That's why an aggressive education campaign must accompany male contraception when it is eventually introduced. It must not become a substitute for condom use, which is the only reliable way to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
(C) 2007 Oklahoma Daily via U-WIRE

Load-Date: October 30, 2007


End of Document
