




Newstex Blogs 
Latin Times
May 3, 2022 Tuesday 1:05 PM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 586 words
Body


May 03, 2022( Latin Times:  Delivered by Newstex)  
 A brother and a sister who entered into an unusual relationship are still fighting incest laws in Germany. 
The siblings fell in love and produced four kids, two of whom are disabled. Despite their union being against German laws, Patrick Syuebing and Susan Karoleswki have been a couple for more than 20 years after the former moved into a foster home in East Germany after he was reportedly attacked by his father. 
The 23-year-old would rediscover his biological family after that, meeting Susan who is mentally disabled. Both started sharing a bedroom after their mom, Ana Marie passed away. 
In 2001, the couple ventured out to fight German laws with one in place that makes sex between siblings illegal, with the pair even going as far as the Court of Human Rights in 2012. 
"We do not feel guilty about what has happened between us. I became head of the family and I had to protect my sister,' Syuebing stated[1]. 
"She is very sensitive but we helped each other during this very difficult period and eventually that relationship became physical. We didn't even know we were doing anything wrong when we started sleeping together. We didn't think about using a condom,' he added. 
"We didn't know it was illegal to sleep together." 
Patrick explained that had their mother been alive, she would have not approved of their relationship. 
Susan defended their relationship, saying they did not know each other during childhood and that they could not be able to do anything as adults because they fell in love with each other. 
"We were both attracted to each other and then nature took over from us. It was that simple. What else could we do? We followed our instincts and our hearts," Karolewski stated. 
To entice the court to change its mind, Patrick underwent a vasectomy. He hopes the court would allow him to live with his sister without the risk of possible further jail time. 
 A man in China reportedly attempted to take his own life because he was ashamed that his son remained unmarried even though he had already turned 29-years-old. This is a representational image. Photo by Wu Jianxiong on Unsplash 
 [ 1]:  
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: May 3, 2022


End of Document
