




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
December 10, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 338 words
Body


(GlobeNewswire) - Signati Medical, Inc. today announced that it has completed the acquisition of all of the intellectual property and technology of SuperiorVAS, LLC, a privately held company in Raleigh, NC. The IP covers methods to create a vasectomy through ablation of the vas deferensan advancement in a critical technology. Terms of the agreement were not disclosed.
The acquisition of this advanced technology complements our current pipeline to provide minimally invasive vasectomy procedures. Our focus continues to be our bipolar radio frequency sealing technology for the vasectomy market, says Bill Prentice, CEO of Signati Medical, Inc.
Signatis Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Gerard Henry, adds, The ablation of the vas deferens could be another option for Urologists to perform a minimally invasive vasectomy with the use of the Signati unique generator. We need to shift the responsibility of sterilization from women to men by simplifying the procedure and eliminating fear thus changing the perception of vastectomy.
About Signati Medical
Signati Medical is a medical device company that endeavors to take vasectomy to a new level of comfort, safety, and speed. A medical device company dedicated to advancing mens health, Signati plans to launch the first innovation in vasectomy in more than 20 years with a procedure that would be fast for physicians and comfortable for patients. Signatis bipolar Sealed Vasectomy Procedure, designed to take just minutes, could be done right in the urologists office and would offer advantages for patients including easier recovery compared to some current vasectomy techniques.
Leading Innovation in Men's Health
To learn more, visit  .
Not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). These statements and the subject product have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. The device is not currently being marketed, nor is it available for sale in any country.

Load-Date: December 10, 2022


End of Document
