




The Idaho Business Review (Boise, ID)
October 21, 2016 Friday


Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS
Length: 798 words
Byline: Sharon Fisher
Body


While people tend to think of hospitals for treating sick people, especially those who require surgery, some common conditions are increasingly being treated in outpatient centers specializing in a particular area of the body. An example of such a center is the for-profit Idaho Urologic Institute, or IUI.
IUI has ten doctors, said Todd Waldmann, president of the organization and one of the ten. “We’re not a hospital. We pay taxes. We don’t have any public funding," he said. "We’re just like any other business. ”
Established in 2005, the IUI is an example of a single-specialty ambulatory surgery center, or ASC. Such centers are growing as outpatient surgery becomes more common. ASCs are not associated with hospitals, and as such receive lower Medicare reimbursements due to the inherent efficiencies and cost controls that they are thought to have.
In particular, urology was named one of five “ASC specialties to watch” in 2012 by Becker’s ASC Review, due to its “favorable outlook in terms of case volume, revenue and new procedures moving into the ASC setting,” according to the publication. This is largely caused by demographics; as the population ages, more people tend to develop urologic problems that require treatment. Such conditions include female pelvic floor surgery, prostate cancer, erectile dysfunction, and lithotripsy, a procedure to treat kidney stones. Urology is the medical specialty pertaining to the scientific, clinical, and surgical aspects of diseases of the genitourinary tract in men, women, and children.  Urologists are trained in both medical and surgical management of urinary tract disorders, according to the IUI.
IUI has three centers: one primary $15 million, 45,000-sq. ft. facility in Meridian, and two 3,500-sq. ft. satellite facilities in Nampa and Boise. The Meridian facility, which the organization owns, was built around ten years ago, on time and under budget, while the two other facilities are leased. “Our location is based on what we think will be convenient for people,” Waldmann said.
The Meridian building is larger because it includes more amenities, which are intended to improve patient convenience. “When we sat down with the designer, we basically went through a patient experience from the time they hit the front door to check-in, the physician visit, and check-out,” Waldmann said.   “We worked our way through all that and designed the building to make that experience as convenient and supportive as possible. ” It includes an outpatient surgery center, outpatient diagnostic imaging services, clinical research department, reference lab including an infertility lab, and a radiation oncology care center.
Part of the purpose of that design was intended to limit patients having to go elsewhere for X-rays, labs, and other medical procedures. Consequently, as many of those functions as financially feasible were included in the Meridian clinic, Waldmann said. IUI’s other two facilities are satellite clinics that are primarily intended for patient visits and are more like office space.
IUI didn’t just rely on the expertise of the designer, but also took into account the personal experience of its doctors. “There were 75 years of practice experience between the nine of us who started this project, not to mention the administrators who were involved,” Waldmann said. In addition, IUI talked to several other urology clinics around the country for input, he said.
IUI is moving its Nampa facility because the hospital in which it is located is moving. ”We’re moving the location of the clinic partly because the old space we leased is outdated and the hospital is moving, so we are moving along with the hospital,” Waldmann said. “We’re relocating our clinic from one part of town to another. ”
In another change, instead of continuing a lease a facility, the organization decided to build a new facility instead.
“Over the long term, it makes more financial sense to fill in our own space rather than continue to rent to someone else," Waldman said. However, IUI will continue to perform the bulk of its procedures in the Meridian clinic that has all the amenities under one roof, he said.
The new building was designed by Johnson Architects from Meridian, while WEL Designs from Tucson, Ariz, designed the interior.
In addition to more conventional procedures, IUI is known for its “Vas Madness” program, which promotes vasectomies between February and April for men who are looking for an excuse to recuperate in front of the television. Patients receive a Vas Survival Kit that includes items such as a gift certificate for a pizza, as well as a bag of frozen peas.
 
/ Click here for more from this resource.
Copyright © 2016 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

Load-Date: October 27, 2016


End of Document
