




USA TODAY
May 1, 2008 Thursday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIFE; Pg. 7D
Length: 485 words
Byline: Rita Rubin
Body


Highlights from USA TODAY's health blog,
A Better Life, by medical reporter Rita Rubin:
What makes people happy?
"You can't always get what you want, and if you try sometime you find you get what you need," according to the Rolling Stones song.
"Happiness is not having what you want, but wanting what you have," Rabbi Hyman Schachtel of Houston wrote in 1954, six years before Mick Jagger and Keith Richards ran into each other and decided to form the Stones.
"Is happiness having what you want, wanting what you have, or both?" a couple of psychologists, from Texas Tech University and Wichita State University, ask in the latest issue of the journal Psychological Science. Their conclusion, based on two studies of undergraduates? Both.
*Or maybe neither.
MagEakaWebutante commented on the blog: "To me, happiness is satisfaction of the soul. We can have all the things we want and still be unhappy."
Dance, dance fever
If the Dance Dance Revolution video game -- DDR for those in the know -- were a religion, University of Pittsburgh geriatrician Stephanie Studenski would be its high priestess.
To play, you step on a pressure-sensitive mat and try to imitate on-screen dance moves. Studenski, 56, has danced away 50 pounds. Now, she's trying to spread the word to all middle-aged women who hate to exercise.
At the American Geriatrics Society annual meeting Saturday, Studenski will present the results of a study of 30 postmenopausal women. After one lesson, the women were asked to play DDR for a half-hour twice a week for six weeks. "These were all sedentary women who were unable to maintain an exercise program," Studenski says.
Remarkably, 20 of the women had so much fun that they couldn't get enough DDR. They played longer or more often than asked to. After six weeks, all but two of the 21 who completed the study had progressed to a higher level of difficulty. And there were early signs of a health benefit.
Closing in on a male 'pill'
So many women -- and men -- are looking forward to the day when men have more birth-control options than just condoms or a vasectomy. Apparently, that day is inching closer.
Hormonal contraceptives will probably be the first new type of birth control on the market for men. Commonly referred to as "the pill," they're usually actually injected every few months or implanted under the skin in the arm.
A paper in the May issue of the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism reviewed 30 studies of hormonal male contraceptives involving 1,756 men. The authors found that a combination of an androgen, such as testosterone, and a progestin quickly suppressed sperm production and kept it suppressed. (When it comes to sperm production, "quickly" can mean as long as 2 1/2 months.)
In the most recent trials, sperm  suppression equaled that seen after a vasectomy. Of course, the big difference is that contraceptives are reversible, while vasectomies generally aren't. 

Graphic

 
PHOTO, B/W, Photodisc

Load-Date: May 1, 2008


End of Document
