




University Wire
December 2, 2003, Tuesday


Copyright 2003 University Daily Kansan via U-Wire
Length: 1667 words
Byline: By Danielle Hillix, University Daily Kansan
Dateline: Lawrence, Kan.
Body


Seductive music and heavy breathing fill a darkened room. Roses saturate the air with a romantic scent and candlelight illuminates the bed.
Everything is in place for a passionate night of lovemaking.
But wait: There are no condoms! And she's not on the pill!
No problem. He is.
For decades, birth control has mostly been the woman's responsibility. It is up to her to take a pill every day, wear a patch every week, or get an injection every three months.
U. Kansas
Men, on the other hand, have limited choices and responsibility when it comes to birth control. Condoms and vasectomies are the only contraceptive options available to men. But researchers throughout the world, including two at the University of Kansas, are working to change that.
The search is on for hormone-controlled methods of male birth control. Researchers hope to someday offer men a list of options similar to those available for women. Decades of investigations have recently produced significant findings and researchers hope to have a product on the market within four years.
Experts are confident that new male hormonal methods can be effective at preventing pregnancy. That is, if they can get men to use them -- and women to trust the men.
MISSION: SPERM SHUTDOWN
Effective, reversible and safe hormonal birth control has been available for women since the pill was introduced in 1960. Planned Parenthood said that more than 80 percent of American women will take the pill at some point in their lives. When used correctly, the pill is more than 99 percent effective.
While not as reliable, hormonal injections, implants and patches are also popular forms of birth control for women. Women can also choose sponges, diaphragms or spermicides.
Female hormonal contraceptives work basically the same way, no matter how they are administered. The contraceptive contains high doses of estrogens and progestins, hormones found naturally in the body. These hormones combine to prevent the body from releasing eggs, which in turn prevents pregnancy.
Male hormonal contraceptives would work similarly. In products currently being tested in the United States, testosterones and progestins combine to prevent the body from producing sperm, which in turn prevents pregnancy in a female partner.
Ideally, male hormonal contraceptives would reduce a man's sperm count to zero. That is no easy task, considering that a healthy male produces 1,000 sperm per second. One milliliter of ejaculate, enough to fill a thimble, contains anywhere from 20 to 200 million sperm. A wide variety of factors, from smoking to genetics, can affect sperm count.
John Amory works with a male contraceptive research program funded by the World Health Organization. Amory's group received a five-year, $ 9.5 million grant from the organization. Working out of the Population Center for Research in Human Reproduction in Seattle, the group is getting close to developing an effective male contraceptive.
"We've made so much progress," Amory said. "We're getting closer and closer to that zero sperm count."
Using the testosterones-progestins combination, Amory's team has produced a zero sperm count in close to 80 percent of study participants.
A contraceptive that completely shuts down sperm production is as effective as the pill, Amory said. However, research has shown that even sperm counts below three million per milliliter of ejaculate significantly reduce the risk of pregnancy.
Sperm counts of below one million per milliliter are even better.
"Right now, that's a reasonable short-term goal for our studies," Amory said.
Three large-scale studies of male hormonal control are under way. Oragnon, a Dutch pharmaceutical company, is conducting a study involving 300 men. The study is taking place at sites in Europe, Los Angeles and Seattle. Large-scale trials with approximately 500 participants are also happening in China.
Amory said researchers have been encouraged by the results. Participants are reporting few side effects and few resulting pregnancies. If data continues to be favorable, male hormonal birth control could hit the market within four years, Amory said.
What form the birth control will take remains to be seen. Researchers hope to one day offer men the wide range of birth control options now available to women. But that's getting ahead of the game, Amory said.
"Right now, it's one step at a time," he said. "Right now, we're just working on getting one product on the market."
Some researchers, including Amory, say a monthly injection will be the first to reach consumers. Others think an implant inserted under the arm, similar to Norplant, will pave the way. And there are those betting on a daily pill. Then there are trials testing possible combinations of these methods. The list goes on and on.
The largest studies are focusing on a long-acting injection, similar to women's Depo-Provera, Amory said.
WHY NOW?
After decades of birth control focused primarily on women, some researchers say it's time for men to have a role and a choice in family planning.
Vanessa Collins, vice president for medical affairs at Planned Parenthood, said any safe method for reducing unwanted pregnancies would be welcome.
"However long it takes, it will be worthwhile," she said.
Joseph Tash hopes it won't take long. Tash, associate professor of molecular and integrated physiology at the University of Kansas Medical Center, is working to develop a hormonal form of male birth control.
While attending high school in Chicago, Tash worked in the obstetrics and gynecology department at Michael Reese Hospital. He remembers seeing how women shouldered the burden of birth control.
"Being a student of the '60s, I thought it would be better if this were a shared responsibility," he said.
So Tash began researching what has become his life's work: male reproduction and contraception. He is working with Gunda Georg, distinguished professor of medicinal chemistry here at the University, to develop options for men.
Three years ago, the National Institutes of Health awarded the pair a grant to fund their research. They are currently in the process of patenting their developments. Because their research has not yet been patented, Georg and Tash are not comfortable discussing the specifics.
In the 1960s, there was not a lot of solid researching being done on the possibility of male contraceptives. The past few years especially have seen an explosion of research and discussion.
Tash credits the surge of interest to a variety of things, from greater publicity to new breakthroughs in contraceptives of all kinds.
"There's a greater awareness of new technologies in all fields. Now people have an idea of what we can do," he said.
Georg and Tash are custom designing drugs that never existed before. They're manipulating and designing chemical compounds for the sole purpose of stopping sperm production.
"That was basically unheard of before," Tash said.
The large number of developments in the field of female contraception has drawn attention to the lack of male birth control. Now researchers are taking what they've learned about female birth control and studying how it applies to the male body.
This new technology, and a willingness to apply it to men, has made hormonal contraceptives more feasible and increased demand for the product, Tash said.
"Surveys have shown people want it," he said. "But only time will tell."
THE COCKTAIL PARTY QUESTION
No one is sure exactly how men or women will react when male contraceptives go on the market. But Planned Parenthood and other organizations think people will be receptive.
Several large, independent surveys have shown men to be responsive to the idea. In a worldwide poll of 2,000 men conducted by the University of Edinburgh in the United Kingdom last year, more than 75 percent said they were "extremely interested and would highly consider using" a hormonal contraceptive. The remaining 25 percent said "absolutely not."
That doesn't discourage Amory, the Seattle researcher. When the alternative contraceptive methods are considered men will warm up to the idea of hormonal control, he said.
Vasectomies and condoms are still the only birth control options for men, vasectomies are considered permanent. While they can be reversed, 40 percent of men remain infertile after the reversal procedure. Couples who rely on condoms have a pregnancy rate of 15 percent per year. And condoms decrease sexual pleasure. There's not much competition for hormonal control, Amory said.
"If it's any indication, we haven't had any problems recruiting men for studies," Amory said.
Getting women on board hasn't been as easy.
Women can at least rest assured that their birth control is taken care of if they take measures to protect themselves. If and when the burden of birth control switches over to men, women will no longer have the guarantee that their birth control is under control. Researchers are still gauging how trusting women will be.
When Mr. One Night Stand says, "Don't worry, baby. I'm on the pill," will women believe it?
"That's the question I get asked at cocktail parties every weekend," Amory said.
Surveys have produced mixed results. When the University of Edinburgh polled 2,000 married women, close to 90 percent said a male pill would be a good idea. More than 97 percent said they would trust their husbands with birth control.
Single women were a different story. Georg said single women might be less likely to rely on partners they aren't committed to.
"It's important to consider individual relationships," Georg said. "A strong trust would have to be there."
Even if male hormonal birth control is not for every couple, it will benefit many people, George and Tash say. That is why they have devoted so much time and energy to its development.
"It will give people an alternative, a choice," Georg said. "And everyone deserves that."
(C) 2002 University Daily Kansan via U-WIRE

Load-Date: December 2, 2003


End of Document
