




Anchorage Daily News (Alaska)
October 12, 2007 Friday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2007 Anchorage Daily News All Rights Reserved
Section: PLAY; Pg. H24
Length: 1041 words
Body


    Dear Wanda and Wayne,
 When my wife and I got married eight years ago, neither of us was particularly religious. Now she goes to church two or three times a week and keeps bugging me to go with her.
 She's worried that I'll go to hell. I'm worried that if she doesn't stop nagging me about this, our marriage will fall apart. It's driving me crazy.
 I'm not a bad guy. I work hard, I donate money to charities, I volunteer. I'm just not the churchgoing type. My wife doesn't seem to understand that I'm not going to change and that all she's doing is driving us apart.
 -- Not Going to the Chapel
 Your wife needs to concentrate less on saving you and more on saving your marriage -- otherwise, it sounds like she'll lose both battles.
 I think a counselor could help a great deal. You have anxiety about your marriage; your wife has anxiety about your everlasting soul. A professional could help you sort these things out. Plenty of couples make it through similar (or worse) situations. Baptists marry atheists. Muslims marry Jews. Trekkies marry "Star Wars" fans. I doubt many of them go into it thinking it will be easy, but they agree to do their best to make it work.
 You say your wife has changed since you married her. That's to be expected -- people change. You may not want to, but your wife did. This doesn't change the fact that you agreed to love and stay true to one another eight years ago.
 That's where a good marriage counselor comes in. Scout around. And in the meantime try to understand that it's incredibly difficult for someone who believes in hell to therefore believe that certain loved ones will end up there.
 Holy moley! Of all the things that can come between a couple, nothing is worse than religion. I mean, what are you going to say? It's not like she's spending her days at the casino or the beer joint. There is no way you can win this one, pal. She's got the Big Guy on her side, and anything you say or do is going to be interpreted as an attack on him.
 Last time I checked, this was still a free country. And the right to choose your religion was primary on the list of freedoms we cherish. That would seem to imply that a person is also free to stay home from church too if he prefers. If your wife finds comfort in her religion and in its ceremonies, fine. Be happy for her. But why does she need you to attend the rituals too?
 If this sounds like a control issue, there is a reason for that: It is. Your wife has set up an unassailable argument. You need God, her god. She may claim she's worried about your eternal soul. But the real hell is going to be right here on Earth until you make it clear to her that you are not interested.
 Dear Wanda and Wayne,
 I came across a story in the paper that talked about how the rising cost of birth control could lead to unwanted pregnancies and how some female college students feel pressure to choose between paying for books or for contraception.
 Excuse me? Has our society become so consumed by sexual desire that common sense no longer exists? Sex is more important than education?
 Ladies, men can get reversible vasectomies these days. I strongly suggest that you demand they take responsibility. If men think that women will take on the entire burden of birth control, they will let us.
 If you cannot afford to protect yourself, then don't take the risk. If you absolutely cannot go without sex, consider alternatives if you cannot afford birth control. It comes down to this, ladies: It is a new century. We have not been sex slaves to men for many decades. Let's keep it that way.
 -- Single, Smiling and Safe
 Wow, coed sex slaves! I think I saw that movie.
 Listen, Single, Smiling and Safe, you made an interesting leap in your argument. You start with the idea of  females "consumed by sexual desire" who are willing to give up textbooks in favor of booty ... and then you jump straight to blaming horndog men with slave-driver access to women and control over their bodies. Nice move. I'd like to think that the point of all that was that we men are so darned desirable that women must have us at any cost. However, I gotta feeling that isn't what you had in mind.
 Why does this issue always get pitched as a choice between disaster and abstinence? There are other remedies. This is not a birth control debate; whether birth control is cheap or expensive, there are scary concerns here. How about STDs? Wouldn't it be wiser for a smart college gal to be sure the guy is wearing a condom? Those are cheap. If you buy them by the gross you can get lots of "smiles" and afford your textbooks, too.
 While I agree that men need to take equal responsibility for birth control, I don't think vasectomies are necessarily the way to go about it. The surgery required to reverse a vasectomy is painful, expensive and not guaranteed to work. Men should go the vasectomy route only if they're absolutely sure they don't want to have children.
 There is absolutely no good excuse (barring certain religious beliefs, perhaps, or the actual desire to procreate) for anyone -- male or female ­-- to avoid taking responsibility for birth control. It doesn't have to be expensive. Family planning clinics like Planned Parenthood (4001 Lake Otis Parkway, 563-2229, ) offer exams on a sliding scale, and Medicaid (           ) may cover certain prescription options like the Pill. (Someday, hopefully in the not-too-distant future, we may even see a pill for men. Hallelujah! Let them deal with the extra hormones!)
 Oh, and there are these things called condoms. Remember those? Students can grab a handful of them for free at their campus health clinic. Organizations such as the Alaskan AIDS Assistance Association () pass them out in bars. A box of 12 costs about the same as a sandwich.
 That's a lot less than a baby.
 ? Wanda is a wise person who has loved, lost and been to therapy. Wayne is a wiseguy who has no use for therapy. Send them your questions and thoughts at 
 Send us your scenario
 Is the onset of colder weather getting you down? Are you taking it out on someone? Are they taking it out on you? Or maybe you're just looking for someone to keep you warm. ... Write to us:   

Load-Date: October 12, 2007


End of Document
