




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
November 27, 2015 Friday


Distributed by Newsbank, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2015 Cox Ohio Publishing. 
Section: USA TODAY; Pg. Z4
Length: 2079 words
Byline: News from across the USA
Body


ALABAMA Mobile: The City Council gave a thumbs up to building a park named after the city’s historic Mardi Gras festival, AL.com reported.
ALASKA Fairbanks: The state filed a request with the federal government to split Fairbanks and the North Pole into separate air-quality areas, newsminer.com reported. The move comes as smoke pollution on the west side of the Fairbanks North Star Borough is improving and smoke pollution on the east side of the borough is getting worse. 
ARIZONA Phoenix: A fatal shooting was the result of a rivalry between “tagging” crews, police said. Sgt. Trent Crump, a Police Department spokesman, said the victim and the suspect were members of rival graffiti crews. Officers arrested Jasyel Perez, 19, in the death of Raul Ortega, 18, The Arizona Republic reported. 
ARKANSAS North Little Rock: Tickets go on sale Dec. 5 for next summer’s double-bill of Journey and the Doobie Brothers at the Verizon Arena, ArkansasOnline reported. 
CALIFORNIA San Diego: About 400 people participated in a march and demonstration at San Diego State in response to a report of a hate crime against a Muslim student, the Los Angeles Times reported. A white man in his 20s grabbed a female Muslim student’s head scarf in a campus parking lot and made racist comments to her. 
COLORADO Denver: School teacher Juliette Jones received a surprise $100 gift card from an anonymous donor last week, KUSA-TV reported. The single mother of two said she doesn't know who left the gift card at her front door or why. 
CONNECTICUT Hartford: A man who sued a hospital after losing a testicle following vasectomy surgery has been awarded $386,000 by a judge, the Hartford Courant reported. 
DELAWARE Bear: About 300 Red Lion Christian Academy students fanned out across the Hickory Woods neighborhood Tuesday raking leaves from lawns. This is the third year that the entire Red Lion upper school, grades 6-12, has participated in the Rake and Run service project, according to The News Journal. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Parkour, a strenuous sport of outdoor gymnastics in which participants weave and twist around improvised obstacle courses, is being taken up by enthusiasts in their 30s or older, The Washington Post reported. 
FLORIDA Pensacola: Daniel Lee Durning, 28, and Aaron Lee Durning, 34, have been arrested in the death of 57-year-old Lisa Barberi, who was found strangled at an area hotel, the Pensacola News Journal reported. 
GEORGIA Forsyth County: Deputies are trying to find out who killed a dog found hanging from a tree near Lake Lanier, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported. 
HAWAII Lihue: A trio who set out nearly two decades ago to build the island’s first long-distance Polynesian canoe in more than a century are almost ready to set sail. John Kruse, Dennis Chun and Pat Aiu have been working on Namahoe for 17 years with the help of grant money, volunteers and engineers, The Garden Island reported. 
IDAHO Lewiston: A police officer shot a dog near a junior high school after it acted menacingly toward kids, The Lewiston Tribune reported. 
ILLINOIS Aurora: Charges are pending against a 14-year-old Metea Valley High School student for allegedly texting a threat directed at the school, the Chicago Tribune reported. 
INDIANA Indianapolis: Eli Lilly and Co. won federal marketing approval for Portrazza, a new drug that extends the lives of people battling metastatic squamous non-small-cell lung cancer, which is difficult to treat, The Indianapolis Star reported. 
IOWA Des Moines: Downtown’s historic Jackson Street bridge could reopen to pedestrians and cyclists by this time next year, The Register reported. KANSAS Leavenworth: The Leavenworth County Historical Society launched a $1 million campaign to retrieve glass-plate photo negatives taken more than century ago, The Kansas City Star reported. Some of the 40,000 photo negatives show steamboats and cavalry soldiers. 
KENTUCKY Louisville: More than 200 residents joined Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer and other leaders Tuesday evening at a downtown park to voice support for Syrian and other refugees facing a backlash after the Paris terror attacks, The Courier-Journal reported. 
LOUISIANA New Orleans: Blue Bell Creameries will start delivering ice cream again in Louisiana and parts of Mississippi starting Dec. 21, just in time for holiday festivities, The Times-Picayune reported. Blue Bell pulled its products from shelves in April amid listeria concerns. 
MAINE Augusta: A state resident died of Eastern Equine Encephalitis, the first such death in state history. The Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention said a person age 65 or older from York County who died on Oct. 17 was confirmed to have the mosquito-borne disease. 
MARYLAND Salisbury: U.S. Rep. Donna F. Edwards will be the University of Maryland Eastern Shore’s 2015 winter commencement speaker as 329 degrees are awarded Dec. 18, The Daily Times reported. Edwards is the first African-American woman from Maryland to serve in Congress. 
MASSACHUSETTS Cambridge: The Fox Club, an exclusive social club at Harvard University, was closed by its board of university alumni following a rowdy party, The Boston Globe reported. A graduate member tells the newspaper that a Nov. 13 party, attended by the club’s first class of prospective female members, included nudity, alcohol and “women in shark costumes.” 
MICHIGAN Bay City: Scarves, hats and gloves were found hanging or wrapped around light poles and trees in Wenonah Park for the homeless and others needing to keep warm, The Bay City Times reported. A note read: “I am not lost. If you are cold, wear me. (signed) Bay City Cares.” 
MINNESOTA St. Paul: The Department of Natural Resources says plenty of roosters remain in the fields. 
MISSISSIPPI Starkville: Sales tax collections here continued an upward historical trend in 2014-2015, averaging more than $500,000 per month for the first time in the city’s history, The Commercial Dispatch reported. 
MISSOURI Platte City: A 3-year-old boy died after falling into a pond near his family’s home, The Kansas City Star reported. 
MONTANA Billings: A judge ordered a local tobacco shop to stop operating its machines that allow customers to roll their own cigarettes, the Billings Gazette reported. 
NEBRASKA Holdrege: A woman and baby were sent to a hospital after a locomotive struck the car they were in at a crossing, KHGITV reported. 
NEVADA North Las Vegas: A woman and a man are hospitalized with serious burn injuries after a fire at a local home. 
NEW HAMPSHIRE Keene: The state Supreme Court denied an injunction against a band of self-styled Robin Hoods who feed parking meters while following meter readers, the Concord Monitor reported. 
ton NEW : Gov JERSEY . Christie Tren- pardoned a Philadelphia resident for a boardwalk robbery he committed as a drug-addicted young man more than 40 years ago. John Berry, 61, is now a case manager for the Philadelphia Treatment Court and has been sober for more than 28 years, Asbury Park Press reported. 
NEW MEXICO Los Lunas: A pilot program aimed at helping families prevent child maltreatment is expanding to six counties. Gov. Martinez announced the $1 million expansion of the family support worker program during a visit here. 
NEW YORK South Nyack: 
Rockland County residents will get their first look Tuesday night when four parking concepts for the new bike and walking path on the new Tappan Zee Bridge will be presented to the South Nyack Village Board. State-owned land at Exit 10 off the Thruway will play a major role in accommodating potential hordes of visitors, The Journal News reported. 
NORTH CAROLINA Climax: 
Steve Tate and his wife, Lee, are ready to retire, so they’re going to sell Goat Lady Dairy, one of the state’s earliest and best-known local food brands, The News & Observer reported. 
NORTH DAKOTA Williston: State corrections officials ordered the Williams County jail to reduce its population of female inmates. A recent inspection found the facility had 18 more women than the 20 it’s allowed, the Williston Herald reported. 
OHIO North Canton: A federal judge has refused to throw out the prison sentence of an Ohio telemarketing millionaire convicted of witness tampering but acquitted on charges related to campaign contributions made by employees, relatives and others, The (Canton) Repository reported. 
OKLAHOMA McAlester: The McAlester Public Schools Board of Education voted to continue the suspension of MPS Superintendent Marsha Gore and her husband, MPS Plant Operations Manager Joseph Skip Gore, and 
to give them written notification of termination 
proceedings against 
them, the McAlester 
News-Capital 
reported. 
stone OREGON : Fire Glad offi 
cials want to bar 
motor vehicle access on a sandbar at a 
local park after a 
recent drowning in 
the Willamette River, 
The Oregonian reported. 
PENNSYLVANIA Champion: A judge denied a couple’s effort to have a road remain open near Seven Springs Mountain Resort, enabling the resort to start making snow ahead of ski season, the Pittsburgh Tribune reported. 
RHODE ISLAND Westerly: A 61-year-old woman has died after her car hit a stone wall and rolled over several times, The Westerly Sun reported. 
SOUTH CAROLINA Greenville: Michelin on Main has closed after eight years. When it opened in 2007, selling Michelin-branded apparel and other items, it offered a tire concierge to discuss tires with visitors and connect them with tire dealers. Michelin has its North American headquarters and Americas Research and Development Corporation in Greenville, as well as tire manufacturing plants in Greenville, Spartanburg and Anderson counties. The store is being closed because the “company's needs have changed,” The Greenville News reported. 
SOUTH DAKOTA Huron: Temple Grandin, an animal handling researcher, livestock facility designer and author, will speak Dec. 9 at the South Dakota Farmers Union State Convention. 
TENNESSEE Nashville: Starting in January, the seat belt fine will more than double in Tennessee  a state with one of the lowest penalties compared with several whose first-time violations top out at more than $100 a pop  The Tennessean reported. 
TEXAS El Paso: Police arrested a man accused of practicing dentistry without a license, the El Paso Times reported. 
UTAH Salt Lake City: A man is facing charges after authorities say he fired a gun to distract police officers from searching a motel, The Salt Lake Tribune reported. 
VERMONT Burlington: Burton’s Playboy Bunny boards are back. The iconic snowboard company announced it has reunited with Playboy Enterprises to launch the Burton x Playboy snowboard collection, “featuring vintage Playboy centerfolds and artwork by acclaimed tattoo artist, Chris Nunez,” Burlington Free Press reported. 
VIRGINIA Richmond: A couple of weeks before the new Star Wars movie opens, the Jedi Prom will be at the Science Museum on Dec. 7, the Times-Dispatch reported. Attendees are encouraged to dress in Star Wars costumes and reminded that Han shot first. 
WASHINGTON Everett: Boeing Co. officials say several workers have been fired and disciplined for “inappropriate personal behavior.” The Daily Herald reported that employees at the Everett plant were using company-issued phones to send sexually-explicit images via text message. 
WEST VIRGINIA Charleston: Christmas tree vendors at Capitol Market are prepared for a Black Friday sales rush, the Gazette-Mail reported. 
WISCONSIN Green Bay: Nearly 4,000 “cheesy scarves” sporting a Packers theme in gold fleece with Swiss cheese-like holes have been sold since football season started, raising about $65,000 for the homeless at New Community Shelter. Since an online store opened in late summer, cheesy scarves made by volunteers, shelter residents and staff have been sold to fans in more than 35 states and 14 countries, Green Bay Press-Gazette reported. WYOMING Casper: Local skiers and snowboarders may have to wait a year for an extra-thick blanket of powdery snow as El Nino is expected to bring a drier and warmer winter here. National Weather Service meteorologist Chris Jones told the Casper Star-Tribune that El Nino is expected to bring a mild winter to the local region. Jones added that Wyoming’s northwest corner will still receive snow, just not as much as other years. 
and Compiled Jonathan by Tim Briggs Wendel , with , Nicole Carolyn Gill Ben Cerbin She , Linda ffler and Dono Nichelle , Mike Smith Gottschamer . Design , by jandro Tiffany Gonzalez Reusser . . Graphics by Ale

Load-Date: November 30, 2023


End of Document
