




USNEWS.com
November 18, 2015 Wednesday


 Correction Appended

Copyright 2015 U.S. News & World Report All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; STEM Solutions; Vol.; No.
Length: 907 words
Byline: Tom Risen
Highlight: Student inventions include baby respirators, 3-D printed skin and a synthetic blinking eye.
Body


[IMAGE]
Science, math and technology education is  of inventors to save the world. 
 students Joseph Barnett and Stephen John learned about the lack of medical care for newborns during their respective travels to Honduras and Nepal, so they designed a respirator for premature babies that can be built with simple parts and operated without extensive training. 
[IMAGE]
 That design won the two aspiring medical students the award for best invention by an undergraduate team during the 2015  on Tuesday, netting them $10,000 in prize money. 
 "Even if you could afford an expensive ventilator from America, there is a steep learning curve to learn those machines, or it might break and cost tens of thousands of dollars," Barnett says. "We wanted our designs to meet the constraints of hospitals we would be working at in rural parts of developing nations like Honduras, Nepal or [countries in] Africa." 
 Their invention could one day save "tens of thousands of lives" in the developing world, says Spencer Silver, one of the judges for the competition who is also the co-inventor of the Post-it Note. 
Medical innovations dominated the competition, organized by education nonprofit Invent Now and hosted at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in Alexandria, Virginia. Judges for the competition included members of the patent office's National Inventors Hall of Fame such as Silver and Steve Sasson, who invented the original digital camera in 1975. 
EXPLORE: []
 Sasson says many of the contest finalists are planning to   while still finishing college. Barnett and John plan to take on the daunting task of starting medical school while marketing their respirator to developing nations through their startup AIM Tech -- but John says they are "optimistic" about the challenge. 
 "This is my third year as a judge in this competition and the kids get better every year by targeting important problems with more advanced, useful ideas," Sasson says. "Most of the presentations in recent years have had a medical slant to them since these inventors have identified so many problems in emerging countries that can be improved with technology." 
[IMAGE]
 Medical inventions featured during the expo included advanced disinfectant for health care workers who operate in ; a polymer gel that can act as a contraceptive for cats, dogs and humans; and a blood test that can identify and isolate cancer cells. 
 student David Kolesky won the $15,000 prize for best design by a graduate school entrant by             to build living human tissue -- a scientific first that uses a material that liquefies when it is cooled to create cardiovascular systems with blood vessels. Kolesky says he is working with groups to see if the tissue is realistic enough for use in clinical trials like drug testing -- and hopefully one day "use it to rebuild human skin." 
 "My background is in engineering, so I caught the biotech bug when I was in undergrad," he says of his inspiration. "People have wanted to rebuild human tissue for years and I was excited by the challenge." 
 The potential for creating artificial body parts also inspired  students to create a business card-sized model of a human eye with the hopes that it can "fight animal cruelty and become an alternative to medical testing on animals," says co-inventor Nicholas Perkons. This "blinking human eye on a chip" is being used to model dry eye disease but Perkons hopes companies will see its potential to test other eye ailments. 
BROWSE: []
 The finalists each spoke of their schools supporting their innovations or entrepreneurship even when it caused them to occasionally miss classes, but  student Nicholas Hogan says he was inspired at a particularly young age when he attended Invent Now's             in fifth grade. 
 "Instead of just being excited of building things at home it gave me a structure of what inventing could look like in the real world," Hogan recalls of Camp Invention. "We learned how invention could be about helping others." 
 Hogan and his teammates tackled the problem of overpopulation with their invention Contraline, a contraceptive that can work on both dogs and human males with a gel polymer injection that blocks the flow of sperm without surgery or hormonal alteration. 
READ: []
[IMAGE]
 "This is better than a vasectomy; this is better than anything men have access to right now," he says. "Urologists told us 'this sounds awesome; we're interested.'" 
 The expo at the federal patent offices also honored inventors of previous generations by announcing new members into the National Inventors Hall of Fame -- including Victor Lawrence, who will be inducted in May for his signal processing technology that enabled high-speed Internet. 
Lawrence, who is African-American, says he hopes his induction into the pantheon of great inventors will "inspire future generations -- especially minorities -- to look at ." 
Tom Risen is a technology and business reporter for U.S. News & World Report. You can follow him on  or reach him at .
Correction


Correction 11/18/15: A previous version of this article incorrectly listed the prize for best design by a graduate student. David Kolesky won $15,000. Also, new members of the National Inventors Hall of Fame have been announced and will be inducted in the spring.

Graphic

 
Picture, These are the finalists for the 2015 Collegiate Inventors Competition., Courtesy Invent Now
Picture, Joseph Barnett, left, and Stephen John, center, won best design by an undergraduate team for their respirator for newborn babies. At right is humorist Mo Rocca, the award presenter., Courtesy Invent Now
Picture, Harvard University student David Kolesky won best design from a graduate school entrant for making 3-D printed human tissue., Courtesy Invent Now
Picture, The prize-winning teams are pictured during the award ceremony of the 2015 Collegiate Inventors Competition., Courtesy Invent Now

Load-Date: November 19, 2015


End of Document
