




The Northern Star: Northern Illinois University
February 12, 2014 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2014 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: DEKALB_SCENE; Pg. 1
Length: 473 words
Body


Television's most dysfunctional couples can help your Valentine's Day insecurities.
5. Fitz, Olivia Pope and Mellie Grant of "Scandal"
President Fitzgerald Grant or Fitz, has a lot of nerve cheating on the First Lady with Olivia Pope. Mellie Grant for some crazy reason loves Fitz and will do anything to get him back, including telling the public about his affair with Olivia. As the show progresses, I begin to love Mellie and Fitz together more than Fitz and Olivia. But the episode "Vermont Is for Lovers, Too" really had me loving Fitz and Olivia . Fitz puts on his charm and brings Olivia to a random house in Vermont. After a fight, Fitz tells Olivia he bought the house for her, but before he sells it he wanted to show her.
4. Fiona, Jimmy/Steve of "Shameless"
Even though the Gallagher family defines dysfunctional, when Jimmy/Steve starts dating Fiona, it takes the word to a whole new level. Jimmy is a car thief in the first season. In the second season, Jimmy reveals he is actually Steve and has been lying to Fiona their whole relationship, which is basically a "who's wearing the pants" competition.
At the end of the third season, Steve gets involved with some gangsters and gets dropped in the bottom of Lake Michigan, and I was so happy he wouldn't be coming back to ruin Fiona's life anymore.
3. Michael Scott and Jan Levenson of "The Office"
I have not been a fan of these two "lovers" since Jan Levenson made Michael Scott get a reverse vasectomy. Jan really made my skin crawl, and Michael is just a man child who wants to be loved.
Every time Michael said anything, Jan was always incredibly embarrassed (besides when she randomly gets super turned on by him).
My favorite thing about this couple is in the episode "Dinner Party," when the couple hosts dinner at Michael's condo. Everything that could possibly go wrong does, including Jan throwing one of Michael's "Dundies" at the flat screen TV he is so proud of.
2. Castiel and Dean of "Supernatural"
Castiel and Dean aren't technically a couple, but with the way they act around each other and how they fight they should be one.
Cas saved Dean from Hell and they have been best friends ever since. They might not always get along or agree with each other's choices, but they are perfect for each other. When Cas disappeared Dean was a wreck and would have dreams about Cas and finding him.
1. Chuck Bass and Blair Waldorf of "Gossip Girl"
Drama had me obsessed with Blair Waldorf and Chuck Bass the whole series.
The first few seasons of the show, viewers were teased with will-they-or-won't-they until the end of season two, when they finally get together. Chuck and Blair shared the most satisfying kiss I've waited for.
Of course, they break up a number of times. Blair even has an affair with Chuck's uncle, and Chuck vows to ruin Blair's life, but they end up together.

Load-Date: February 13, 2014


End of Document
