




Tendersbiz
March 17, 2018 Saturday


Copyright 2018 TendersBiz Business Solutions All Rights Reserved
Length: 1347 words
Dateline: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
Body


United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, March 17 -- ARDEN and GEM CSU has posted a tender notice for "Contract notice: Health services."
Tender Details: Object of the contract
Health services
Description: Contract notice: Health services
Authority Type: Body governed by public law
Contact Nature: Services
Procedure: Open procedure
Document: Contract notice
Regulation: European Union, with participation by GPA countries
Award criteria: The most economic tender
CPV code: 85100000,85100000,85100000
CPV Description: Health services.
Termination of Pregnancy Services (ToPs) and Non-scalpel Vasectomy Services
Lot 1:Termination of Pregnancy (ToPs).
Main Site : Birmingham and Solihull.
The successful provider will be required to deliver Termination of Pregnancy services for the registered populations of the following lead and associate Commissioners:
- lead Commissioner NHS Birmingham Cross City CCG (BXCCCG),
- associate Commissioners NHS Birmingham South Central CCG (BSCCCG) and NHS Solihull CCG (SCCG).
Please note, as of the 1.4.2018 BXCCCG, BSCCCG and SCCG will merge to form NHS Birmingham and Solihull CCG.
Aims and objectives of service.
- to Provide a consistent, comprehensive, effective, accessible, legal and appropriate abortion service to service users.
- to Provide a quality service informed by the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists Guidance for the ''Care of Women Requesting Induced Abortion'' (the RCOG Guideline), the MEDFASH standards for sexual health service, and current best evidence.
- to ensure that risk of infection and other complications to service users is minimised.
- to ensure that opportunities for contraceptive counselling and sexual health screening are maximised especially chlamydia for patients at high risk.
- to reduce the percentage of women seeking repeat terminations from current levels.
- to provide nurse led consultations and ensure that doctors recruited are appropriately qualified.
Objectives.
- to offer high quality, impartial support and advice to all service users who request an abortion, regardless of age, ethnicity, language, disability, religious or personal circumstances.
- to provide service users with access to an abortion as early as possible.
- to provide abortion methods clinically appropriate for a service user's gestation and clinical circumstances.
- to improve the sexual health of service users through providing sexual health screening for Chlamydia for 15 -24 year olds and other sexually transmitted infections (STI's) for all age groups for patients from Birmingham and Solihull.
- to provide information and advice on all methods of contraception and the supply of the full range of long acting reversible contraceptive (LARC) methods.
- to work with local Sexual Health Service provider/s to facilitate ongoing continuation of long term contraception for Birmingham and Solihull residents. This may involve requests to patients to share patient contact details with sexual health service for follow up, particularly with under 25s.
Service description / care pathway.
The service specification is designed to sit alongside the legislative provisions of the Abortion Act and the Care Standards Act, and is not designed to replicate these provisions, or to duplicate, replicate or supersede the work undertaken by the Care Quality Commission or the Secretary of State for Health or register or approve independent sector abortion clinics. However, there may be some areas where the requirements of legislation appear in this service specification but duplication has been kept to a minimum.
The service model is based on the RCOG Guideline on "The Care of Women requesting Induced Abortion" and current best practice .
The service specification will be amended in line with any future guidance produced by the College. While the CCG will endeavor to update this service specification in line with any new guidance as quickly as possible, it is expected that the Service Providers will work pro-actively to agree a speedy variation of the contract to take account of any new guidance ahead of the production of a revised service specification.
The Contracting Authority intends to use an eTendering system in this procurement exercise.
NHS AGCSU is managing this Procurement in accordance with the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 (as amended) (the 'Regulations'). The Services being procured are Schedule 3 Services and NHS Arden and GEM CSU and the Commissioner it represents are bound only by those parts of the Regulations applying to the procurement of these services commonly referred to as the Light Touch Regime (LTR).
Whilst the procurement process is being referred to as an Open Process, Schedule 3 of the Regulations provides the Commissioner with the flexibility to define its own process as long as it complies with the provisions of Regulations 74-76 (inclusive) of the Regulations.
The commissioner may require that the provider and/or members of its supply chain provide guarantees, bonds or other instruments of appropriate security for the due and proper performance of its or their obligations, in such forms as may be required by the commissioner or otherwise prescribed for any such purpose.
Please see published documentation for further details.
The duration of the contracts for both Lots associated with this procurement are for a period of 3 years with an option to extend for a further 2 years. (Maximum Duration 5 years).
The CCG reserves the right not to award the contract in whole or in part and / or to withdraw the procurement at any stage and that it shall not have any liability for any bid costs.
Suppliers instructions - How to Express Interest in and respond to this Tender: Register your company on the eSourcing portal (this is only required once). Browse to the eSourcing Portal:  and click the link to register - Accept the terms and conditions and click 'continue' - Enter your correct business and user details. - Note the user-name you chose and click 'Save' when complete. - You will shortly receive an e-mail with your unique password (please keep this secure). 2. Express an Interest in the tender - Login to the portal with the username/password - Click the 'PQQs / ITTs Open To All Suppliers' link. (These are Pre-Qualification Questionnaires or Invitations to Tender open to any registered supplier). - Click on the relevant ITT (itt_947) to access the content. - Click the 'Express Interest' button at the top of the page. - This will move the ITT into your My ITTs' page. (This is a secure area reserved for your projects only) - You can now access any attachments by clicking 'Buyer Attachments' in the ITT Details' box. 3. Responding to the ITT - Click 'My Response' under 'ITT Details', you can choose to 'Create Response' or to 'Decline to Respond' (please give a reason if declining). - You can now use the 'Messages' function to communicate with the buyer and seek any clarification. - Note the deadline for completion, then follow the onscreen instructions to complete the ITT. - There may be a mixture of on-line and off-line actions for you to perform (there is detailed on-line help available). You must then submit your ITT reply using the 'Submit Response' button at the top of the page by the deadline specified. If you require any further assistance please consult the on-line help, or contact the eTendering help-desk.
Internet address (URL): 
Directive: Classical Directive (2014/24/EU)
Financier: Self Financed
Competition Type: ICB
The tender notice no. is 119543-2018.
The expression of interest should be received by April 16.
Purchaser's contact details: Office Name: Arden and GEM CSU
Address: Kingston House
Town: West Bromwich
Postal Code: B70 9LD.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Tendersbiz. For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at 

Load-Date: March 17, 2018


End of Document
