




The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
August 15, 2006 Tuesday
Main Edition


Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: METRO NEWS; Pg. 2D
Length: 462 words
Byline: For the Journal-Constitution
Body


Terrorism: Death by Sprite.
All last week the DOT's changeable message board I pass advised "Air Quality Alert --- Share the rice." Now that the rain has washed away some of the smog, can we get back to our normal eating habits?
That baby conceived two months after a vasectomy could still be yours. My doctor told me to be careful for six months after my surgery.
I am one of those heinous fiends who drive the speed limit.
I put chow chow on my grits and wash it down with sweet tea.
I hope Bill Campbell will be busting rocks to earn that 12 cents an hour he will get in that Miami federal prison.
Using a cellphone while on the toilet is called multitasking. Quiet time is in the library.
I heard Bill Campbell is enrolled in Grass Cutting 101, being taught by Jennifer Wilbanks.
Hey Vent Guy, I've got 50 bucks that says you won't publish this. (Now you don't! --- The Vent Guy)
Who are these people who stay up all night e-mailing me spam?
To the Wal-Mart cashier: Yes, these items are for my classroom. Research states that indirect lighting, plants, and games help students perform better on tests. 
If my cellphone provider charges me for every minute I talk to you and your cellphone provider does the same, aren't they getting paid double?
This is not World War III. This is the "Third World" war.
Most Yankees think my okra plants are marijuana.
It's amazing how many conservatives rail about Cynthia yet can't name one Republican congressman.
I love my doctor. He has a sign in his waiting room that says, "Your doctor is on time," or 10 minutes or whatever, behind schedule. His business manager sees the drug reps. But I'm not telling you who my doctor is.
Now that I ride Cobb County Transit, I've gotten rid of my road rage. But cellphone rage is setting in!
What am I supposed to do when a child abduction alert interrupts my cable TV program? Search my house?
Possible bomb ingredients: makeup, bottled water, cream rinse, shampoo, and cellphones. Who is running al-Qaida, MacGyver?
Another warning for alcoholic beverages: Consumption of alcohol causes members of the opposite sex to appear better looking than they actually are.
I love it that the TSA screeners are busting the women with gel inserts in their bras. Such acts of deception are a threat to mankind.
Now the green freaks don't want us to use air conditioning, drive or use nuclear power. All that's left is to live in caves and forage for nuts and berries. You first!
All Muslims are not terrorists, but sadly, all terrorists seem to be Muslims.
I'm paying my illegal immigrants $12 an hour, and they are worth every penny. Raising the minimum wage just fuels inflation and means that the dollar will buy less. That means those on a fixed income will be poorer.
Need to Vent? Call 404-222-8338; e-vent: 

Load-Date: August 15, 2006


End of Document
