




 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
July 17, 2002 Wednesday
Home Edition


Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Metro News;
Length: 452 words
Body


I think it's time to add an "N" to the word Dow.
When I first heard the term body scan, I thought it had something to do with watching a Britney Spears concert.
I know where those 23,000 lost state cars are. They're on I-285 every day during rush hour.
For the Journal-Constitution
If the stock market had tanked like this while Clinton was president, you could bet your boots he would have been blamed for it.
The original point and click interface was a Smith & Wesson.
Hey, Roger Kahn, how about telling us which party you're representing?
Any man who complains about having a vasectomy should have to be pregnant a couple of times.
Is this new program to give guns to pilots a pilot study?
Have you ever wanted to tell your children that because the economy is down you'll have to let one of them go?
Well, the sales tax might be 9 percent in Tennessee, but there's no state income tax there. So who is better off?
Every time Dubya opens his mouth, the stock market falls 200 points. Can someone please tell him to zip it?
It used to be that only people who wanted to be different got tattoos. Now people get them to fit in.
To all Bush bashers: Show us your MBAs.
Do lightning bugs get electrocuted when it rains?
I'd like to nominate myself as one of Bush's "citizen spies." I'm qualified because I've read all of the Nancy Drew books.
The newspaper article saying that more black women are dating white men certainly opened my eyes to an option I'd not considered before. Thanks!
Please correct the headline, "Coke plans change in accounting formula." Here at Coke, we don't use "change" and "formula" in the same sentence.
Why is it that most bikers look like they eat their old motorcycles?
I don't hate all cellphone users, just the ones who want to conduct all their personal business in my face.
I really hate that little light on the dashboard that tells me when the door is not closed properly. What I need is something to tell me when my fly is open.
I told my friend that if he looked as bad as his passport picture, he shouldn't make the trip.
Sign in a veterinarian's office: "Will be back in 15 minutes. Sit! Stay!"
They must have started burying people two to a grave. Today I saw a headstone that read, "Here lies a lawyer and an honest man."
My granddaughter believes in the philosophy that if you want a kitten, start out by asking for a horse.
New tongue twister of the month. "Saxby Chambliss sipping champagne in Chamblee."
After what's happening on Wall Street, people are now publishing their Social Security numbers in hopes of having their identity stolen.
Our new list of people we should not elect to office: lawyers, used car salesmen, CEOs and baseball players.
Need to Vent? Call 404-222-8338 e-  

Load-Date: July 17, 2002


End of Document
