




The Tampa Tribune (Florida)
April 9, 2005 Saturday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEYSENSE; Pg. 1
Length: 1185 words
Byline: ALAN SNEL, , 
Dateline: TAMPA 
Body


Mike Veeck, Known For Suggesting Vasectomy Night At The Ballpark, Says Companies Should Embrace Fun At Work.
By ALAN SNEL

TAMPA — It didn't take long for Mike Veeck — baseball's wacky showman who proposed Vasectomy Night at a ballpark and offered free tickets to pregnant women at another ball yard — to realize he and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays weren't the ideal fit.
In fact, Veeck recalled in his new book that it took just one meeting with team honchos to find out his zany "Off the Wall" marketing campaign for 1999 didn't resonate with the Devil Rays.
Veeck, the Rays' vice president of sales and marketing at the time, lasted seven months and left during the '99 season. Veeck's promotions included "Labor Day," when pregnant women got free admission, and "Lawyer Appreciation Day," when lawyers got hit with a double ticket price and were billed every three innings for beers and hot dogs.
"Perhaps it was doomed from my first meeting with Devil Rays executives, when I introduced myself by spinning a top on the conference room table. I got nothing but puzzled looks — not even a smile," Veeck wrote in "Fun Is Good — How to Create Joy & Passion in Your Workplace & Career."
"It's hard to be 'Off the Wall' when nobody in the office is off the wall. It's a tough thing to fake. You can learn to be off the wall but for the most part this was not a group willing to learn," Veeck wrote.
Veeck, 54, who would go on to become part owner of six minor league teams and live in Charleston, S.C., mixed his Devil Rays experiences into a book he will tout during a Tampa and Fort Myers tour Thursday to April 17. Safety Harbor writer Pete Williams co-authored the book.
The book's simple message: Fun at work motivates employees to produce a better product, whether it's staging a minor league baseball game, programming computers or working at a restaurant.
One of his tips: "Busting on one another in the workplace keeps things loose. It's like the WD-40 of life. You can poke fun at anything except politics, religion, race and mothers. ... Remember, there's no easier way to deliver a message than by making people laugh."
Fun Promotes Creativity
One of Veeck's business partners is perfectly suited for the teams' fun-is-good approach. He's comic and sports fan Bill Murray. The duo work with New Jersey lawyer Marv Goldklang as part of Goldklang Group, a management consulting firm that runs the six minor league clubs, including the Fort Myers Miracle of the Florida State League.
"When people are having fun, being light-hearted and are in a bantering mood, they are more creative thinkers," Goldklang said.
"When you walk into one of our promotional meetings, the first 10 to 15 minutes are spent just having fun, cracking jokes, tossing around light-hearted insults," he said. "It creates an atmosphere of creativity and the nature of our business is such that we depend on creativity."
Veeck's book is part of a fun-is-good movement, where companies are beginning to grasp that fun workplaces foster improved worker productivity, less absenteeism and lower turnover, said Donna Cutting, of St. Petersburg, a member of the Association for Applied and Therapeutic Humor who speaks about employee morale issues at conferences across the country.
"Humor in the workplace is being taken more seriously. People who used to throw that off as fluff now see the importance of developing that type of culture in the workplace," said Cutting, who spoke at a humor workshop in Safety Harbor in February.
The key is for companies to weave the fun attitude into the daily workplace and not just hold monthly events for employees, she said.
Disco Disaster
The fact that Veeck is among several authors of books on workplace issues caps a remarkable comeback for a man who suffered a drinking problem in the wake of one of baseball's all-time infamous game promotions in Chicago 26 years ago.
The son of legendary former Chicago White Sox owner Bill Veeck was 28 when he hatched "Disco Demolition Night" at the White Sox's Comiskey Park in July 1979. The younger Veeck's idea: Tap into the antidisco movement by inviting fans to bring records and blow up the records in a trash bin between games of a White Sox-Detroit Tigers doubleheader.
More than 100,000 fans showed up — twice the ballpark's capacity — and many stormed the field when the records were blasted to bits. The umpires ruled the field was unplayable, the White Sox forfeited the game and local newspapers ridiculed both father and son Veeck.
Veeck wrote that after the disco fiasco and his lost baseball career, he moved to Florida and drank heavily. He bounced from job to job, hanging drywall and working in a jai-alai fronton before Goldklang offered Veeck a $25,000 job to run the Miracle in Fort Myers in 1989.
In 1998, Vince Naimoli hired Veeck to market a team that has lost more than 90 games annually and draws small crowds. Quitting after seven months with the Rays, Veeck worked as a marketing consultant for the Florida Marlins in 2001.
Devil Rays spokesman Rick Vaughn said Veeck had complete control over establishing the marketing campaign but left before the 1999 season was over. "I would think that may have had an impact on the effectiveness of the campaign," Vaughn said.
The Devil Rays should not be singled out for not embracing the fun-is-good approach, Goldklang said.
"The inability to incorporate the fun-is-good spirit is a function of large organizations. When an organization grows beyond a certain critical mass, it becomes a bureaucracy with organizational charts and lines of authority and fiefdoms."
(CHART) IF YOU GO
WHAT: Mike Veeck book signing for "Fun Is Good"
WHEN: 2 to 4 p.m. Thursday
WHERE: Haslam's Book Store, 2025 Central Ave., St. Petersburg
WHEN: 7:30 to 9 p.m. Friday
WHERE: Barnes & Noble, 11802 N. Dale Mabry Highway, Carrollwood
(CHART) VEECK'S TIPS
* Laugh at adversity.
* Answer your own phone; you never know who might call.
* Incorporate children into your workplace culture.
* Hire people to take your job.
* Keep meetings short, inclusive and few in number.
* The next time something disrupts your plans, don't look at it as a stress or an intrusion but as a new adventure.
* Try to make at least one person laugh every day.
* Give employees time off for volunteer work.
* Write personalized, handwritten notes to customers, not form letters.
* Meet complaints head-on; take calls yourself.
* Ask customers what they like and don't like about the company.
* Offer second chances; you might need one yourself one day.
* Don't worry about gaps in your re'sume'; what did you learn during that time?
* Don't stay in a bad job; it saps energy and spirit.
* Laughter is key to overcoming fear of public speaking.
* Don't take failures so seriously. Learn from them and recognize them as assets.
* It's never too late to start over. Turn your avocation into a vocation.
* Good ideas come from everyone, not just the chiefs.
* Don't be afraid to poke fun at yourself or the company.
Reporter Alan Snel can be reached at (813) 259-7850.
Copyright © 2005, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without permission. E-mail 

Graphic

 
PHOTO 2 CHART 2
Charleston Post and Courier file photo So his "Off the Wall" campaign didn't jibe with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in 1999. Mike Veeck still says fun at work produces a better product. He will be in the Tampa Bay area Thursday to promote his new book, "Fun Is Good." (book cover)

Load-Date: April 13, 2005


End of Document
