




Redbook
June 1, 2005


Copyright 2005 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: HANDBOOK: VERY PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 76; Vol. 204; No. 6
Length: 1249 words
Byline: Janis Graham
Body


More than 700,000 women have their tubes tied each year. Here's why-and what you need to know to decide if you should be one of them.
"'I'm done.' That's what I hear again and again from women seeking tubal sterilization," says George Banuelos, M.D., an ob/gyn at Western DuPage Obstetrics and Gynecology in Illinois. "They've completed their families and want to move on with their lives, free from worrying about pregnancy."
Each year more than 700,000 American women-the majority of whom are older than 30 and have two children or more-opt for tubal sterilization, a procedure that cuts, burns, clips, or ties closed your fallopian tubes so egg and sperm can't meet. The main reason for the procedure's popularity: no more fussing with birth control. "I no longer have to remember to take my Pill every day or stop at the pharmacy to refill my prescription," says Jeanne Hanson, a 39-year-old mother of two (ages 6 and 9) from Delano, MN, who chose sterilization three years ago. "It just seemed like the best option because my husband and I knew we didn't want more children." Sound like something you're ready for? Read on to get the facts.
How It Works
The traditional and most common method of tubal sterilization is through a half-inch incision in your belly button while you're under general anesthesia. You can go home the same day, but recovery can take up to two weeks. If you're pregnant and know you'll be giving birth via C-section, doctors recommend getting this procedure right after delivery; you won't need an extra incision or additional anesthetics, it takes only a few minutes, and it won't lengthen your postpartum hospital stay or your recovery.
There's also a newer "no cut" procedure called Essure, which requires only local anesthesia. Tiny coils are routed through the vagina and cervix into the fallopian tubes, where they trigger scar-tissue formation and block the passage of sperm and eggs. Unlike the traditional method, you must use backup birth control for about three months to allow enough scar tissue to form.
Some experts think Essure will replace traditional surgery within the next five years because there is practically zero recovery time and less risk. What's more, Essure appears to work as well as surgery-at least for the first three years (there are no longer-term statistics because Essure has been available only since 2002). Both methods cost about $5,000, and insurance usually covers most or all of it.
Why Women Choose It
It's 99 percent effective. There's just a 1 percent chance your tubes could reconnect during the first five years, allowing conception, says Jonathan Emery, M.D., an ob/gyn at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio. The only other form of female contraception that works as reliably is the IUD; the Pill's failure rate is typically 5 percent.
It protects against ovarian cancer. Although experts aren't sure why, research shows that tubal sterilization may decrease your risk by more than 30 percent (the Pill slashes risk by about 40 percent after four years of use).
It may rev up your libido. About 18 percent of women report an increase in sexual pleasure for the first two years after having the procedure, according to a study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "No longer worrying about getting pregnant may be one of the reasons why," says study coauthor Herbert Peterson, M.D., a professor of ob/gyn at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
It has no known side effects. After tubal sterilization, there's no bloating (a problem with some formulations of the Pill), no heavy bleeding (an IUD risk), and no increased risk of bladder infections (a disadvantage of using the diaphragm). Although the procedure has been reported to cause irregular periods, there's no research to support a connection. A recent study of more than 9,500 women found that those who have undergone tubal sterilization are no more likely to experience long, heavy, or painful periods than unsterilized women. But women who are on the Pill before they have this surgery may actually have period problems afterward. The reason: Their bodies are no longer getting the hormones in the Pill that keep periods light and regular.
The Risk: Regret
There's really only one downside to tubal sterilization-but it's a big one: regret. Diana M. Lane, a 43-year-old nurse practitioner from St. Petersburg, FL, knows all about it. After having three children, she had a tubal sterilization at age 25, then divorced eight years later. Now she's remarried to a man who never had children. "I can't tell you how often I've cried because I feel he's missed out on being a father because of me," she says.
In fact, as many as 20 percent of women age 30 or younger and 5 percent of those over 30 regret their sterilization decision. Many of them even try to reverse the surgery. "More than 90 percent of the time, when women seek reversal surgery, it's because they want to have children with a new spouse," says Edward Zbella, M.D., medical director of the Florida Fertility Institute in Clearwater. Although up to 80 percent of women who have a reversal eventually conceive and others successfully become pregnant through in vitro fertilization (IVF), it doesn't come cheap: Reversals begin at $6,000; IVF, at about $10,000-and both are almost never covered by health insurance.
How to know if tubal sterilization is right for you? Women who are happy with the surgery tend to have a few things in common, says Gwen Gentile, M.D., associate professor of ob/gyn at the State University of New York-Downstate Medical Center. If you are older than 30, have two or more children, and haven't been pressured by your spouse to have the procedure, you are less likely to be disappointed with your decision down the road. Says Hanson, the 39-year-old mother of two who had the Essure procedure three years ago: "I highly recommend tubal sterilization to all of my friends. Since having the procedure, I've never looked back."
A new  "no cut" procedure has almost zero recovery time.
Should he get his "tubes tied" instead? 
"A lot of women say their husbands are too chicken to ever consider going under the knife," says Jonathan Emery, M.D., an ob/gyn at the Cleveland Clinic. In fact, three times as many women as men get sterilized in the United States. But vasectomy is actually less complicated than tubal sterilization. How it works: A tiny incision is made in a man's scrotum, so that the two tubes that transport sperm can be snipped, burned, or clamped. (He'll still ejaculate during sex, there just won't be any sperm in his semen.) More facts to help the two of you decide:
Vasectomy and tubal sterilization are equally effective. Both procedures fail about 1 percent of the time because the tubes fuse back together.
Vasectomy is less costly. A vasectomy costs about $600, compared with a tubal sterilization's $5,000. But health insurance typically covers both. 
Vasectomy isn't as scary as it sounds. It won't hurt his ability to have or sustain an erection-the main worry for men and their wives, says Michael Warren, M.D., chief of urology at the University of Texas Medical Branch. That was a concern for Scott Smith, a 36-year-old computer analyst and father of two, ages 2 and 5, of Milwaukee. "My worrying beforehand was much more painful than the actual operation," he says. Before the surgery, Smith talked to his doctor and to friends who'd had vasectomies. "Everyone reassured me it wouldn't hurt me-or my sex life," says Smith. "And it hasn't."

Load-Date: May 24, 2007


End of Document
