




The San Diego Union-Tribune
September 19, 2022 Monday
Final Edition


Copyright 2022 The San Diego Union-Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Part B; Pg. 1
Length: 1376 words
Body


Q: Why do you want this job and what would be your top priority?
A: I believe I have something to offer our district and our state. I believe in civil service and serving those in your community. I was on the Laguna Niguel City Council for eight years and served as mayor as well because I wanted to help my community move forward. I think we'd all agree that California is a great place to live, but the state also has some growing problems that haven't been addressed and are getting worse. If re-elected, fighting inflation and the cost of living will continue to be my top priority. It starts by eliminating or at least pausing the state's gas tax. It also means making sure we are building affordable housing and getting burdensome regulations out of the way so cities and developers can properly plan. Lastly, it means working on our clean energy infrastructure, so your utility bills don't skyrocket year after year.
Q: What is the biggest accomplishment of your career?
A: In my small business career, it was starting a business from scratch, and growing so that I could hire more people and help make my family self-sufficient. In the Legislature, I have so far been able to get 11 bills signed into law (with two more awaiting a signature). These have ranged from legalizing testing equipment for dangerous drugs, such as fentanyl and ketamine (a key ingredient of a date-rape drug), so people may know if drinks or products they get are laced with dangerous chemicals. They have also been on reforms such as ensuring college students have the resources they need to prevent food insecurity.
Q: Assess what the state is doing now to address the changing climate. What would you support to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in California?
A: California has been on the forefront of fighting climate change, serving as an example to other states and countries. To reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need an all-of-the-above approach to our energy and business principles. Locally, to help our ecological system, it starts with funding sand retention/replenishment programs to stave off coastal erosion problems. Statewide, I was proud to support Senate Bill 54, the Plastic Pollution Prevention and Packaging Producer Responsibility Act. This bill mandates minimum content requirements for single-use packaging and food service source reduction requirements. Incorporating new requirements will save our oceans, but also help reduce greenhouse gases from the manufacturers who make these products. In addition, we need to educate the next generation about what it means to be environmentally conscious. That is why I was proud to be one of only three Republicans to support Assembly Bill 1939, which would add information on our environmental challenges into the existing K-12 science course curriculum.
Q: Assess what the state is doing now to address the drought. What would you do differently?
A: Sacramento has dropped the ball when it comes to addressing drought. Voters in 2014 approved billions for more water storage and conveyance with Proposition 1, but the Democratic majority in Sacramento has failed to act. We need to build more water storage, build conveyance so that we can get the water from where we have it to where we don't, and lastly, build more desalination plants. One of my first acts if re-elected would be to request an audit of Proposition 1 funds to determine where those funds are and why they have not been used yet.
Q: The California Air Resources Board has adopted a policy that would ban the sale of new gas-powered vehicles in the state by 2035. What would you do to ease the transition to electric vehicles and ensure affordability, equity and practicality?
A: In theory, moving to all electric vehicles is a great idea. However, if we do that, we must make sure we have abundant, cheap energy production. That means doubling down on clean, green energy technology and production. Most electric cars are also more expensive, which adds to the financial burden of millions of Californians who are already struggling financially. One idea to increase affordability is to repeal a provision from the 2017 Senate Bill 1 gas tax legislation that requires all owners of zero-emission vehicle model year 2020 or later to pay an additional annual fee of $100. If we want low-income and middle-class Californians to be able to afford these vehicles, we need to remove the financial roadblocks. However, prior to all of this, we have to guarantee that our infrastructure can handle the idea of millions of electric vehicles. During this recent heat wave, the California Independent System Operator put out flex alerts, and one suggestion to conserve energy was to avoid using charging stations. It would be a catastrophe if we moved to all electric vehicles and our energy systems and grid were not capable of handling all the usage during extreme weather events.
Q: California has the nation's most strict gun laws and among its lowest gun death rates. What is your philosophy toward gun legislation? Have you or your family been directly affected by gun violence?
A: My basic philosophy on gun legislation is that as the state with the toughest gun laws in the country, we need to focus on taking firearms out of the hands of criminals and the mentally ill. Our problem isn't the law-abiding gun owner, but rather illegal guns and people who should never have access to guns to start with. I continue to support increased budgetary funding for our Armed & Prohibited Persons System so local law enforcement knows who is not supposed to possess a firearm. There is a backlog of over 20,000 people in that system, and it needs increased funding. However, as a responsible firearm owner, I also know commonsense reforms are needed.
That's why I stood up to industry and was one of three Republicans to support Assembly Bill 1621, which finally cracked down on unserialized firearm parts and gun traffickers. I also supported Assembly Bill 2870 to update our state's gun violence restraining order laws to include dating partners and roommates as those eligible to request protection. Dating violence is domestic violence, and I will always stand up and protect vulnerable individuals. Lastly, I support increasing penalties on criminals who use firearms during a crime.
Q: What is your position on Proposition 1, which would establish the rights for Californians to an abortion and to contraceptives in the state Constitution?
A: I understand how important this issue is, and I respect that people have different opinions. California's law and Supreme Court already codify the right of a woman to have an abortion, and this will not change. While I cannot support Proposition 1, that doesn't mean we can't have commonsense reforms to birth control. I was proud to be one of the few Republicans who voted to support Senate Bill 523, the Contraceptive Equity Act of 2022. This measure would require health plans to cover contraceptives and vasectomies. The Republican Party cannot be the party of "no" to everything. We have to provide alternatives and access to birth control and health care services to women and their families.
Q: Why should voters elect you over your opponent?
A: California has a growing list of problems, and we are becoming a one-political party state. This isn't healthy for our democracy. My opponent is more of the same. There is literally no difference between his positions and the positions that are already not working. I have new ideas, new solutions and a track record of being able to work across party lines to get those ideas passed into law with both Democrat and Republican support.
In just one term, I have 11 pieces of legislation signed, with two more on the governor's desk (as of this writing). Additionally, I was able to help secure $16.9 million for the Orange County Fire Authority to help combat the devastation we saw from the Coast Fire in Laguna Niguel earlier this summer. I can deliver for our community.
Hearkening back to my time on City Council and leading our city during the COVID-19 pandemic, people of every party, every background, recognize that while we might not always agree, I am independent, I am solution-oriented and, most importantly, I believe in results, not rhetoric.

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Laurie Davies was Laguna Niguel mayor for five years. PHOTOGRAPHER: DAVIES CAMPAIGN

Load-Date: September 21, 2022


End of Document
