




The Plainsman: Auburn University
October 6, 2018 Saturday


University Wire
Copyright 2018 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 343 words
Byline: Eduardo Medina
Body


The courthouse square in downtown Opelika resembled a kingdom of pink with loved ones being honored and celebrated at the 14th annual Think Pink Walk on Saturday.
Breast cancer survivors dressed in tutus danced the morning away by the fountain. The water was turned pink to match the occasion, and it gushed out like strawberry syrup, of which the children dipped their fingers into and stared at like they would a candy bar.
The women backdropped by all this couldn't stop their dancing and laughing, and sometimes, when the breeze picked up and the right song, like Destiny's Child "Survivor," played, they'd adjust their rose-colored crowns and look like queens and conquerors of their illness.
Some women at the event, like Jessica Johnson, are still fighting breast cancer. But each day she wakes up and gets to kiss her daughter good morning, she's beating it, she said. This walk signifies strength for her.
"This is the first walk I can actually do, cause last year I was having a vasectomy," Johnson said, twirling her little one as she talks.
When it's announced that the walk is about to commence, Johnson is at the front of the line, holding her daughter, who's wearing a curly pink wig that could be strewn from cotton candy.
The event coordinator and breast health navigator at East Alabama Medical Center, Karen Calton, said getting more awareness and help is personal.
Sign up for our newsletter
Get The Plainsman straight to your inbox.
"I lost a sister to breast cancer 15 years ago ... it's important to me that we bring awareness and celebrate our survivors and raise money for those that need to get money to get the testing," Calton said.
The proceeds will go to a foundation at EAMC that provides free mammograms to residents in the area. This year, the free mammograms will be offered on Oct. 23.
To qualify for the testing, women interested need to be over the age of 40, have no insurance including Medicaid and Medicare and be at least a year removed from their last mammogram. Appointments are required and can be made by calling 334-528-1215.

Load-Date: October 6, 2018


End of Document
