




Chicago Daily Herald
May 9, 2000, Tuesday, Cook/DuPage/Fox Valley/Lake/McHenry


Copyright 2000 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: News;
Length: 584 words
Byline: Burt Constable
Body


It may be the gift some wives want for Mother's Day.
But a vasectomy is tricky to wrap and creates an awkward moment at the Sunday brunch when the crowd asks to see what your hubby got you.
In addition, a vasectomy is surprisingly difficult to keep secret until the big day.
A man could donate a kidney or half his liver without his spouse ever finding out, but if he wants a vasectomy, he needs his wife's permission, says Dr. David Guthman, an Arlington Heights urologist who performs about 250 vasectomies a year.
If a woman can get an abortion without her husband's knowledge, why does a man need to bring a note from his wife to get a vasectomy?
"I always found that odd," Guthman says, noting the rationale for the permission slip in Illinois is that in addition to treating the man, "you are taking away the woman's ability to have children."
"There are no official guidelines. It's really sort of catch as catch can," says Dr. Michael Warren, a Texas doctor who is the American Urological Association's expert on vasectomies. One doctor might require the wife sign a spousal consent slip and a doctor next door won't, Warren says.
Patients don't have to prove they aren't married, Guthman says, so an adulterous husband who fears his vasectomy might give him away to his tube-tied wife could just lie to his doctor.
"Very, very few states have laws that address this at all," notes lawyer Rachael Pine, director of public affairs for AVSC International, a not-for-profit agency that deals with reproductive issues worldwide. "There are very few laws on the books that say anything (about sterilization surgeries)."
Pine says she suspects the wife's OK is "a liability management policy" to reduce the chance of "a lawsuit down the road."
"Most of the hospitals in this community ask that the wife sign a consent," says one suburban urologist who did not want his name published. The hospitals also want the husband to sign off on a wife's surgery to get her tubes tied.
However, "it's never required," the doctor adds, explaining how he persuades the hospitals to give him a waiver on spousal consents so that vasectomy decisions rest entirely with his male patients and him.
That doesn't mean he performs a lot of secret vasectomies for cheating, sneaky husbands.
None of his patients ever have said not to call him at home, the doctor adds. Half bring their female partners to the office.
He figures 99 percent of his clients are married.
Not so with women who go under the knife. A new report in the journal Fertility and Sterility says sterilization is now the number one form of contraception in the United States, surpassing the still popular birth control pills.
Not only is tubal sterilization a hit with the wives, a third of all tubal sterilizations are performed on unmarried women, says Larry Bumpass, a professor of sociology at the University of Wisconsin who studied national numbers compiled by the National Survey of Family Growth.
"I was surprised by that. I was quite bowled over to tell you the truth. But I should not have been," Bumpass says.
The male reproductive system generally avoids medical tinkering in the years between the "turn your head and cough" physical required to play high school sports and that one-finger "welcome to middle age" prostate exam.
So men exhibit a "queasiness" when it comes to their private parts, Bumpass says. "Women are much more used to being poked and prodded."
So, to recap the main point of this column - jewelry makes a dandy Mother's Day gift for your wife.

Load-Date: May 12, 2000


End of Document
