




The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)
December 5, 2008 Friday


Copyright 2008 The New Mexican
Section: PASATIEMPO; Pg. PA-58
Length: 856 words
Byline: ROBERT BENZIKER
Body


Time to follow Santa
up the chimney
Robert Benziker I For The New Mexican
Four Christmases, holiday comedy, rated PG-13,
Regal Stadium 14, 424-6296, 1 chile
Early in Four Christmases, fancy-free yuppie couple Brad (Vince Vaughn) and Kate (Reese Witherspoon) tell others that they don't plan to get married or have kids. Look at the terms associated with marriage, they say: "tie the knot" and "ball and chain." No, they're happy being DINKs (that's "dual income, no kids"), doing sexual role-playing, and taking tropical vacations at Christmas. Why spoil that by actually getting to know each other? And what if they get married and can't stand each other in a few years?
It's for the best that they hold off on the wedding registry, as it's difficult for anyone to stand them by the end of this movie. This is something of a feat, as Vaughn and Witherspoon are hard to dislike. He's practically the Peter O'Toole of snarky sarcasm, she's a charmer with effortless screen presence, and both have great comic timing. Toss in a wasted supporting cast that includes Robert Duvall, Sissy Spacek, Jon Voight, and Mary Steenburgen -- all fine actors -- and you have one sad Christmas. Four of them, actually.
This year, Brad and Kate have planned a holiday trip to Fiji. When their flight is delayed, a news team interviews them as part of a story on stranded travelers. Alas, the broadcast is live, and they have told their relatives they couldn't attend family holiday functions because they would be doing charity work. Within seconds of the interview, their cellphones ring, and they're roped into visiting all four of their divorced parents in one day.
First up is Brad's father (Duvall), an ex-military man who lives in a house where nothing seems to have changed in about 25 years. Brad's brothers (played by Jon Favreau and country-music star Tim McGraw) take after dad and parlay their military training into cage-match wrestling. Brad is only in the house for a minute before they start practicing their violent moves on him. Brad's nephews also get in good punches, and the scene grows less funny with each blow. In the kitchen, we get more jokes of the tired, stereotypical "white trash" variety as Brad's sister-in-law lets Kate hold her screaming baby while she assembles a lasagna made with ham, mayonnaise, and Doritos.
We then leave the male aggression of Brad's father's place for a stop at the house of estrogen, the suburban residence of Kate's mother (Steenburgen). Brad is immediately fawned upon by the numerous women there. This house holds many terrors for Kate -- her family tells Brad she used to be overweight and was teased for seven years for having "cooties." Kate takes a pregnancy test, only to have it stolen by her nasty niece and taken into the "jump jump" -- an inflatable castle full of kids (who apparently have no families of their own on Christmas) and rich in memories of childhood trauma for Kate.
Things quiet down when they travel to Brad's mother's home. She (played by Spacek) is an aging hippie who has bunked up with Brad's best friend. This is a relatively mild scene, highlighted by a round of the board-game Taboo, and one of the few in the film that really works, as the simple game reveals humorous details about the couples involved. From there, the four Christmases wind down with a trip to see Kate's father (Voight), who arrives on-screen just in time to wrap up the moral of the story.
And what is this moral? It's an old cinematic chestnut: they may be quirky, but gosh darnit, family and kids are the most important things we have. This may ring true in more effective comedies like Parenthood or National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation, but here, it's difficult to puzzle out. Yes, family holidays may have their uncomfortable moments, but in this film, families aren't just inconsiderate -- they're downright hateful and hurtful. Not to sound like Ann Landers, but if your brothers and their kids beat the turkey stuffing out of you as soon as you walk in the door and grandpa is OK with that, spending Christmas in Fiji starts to look perfectly reasonable.
And how is it that Brad and Kate come to realize they're missing out on children by spending time with these obnoxious, self-righteous twerps? If my family holiday involved babies who scream and puke, my young nephews punching me, and nieces running off with my personal belongings, my partner and I would be booking an appointment for a vasectomy, not time at the fertility clinic.
Which raises the point: What's wrong with not getting married and having children? It doesn't mean you have no soul. It just means you've made a life decision that deviates from the expected norm. Why do so many movies insist that you're the Grinch if you like to be single and that spending time with your awful family will cause your heart to grow three sizes? It seems pretty natural that Brad and Kate, having been raised in horrible broken homes, would not want to get married and have children, especially if they have miraculously made happy adult lives for themselves. By the time this movie was over, I was ready to book a flight to Fiji myself. <

Graphic

 
See pdf's for exact rendition, caption, graphics and photographer info.

Load-Date: December 5, 2008


End of Document
