




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, WI)
November 21, 2000, Tuesday,
ALL EDITIONS


Copyright 2000 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
Section: Opinion,; Letter
Length: 465 words
Body


The women of Wisconsin have been fortunate to be able to choose to terminate unwanted pregnancies in a private setting at a multi-purpose medical facility. For the most part, abortion patients have not been identified by demonstrators. This is in stark contrast to the women who are entering a single-purpose, free-standing faci1ity.
Meriter Hospital CEO Terri Potter must be aware of this. . . Let's picture another scene. There is only one place in the entire city that provides vasectomy procedures. It is a free-standing clinic. There are demonstrators outside praying and pleading for the patients not to enter. They do not hesitate to grab the would-be patients and physically bar entry. How many men would avail themselves of the services? How many men would pass through those doors?
-- Doris Knoll, Madison Responsible women don't need abortions
In response to Jane Peterson's recent letter that ''Abortion is an essential component of health care for women'': The vast majority of women never seek out this ''essential component'' because we understand and accept the fact that sexual behavior has very real emotional and physical consequences. We (and our partners) take very careful steps to live and act responsibly. Instead of striving to make abortion available at any time and for any reason, should we not instead strive to create a society where sexual abuse and violence is simply not tolerated?
As to the role of health care providers in all of this, am I mistaken or do physicians not take an oath to ''First, do no harm''?
-- Robin Fonfara, Sun Prairie Reversing Roe vs. Wade would not signal end to legal abortion
There is a mistaken impression making the rounds that, should Roe vs. Wade be reversed, there would be no availability of abortions in the United States. This is not true.
In the 1973 case of Roe vs. Wade, the Supreme Court of the United States decided that certain applications of a state law, making abortions a crime, violated a woman's ''right to privacy'' and a woman's qualified right to terminate her pregnancy.
Should Roe vs. Wade be reversed (and I'm not suggesting that it will be), abortions would still be available in all states that choose not to outlaw them. At the present time, this would probably be the vast majority of the states.
-- Steven C. Helland, Madison Who knows what greatness has been destroyed by abortion?
I do not know the number of abortions that have been performed over the past five to 10 years; but it must be phenomenal. It causes me to wonder from where will come the doctors, nurses, teachers, musicians, firefighters, police officers, technicians, military personnel, etc. in the not-too-distance future. Is man on the way to coming an endangered species? Keep in mind: What we sow, we will reap.
-- Judith Gunkel, Madison

Load-Date: November 22, 2000


End of Document
