




Newstex Blogs 
The Wrap
December 8, 2022 Thursday 7:05 PM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 302 words
Byline: Natalie Oganesyan
Body


Dec 08, 2022( The Wrap: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 Trevor Noah congratulated Raphael Warnock on his Senate win in the Georgia runoff election, while joking that he would not have been as 'gracious' as the former pastor given his 'walking vasectomy commercial' of an opponent, former football player Herschel Walker. 
'You couldn't have had a race between two more different candidates when you think about it,' 'The Daily Show' host said. 'When you take a moment, when you step away from the race, do you understand how crazy this was? You had Raphael Warnock, a pastor who was preaching at the same church as MLK, and Herschel Walker, a man who thinks MLK is how you spell 'milk.'' 
Despite this, the comedian noted that the election victory was 'really close.' Warnock won by a razor-thin margin of 50.7%, ensuring a Democratic majority in the Senate and maintaining the seat in the party's control for the next six years. 
Noah added, 'In fact, if I was Raphael Warnock, my victory speech wouldn't have been me smiling. I would have been a lot more different. He's a gracious man. He was talking about democracy and America's promise. I would have been up there like, 'Are you people kidding me with this sh-? You guys are giving me a two-point win over this walking vasectomy commercial? Are you kidding me?' But he's a better man.' 
Walker, a Donald Trump-backed candidate, notably ran a scandal-ridden campaign, in which it was revealed that the anti-abortion sports star-turned-politician paid for a woman to undergo one after she became pregnant by him in 2009. A different woman later came forward to say she was pressured to have one as well in 1993. Additionally, one of Walker's former girlfriends alleged he had physically abused her during a 2005 argument. 


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: December 8, 2022


End of Document
