




Chicago Maroon: University of Chicago
September 17, 2013 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2013 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 963 words
Byline: The Maroon Staff
Body


A-leveln. 1. Basement of the Reg. 2. All-night study area where people are known to camp out (literally) during finals week. More like a zoo than a library. 3. The wrong place to question the authority of the UCPD (see "Controversies," p. 4).
Adminn. 1. Bureaucracy that runs the University. 2. The building beside Cobb used to house pink slips and, presumably, other things.
Alpha Deltn. Fraternity that shares a building with the Chicago Theological Seminary in a marriage from hell. The union is scheduled for dissolution in 2012, when the CTS moves to 60th and Dorchester.
Aramarkn. Company that fills student stomachs and cooks up obscene profits. CEO Joseph Neubauer (M.B.A. '65) is on the Board of Trustees.
B-leveln. 1. The actual basement of the Reg. 2. The best place to go if you want to forget what sunlight looks like, or finish a Hum paper.
Bar Nightn. A pay-per-drink frat party in the basement of Alpha Delt every Wednesday night. Can be used in conjunction with Shake Day to acquire a gnarly stomachache.
Bart Martn. Overpriced Aramark-run convenience store located in Bartlett. The pluses: Stays open until 3 a.m., and you can buy Ben & Jerry's ice cream with Flex Dollars. Closed early last quarter due to increased incidence of shoplifting, drunk kids causing a ruckus.
B-Jn. 1. Burton-Judson Court, a dorm containing the original Hogwarts Great Hall. 2. Not what you were thinking, perv.
Broomballn. 1. The U of C's favorite pastime. 2. Another opportunity for students to appear uncoordinated, fall painfully, and never score.
Boyern. 1. Mustachioed, tweed-capped, bike-borne Dean of the College. 2. Understudy to Dos Equis's Most Interesting Man in the World.
Bursarn. Your least favorite administrative office.
C-Shopn. The Einstein Bros. Bagel shop on the first floor of the Reynolds Club. See Shake Day.
Cajun, Rajunn. One-stop shop for soul food, Indian food, and Bollywood video rental.
Civn. Core sequence known for being awful when taken on campus and awesome abroad.
Cobbn. 1. The University's oldest building and largest cluster of classrooms. Located on the west side of the quads and frequented by first-years, smokers, and bitter artists. 2. Student-run coffee shop in the basement of said building known for dirt-cheap java and indie tunes.
Cobbroachesn. Hipsters who gather outside Cobb to discuss their recent American Apparel purchases and create a tangible smokescreen from Camel Lights.
Co-opn. 1. Bookstore in the basement of the Chicago Theological Seminary. Prepare to spend at least 12 hours of your four years here, waiting in the labyrinthine line to pay for Hum and Sosc books. Tips for tots: Buy a membership; it will be worth it in the end. Alias: Seminary Co-Op Bookstore.
Coren. Classes you must take, so stop whining and get it over with. This is what you came here for, right? Alias: Common Core.
Crerarn. The 24-hour science library where med and wannabe-med students study. More sterile than an 80-year-old man with a vasectomy. Don't expect to do so much as drop a pin without getting death stares from fellow students. Don't even think about wearing flip-flops.
CTAn. Where you exchange a bit more than $2 for an hour-long ride to a destination 20 minutes away. Always an adventure. Alias: Chicago Transit Authority
Docn. The student film society that shows renowned films you won't enjoy watching, but will enjoy saying you have watched. More accessible fare shown on weekends. Tickets for only $5. The drunken heckling usually begins while the poor volunteer they force up front before every movie is still rattling off the list of coming attractions.
Dormn. Where you live. Unfortunately, also where your roommate lives.
Dormcestn. Realize that at least two people in your house are going to spend the rest of their lives together. Fear for the future of the planet. On the off chance that things don't work out, expect everyone in the dorm to hear within a half hour. Variant: housecest.
Econn. The U of C's most popular concentration, as measured by percentage of pretentious sell-outs.
Epistemologyn. Don't stress if you're unsure what this means-that'll never stop your classmates from saying it over and over.
Ex Librisn. Late-night coffee shop in the A-Level run by angry hipsters and accessible only through an elaborate maze.
Fijin. 1. Island in the South Pacific. 2. Brand of bottled water. 3. Football fraternity.
Flex Dollarsn. Funny money redeemable at Aramark establishments. Paying this way gives you a 10-percent discount at Hutch, which magically transforms the food from obscenely overpriced to very overpriced.
Fifth-Yearn. Who wouldn't want a victory lap around the place where fun comes to die? We warned you about stepping on that seal.
Financial Aid Officen. College is expensive. These people could help, were they so inclined. Fear them.
Fire Escapen. 1. Useful in event of fire. 2. Student film society.
First-Yearn. The period during which you whine about your dorm, are expected to take Core classes, and hook up with the kid living down the hall from you.
Fourth-Yearn. The period during which you whine about your B.A., actually take Core classes, and avoid eye contact with said kid from first year.
Gargoylesn. Carved figures reminiscent of U of C students during finals week.
Hallowed Groundsn. Superior student-run coffee shop on the second floor of the Reynold's Club. Known for its comfy chairs and as a hangout for local pool sharks. Alias for the cool kids: Uncle Joe's.
Harold'sn. Harold's Chicken Shack in Kimbark Plaza, where the kitchen consists of five deep-fat fryers and a sink. The soggy piece of Wonder Bread is key for absorbing grease, but who knows what the shot of coleslaw is for. Bulletproof glass protects the kitchen from sketchy customers.
Harpern. 1. Architecturally-interesting study space and caf

Load-Date: September 17, 2013


End of Document
