




The Salt Lake Tribune
February 12, 2012 Sunday


Copyright 2012 The Salt Lake Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: LDS; News; State
Length: 618 words
Byline: By Peggy Fletcher Stack The Salt Lake Tribune
Body


Utah's Catholic Bishop John Wester has joined the chorus of national voices condemning the Obama administration's decision to mandate contraception coverage for all employers, including church-affiliated hospitals, schools and charities.
It reveals an "utter disregard ... for long-established protections for religious freedom," Wester writes in this week's Intermountain Catholic . "The idea that people should be free from government coercion that contradicts their conscience or beliefs is well established."
Many Catholic bishops have written letters to their flocks, outlining the church's reasons for opposing birth control. The teaching is, essentially, that all sex acts should be open to the possibility of conception.
Wester plans to issue a similar statement this weekend, he writes, "explaining my concerns in greater detail and urging your support on behalf of our shared desire to protect our rights."
Two years ago, Cardinal Francis George, archbishop of Chicago, discussed religious freedom at Brigham Young University in a show of solidarity with the LDS Church and other faiths.
"The speech," writes Wester, leader of Utah's 300,000 Catholics, "resonated across religions."
Indeed, several other faiths have stepped up to support the bishops' opposition to the federal mandate.
Leaders from the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, National Association of Evangelicals, Southern Baptists, Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod and others have condemned the mandate "as an assault on religious liberty," according to a release from the Institute on Religion & Democracy, an ecumenical alliance of U.S. Christians working to "reform their churches' social witness, in accord with biblical and historic Christian teachings."
Megachurch pastor Rick Warren has declared, according to the release,"I'd go to jail rather than cave in to a government mandate that violates what God commands us to do."
Several Republican presidential contenders have attacked the mandate. The Associated Press reported that Mitt Romney, a Mormon, called it "an assault on religion" and "a real blow ... to our friends in the Catholic faith."
Though typically aligned with Catholics and other conservative Christian groups on such religious issues, the LDS Church has not weighed in on this one. The Utah-based Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints declined to comment on the issue, spokesman Scott Trotter said Thursday.
The LDS Church does not condemn most methods of birth control, according to its Handbook for local leaders, leaving such decisions up to couples. It does, however, "strongly discourage" permanent solutions such as vasectomies and tubal ligations.
Deseret Mutual, which insures all employees in LDS Church-owned operations, does not "currently cover birth control unless it is prescribed to treat a medical condition," according to KUTV.
The LDS insurer "isn't worried about the new birth-control mandate," the company told the Salt Lake City TV station, "because its health plans are grandfathered in and exempted from the new law."
In response to the criticisms, the White House has signaled a willingness to compromise.
Vice President Joe Biden said Thursday in an Associated Press report that "there is a 'lot of misunderstanding' about the rule," but that he is "determined to see that this gets worked out, and I believe we can work it out."
Meanwhile, several religious groups have sided with the Obama administration.
In a joint statement, some 23 Christian, Jewish and Muslims groups said that "women and men have the right to decide whether or not to apply the principles of their faith to family-planning decisions, and to do so they must have access to services."
 Alt Heads:

Graphic

 
Bishop John Wester, leader of Utah's 300,000 Catholics, is joining the fight against mandate contraception coverage for all employers, including church-affiliated hospitals, schools and charities.

Load-Date: February 12, 2012


End of Document
