




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
April 7, 2014 Monday


Copyright 2014 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B4
Length: 739 words
Byline: By James Ewinger
Body


Dr. Robert Hutchison examines Bobette, a 7-year-old female beagle, at Animal Clinic Northview in North Ridgeville. Hutchison and a business partner started the practice in 1977 and the facility is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
NORTH RIDGEVILLE - Animal Clinic Northview is a 24,000-square foot geography lesson because of the dogs, cats and birds from all over the country that come here for treatment.
It is also one of the most complex and versatile animal hospitals anywhere, and a manifestation of how far veterinary medicine has evolved in the past 40 years.
On a recent Friday morning, two women who had driven 480 miles from upstate New York were waiting for the completion of tubal ligations and vasectomies on five cats.
Then there was a darling female beagle named Bobette, from California, who was having trouble getting pregnant, and a Betsy, a Weimaraner from Florida who also had reproductive issues.
Dr. Robert Hutchison, co-founder of the clinic and a North Ridgeville native, is world renowned for his expertise on animal reproduction and treats well-known champion show dogs. On this particular day, he had just returned from Madrid, Spain, where he lectured a veterinary association on infertility, genetics and pediatrics.
He is one of 17 veterinarians at the clinic, which is always open and has a support staff of nearly 100.
Dr. Albert Lewandowski, chief veterinarian at the Cleveland Metroparks Zoo, said Hutchison "has got a big practice. His specialty is canine reproduction. He's been doing it for years and is probably one of the top canine reproductive veterinarians in the country."
"It's a specialized niche. You get a guy as good as he is, you're going to hear about it," Lewandowski said. "Like with horse breeders who travel in same circles, these (dog) show circuits travel all around the country. There are some big bucks invested in these dogs."
Dr. Jamie Lindstrom, another Northview vet, has an expertise in avian medicine and has treated everything from macaws and other large parrots to the bald eagles at the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, along with an ostrich.
Hutchison said it is not uncommon for people from all over the country to fly in with their dog or cat, and the clinic has a courier who will meet the plane and bring the animal to North Ridgeville.
"For birds, travel is more difficult," Hutchison said, so avian patients generally are driven to Northview, usually from no farther away than surrounding states.
Another emerging practice is minimally invasive surgery, for which Hutchison's veterinarian son, Randy, is developing a national reputation.
The senior Hutchison now has only one dog at home, a little papillon named Chloe. She owes her life and longevity to Dr. Randy. "When we got her, she had a heart defect and was given only six months to live," said Hutchison, a justifiably proud father. "My son performed the surgery, fixed the defect and Chloe is now 4 years old.
Procedures include artificial insemination, and laparoscopic and arthroscopic surgery.
The clinic has its own pharmacy, its own lab, an intensive-care unit, a vet with expertise in acupuncture, and another who specializes in animal dentistry.
"We can do root canals and jaw resections," Hutchison said." In the past if a tooth was bad, we'd just pull it."
Hutchison said that "90 percent of what I do wasn't even invented when I got out of veterinary schools (Ohio State University, 1972)."
The canine reproductive practice relies on a store of frozen semen from 3,500 dogs, kept at a constant minus-322 degrees Fahrenheit in liquid nitrogen and should keep for a thousand years, according to Hutchison. The storage room has a hurricane-proof roof, thick reinforced walls and floor, a solid steel door with keypad lock and no exterior entrance. "Basically a vault, just like the ones you keep your money in," the doctor said.
Hutchison said some semen from a single dog sold to a man in Brazil for $50,000 last year. But he hesitates to make any general statements about value. "It all depends on market forces, supply and demand," he said. Value can depend on how successful the dog was, for example. "But we are not involved in the marketing. We don't own the semen, we store it."
The clinic also treats canine obesity. One patient Hutchison recalled was a severely overweight Labrador retriever. "He was so heavy he couldn't even walk down the fence line to bark at the dog next door," the doctor said.

Load-Date: April 7, 2014


End of Document
