




The Santa Fe New Mexican
December 29, 2024 Sunday


Copyright 2024 The Santa Fe New Mexican All Rights Reserved
Section: B; Pg. 1
Length: 735 words
Byline: Letters to the Editor
Body


I hope many Santa Feans read Frank Katz's letter ("Plaza monument should honor Native warriors," Letters to the Editor, Dec. 25) seriously. Now that the court has ruled on the disposition of the Soldiers' Monument, it's time to move forward and reconcile the many diverse opinions that have emerged. If it hadn't been for the language on the north panel of the plinth, the obelisk would still be standing at the center of our historic city as it has for the past 166 years.Katz's proposed edit expresses the reality of sacrifices made by the first inhabitants of this area, known in Tewa as O'ga P'ogeh. It's never too late to acknowledge the truth. I also propose the city invite a professional stone conservator to evaluate the damaged obelisk to ensure its appropriate restoration. The history of recent years will be conveyed by the infill repairs made by reassembling broken pieces. These visible wounds tell the whole story.
Jake Barrow
Santa Fe
Center water
The middle of the Plaza in the middle of this capital city is a great place for a world-class water feature, in place of something phallic and claimed by any specific ethnicity. The details might be submitted by some local artist(s), to be the right height, 50 inches, for its arboretum location, a mostly dry waterfall effect that runs only when the Santa Fe River runs and includes a coin pool that might welcome exploratory dips by visiting hands. The water theme represents an element of our existence that precedes anybody's claim on the area and yet sustains all of us currently and into the foreseeable future. The Plaza can still hold near-ground level markers that describe local historic events, etc.
Bill Humphreys
Santa Fe
Confusing
I'm confused. Is Greenland the Anschluss and the Panama Canal the Sudetenland, or is it the other way around?
Jim Kentch
Santa Fe
For men, too
I asked three 20-something men standing over a road construction silo this question: "Ever heard Planned Parenthood is as much for men as for women?" There was a half-second of shrugs and sheepish smiles. "That's for ladies," one said, looking down politely. And yet, a middle-aged woman recently told me her son had been going to Planned Parenthood since he was a kid when he couldn't get rid of "jock itch." Too frustrated and embarrassed to go to his mother, he eventually went to Planned Parenthood. He didn't have to endure endless time in a hospital waiting room or disapproving scowls from a doctor's appointment guardian. Privacy has been a pillar of Planned Parenthood - and doesn't the word parenthood imply both sexes?
This organization promises boys and men they will receive treatment immediately. Vasectomies, testicular cancer screening, treatment for chlamydia, genital warts, syphilis, HPV vaccines, prostate exams and condoms are included in the needs of people with penises. Yet Planned Parenthood has been condemned by church and state and politicians in association with abortions, while reliable heath care for men has been virtually ignored. Here's a real surprise: Breast cancer in men due to inherited cells BRCAz or BRCA1 is on the rise. Thirteen percent of Planned Parenthood patients across the country are men. Privacy and immediate attention can save the life of your son or husband.
Elisabeth Reed
Santa Fe
Change the focus
U.S. News & World Report ranked the 50 states for 2024. The criteria for ranking states was "health care, education, natural environment, opportunity, economy, crime and corrections, infrastructure and fiscal sustainability." The top 10 states are evenly divided between red and blue states. New Mexico was ranked 49th of the 50 states.
The people being elected need to change their focus on what the needs for New Mexico are. I lived in Santa Fe for over 50 years and have moved to be closer to family and can testify of the differences between New Mexico and our new home.
David Zlotnick
St. George, Utah
Poor justification
I had to laugh when I read the third paragraph of this story ("Expert: Fires rare at sites like AES proposal," Dec. 23). To quote, "Experts, meanwhile, say the risk of such fires is low as battery storage technology improves, with incidents occurring only rarely at facilities in the U.S. and no reported fatalities." Really? No fatalities? Is that the best they can do to make this proposed monstrosity seem safe in location AES proposes? I'm still laughing at the "experts."
Michael Yearout
Santa Fe

Load-Date: December 29, 2024


End of Document
