




The San Diego Union-Tribune
July 19, 2006 Wednesday


Copyright 2006 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: ZONE; Pg. NC-3; NI-3
Length: 437 words
Byline: Jose Luis Jim nez, STAFF WRITER
Dateline: VISTA 
Body


VISTA -- A Vista mother accused of killing her newborn baby told a detective she knew she could have dropped off the boy at a hospital or fire station with no questions asked, the officer testified yesterday in Superior Court.
Instead, after giving birth at her Portia Avenue home, Edith Ledesma, 24, placed the boy inside a plastic bag and left him near a garbage can, where he suffocated, sheriff's Detective Will Altenhof testified.
"She didn't want anyone to know that she was pregnant and had just given birth," Altenhof said he was told by Ledesma. "She said she didn't want to be asked a lot of questions."
After the testimony, Judge Joel Pressman ruled the prosecution presented sufficient evidence for Ledesma to stand trial on a murder charge. If convicted, Ledesma faces a maximum sentence of 25 years to life in prison, prosecutor Per Hellstrom said in an interview.
Deputy Public Defender Matt Roberts said in court that his client almost died after giving birth because of massive blood loss and suggested she could not be held responsible for her actions.
Ledesma, who has three young children, had trouble believing she was pregnant because her live-in boyfriend had undergone a vasectomy about two years ago, according to testimony. It wasn't until a month before the May 13 birth that she suspected she was pregnant, but she never took a test to confirm it, Roberts said in court.
"She was afraid that (the boyfriend) and others may not think the baby was his," Altenhof testified.
Authorities are awaiting the results of DNA tests to confirm who fathered the child, Hellstrom said.
Ledesma gave birth in the backyard, wrapped the baby in towels and then placed the crying child near the garbage can, according to testimony.
A deputy medical examiner testified the healthy boy died from a lack of oxygen and could have lived somewhere between several minutes to several hours. The autopsy also revealed the boy was moved sometime after he died.
Ledesma stayed at home after the birth but suffered complications and was later taken by ambulance to Tri-City Medical Center in Oceanside.
On May 15, she told social workers about the birth and they alerted sheriff's deputies. Ledesma gave authorities the address of a home near Townsite Drive, but the body was located by detectives during a search of Ledesma's home.
She remains at the Vista jail in lieu of $2 million bail.
California's Safe Haven Law allows the parents of an unwanted baby to leave the child at a hospital or fire station within 72 hours of birth without facing criminal prosecution. The law also allows parents 14 days to regain custody of the child.

Load-Date: July 21, 2006


End of Document
