




The Salt Lake Tribune
November 17, 2008 Monday


Copyright 2008 The Salt Lake Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: LOCAL
Length: 806 words
Byline: By Katie Drake The Salt Lake Tribune
Body


Paper forms and doctors' offices go hand in hand.
Most clinics think nothing of doling out reams of paperwork, but for LaRohnda Dennison, each sheet of paper is precious.
Dennison is the administrator of the WestView Community Health Center, which is always near collapse due to short funds, and in the current slow economy, the clinic is seeing more patients while earning less money.
Dennison and her mother, Goldie Dennison, founded the clinic almost six years ago, when the two saw a need in the West Valley area. Medical clinics were all located east of Interstate 15 or far to the south.
The Dennisons, who ran a medical billing company, had approached several doctors about opening in the area, but all declined, saying the locale was unprofitable.
So the pair downsized the billing company and invested their life savings to open a clinic of their own.
It's now a nonprofit with 501(c)(3) status, those savings are gone, and the Dennisons are left trying to stretch every penny to continue patient care.
The clinic averages between 125 and 150 patients per day, many of whom lack insurance.
"We don't turn anyone away," LaRohnda said.
That means the $250,000 it costs to run the clinic each month comes from those few patients who do have insurance or Medicaid. The clinic has a financial counselor on hand to see if patients qualify for public assistance, but many are put on a sliding-fee scale and just pay what they can.
Maribel Huanco recently visited the clinic when her 18-month-old son, Mark, had a cold and fever.
Huanco lacks insurance, and said through an interpreter she could not afford health care for her three children without the clinic. She feels very comfortable with the Spanish-speaking staff, and believes even though the care she receives is inexpensive, the quality is second-to-none.
Huanco also received prenatal care at the clinic, which is one of the greatest areas of expense. The clinic employs two obstetricians, who each deliver about 35 babies each month.
LaRohnda Dennison said the clinic could save thousands by stopping prenatal care because medical malpractice insurance is so high for the specialty, but she knows continuity of care leads to healthier pregnancies and healthier babies.
Many of those infants keep coming to the clinic after birth. Matthew Agresta, a family practice physician at the clinic, estimates 70 percent of his patients are children.
He sees between 20 and 30 patients each day, and treats a wide range of ailments. Much of his time is spent on well-baby care and other pediatric checkups, but he also removes moles, places IUDs and performs circumcisions and vasectomies.
To save patients money, the clinic's doctors perform many procedures that would normally be done by specialists.
Another challenge for Agresta and the other doctors is uninsured patients tend to wait longer before coming in for treatment. The doctors often see more advanced disease progression, which is usually harder to treat.
Follow-up visits are also difficult, because many patients are hard to track, not knowing their birth date and lacking a home address or phone number.
With the patient load increasing daily, the clinic could use more doctors and nurses, but the clinic is so short on funds, even new office supplies are an undreamed of luxury.
The clinic has not purchased pens in years, LaRohnda said, instead relying on donations and strays left behind. The savings allows the clinic to purchase clean paper to cover exam tables.
After patient files are scanned into a computer database, the patient information is removed from the file folders and they are reused.
Office furniture is purchased at thrift stores, and the Dennisons clean the carpets and empty the trash themselves, instead of hiring an office cleaning service, which LaRohnda estimates saves $70,000 each year.
LaRohnda spends hours each week online looking for discounted medical supplies.
Cost cutting took a personal turn in recent years because Goldie Dennison, who still works 50 to 60 hours a week at the clinic, doesn't get paid every month. She averages about five months' worth of paychecks annually.
Despite its threadbare existence, the clinic staff knows it must continue.
The alternative is to deny patients care, something no one has the heart to do. Hopes are high that a large donor will sweep in with the cash to keep the clinic going.
"If there is even a prayer, you keep going," LaRohnda said. "It's an adventure every day."

Want to help?
The WestView Community Health Center is in need of donations of all types. Medical and office supplies are needed for day-to-day operations. The clinic could also use doctors, nurses, medical assistants and translators who are willing to donate time. Monetary donations are much appreciated. For information on donating or volunteering, call the clinic at 801-963-1800.

Graphic

 
Dr. Matthew Agresta MD gives Alexanne Garcia (2months) a well baby check up at the West View Community Health Clinic in West Valley City on Monday, October 20 2008. 

Load-Date: November 18, 2008


End of Document
