




Redbook
January 3, 2017


Copyright 2017 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BODY; Pg. 0086; ISSN: 0034-2106
Length: 1242 words
Byline: By Stephanie Wood
Body


When's the last time you gave your contraceptive a cold, hard stare and said, "Are you really the one for me?" These top doctors want you to, so here's what they think their loved ones-and now you-should know.
"It can take a while to find the right birth control method. One of my patients became pregnant after she forgot a few doses of her pill, a combination of both estrogen and progestin. After that, she chose to get the contraceptive implant. These matchstick-size plastic rods are inserted in your upper arm and are 99 percent effective at preventing pregnancy-nothing to remember, use incorrectly, or replace for three years. But after a few months she came back frustrated because she was bleeding almost daily. When you use a progestin-only method, your uterus sheds its lining a little bit at a time instead of all at once. I suggested she start taking the Pill with a low dose of estrogen, too. If she missed a pill, she'd still have the implant to protect her, and she wouldn't have to deal with the spotting. The right birth control method for you depends on your priorities and the side effects you're willing to tolerate, and it may take a few tries to get there. Don't give up!"
"We know for a fact that the Pill is protective against ovarian cancer. The theory is that when ovulation occurs, the egg bursts out of the wall of the ovary, causing microscopic damage; if you ovulate every month for years, the DNA in the ovary has to constantly replicate itself, potentially causing a mistake that can lead to cancer. The Pill suppresses ovulation, lowering that risk. So recently, when a woman on our staff who has a family history of ovarian cancer asked about getting an IUD, I recommended that she undergo genetic testing first. When we learned she was positive for the gene that increases risk, I told her it was critical that she stay on the Pill. The IUD is convenient, but it doesn't stop ovulation."
"Almost any combo Pill with estrogen will help clear up acne, regardless of whether the brand has received approval from the FDA specifically to treat it. Here's the thing, though_ It takes time. One of my friends was disappointed that her acne hadn't improved after one cycle of the Pill, so I had to tell her it's usually a good three months before you see results. That's how long it takes for the estrogen to slow your body's production of sebum, the substance made by your oil glands that contributes to acne. (Progestin-only methods do the opposite and can make acne worse.) I told my friend to be patient, and sure enough, when I saw her six months after she started the Pill, her skin looked amazing."
"If you've ever been pregnant, you know that hormones can wreak havoc on your gums. They may get inflamed and bleed when you brush them. But most women don't realize that birth control can have the same effect-it happened to a friend recently. The Pill changes the ratios of estrogen and progesterone in your body, which over time can increase your body's inflammatory response. The tiny vessels in your gums expand, causing the irritation and swelling known as gingivitis. Eventually this can lead to early onset of periodontitis, a much more serious gum disease that involves damage to the bone supporting your teeth. So if you're on the Pill and your gums bleed off and on for six months or more, speak to your dentist and then your ob/gyn."
"If you're wary of a lot of hormones, an IUD is for you. And that's only one of the reasons your ob/gyn probably has one herself. The Paragard copper IUD contains no hormones and protects you for up to 12 years. The newer IUDs-Mirena, Skyla, Liletta-work for three to seven years and have only a small amount of progestin, which stays within the uterus instead of circulating through your body like the hormones in the Pill. Either way, the IUD is as effective at preventing pregnancy as having your tubes tied. But here's the catch_ It takes time to get to the honeymoon stage. One friend of mine was frustrated by the heavier periods and cramping she had with her new copper IUD. Another was annoyed by the spotting caused by Mirena. I told them to give it six months. At that point your body adjusts, and the spotting, cramping, and heavy bleeding usually decrease. Many women have few to no periods with the hormonal IUD from then on."
.
"Birth control isn't without its risks. A friend of mine developed a blood clot on a flight home from the Caribbean not long ago. Turns out, a genetic predisposition combined with her use of the vaginal ring put her at increased risk. Another woman was referred to me because she had suddenly developed high blood pressure, in spite of the fact that she had no risk factors. I suggested she swap out the Pill for another method, and her blood pressure returned to normal. Her case was rare, but some women should never use hormonal contraception. These include those who smoke or are obese; women who have a personal or family history of blood clots, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or stroke; and women who have migraines with aura. You should also know that if you're over 35, your incidence of blood clots is even higher, so that's worth considering. At any age, watch for pain, swelling, warmth in a leg or arm, shortness of breath, and a rapid heart rate."
"It's important to bring up any problems you're having in the bedroom early in an appointment with your doctor-there are lots of things that can cause low libido that we'll want to explore, from conditions like hypothyroidism to certain medications, including your birth control. Here's why_ The Pill suppresses ovulation and, with it, the surge of testosterone that makes you want to have sex, as Mother Nature intended. (IUDs don't have the same effect, since very little hormone makes its way from the uterus into the bloodstream.) But it doesn't mean you have to give up on the Pill. Many women don't realize that while all pills have the same estrogen, there are many types of progestin. Some, like norgestrel or levonorgestrel, act like testosterone, which helps counter low libido. Others won't boost your sex drive but may help soothe PMS symptoms like bloating. That's why it's essential that you talk to your doctor about what's important to you."
"Women often ask me when there's going to be a widely utilized form of male birth control. It's been problematic for a number of reasons, most notably because, while women ovulate only once a month, men produce sperm constantly and it's a lot harder to repress something that's ongoing. There are several methods in the pipeline, but consider the odds_ One is a hormone gel that has shown 90 percent effectiveness in studies, but men complained about acne and weight gain-sound familiar?-thus, production has stalled. Another method is an injection that causes blockage of sperm so they can't travel, but going near our testicles with a needle is never going to be popular. There's also a retinol acid (similar to acne medication) that disrupts sperm production, but it may harm the liver. While it's unfortunate that women have to be the ones to worry about birth control, I don't see that changing anytime soon. That said, don't let your guy give you a hard time about using a condom-or even getting a vasectomy, if you're done having children. He should be willing to take one for the team!"
'' The right birth control method for you depends on your priorities. It may take a few tries to find it-don't give up!''

Load-Date: March 13, 2017


End of Document
