




The Sentinel
July 11, 2018 Wednesday


Copyright 2018 Omega Printers & Publishers Pvt Ltd, distributed by Contify.com All Rights Reserved
Length: 345 words
Byline: Correspondents
Body


Hailakandi, July 11: Southern Assam's Hailakandi district observed the World Population Day 2018 on Wednesday along with the world. Rallies were brought out to create awareness at the district and block levels. Flagging off an awareness rally to mark the day, Hailakandi Deputy Commissioner Adil Khan said the United Nations Population Fund wants to underscore urgent issues facing the international community as it marks the World Population Day. Khan called upon improving access to contraceptives and reproductive health and family planning programmes. The Deputy Commissioner emphasised on the need to ensure quality family planning services and information easily accessible to women in need.

Mobilisation to raise the level of awareness on birth control coupled with health related issues and services are being organised at the Block Public Health Centres, Community Health Centre, District Hospital and these activities will continue till July 27. "Awareness is being created through rallies at block PHC level, saas-bahu sammelan at sub-centre level, distribution of leaflets, splashing of posters and banners and conducting IPC through ASHAs, ANMs and other health functionaries," said District Media Expert, Monika Das, adding that laparoscopic sterilisation for female and no scalpel vasectomy for male, besides contraceptives are available right from the block PHCs to district hospital.

Health officials here are of the view that a focused effort is needed to provide information and services to newly married women and post-partum women following the introduction of more contraceptive choices.

Namrup: On the occasion of World Population Day 2018, an awareness cycle rally was brought out under the auspices of Naharani BPHC and in association with Naharkatia State Dispensary from Lengerijan play ground to Naharkatia State Dispensary on Monday. The rally was flagged off by Dr Biswajit Baruah, SDM & HO and led by Mintu Sonowal, MPW, Dhanmani Gogoi and Nilakhi Bhuyan, ABPM. More than 50 people including Asha Workers, ANMs, and MPWs took part in the rally.

Load-Date: September 28, 2018


End of Document
