




Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)
March 11, 2012 Sunday
Final Edition


Copyright 2012 Richmond Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: COMMENTARY; Pg. E-06
Length: 422 words
Body


If women must have an ultrasound to confirm a pregnancy, men having vasectomies should have a prostate examination prior to surgery. One makes as much sense as the other.
Ann Walker, Richmond.
***
As I have watched so many politicians running for election or re-election so fawningly trying to convince us how wonderful they are, or will be, it occurred to me that maybe we should have an election each year.
Daisy Birdsong, Powhatan.
***
Obama bravely states he has Israel's "back." With Iran at its front, and Obama at its back, Israel is essentially surrounded.
Calvin Lucy, Midlothian.
***
As a sanitation measure, with insect-breeding season approaching, how about designating Occupy Wall Street protest sites as "no fly" zones.
Al Schalow, Midlothian.
***
Conservatives were bewildered when George Stephanopoulos injected birth control into the Jan. 7 presidential debate. On Jan. 20, Secretary of Health and Humans Services Kathleen Sebelius confirmed a new Obamacare mandate to undermine religious freedom, igniting the contraceptive firestorm. If you can't see this blatant collusion between the White House and left-wing media to ambush Republicans on a contrived, deceptive issue, I have some waterfront property to sell you.
Dianne Flynn, Glen Allen.
***
By choosing to maintain the Bush tax cuts instead of military strength in these dangerous times, are the Republicans conceding the presidential election to the Democrats?
Stan Deutsch, Midlothian.
***
To all the women who voted Republican in Virginia state elections and are now unhappy with the new whacko laws being passed: What did you think was going to happen?
Jeff Malo, Richmond.
***
I read that Kathleen Sebelius, the HHS secretary, accompanied Oprah Winfrey and Lady Gaga to Harvard to launch Gaga's new foundation, Born This Way. This is part of her official duties?
Nancy C. Johnson, Emporia.
***
Many voters arriving at the polls Tuesday complained that Virginia kept Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich off the ballot. Gingrich lives in McLean, a high-end suburb full of active GOP organizations. Santorum lives in Leesburg in the heart of a dynamic Loudoun GOP. Neither candidate had enough interest or Virginia connections to field petitions and submit paperwork required of every candidate. Instead, they opted to sue. Their mistake was in thinking they were above the law. Their behavior and rhetoric are all too familiar!
N. Strobel Holmes, Glen Allen.
Copyright © 2012, The Richmond Times-Dispatch and may not be republished without permission. E-mail 

Load-Date: March 12, 2012


End of Document
