




The New York Times 
June 28, 2022 Tuesday 15:37 EST


Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: ARTS; television
Length: 497 words
Byline: Trish Bendix
Highlight: “At this point I’d probably have more rights if my vagina was an AR-15,” Handler mused on Monday.
Body


“At this point I’d probably have more rights if my vagina was an AR-15,” Handler mused on Monday.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. Here are the .
Speaking From Experience
Chelsea Handler kicked off four nights of guest hosting “Jimmy Kimmel Live” on Monday night, saying, “I will be here all week long, or at least until Republicans make it illegal for women to talk.”
“Jimmy is off right now doing whatever the [expletive] he wants with his body.” — CHELSEA HANDLER
[Video:  ]
Handler dedicated her monologue to the .
“Remember like five days ago when Fox News told us the biggest threat facing America was drag queens? That was cute.” — CHELSEA HANDLER
“At this point I’d probably have more rights if my vagina was an AR-15.” — CHELSEA HANDLER
“And by the way, I’m speaking from experience on all of this as someone who had three abortions in high school. And if that sounds too extreme, let’s pretend I had two. Because here’s the thing: This planet is a much safer place without me polluting it with my children. I’m responsible enough to know that we don’t need any more pothead molly-loving alcoholics running around topless.” — CHELSEA HANDLER
“Not only has this decision further divided our country, most families now have two separate group texts going: one with relatives who support the rights of women and one with the relatives who live in Florida.” — CHELSEA HANDLER
The Punchiest Punchlines (Supreme Court Edition)
[Video:  ]
“Everyone is talking about the Supreme Court after they made some pretty major decisions over the last few days, and let me just sum it up for you: They basically said whether it’s a gun or a baby, you’re carrying something.” — JIMMY FALLON
[Video:  ]
“So, reproductive rights in America lasted for less time than ‘The Young and the Restless.’” — STEPHEN COLBERT
[Video:  ]
“People just want things done. No one cares about Kente cloth or singing on the Capitol steps and especially not poetry, all right? I feel like any moment now Chuck Schumer is going to throw on a fake pregnant belly, and just take a knee in the Capitol and be like ‘We are all pregnant now and we’re standing together.’” — TREVOR NOAH
The Bits Worth Watching
“The Daily Show” correspondent Michael Kosta investigated vasectomies on Monday’s show.
[Video:  ]
What We’re Excited About on Tuesday Night
[Video:  ]
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will appear on Tuesday’s “Late Show.”
Also, Check This Out
This month’s picks for  available to stream now are scary, but not too scary.
PHOTO: “Remember like five days ago when Fox News told us the biggest threat facing America was drag queens? That was cute,” Chelsea Handler said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABC FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Load-Date: August 1, 2022


End of Document
