=== FILE: batch1_5_page0.txt ===
Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PORTRAIT OF THE GOP
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Thirty-seven years have passed since the electorate in the Congressional elections of 1930 handed a vote of no confidence to the Republican Party. When we realize that a new generation has come of age since then, it is obvious why those people who shape public opinion have portrayed the GOP as an object of pity, scorn, contempt and ridicule. Most of the active articulate people in the communications media, in college classrooms, in the pulpit, in Congress and in the studies where political books are written are within the age span of 25 to 55. Thus, political evaluations are pregnant with the prejudices and preconceptions of the period when those people came of age. A great proportion were either unborn or in grammar school when FDR was elected.

In writing of the Republican Party they conveniently ignore the years when the GOP was shaping national policy, mostly for the better. For as we review the years when these people knew public affairs at firsthand, the record of the GOP was that of defeats, internal conflict and sectionalism. Because of the party's minority status, it lacked any lasting legislative or executive achievement.

It is refreshing, even inspiring, to find two writers of the post-New-Deal era who, breaking away from the prejudices of their contemporaries, portray the Republican Party as a vital institution quite worthy of offering itself as an alternative in a political system in which liberty, progress and national health and security can be guaranteed only by a strong two-party system.

ACCENT ON ORGANIZATION

These writers are Stephen Hess and David S. Broder. Their book is "The Republican Establishment: The Present and Future of the G.O.P."* The authors are neither ideologues nor apologists. The book is written to inform and guide an electorate that faces a year in which it must make great decisions.

These authors are distinctive among political writers who prefer to deal only with candidates and issues. They begin with an appraisal of the GOP as an organization or, rather, a number of organizations: the Congressional leadership, the National Committee, the state governors and the splinter groups on the periphery. They show

*440 pages. Harper & Row. $7.95.

in a vividly interesting way how chairman Ray Bliss uses the machinery of the National Committee to build a firm grass-roots base for party success.

Then, since politics is people and leaders of people, there are lengthy profiles of the Presidential aspirants-Romney, Nixon, Percy, Reagan-and other figures in Congress and in the Statehouses. Here the portraiture is full, perceptive and scrupulously fair. In delineating these figures in the news, nothing is extenuated, or is aught "set down in malice."

DECLINE OF THE EAST

Finally, the great regions are examined-East, South, Middle West and West. There was a time in Republican history when only the Eastern Establishment, with its great financial and political base, and the Middle West, rooted in industry, counted in choosing candidates and shaping party policy. But now, as the authors show, the South and West must be reckoned with. For political influence has followed the drift of the population and economic power. The political dominance of the East exists no longer, despite its importance as the center of the communications media and its considerable community of "intellectuals" and writers.

The decline of the East, the authors say, is dramatic. In fifteen years its share of Republican governors has dropped from eight to five; in House seats, from 74 to 48. Maine, Vermont and Connecticut have Democratic governors. The East cannot recapture its past.

The brighter outlook for the GOP as 1968 approaches is in the results of the 1966 recovery. Nothing contributed so much to that recovery as the sane policies of leadership in Congress, the quiet labors of Ray Bliss with the "nuts and bolts" of party organization, the indefatigable campaigning of Richard Nixon and the dawning reality that the Great Society as envisioned by President Johnson only proves that this country is too big to be governed completely from Washington.

But opposition parties never win. The incumbents fail. And therein lies the speculation that shrouds the outcome in 1968. For if the President succeeds in repelling the Communist thrust into Southeast Asia, it will be difficult for even a revitalized. GOP to dislodge him.

Newsweek, October 30, 1967
