

                                                                                                         Page 1 of 2
                                                Dele Giwa: Not a vacuous judgment




                                    Dele Giwa: Not a vacuous judgment


                                                       The Nation (Nigeria)
                                                     March 7, 2024 Thursday



Copyright 2024 The Nation All Rights Reserved




Length: 727 words

Body


 Sir: On Sunday, February 25, ThisDay published an article titled 'A Vacuous Judgment on Dele Giwa' suggesting
that the judgment of Honourable Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, sitting in Abuja, delivered on
February 16, in Suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/1301/2021: Incorporated Trustees of Media Rights Agenda v Attorney-
General of the Federation, is a futile decision.

Although the newspaper conceded in the article that 'liability for crime has no time lag or statute bar', it nonetheless
took the view that the court's decision, in effect ordering a re-opening of investigations into the gruesome murder of
the renowned journalist, Dele Giwa, more than 37 years after the incident, including the order that the perpetrators
be brought to justice, 'does not really excite many people who knew how muddled up this matter had been.'

We respectfully disagree.

Firstly, for purposes of accuracy and completeness, it is important to note that the judgment by Honourable Justice
Ekwo was not about Dele Giwa alone. There were seven named journalists who have been killed in the last few
decades and whose killings remain unresolved, that were referenced in the suit and in the judgment of the court.
However, the judgment of the court applies to all journalists and other media practitioners killed over the years as
well as journalists and other media practitioners who have been victims of other forms of attacks.

In effect, even if one anticipates some difficulty in conducting a conclusive or successful investigation into one or
more of these killings, that would not render the judgment vacuous as it offers the possibility of a successful
investigation into many other cases that have remained uninvestigated, including some very recent killings.

But more importantly, there is absolutely nothing vacuous about a judgment of a court that reaffirms the principle,
established under regional and international instruments, that there should be no impunity for crimes against
journalists and other media practitioners; and that validates the responsibility which states bear to properly
investigate crimes against journalists and other media practitioners and ensure that the perpetrators are
prosecuted and punished in accordance with the law. There is nothing vacuous about a judgment which seeks to
compel the government to perform this statutory and constitutional duty, which also constitutes an international
treaty obligation.

The judgment of the court enures to the benefit of all journalists and other media practitioners who have been
victims of attacks in the past as well as for those who may similarly be attacked in the future.

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
                                        Dele Giwa: Not a vacuous judgment

The court's decision reflects a commitment to upholding the rule of law and ensuring that those responsible for
crimes against journalists and other media practitioners, including such gruesome acts as occurred in Dele Giwa's
case, are held accountable, regardless of the time that has passed.

It is a commitment that should be applauded, encouraged and nurtured, no matter how late in coming we may
consider it to be.

While the Nigerian legal system faces challenges and scepticism about the effectiveness of investigations,
especially considering the historical context of Dele Giwa's case, it is crucial to recognise that justice delayed
should not be justice denied.

Read Also: Edun: FG realised N13tr non-oil revenue in 2023

The reopening of the investigation into Dele Giwa's case specifically as well as other cases that may have gone
cold, provides an opportunity to re-examine these cases with a new approach, utilising advancements in forensic
technology and investigative techniques that may not have been available in the past.

The court's decision is an independent initiative, and any failures in the past should not serve as a deterrent to the
pursuit of truth and justice today.

We firmly believe that the reopening of the investigation into Dele Giwa's murder is a positive development that
reflects the judiciary's commitment to ensuring that justice prevails, regardless of the challenges faced. It is an
opportunity to demonstrate that our system of justice can evolve and adapt to address unresolved cases, providing
hope to victims' families and fostering public confidence in the pursuit of justice.

We are excited about the judgment and committed to ensuring that it is complied with by the relevant authorities.

Classification
Language: English US


Publication-Type: Newspaper


Subject: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT &
CORRECTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); DECISIONS &
RULINGS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS
(89%); LITIGATION (89%); NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); COLD CASES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); RULE
OF LAW (78%); MURDER (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)


Industry: WRITERS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%)


Geographic: ABUJA, NIGERIA (79%); NIGERIA (93%)


Load-Date: March 8, 2024


  
