

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                   Court Orders FG To Investigate, Prosecute Killers Of Dele Giwa, Other Journalists




      Court Orders FG To Investigate, Prosecute Killers Of Dele Giwa, Other
                                  Journalists
                                                        The Will (Nigeria)
                                                    February 16, 2024 Friday



Copyright 2024 The Will Newspaper All Rights Reserved

Length: 577 words

Body


 The Federal High Court, Abuja, has ordered the Federal Government (FG) to investigate, prosecute and punish
perpetrators of the murder of the founder of Newswatch Magazine, Dele Giwa, and other journalists in the country.

Justice Inyang Ekwo, in a judgment, also made an order directing the Federal Government to take measures to
prevent attacks on journalists and other media practitioners, henceforth.

The order followed ruling on a suit filed on October 26, 2021, by the Incorporated Trustees of Media Rights Agenda
against the Attorney-General of Federation (AGF) as the sole respondent.

In the motion on notice marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/1301/2021, the applicant sought a declaration that the killings of
various journalists and media practitioners in Nigeria is a violation of their fundamental right to life.

This right, according to the group, is encapsulated in Section 33 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), Article 4 of
the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights (Ratification and Enforcement) Act (Cap A9) Laws of the
Federation of Nigeria, 2004, among other reliefs.

In the affidavit, the group listed some of the journalists murdered in the course of their duty including Dele Giwa,
killed on October 19, 1986, and Bolade Fasisi of National Association of Women Journalists, March 31, 1998.

Others include Edward Olalekan of Daily Times, murdered on June 1, 1999; Omololu Falobi of The Punch, October
5, 2006; Godwin Agbroko of Thisday, December 22, 1999; Abayomi Ogundeji of Thisday, August 17, 2008, and
Edo Sule-Ugbagwu of The Nation, April 24, 2010.

Justice Ekwo, who observed that the AGF did not file any process to counter the arguments of the applicant, held
that since the group's arguments were not controverted, such arguments would be deemed to be true.

'I have studied the response of the respondent to the averment of the applicant and I find the said averments to be
generic in nature and they do not controvert the case of the applicant specifically.

'The applicant has stated names of journalists killed in Paragraph J of the affidavit in support.

'It is pertinent to note that the respondent has neither denied that these killings have taken place or that these
persons were not journalists or media practitioners.

'The position of the law is that affidavit evidence, which is not challenged or controverted howsoever, is deemed
admitted and can be relied upon by a court,' Justice Ekwo held, adding that the media is a constitutional profession,
hence, the journalists and media practitioners ought to be protected in the course of their duties.

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 2
                 Court Orders FG To Investigate, Prosecute Killers Of Dele Giwa, Other Journalists

'An Order is hereby made directing the Federal Government of Nigeria to take measures to prevent attacks on
journalists and other media practitioners.

'An Order is hereby made directing the Federal Government of Nigeria to investigate, prosecute and punish
perpetrators of all attacks against journalists and other media practitioners, and ensure that all victims of attacks
against journalists have access to effective remedies.

'An Order is hereby made directing the Federal Government to take measures to raise awareness and build the
capacities of various stakeholders, particularly journalists and other media practitioners, policymakers, law
enforcement, security, intelligence, military as well as other officials and relevant stakeholders on the laws and
standards for ensuring the safety of journalists and media practitioners.

'This is the judgment of this court,' Justice Ekwo declared.

Classification
Language: English US


Publication-Type: Newspaper


Subject: GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS
(90%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%);
LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MURDER (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); WOMEN (73%); ASSOCIATIONS
& ORGANIZATIONS (68%)


Industry: WRITERS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%)


Geographic: ABUJA, NIGERIA (79%); NIGERIA (95%)


Load-Date: February 17, 2024


  
