User Name: =
Date and Time: = 2024-09-05
Job Number: = 232805709



Documents (10)

  Client/Matter: -None-
  Search Terms: "dele giwa" and journalist
  Search Type: Boolean
  Content Type                      Narrowed by
  news                              -None-


  1. After Dele Giwa, Dan Bello Takes the Stage -By Sale Rusulana Yanguruza
  Aug 14, 2024      Opinion Nigeria          Opinion Nigeria


  2. Court Orders FG To Investigate, Prosecute Killers Of Dele Giwa, Other Journalists
  Feb 16, 2024      The Will (Nigeria)


  3. UPDATED: Court orders FG to probe deaths of Dele Giwa, other journalists
  Feb 16, 2024      The Punch


  4. AFRICMIL invites young journalists to submit essays on late Dele Giwa
  Sep 18, 2021      The Nation (Nigeria)


  5. Dele Giwa: Not a vacuous judgment
  Mar 07, 2024      The Nation (Nigeria)


  6. Dele Giwa: 37 Years After, His Message Remains Valid
  Oct 20, 2023      Osun Defender


  7. Re: A Vacuous Judgment on Dele Giwa
  Mar 06, 2024      Fresh Angle International Newspaper            Freshangle




             | About LexisNexis | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Copyright © 2020 LexisNexis

8. A Sound Judgment On Dele Giwa
Mar 09, 2024      Daily Independent (Nigeria) IDOWU ADEWALE


9. Re: A Vacuous Judgment on Dele Giwa
Mar 06, 2024      Fresh Angle International Newspaper            Freshangle


10. Court Orders AGF To Re-open Trial Of Dele Giwa's Killers
Feb 16, 2024      Daily Independent (Nigeria) Paschal Njoku




           | About LexisNexis | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Copyright © 2020 LexisNexis

                                                                                                       Page 1 of 3
                        After Dele Giwa, Dan Bello Takes the Stage -By Sale Rusulana Yanguruza




   After Dele Giwa, Dan Bello Takes the Stage -By Sale Rusulana Yanguruza
                                                            Opinion Nigeria
                                                    August 14, 2024 Wednesday



Copyright 2024 Opinion Nigeria Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved




Length: 865 words
Byline: Opinion Nigeria

Body


"Shine a light on darkness." -Carl BernsteinIndeed, in a democratic system of government, shining a light on
darkness is crucial and paramount because it helps hold authorities accountable to the public and ensures that
citizens resources are being utilized.The recent expose by young investigative journalist Dan Bello Galadanci,
from Kano, has shed light on the hidden secrets of corrupt politicians in Nigeria. This feat has positioned Dan Bello
as a rising star in investigative journalism in Nigeria, reminiscent of the renowned Investigative journalist Dele
Giwa, who fearlessly uncovered the truth during the 1980s military era. Giwa legacy serves as a testament to the
power of in-depth reporting in exposing wrongdoing of military leaders and other corrupt people in the country.

Dele Giwa

Though investigative reporting is risky and difficult task, but Dele Giwa courage in pursuing the truth, even under
military dictatorship, is very inspiring and imperative. Bello, who began as a social media content creator, has
emerged as a fearless investigative journalist, willing to take on the powerful,echoes Giwa spirit and commitment
to truth telling.Although there is a little difference between the tactics used by Dele Giwa, which focused primarily
on print media, and Bello Galadanci Kano approach of revealing truth which leverages technology and social media
to present facts and evidence through the use of video clips, the impact remains significant particularly to younger
ones ,who 75% of them are on social media . As a result of utilizing social media in revealing government secret,
Bello Galadanci Kano enables the public to question those in government and easily believe in his investigative
reporting without doubts. This highlights the power of investigative journalism and the publics need for it.However
his use of technology and social media to showcase facts and evidence of the wrongdoers particularly in Kano has

                                                                                                         Page 2 of 3
                     After Dele Giwa, Dan Bello Takes the Stage -By Sale Rusulana Yanguruza

made his reporting easily accessible and believable to the public.Recently, Bello released a clip revealing that
President Bola Ahmed Tinubu to spend 15 Trillion Naira on a single project, this report have sparking public
outrage. The APC in Kano called for his arrest, but Bello responded with another video clip exposing the former
Kano State Commissioner of Local Government, Murtala Sule Garo, for allegedly misusing 280 billion naira from
local government accounts suspected to own a hotel company in Saudi Arabia.This controversy, generated by Dan
Bello fearless reporting, has put the APC leaders under scrutiny and even thier Party Leaders Pleasing the
Galadanci to stop and not continue to reveals anything to the public eyes that can set the party aflame. Hon.
Abubakar Abdullahi Dangarinan one of the APC leader organization in Kano,through the Freedom Radio Kano
appeals Dan Bello to stop From exposing thier party leaders secrets ,. Dan Bello,His commitment to truth-telling
and investigative journalism has made him a thorn in the side of corrupt politicians , creating a serious tension in
their hearts, who seek to silence him. However, his courage and determination to expose the truth will undoubtedly
continue to inspire and shape the future of investigative journalism in Nigeria.Dan Bello, now in the spotlight, has
vowed to continue exposing the hidden secrets of the APC party and any corrupt individuals in country if they
persist in accusing him. By doing so, he is reaffirming his commitment to investigative journalism and his
determination to uncover the truth, even in the face of adversity.In Nigeria today, Dan Bello Galadanci name is
destined to be etched in the annals of Nigerian history as a fearless investigative journalist. If he continues his
remarkable work, he will undoubtedly be regarded as a worthy successor to the legendary Dele Giwa, who
courageously exposed corruption during the military era. Similarly, Jaafar Jaafar expose of Governor Ganduje
receiving bribes in his office , What to always comed to People minds and you reading this article is wondering why
he stopped investigating reporting ? Their contributions is very significant to the field of Journalism Which will be an
inspiration and motivated to future "pen guys" as noted by Ibrahim DW reporter and Development Journalist.Dan
Bello Galadanci is a popular Social Media content creator journalist, Film maker ,and educationist with a PhD in
Comparative Education and a background in Biomedical Engineering. Currently, he works as a primary school
teacher in China. Born an American citizen, he is also a Nigerian citizen by origin.Primitively, his content focused on
skits that dominated social media platforms like TikTok and Instagram, highlighting the situation in his fatherland,
Nigeria, particularly Kano State. However, he has since transitioned to investigative journalism, fearlessly exposing
corruption and wrongdoing by corrupt politicians , positioning him to takes and earn a great stage in Nigerian
Journalism where he Will soon joine the Iconic rank of Dele Giwa .To this Dan Bello! jettisoned hear says, hear
says and continue Dig deep, reveal more." – Bob WoodwardSale Rusulana Yanguruza Copyright 2022 Opinion
Nigeria

Classification
Language: ENGLISH


Publication-Type: Newswire


Journal Code: 10806


Subject: REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NATIONAL
SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); TYPES OF
GOVERNMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(89%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (89%); NEGATIVE MISC NEWS (89%); NEGATIVE POLITICAL
NEWS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); REGIONAL &
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); DEMOCRACIES (78%); ELECTIONS &
POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARRESTS (77%); NEGATIVE NEWS (77%);
DICTATORSHIPS (73%); MILITARY RULE (73%); TECHNOLOGY (65%)


Industry: NEWS REPORTING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); WRITERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

                                                                                             Page 3 of 3
                    After Dele Giwa, Dan Bello Takes the Stage -By Sale Rusulana Yanguruza


Person: BOLA TINUBU (79%)


Geographic: NIGERIA (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)


Load-Date: August 14, 2024


  
