



The New York Times Blogs 
(ArtsBeat)
June 20, 2014 Friday


Copyright 2014 The News York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: ARTS
Length: 1231 words
Byline: KATE ZERNIKE
Highlight: The black and Hispanic inmates circle each other in the stalls. 
Body


 Season 2, Episode 5  Strap in. Just as the last four episodes were starting to feel a bit too linear, this one moves fast in a lot of different directions - both in the past and present stories. (Spoilers below.)
Underscoring everything is the tension between the black and Hispanic inmates, and the swelling power of Vee, who is by now well established as Litchfield's own Cruella de Vil.
The episode opens with "some issues in Spanish Harlem" - sewage begins to gurgle up from the shower drains in the Hispanic block. Gloria Mendoza, who replaced Red leading the kitchen, asks if the Hispanic inmates can use the "Ghetto," or the showers that black inmates use.  
Vee replies, "My girls are not inclined to offer special privileges."
"Your girls?" Mendoza says. "When did that happen?" 
A very good question, because she does seem to have amassed power swiftly. Taystee seems fully in her fold again, even Poussey no longer seems wary, and Crazy Eyes is following Vee around like a puppy. (A dalmation, presumably.)
The black inmates mildly mock Vee for her "in my day, black women ran the joint" nostalgia. But they increasingly seethe over slights, local and societal. (The racial tensions are played to good humor. When the Hispanics discover that the water pressure is better in the Ghetto, one says, "It's like they're getting special privileges, and we're the black people.")
The Hispanic inmatess in the kitchen ruin the food for the black inmates with too much salt. The black prisoners, in turn, tie the Hispanic women's boots together in an overwhelming  knot. 
At that, Mendoza orders Vee into the bathroom to work it out. But just when you expect a confrontation, Vee begins to quiver. 
"I thought we could be friends," she tells Mendoza." She complains of the burden of the younger black women. "They want me to be some kind of den mother."
She tells Mendoza that her camp  can use the black bathroom without incident. But she needs something in return: Taystee and Watson want to work in custodial, so two others have to move out. Mendoza agrees she'll talk to Caputo to have them moved to the kitchen.
As Mendoza walks out, Vee's crocodile tears dry up, replaced by a crooked grin.
Red is the wise one - increasingly this season, it seems. "She played you!" she tells Mendoza once she discovers the girls have been moved from custodial. So the big question going forward is: What is Vee up to?
Mendoza is the star of this episode's flashbacks, which are set off by her encounters with Vee. But the connection between present and past is not as obvious as in earlier episodes. Is the common thread Mendoza's fear of trusting the wrong people?  
We see her in the past working in a convenience store that doubles as her aunt's Santeria chapel. A frequent customer is complaining that the candle the aunt sold him didn't get him the job she promised. Another man comes in and tries to buy beer with food stamps. 
Mendoza makes a show of trying to object, but she secretly slips him a $50 bill in exchange for his food stamps. Her boyfriend, Arturo, listening, slaps her after she brushes off his complaints about being rude to a customer. 
We quickly gather this abuse is common - in a later scene, Mendoza, with a black eye, sits with her aunt at a playground watching her children. Arturo tracks her there, and she takes him back. She tells her aunt that he has never hit the children. And he insists he is working on his problems. "Work on them all the way to hell," her aunt sneers. 
Then he hits Mendoza's son, and she finally decides to leave him. She will go to Florida, she tells her aunt, using the sizable wad of cash she has stowed in a box behind the store counter. 
"I buy food stamps and charge the government for stuff I never sell," she explains to her aunt.  Arturo comes in and tries to defend himself - her son was "in the way." The police arrive outside, and Arturo runs out the back door. But they are not there for him; they have come to arrest Gloria on fraud charges. 
The dissatisfied job-seeker has turned her in. After Gloria has been taken away, Arturo returns to steal the box of money. But on his way out, he kicks over a Santeria candle, and is consumed by the flames in a small room - the hell he has been working toward.
Back at Litchfield,  Big Boo and Nichols's sex contest continues. ("It's not a rape contest," Nichols clarifies.) An older woman who is keeping score has assigned points to different inmates. (Chapman is upset that she merits only three out of 10; she got dinged for having sex with Alex.) 
Boo is winning, but Nichols insists she is "playing for big money at a private table." She's put her chips on Fischer, the by-the-books newbie guard. She curses herself when Fischer rejects her. Morello assures her she was just being ambitious. 
"I was arrogant," Nichols says. "It's a classic story of hubris. I'm like Icarus, whose wings melted before he could have sex with the sun." (The language has been cleaned up slightly here. Her interpretation of mythology is too good to leave out.)
This episode also starts introducing us to more about the prison staff, and their stories outside Litchfield. Healy continues to struggle with his mail order bride, and seeks advice, again, from Red. Should he take her to a high school production or just dinner? She advises him to skip the show and go for dinner. 
"Romantic Italian?" he asks. 
"What, romantic Indian?" she replies. "Come on."
When he approaches his wife about dinner - at the Spaghetti Factory - she tells him she's made other plans. 
"I was looking forward to seeing you," he tells her in the Russian he has been studying on tape during his work hours. He offers to invite her friend: "Your friends are my friends, my friends are your friends," he tells her. 
"You don't have any friends, Sam," she tells him, in biting English. 
He apparently sets out to change that, heading to a bar where a band  is playing, with none other than Joe Caputo on bass. (Over drinks after, Sam tells Caputo he especially likes the song about working in the mines; Caputo explains that it's actually a metaphor about a vasectomy reversal.) 
Caputo, so far famous mostly for masturbating every time an inmate leaves his office, is angry and concerned about the inmates' welfare, and frustrated with his boss, Natalie "Fig"  Figueroa for not caring more - she won't even spend the money to fix the Hispanic showers. At the very least, he tells Healy, they ought to be making sure the inmates are clean and healthy.
Sam gloms onto his new best friend - "Capu Dawg!" he calls him, prompting an eye roll from Caputo. And he appears to listen to his concerns, putting Piper up for a three-day furlough she requested upon learning that her grandmother is dying. 
But will she stay with Larry, he asks? She will, though she agrees it might be good to check with him first. 
Piper calls Larry and catches him on his way back from the day with Polly (they stood in line for two hours to eat Bagnuts, a cross between a bagel and a doughnut.) He asks why she didn't call earlier. 
"Because we broke up, and I guess I was imagining that I could be this person who doesn't depend on anybody, or let somebody depend on me," she tells him. 
They agree they've missed each other. But can a three-day furlough save this  marriage? Do we suspect it's not that simple? Put your predictions - but no spoilers, please - in the comments.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: News

Publication-Type: Web Blog

Subject: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & ETHNICITY (90%); PRISONERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); SPOILERS & TEASERS (73%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (71%); Orange Is the New Black (TV Program) (%); 'Orange Is the New Black' (%); Television (%); TV RECAPS (%)

Load-Date: June 23, 2014


End of Document
