



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
April 28, 2008 Monday
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: STATE; Pg. B-8
Length: 904 words
Byline: Michael Rubinkam, The Associated Press
Dateline: MILLVILLE, Pa. 
Body


After a 15-year wait and at least $10,000 in child-support payments, Mark Spaid was thrilled to be going in for a DNA test.
In 1992, Pennsylvania courts declared him the legal father of his wife's infant daughter even though he knew he was sterile, having had a vasectomy more than two years before the birth.
To the legal system, Mr. Spaid's inability to father children meant little when it came to determining who should be responsible for the child's care. In Pennsylvania, like most states, a "presumption of paternity" trumps everything.
The doctrine, with roots in English common law, assumes a husband is the legal father of any child born during his marriage. It's designed to preserve marriage and make sure children's financial and emotional needs are provided for.
But it has also embittered untold numbers of men across the nation who are required to support kids fathered by other men.
Mr. Spaid, a laborer, was unaware of the presumption when he asked the court for a paternity test in 1992. So he was floored when Luzerne County Judge Chester Muroski denied his request and ordered him to pay his ex-wife $20 a week in child support -- an amount that would eventually rise to $71, or more than half his take-home pay.
He implored the judge to reconsider. He wrote to every politician he could think of, begging for a change in Pennsylvania law to make it easier to contest paternity. And he publicized his battle.
None of it did any good.
Then, one day last fall, he got his test.
But the results didn't really matter much more than they would have in the beginning.
After his wife, who declined to comment for this story, became pregnant with her second daughter in 1990, Mr. Spaid said he deluded himself into thinking his vasectomy hadn't worked. This fiction would have disastrous legal consequences for him later, but Mr. Spaid said he simply didn't want to believe his wife had been unfaithful.
He said he was also trying to keep his shaky marriage together.
But it wasn't to be. She moved out and took the children with her.
Pennsylvania law gave Mr. Spaid the option of requesting a paternity test for their eldest child, because she was born before Mr. Spaid and his wife were married. He took the test and was shocked by the results: He was not the girl's biological father.
At that point, Mr. Spaid verified with a doctor that he was, in fact, sterile, then asked for a blood test to rule himself out as his youngest daughter's father. But since the couple were husband and wife at the time of conception, the presumption of paternity came into play, and Judge Muroski turned him down.
Frustrated and angry, Mr. Spaid resolved to become a deadbeat.
"I never voluntarily paid a penny," said Mr. Spaid, a normally happy-go-lucky fellow whose voice takes on a decidedly bitter edge whenever he talks about his situation. "I refused to pay it until they proved to me that I was the father."
The authorities garnished his wages, seized his tax refunds, froze his bank accounts. His credit was ruined. He even spent a week in jail for nonpayment.
He could have wallpapered his apartment with the delinquent notices.
"At times I was so depressed, I just felt like saying the hell with it. If I die, I die," said Mr. Spaid, now 43.
Mr. Spaid's mother urged him to stop fighting and move on with his life. But he couldn't do it. He said it was not only the money, but the principle -- his wife's youngest daughter deserved to know the identity of her natural father, if only for his medical history.
One day in 2001, Mr. Spaid woke up in a particularly sour mood. He scrawled a letter to Judge Muroski, claiming that child support had drained his finances to the point that he was running a monthly deficit of nearly $200 and could no longer pay his other bills.
"Try living like this, for a child that is not yours," Mr. Spaid wrote. "See how much fun it is to pull $195 out of thin air. ... Don't say get another job, because the more I make, the more you take. I can't win."
Judge Muroski was unmoved. He had already ruled on Mr. Spaid's case -- twice -- and had no intention of reopening it.
To this day, he stands by that decision.
In Pennsylvania, courts have established that a husband may be permitted to overcome the presumption of paternity if he can prove he is impotent or sterile, or that he was away from his wife during conception.
But there are other considerations. If the man has held out the child as his own, for example, he is prevented from later challenging paternity, unless he can prove fraud.
In Judge Muroski's view, Mr. Spaid undermined his claims by staying with his wife throughout her pregnancy and then for seven months after the birth. By accepting the girl into his house even though he knew, or should have known, he was sterile, Mr. Spaid implicitly acknowledged his paternity, and the law prevented him from later trying to deny it.
"Nobody ever thought he was the biological father from day one," Judge Muroski told The Associated Press. "But that's not the law."
In 2007, the Pennsylvania courts finally granted Mr. Spaid's wish for a paternity test.
The lab results, which came back Nov. 13, excluded him as the girl's father.
Mr. Spaid is now hunting for a lawyer to see if he can get his money back -- the child support plus thousands in legal fees -- from his ex-wife and the state.
More than 15 years after he first raised the issue of paternity, his support obligation officially came to an end.

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Jimmy May/Associated Press: Mark Spaid talks during an interview in November at the kitchen table in his Millville, Luzerne County, home. The table is covered with correspondence and court documents he has put together in the past 16 years while trying to obtain a DNA test to prove he is not the father of his ex-wife's child.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (92%); LEGAL PATERNITY (92%); DNA (91%); DNA TESTING (90%); LAW & LEGAL SYSTEM (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); JUDGES (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); MEN (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); EMOTIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%)

Geographic: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%)

Load-Date: April 29, 2008


End of Document
