



The San Diego Union-Tribune
January 14, 2003, Tuesday


Copyright 2003 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: LIFESTYLE;Pg. E-1; INTERVIEW.
Length: 1317 words
Byline: Mark Sauer; STAFF WRITER | The Associated Press contributed to this story.
Body

Raja gracefully eased his 550-pound frame off his plywood perch and strolled toward the tall fence with the deliberate, almost haughty, gait befitting jungle royalty.
The big cat lolled his massive head from side to side as if inviting a scratch behind the ear.  Then he began a succession of quick puffs out his mouth and nose.
"That's called chuffing.  It means he's content," said Bobbi Brink.  "Tigers don't purr, they chuff."
Raja and his 350-pound mate, Natasha, were anything but content up until a few months ago.
For their first five years, Brink said, the two tigers were held together in an exposed, 6-by-12-foot cage at a private residence in south Texas.
Brink learned about them from a friend at a nearby Texas wildlife sanctuary where she once cared for tigers, lions and other big cats.
The owner of Raja and Natasha, she said, was warned he was in violation of Texas law because the animals' cage was far too small and exposed to the elements.
But he told law-enforcement officials "he would shoot the animals before he would let (authorities) on his property and that he would not spend another dollar on caging," Brink said.
The thought of the tigers crammed togetherexposed to rain and summer sun and harsh winter wind, gnawed at Brink.  She decided to "rescue" Raja and Natasha and build them a proper home in San Diego County.
The idea of improving the lives of big cats in captivity was neither whimsical nor spontaneous for Brink.
For three years in the late '90s, she cared for exotic animals at a Texas sanctuary not far from where Raja and Natasha lived.
Her experience with tigers, lions, cougars, black leopards, bobcats and lynx provided the foundation of her dream to open a sanctuary here.
Now she and her husband, Mark, are buying 40 acres in the East County on which to house their newly organized, nonprofit, educational "sanctuary," which she calls Lions, Tigers & Bears.
"We're in the midst of the zoning process now; keeping our fingers crossed," said Brink. (The couple, who have no children, operate an El Cajon custom-painting business.)
Illegal breeding
Many of the estimated 15,000 tigers, lions and other exotic cats kept privately across America are suffering in roadside zoos and ragtag circuses, or hidden away on private property, in back yards, garages and basement cages with owners unqualified to care properly for them.
And many big cats are illegally bred and then sold for their meat and skins.
A recently completed 4 1/2 -year investigation by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife service resulted in charges against 16 individuals in the South and Midwest who illegally bought, sold, bred and killed tigers for profit.
All but two pleaded guilty.  But the stiffest sentence handed down so far was one year in jail (half of that in home confinement) and a $5,000 fine.
With thousands in profits at stake and the risk of getting caught and punished minimal, it's no wonder there is a thriving black market in big cats.
Reports of mistreated animals, including tigers, lions and bears, flow steadily to Fish and Wildlife officials.  But with just 240 agents nationally, many tips about abuse, illegal breeding and the killing of animals for skins and meat go uninvestigated, according to federal officials.
By establishing a sanctuary in rural East County, Brink said, she hopes to spare at least some cats that fate while educating people locally on the perils facing many threatened and endangered exotic animals living in captivity in this country.
"People need to understand that tigers, lions and other big cats cannot be made into pets," said Brink.  "In fact, that is illegal in California and in most states.  The sad thing is a big cat bred in captivity can never go back into the wild."
Yet a coalition of animal-welfare groups, including the Humane Society of the United States and the American Zoo and Aquarium Association, estimates there are 5,000 pet tigers in the United States -- a number at least equal to all tigers living in the wild.
The trade in pet tigers, Brink said, endangers people (especially children) and the animals themselves.  "People think the cubs are cute and cuddly, but the novelty wears off when they get big.
"These animals are quite dangerous.  Just because you've bottle-fed them and cared for them since birth does not mean they won't turn on you.  Most people are simply unqualified to care for these animals, whose life expectancy in captivity is about 20 years," said Brink.
Texas bound
When she learned about Raja and Natasha last summer, Brink set about raising money and getting the proper permits from state and federal agencies.
She explained the cats' plight in a letter to friends, clients, business associates and area veterinarians.
Many rallied to the request.  Fencing for cages was donated; a friend with land in the remote East County offered a temporary haven; a trucker friend said he'd take his semi to Texas and bring the cats back; lots of people sent checks, $5,000 worth so far.
The Texas owner of the cats, who'd bought them as cubs nearly six years ago as a present to his now ex-wife, was disagreeable at first, Brink said.  But faced with confiscation by state officials, he agreed to donate them to Brink.
"We had 30 days to get the proper permits, build an enclosure and make arrangements to bring them to California," said Brink, who beefed up her credentials for obtaining a permit by going through an animal-husbandry course in Oklahoma before heading to Texas.
"All the way to Texas I was questioning whether we were doing the right thing for these animals," Brink wrote in a recent fund-raising letter.  "A trip across country can be very stressful on these big cats."
But when she saw how they were living, Brink said, "every doubt was completely gone."
With the help of the now-resigned owner, Brink and several friends worked through the night to coax Raja and Natasha into the truck-trailer and headed for California just after daybreak.
The two tigers live now in a 25-foot-by-25-foot enclosure built to state specifications and surrounded by a perimeter fence.  Each tiger has a plywood, hay-lined "den" and use of a large wading pool.
Many of Brink's friends and supporters drop by with cat food: venison and elk meat; beef and whole turkeys, she said.
Two local vets have offered to anesthetize Raja and Natasha in order to give them full exams, vaccinations, wormings, etc.  A Sacramento vet who works with big cats will arrive soon, Brink said, to perform a vasectomy on Raja.
Brink said it is wrong and illegal to privately breed tigers in captivity and "we will not breed or sell any animal placed in our care."
But that vow came a bit late in the case of the two cats from Texas.  Brink said she discovered soon after the animals arrived in San Diego County that Natasha was pregnant.  Two cubs, named Sitarra and Tabu, were born in the middle of one night this fall.
Brink exhibited the youngsters recently at Parkway Plaza in El Cajon, inviting shoppers to have their photos taken with the cubs for $25 apiece.  "We are an all-volunteer organization, and 100 percent of all donations goes directly to the animals," said Brink, who plans to exhibit the cats eventually to raise awareness about their plight (as well as donations for their care).
The tigers' permanent home will feature a 1,864-square-foot enclosure, she said, adjacent to a 3,500-square-foot barn to house hay, a food freezer and work room for veterinarians.
For the time being, Raja and Natasha are happy in their temporary home, said Brink, who confesses to fretting over them like a new mother.
"The first night that it rained hard, I got up at 4 in the morning and raced over to check on them, worried that rain was blowing into their dens," she said.  "When I got here, Raja was out frolicking in his pool during a downpour.  I guess it rains a lot in Texas."
For information about Lions, Tigers & Bears animal sanctuary, call: (619) 561-9267.

Graphic

 
3 PICS; 1,2,3. Jerry Rife / The Union-Tribune photos; 1,2. It's feeding time for tiger cubs Tabu and Sitarry Raja, born after Bobbi Brink "rescued" their mother, Natasha. Above left, Brink gets a playful cuff from one of the cubs. 3. Patriarch Raja watches as Bobbi Brink fills his water bowl. Raja and his mate had previously been confined to a 6-by-12-foot cage.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: CATS (91%); ANIMAL SHELTERS & RESCUES (90%); ANIMAL WELFARE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); WILD CATS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); FISHES (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (79%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PRIVATE LANDS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); ZONING (72%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (71%)

Company: EL CAJON FORD  (51%); EL CAJON FORD  (51%);   EL CAJON FORD  (51%)

Industry: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); ZONING (72%)

Geographic: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (71%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: January 16, 2003


End of Document
