



The New York Times 
July 7, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: BOOKS; review
Length: 733 words
Byline: LYDIA KIESLING
Highlight: In “Standard Deviation” by Katherine Heiny, a stuffy banker reconsiders his bubbly second wife.
Body


Correction Appended
STANDARD DEVIATION 
By Katherine Heiny 
319 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $25.95.
“Standard Deviation,” Katherine Heiny’s first novel, is about a marriage, and, as with marriage, it is easier to catalog this novel’s individual sly charms than it is to nail down the essential, quicksilver thing that makes it such a success.
Heiny’s follow-up to her 2015 short story collection “Single, Carefree, Mellow” opens with a husband, Graham, and wife, Audra, doing their grocery shopping on a Saturday morning in New York City. Told in the third person but heavily mediated by Graham’s consciousness, this first scene tells us much of what we will need to know about the couple: They have been married for 12 years. Audra, 41, is “not quite beautiful but her liveliness kept her far away from plain.” Graham is 15 years older — it is “one of those marriages” he assumes everyone thinks when they are out in public. They have a son named Matthew. They are white, and gruesomely so; Graham idly imagines he “would have made an excellent owner of a safe house in the Underground Railroad,” while Audra makes a special, alarming point of telling a black store clerk what a great job he’s doing.
Crucially, we learn from this grocery scene — which is, incidentally, one of the breeziest, most assured and detailed novel openings in recent memory — that Audra has a preternatural knowledge of the life story of every person in a hundred-block radius. While pushing her grocery cart she meets and chatters to her yoga teacher (who prefers to go by her spiritual name), a classroom parent (whose husband had a vasectomy) and her appliance repairman (whose cat suffers from bladder infections).
Audra’s prodigious knowledge of people’s names, faces and bewildering, often pointless personal details — that someone recently broke an eyetooth on a bagel, for example — is an animating force in the book. Graham thinks of her as “a female Warren Buffett who knew about everything except finance”; the sort of woman who provides advice to all comers on “private schools, on marriage counselors, on hairdressers, on au pairs, on restaurants, on shops, on neighborhood watches, on gyms, on doctors, on internet providers” but may not know, he suspects, the name of the mayor of New York City.
Heiny finds a wonderful specificity in archetypes. Audra and Graham’s apartment is a revolving door of down-on-their-luck houseguests, whether the friend who owns her own brownstone but doesn’t want to be alone while her husband is off on a retreat (and cheating on her, as Audra knows but the friend doesn’t), or the building doorman who is having an unspecified problem — bedbugs or landlord issues — with his apartment. The couple’s 10-year-old son, who is on the autism spectrum, is an accomplished origami practitioner whom they ferry to an exclusive “folding” club populated by extremely quirky middle-aged men.
The book has a kind of “Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus” feel, but its confidence, and the texture of the small world it creates, keep it from feeling parodic, as do the various “deviations” from the archetypes Heiny explores. Nor is it completely lighthearted, despite its comic tenor; Graham and Audra fret over their son’s prospects as a non-neurotypical person, and mourn the breakup of his sole friendship at school. Despite Audra’s charm, she isn’t particularly nice. It’s obvious to the reader, although not to Graham, that her disarming brand of overshare, her encyclopedic social knowledge, are not an indication of guilelessness. Graham, who self-identifies as the staid and reasonable one next to Audra’s effusions, has his own less-examined foibles. (He spends part of the novel in an Audra-sanctioned emotional affair with his ex-wife.) Like Graham, the novel gestures at darker corridors, mostly choosing to leave them untraveled. But as with any marriage, it’s better to take this novel just exactly as it is, rather than nitpick all the things that it’s not.
Lydia Kiesling’s first novel, “The Golden State,” will be published next year.
Correction: July 23, 2017, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A review on July 9 about the novel “Standard Deviation,” by Katherine Heiny, misstated part of the title of a 2015 story collection by the same author. It is “Single, Carefree, Mellow,” not “Single, Careful, Mellow.”
DRAWING (DRAWING BY JADE SCHULZ)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Review

Publication-Type: Web Blog

Subject: MARRIAGE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); COUPLE COUNSELING (73%); HOME SAFETY & SECURITY (71%); RETAIL WORKERS (71%); YOGA (68%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (64%); AUTISM (50%); BED BUGS (50%); Books and Literature (%); Standard Deviation (Book) (%); Heiny, Katherine (%)

Industry: BOOK REVIEWS (79%); RESTAURANTS (66%)

Person: WARREN BUFFETT (50%); Heiny, Katherine

Geographic: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%)

Load-Date: July 23, 2017


End of Document
