



The San Diego Union-Tribune
August 13, 2006 Sunday


Copyright 2006 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-1
Length: 3004 words
Byline: Mark Sauer, STAFF WRITER
Series: A FOREVER FAMILY. FIRST OF TWO PARTS.
Body


Sebastian's nightmares were getting worse. Monsters came out of his belly button and beetles and spiders covered his head.
His foster father, Gilberto Dixon, a big man with a gentle way with children, said the source of the terrifying dreams was obvious: "Sebastian has seen too much for his age."
Not yet 6, Sebastian had seen what life on the street and in hovels was like as he watched his parents struggle with drug abuse and the effects of their own shattered childhoods, according to county investigators.
It was long past time for him to see how normal people lived.
Barbara and Bill Ferreira wanted a little brother for their son Billy. That child would have to arrive through adoption.
Bill, who has a daughter in her 30s from a previous marriage, had bucked the odds by having a vasectomy reversed. He was 50 and Barbara 40 when Billy was born in September 1998. That would be her last pregnancy.
The couple, who live in a sprawling, two-story home on a huge lot in East County, had gone through classes and home inspections and were certified to adopt when last winter they saw Sebastian's picture on a Web site featuring kids waiting for families.
It was a softly lit photo of a brown-eyed boy with a shy, perhaps mischievous, smile. "You see this boy and your heart wants to make that leap," Barbara said.
But the promise to provide a "forever home" to a troubled child cannot be made on impulse.
Such children mistrust adults. They have trouble bonding. Disruptions at home and at school are common and may involve aggression, even sexual acting out.
This is the story of how a stable, happy family decided to risk embracing a boy world-weary from chronic neglect due to his parents' history of drug addiction and their own abusive pasts.
Such stories normally play out in the juvenile-justice system behind a curtain of confidentiality. But the court granted permission to allow this look at how members of one family and one little boy were changed when their lives came together.
This is a story about people willing to offer the least among us a loving home and hope.
***
Between 6,000 and 7,000 children are in foster care at any given time in San Diego County, children taken from their parents for their own safety.
The cause is usually neglect, often coupled with drug abuse, or an arrest -- the precariousness of life lived at society's margins.
Foster care is meant to be a temporary refuge for kids while their parents straighten their lives out. The vast majority of these children are eventually reunited with their parents, an overriding goal.
Reunification happens when social workers and judges are satisfied abusive parents have sincerely confronted their personal demons in court-ordered rehabilitation and parenting programs; that their kids will likely be safe.
But some parents fail. Their children are permanently taken away and put up for adoption. That's what happened to Sebastian.
Every effort is made to place an abused or neglected child with relatives, whether short-term or permanently. When that doesn't work, the child is placed with strangers in a certified foster home.
Sebastian had no suitable relatives.
But government makes a lousy parent, and children raised in foster care face extraordinary obstacles in life.
Some foster kids make it. The majority, however, end up homeless or in jail by their 20th birthdays, said Lisa Renfro, lead recruiter of adoptive families for the county's social-services department.
These children carry with them from home to home the stark realization that they are unwanted and unloved.
Foster care is also a bad deal for taxpayers.
"When children are in the system, there are social workers, attorneys, judges and supportive services, and all of this costs money," Renfro said. Studies place the cost of keeping a California child in foster care at more than $90,000 a year in state and federal money administered by counties.
"When these kids are adopted, it's a win for the child and a win for society in a big way," Renfro said.
Over the past five years, social workers here have redoubled efforts to find families for older children, kids who in the past would likely have languished for years in foster care.
Healthy babies and toddlers, so adorable and unaffected, are spoken for quickly.
Older kids are harder to place. They are the ones county adoption workers promote on Web sites, in traveling photo exhibits, on TV shows, and at picnics and parties called "matching events."
These kids are older than 3; members of a sibling group; have medical, behavioral or emotional issues; and/or are kids whose birth parents had background issues, often mental illness.
At any given time, about 150 such children, from tots to teenagers, await a forever family in San Diego County. Some have physical ailments; many were born with alcohol or street drugs in their systems. All are emotionally scarred.
There are generally about 100 certified families at a time here looking to adopt children. But not all are willing to accept older kids with problems.
San Diego has become known as one of the nation's more aggressive counties in trying to match hard-to-place children with adoptive families, according to independent adoption specialists.
"San Diego is years ahead in their philosophy and their willingness and ability to find homes for these kids," said Carol Brown of California Kids Connection, a program run by an agency the state hired to encourage adoption exchanges among counties.
Many counties, for example, resist placing kids out of state, Brown said. "San Diego scours the entire country. They want to find the right family for these children, no matter what it takes."
The most difficult are children who are mentally retarded or physically handicapped, said Heidi Staples, program manager for San Diego County Adoptions. "But we never give up on a child around here.
"We had a 7-year-old boy so disabled he'd spent his entire life in a medical facility," Staples said. "We finally placed him with a family in another county who were trained and set up to handle him, a home where he is loved and doing fine."
It was the first week in January, the Christmas decorations had yet to come down, when Bill and Barbara Ferreira learned they had been deemed a match for Sebastian.
They wanted a boy a bit younger than 7-year-old Billy. But they weren't equipped to handle a mentally retarded child or one suffering the effects of being exposed to alcohol or drugs in the womb. (Sebastian's tests at birth were negative.)
What about a boy who was developmentally delayed? "That depends on the severity," Barbara said.
The couple had discussed adoption many times in the years since Billy was born. Bill, who is an architect/engineer, was supervising the construction of their house in Mission Beach when the baby arrived.
Barbara, who works in a hospital records/research department, said they decided the beach was no place to raise their child. The first order of business was to find and settle into a new house, a home big enough also to accommodate Barbara's elderly parents.
They were primed to delve into the adoption process in 2003. But then the Cedar fire struck, destroying their rustic vacation house in the Cuyamacas, where Billy loved to romp on weekends.
That set things back two years. Then Billy started asking: When am I going to get a little brother?
"In April of 2005, we finally decided that now is the time if we're ever going to adopt a boy," Bill said.
They had ruled out an international adoption, which can cost $15,000 or $20,000. "We're pragmatic -- we don't want to work forever," Barbara explained.
"But we also feared that all these kids in foster care were too emotionally damaged. Would we be able to cope with that?"
To find out, they took classes the county requires in order to be certified as adoptive parents.
They thought they'd be "the grandparents in the crowd," Barbara said, but were surprised to see many others their age, in addition to singles, gays and lesbians. (Some states, including Florida and Utah, refuse to allow gays to adopt.)
In class, the Ferreiras watched taped reenactments of children being taken from their parents by social workers and cops; they learned about life in foster homes and group homes -- all from the point of view of the child.
"We learned that it's not about us. It's all about the child," Barbara said.
Some in the class didn't buy that message, however. When social workers pointed out that it is illegal to strike a child, some prospective adoptive parents objected.
"One guy went on and on about how he was going to run his child's life," Bill said. "I finally stood up and had words with him. The social worker teaching the class came up and thanked me afterward.
"We noticed the people like that were gone before the course was finished."
Sebastian spent 2005 living in a three-bedroom apartment in City Heights. It was the home of Gilberto and Yaira Dixon, a Panamanian couple who had a son of their own and cared for four foster children: Sebastian and two brothers, ages 8 and 3; plus a 1-year-old girl taken from her mentally impaired mother shortly after birth.
Sebastian had made great strides while living with this foster family, according to his teacher, his social worker and public-health nurse.
Yet, he still suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, reports to the court showed, after four years spent with his parents and drug-addled acquaintances in flophouses and dirty apartments and on the streets.
The Ferreiras learned the grim details of the boy's early life during a pivotal part of the adoption process called The Telling.
In a windowless room in a nondescript office building in El Cajon, Bill and Barbara sat across a table from two social workers for a two-hour narrative of Sebastian's life.
Anna Garcia, on the job for about a year, was assigned to Sebastian. Barbara Wojtack, who had worked with adoptive families for the past eight years, represented the Ferreiras. But "everyone is an advocate for the child," Wojtack noted.
A great deal of analysis took place before The Telling was arranged.
"There may be 10 or 15 potential families generally matched (by computer) to a child, or sibling group," Wojtack said. The Placement Committee then whittles them down to about eight.
All things being equal, the family who has waited the longest is contacted first.
The potential families' information packets go to the child's social worker, who reads them and calls each family's social worker to discuss the child.
Then she picks a family.
The child's social worker and her supervisors discuss the match. If everyone agrees, the family is told and given an overview of that child. If they remain interested, The Telling is arranged.
"There were things on Bill and Barbara's form they had said `no' to which applied to Sebastian," Wojtack said. "That's not unusual. I've had families say they wanted to adopt a child 4 or younger who wind up taking an 8-year-old; or families who wanted just one child who took a sibling group."
"Marketing" is not a word social workers use. Yet there is a promotional aspect to aggressively trying to place older foster kids.
Professional photographers volunteer to take appealing portraits for Web sites and traveling "heart galleries." The kids' brief bios are unfailingly flattering. "We're trying to make an initial connection," Lisa Renfro explained unapologetically.
But efforts at salesmanship cease when it comes time for The Telling, where everything the system knows from court records about an abused child and his parents is shared.
The Ferreiras learned from investigators' reports that Sebastian's parents each came from dysfunctional homes, experiencing such traumas as drug and alcohol abuse, domestic violence and seeing their parents arrested.
"I'm so glad we took those classes," Barbara Ferreira interjected. "Otherwise, I would have said we can't take this on after the first paragraph."
Sebastian's parents were generally unemployed during the half-dozen years they were together.
Sebastian weighed 8 pounds, 3 ounces when born in May 2000. He was healthy, and his mother was deemed drug-free during her pregnancy.
The first four years of Sebastian's life were a study in chaos and emotional trauma.
San Diego Child Protective Service (CPS) investigators cited his mother for not attending drug classes, for having no food in the house, and for general neglect.
A November 2001 police report says that Sebastian -- then 18 months old -- was found wandering along a busy street as his parents slept behind a nearby building. When officers roused them and said the toddler was being taken away, his mother attempted to dash in front of a car.
A week later, he was reunified with them.
"The fact that you are using drugs is not a protective issue for us, unless you are not taking care of the children," said Barbara Wojtack, the Ferreiras' social worker. "Neither is homelessness."
A January 2004 report on a police raid of a hotel room said Sebastian was in the care of drug dealers.
The boy was taken into protective custody, and the court ordered his parents into a drug-treatment program and domestic-violence classes. Records show they failed to complete them, and Sebastian was never returned to their care.
Two months later, a foster mother horrified by the condition of his teeth took Sebastian to the dentist. He had four extractions and 14 cavities, the decay due to poor nutrition.
Though parental visits are generally encouraged when a child is in foster care, the boy never again saw his father, who has been in and out of jail the past two years for drug possession and parole violations.
His mother regularly visited Sebastian in foster homes through May 2005; then her visits became sporadic and ceased altogether in August of last year.
The Telling concluded, Barbara Ferreira said: "I expected to be hyperventilating with anxiety by now, but I'm not."
Barbara Wojtack, cautioned: "I know it's hard to listen to this and have empathy for these people. But they are his parents, they are part of who he is."
It was time for Wojtack to play devil's advocate.
"This is a kid with significant losses in his life; he has been through several placements" and has trust and bonding issues as a result, she said.
"It does you and Sebastian no good to say yes to him just for the sake of it."
Sebastian was developmentally delayed, not uncommon for bilingual children. His teacher and social worker reported he had made good progress recently, though he still tended to hoard food, having become conditioned to hunger on the streets.
Such kids often need extensive counseling, medication to control anxiety and one-on-one schooling.
The biggest concern, everyone agreed, was Billy.
"Adoptive placements can fail on this issue," Wojtack said. "Parents can spend nearly all of their time on the new child. You might find yourselves putting Billy aside to a degree. Are you ready to deal with that?"
Bill Ferreira responded: "We can't really know what will happen until we put them together."
The parents had spent a long time discussing with their son about what life might be like with an adopted brother. But talk is not reality.
"We've tried to paint the worst-case scenario to Billy," his mother said. "And we have a backup with him -- my parents live in the home; they read to him, play games with him, and that's good."
Wojtack pressed them.
"(Sebastian) has nightmares. He wakes up and walks at night. He might act out at bedtime. Are you ready for things like this?" she asked.
"We've also seen it where the grandparents say you're nuts to be doing this and harp on it daily. Are you ready to deal with all that?"
The stakes were terribly high. Bill and Barbara Ferreira had some soul searching to do.
The morning after The Telling, Grandma and Grandpa took Billy across town to his cousin's house for the weekend.
Over a leisurely dinner and a glass of wine, Bill and Barbara weighed everything they had learned and faced the decision that would change the family forever.
During the next few days, Barbara spent hours talking to Sebastian's teacher and with Joyce Dingwall, a psychologist who had been working with him for a year.
"These conversations were very reassuring; both spoke of the great progress he had made, especially in play therapy with Dr. Dingwall," Barbara said. "That was the tipping point for us."
The next step was to finally meet the boy, a step ungraciously called The Showing.
Next Sunday in Currents: Emotions run high at The Showing.
A FOREVER FAMILY | FIRST OF TWO PARTS
It is invariably tragic and heart-rending when children are taken from their parents for good and placed in foster homes. The overriding reason is neglect. This two-part series looks at the difficult process of finding new, suitable homes for such children through the eyes of a single child and a family who wanted to open their home and hearts to him. It is a rare look -- such cases are usually kept confidential within the Juvenile Court system.
California Foster Care Facts, 2006
* 80,495 children were in foster care.
* Of 56,721 children with siblings in care, less than half were placed with all of their siblings; 34 percent were placed with none of their siblings. (San Diego County adoption workers placed a group of five siblings in July, however.)
* 38,233 children in foster care were older than 11.
* Only half of foster-care children will graduate from high school. Less than 10 percent of foster-care children attend college; fewer than 2 percent of them graduate.
* In 2005, 4,255 children turned 18 and "transitioned" out of foster care; 65 percent of them will be homeless or incarcerated within 18 months.
* Latino children are the fastest growing ethnic group, representing 40 percent of foster-care children. African-American children represent 30 percent.
* The average cost of providing foster care for one child is $92,300.
* For more information about San Diego County adoptions, call (877) 423-6788; or visit the Web site: .
Source: Child Welfare Services Reports, University of California-Berkeley Center for Social Services.

Graphic

 
6 PICS; 2 CHARTS; CAPTIONS: 1. Smiles have been hard to come by for Sebastian, who spent much of the first four years of his life living with his parents on the streets. 2. Sebastian seemed to want a hole to climb into while having a tough day at his new school. Overall, reports from his teachers have been consistently positive, and his recent reading scores have soared. 3. Foster mother Yaira Dixon (left) chatted with Sebastian's social worker, Anna Garcia, in the Dixons' tidy apartment. The Dixons sadly bid farewell to four foster children at once. 4. Bill Ferreira and Billy looked at Sebastian's photo on a Web site. More than 600 children were placed in adoptive homes countywide in 2004-05. 5. The Ferreiras pasted photos and brief stories about themselves into their Family Book. Kids like Sebastian commonly carry the book everywhere, showing their new family to teachers and friends. 6. Barbara Ferreira said weighing whether to take Sebastian into their home was the most difficult decision she and her husband, Bill, have had to make in more than a dozen years of marriage. 7. A FOREVER FAMILY -- FIRST OF TWO PARTS 8. California Foster Care Facts, 2006; PHOTOBY: 1-6. Staff Photographer Nelvin Cepeda 8. Source: Child Welfare Services Reports, University of California-Berkeley Center for Social Services.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: BIOG; INTERVIEW; 

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: FOSTER CARE (91%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (89%); PARENTING (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); ABUSE & NEGLECT (86%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (79%); PARENTING SUPPORT (78%); FAMILY (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); ADDICTION (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); SOCIAL WORK (72%); SAFETY (71%); INSPECTIONS (66%); JUDGES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%)

Organization: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%)

Geographic: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

Load-Date: August 25, 2006


End of Document
