



The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
February 22, 2012 Wednesday
Main Edition


Copyright 2012 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: METRO NEWS; Pg. 3B
Length: 621 words
Byline: Christopher Quinn

Staff
Highlight: Ralston supports measure, which is more restrictive.
Body


Legislation is moving quickly through the House that would leave women with less time to have an abortion without restrictions, and it appears destined for a floor debate with the support of House Speaker David Ralston.
House Bill 954 would cut the time a woman could have an unimpeded abortion to 20 weeks from about 26 weeks. Proponents say the measure is needed to prevent late-term abortions to fetuses they say can feel pain. Opponents say 20 weeks isn't late enough, as some complications from pregnancy don't surface until after then.
That Ralston, R-Blue Ridge, will push this abortion bill among those that are routinely filed in the General Assembly is noteworthy. He helped rein in abortion bills in previous years that he believed were designed to put the state in jeopardy as a legal test case or to raise the profiles of activists.
"I think [HB 954] meets my goal of having a significant bill that is both reasonable and will save lives," he said. "My interest is and has been to make sure that Georgia stood for life. I have not been interested in advancing the legal or fundraising goals of special-interests groups."
"I plan to actively ask the House to give it favorable consideration," Ralston said.
HB 954, which is similar to "fetal pain" bills that at least five states have passed, had a second hearing before a judiciary committee Tuesday. A third hearing will be held within a week to take more testimony if it follows the path of previous legislation.
Abortion bill hearings are typically among the most high-profile of a legislative session, attracting well over 100 observers, lobbyists and activists. A lineup of doctors testified Tuesday to a packed room about what happens before, during and after the proposed 20-week deadline.
Rep. Doug McKillip, R-Athens, the bill's primary sponsor, said its goal is to stop late-term abortions.
"It's a barbaric practice," McKillip said before the hearing.
One point of the bill affirms that a fetus can feel pain at 20 weeks and that the state has a compelling reason to protect it after that point.
Opponents say legislators ought to stay out of decisions made within familial rights to privacy and personal faith.
"That is not something we should be legislating," said Rep. Yasmin Neal, D-Jonesboro, who is sponsoring a bill about vasectomies to make a point.
Her tongue-in-cheek legislation would limit vasectomies only to men who will die or suffer dangerous health problems without one.
She wants the bill's sponsors to think about the yearly legislation proposed by male legislators attempting to limit women's medical choices, she said.
HB 954 would allow abortions after 20 weeks when there is substantial medical risk to the woman, but it would tighten exceptions and proposes that the procedure must be performed so it "provides the best opportunity for the unborn child to survive."
Abortions in Georgia can be had beyond 26 weeks if three physicians agree that the woman needs it for medical reasons that can include mental health issues. HB 954 would remove exceptions involving mental health.
Those performing abortions without the justifications the bill requires would be subject to a prison sentence of one to 10 years.
McKillip said the state needs "objective standards" to determine when abortions should not be allowed.
"We think 20 weeks is a bright line and a clear test," he said.
Some testified in the hearings that medical complications for a pregnancy arise only after 20 weeks, and Neal criticized the bill because it does not make exceptions for rape, incest and for mentally ill women.
"It is missing key components that make me question as to whether this is just a political move," she said, noting that legislative elections are set for this fall.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspapers

Subject: ABORTION (99%); ABORTION LAWS (90%); ABORTION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (79%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MEDICINE & HEALTH (67%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (60%)

Industry: ABORTION LAWS (90%); ABORTION REGULATION & POLICY (90%)

Geographic: GEORGIA, USA (58%)

Load-Date: February 22, 2012


End of Document
