



Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
September 5, 2010 Sunday
METRO EDITION


Copyright 2010 Star Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 2B
Length: 358 words
Byline: JAMES LILEKS; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)
Body


On Friday at noon it was almost 40 degrees cooler than it was at the same time last Monday. Summer is prone to these moods, toward the end; it feels taken for granted and seems distant, indifferent, and then it says that we're growing apart and maybe it's best if you see other seasons. (Then you find out it's been texting the Southern Hemisphere for a few weeks.) This makes for different types of fairgoing experiences: When it's boiling and in the 90s, you feel like you've been dipped in grease and rolled around in hay-dust. You wonder why no one sells umbrellas as Shade-on-a-Stick. Then the temps fall, the chill winds come, and the guy who was selling fire pits on Monday, when he had the expression of someone who paid a lot for the concrete-life-jacket concession on the Titanic, looks like a genius. Hot can be uncomfortable, but cold at the fair is just wrong.
It looks like the hot, bright fair days are behind us, but here are some things you can do before it closes up Monday:
At the Humane Center building, where you can usually watch pets sterilized, they will be reversing the vasectomies for older dogs who got new "trophy" mates.
In the Hog Barn, this year's perpetually prone enormo-boar is scheduled to leap up on his hind legs and scare the hell out of everyone at 2, 4 and 6.
In the great tradition of grandstand shows that would feature two speeding locomotives crashing together head-on, a Hummer will roll over a Prius while attempting to back out of the Owl lot (time to be announced).
At the Fine Arts Building, a small piece of abstract sculpture will be glanced at for three seconds, then instantly forgotten (ongoing through Labor Day).
On the Midway at 7:30 tonight, an announcer at the end of his shift will ask the riders if they want to go reallll fast, not particularly caring what the answer might be.
And then it's done. The fair's last few days are like the roller-coaster car as it clanks up and up, pauses at the lip, then noses over. Down we go into fall, October, the holidays. Don't worry. You can catch your breath in January.
 - 612-673-7858 More daily at .
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: US LABOR DAY (78%); PETS (71%); MAMMALS (70%); SCULPTURE (67%); PET SPAYING & NEUTERING (65%)

Industry: AMUSEMENT RIDES (77%); SCULPTURE (67%); TRAINS (63%)

Load-Date: September 9, 2010


End of Document
