




 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
January 16, 2005 Sunday
Home Edition


Copyright 2005 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Living;
Length: 1499 words
Byline: HELENA OLIVIERO
Body


As Yolanda Lucena removes seeds from dark red chile peppers, her 5-year-old son, Ignacio, rushes into their Norcross home. He brandishes the daily behavior sheet, which has a blue circle for excellent behavior.
Lucena smiles widely. She kisses her kindergartner on the cheek. She checks on her sleeping 1-month-old, Arnoldo, swaddled in a Superman fleece blanket. Both of her boys are content. And so is she.
Her family is "completa."
"I think two children is enough," 32-year-old Lucena said in Spanish as she prepared mole, a classic Mexican dish made with unsweetened chocolate, cinnamon and spices. "I actually put off having our second child for a long time. I kept telling my husband, let's wait one more year."
Faced with a kitchen counter strewn with bills --- from calling long-distance to Mexico, to heating their home, to generous meals, to diapers and toys --- each additional child strains the family's budget. And delays Lucena's dream of opening a small business.
Lucena and her husband, Ignacio Araujo --- who moved to Georgia from the coastal state of Guerrero, Mexico, about five years ago --- are breaking a long tradition of big families. Lucena is one of six children. Her husband is one of 14.
Newly arriving Hispanics have long outpaced the fertility rates of other ethnic groups, helping them become the country's largest minority. In recent years, however, the typical Hispanic family is shrinking --- fast. The change emerges as more established Hispanics resist some of the social and religious pressures of their homelands.
They are carving a new way of life here --- one characterized by fewer children.
"Only her," Alicia Jimenez of Norcross, a stay-at-home mom, said about her 19-month-old daughter, Noemi Aylin, dressed in a pink velour pantsuit. They were in the waiting room at the Norcross-based prenatal and pediatric clinic La Clinica de la Mama. "We want to be able to support her well."
Ed Cota, chief executive officer of La Clinica de la Mama, has a local radio program called "El Doctor Esta en Casa," or "The Doctor's in the House." He estimates that a third of the questions he receives are related to birth control.
Bigger than average
Hispanics still have bigger families on average, with a national average of 3.87 people per Hispanic family. The national average for all families is 3.19.
And in Georgia, the average Hispanic family size is larger than other states with more established Hispanic immigrant populations, such as California. In fact, Georgia ranks fourth in the country for the largest Hispanic family size --- 4.14 people on average, according to an Atlanta Journal-Constitution analysis of U.S. Census Bureau figures.
Still, many experts believe that as second-generation Hispanics in Georgia plan their families, they will be more likely to keep their family size small as they wrestle with many of the challenges of the American lifestyle: dual-income households, the high cost of day care and the drive for a financially comfortable life. Many postpone marriage until they are well into their 20s, and they are more educated.
"As the second generation starts to Americanize, they finally understand they have rights and choices and they don't have to have six kids because the husband says so," Cota said.
They are also more open to birth control --- a move that puts them at odds with the Roman Catholic Church.
Generational shift
The Rev. Pedro Polche of the Cathedral of Christ the King in Atlanta, originally from Colombia, said that Hispanics are still far more likely to eschew birth control, but he is seeing a shift among second-generation Hispanics.
"Those Hispanics who have been here for a while . . . incorporate some of the American lifestyle. What happens is you have couples who get married and are so focused on their careers, they hold off on having children," he said. "Morally, this is an issue for us. We believe families should be open to children." He reiterated that the Catholic Church permits only natural family planning.
But doctors, nurses and administrators who work in clinics that target Latinas see a growing openness toward other forms of birth control, and very few seem to struggle with any religious issues.
"I am Catholic, and some people say to me I shouldn't use birth control, but I don't want to end up with a bunch of kids," Lucena said during a recent checkup at La Clinica de la Mama. Lucena used an IUD after her first child, and she is planning to have it inserted again.
University of Georgia demographer Douglas C. Bachtel expects the birthrate in Georgia to slip in coming years, following the trends in California and Florida. In California, demographers have dialed down their population estimates for 2040 by nearly 7 million, pointing to the continuing drop in the fertility rate among Hispanics, according to the California Department of Finance's Demographic Research Unit. The fertility rate is now 2.6 children per woman in 2003, down from 3.4 children in 1990. (Georgia did not track birthrates based on race until 2000.) The shift also reflects a slowing fertility rate in Mexico, where the country's average is now less than three children per family.
The Rev. John Coleman, a sociologist and professor of social values at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles, said that few priests would press the issue given the overwhelming rejection of such doctrine among Catholics. In fact, studies show that about two-thirds of American Catholics reject the church's opposition to birth control, according to Catholics for a Free Choice, a Washington-based organization that supports reproductive rights. American Catholics are also just as likely as non-Catholics to use birth control, with almost 90 percent of American Catholics having used some form of birth control, according to the federal government's 1995 National Survey on Family Growth, the most recent available government study on this subject.
"When people move to a new place, they take on a lot of the new patterns of the new place," Coleman said. "It does seem to be happening much faster than we thought it would."
Two is enough
At La Clinica de la Mama, young mothers with young children fill the pediatric wing of the clinic. They all want two children --- max.
Mariana Jimenez, 21, is perfectly content with one child. But her husband, Freddie, cradling their 8-day-old daughter, Stephanie, wants more.
"So we will likely have one more, but that's it," Mariana Jimenez said. "It's very difficult to have enough money for everything children need. You can take care of your children better if you have fewer of them."
Maria Francis, administrator for Centro Internacional de la Maternidad, has seen a major shift in thinking among second-generation Latinas.
"With a lot of first-generation women . . . when you ask what they will do about birth control, they'll say, 'I don't have to worry, my husband will take care of me,' " Francis said. "With the second generation, they come in and ask us about birth control."
Cota said he still hears from many couples grappling with machismo and social pressures to procreate.
"I hear men say they heard a vasectomy takes away their manhood, that it causes sexual problems," Cota said, "but once they get the information, they are open to it."
Barriers remain
Despite the declining fertility rate among Latinas, several barriers still remain to birth control, according to experts. Silvia Henriquez, executive director of the National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health, believes that a lack of health insurance and access to health care because of language barriers and poverty issues is more significant in preventing the use of birth control than religious reasons.
Still, some Hispanic couples don't give much thought to family planning. At Plaza Fiesta shopping center in Atlanta, the Carranza family of six --- including baby Yesenia, sleeping in a navy blue baby carrier --- "just happened," according to the parents.
"This is just how it went," said Marta Carranza, who lives in Chamblee and moved here from Mexico a few years ago. "We don't think of it as a lot or little, just the way it is."
Back in Norcross, as Yolanda Lucena prepares dinner, she talks about her hopes of returning to work at a money-wiring business part time and her dreams of opening a clothing store or small restaurant. Her husband, who works as a mechanic, hopes also to have his own business someday.
They live in a two-bedroom mobile home strewn with plastic toys. A purple slide outside is tied to a tree so it won't blow away. Just one mobile home and a thin line of pines separate their home from cars flying by on the interstate. They will stay here for now, but their hopes of a bigger house --- and all the trappings of the good life --- they see in closer reach, in part, because of their decision to have a family of four.
"Things are expensive here, and I don't always want to stay home," Lucena said. "Life is easier with fewer children."
Staff writer Maurice Tamman contributed to this article.

Graphic

 
The Carranza family (dad Rene with baby Yesenia, mom Marta and --- from left --- Josefina, Yoselin and Jovani) shops at Plaza Fiesta on Buford Highway. "We don't think of it as a lot or little, just the way it is," Marta Carranza says of the size of her family. / JOEY IVANSCO / Staff; Yolanda Lucena and husband Ignacio Araujo of Norcross --- with 5-year-old Ignacio and baby Arnoldo --- are breaking a long tradition of big families. "I think two children is enough," says Lucena, who wants to open her own business. / LAURA NOEL / Staff
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FAMILY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); MINORITY GROUPS (77%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (64%); FERTILITY RATES (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

Company: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION  (50%); ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION  (50%);    LA CLINICA DE LA MAMA  (58%)

Organization: LA CLINICA DE LA MAMA  (58%)

Industry: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS  (50%);  NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS  (50%);  SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING  (50%);  SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING  (50%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

Geographic: GEORGIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MEXICO (91%)

Load-Date: May 31, 2005


End of Document
