



Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
November 4, 2012 Sunday
METRO EDITION


Copyright 2012 Star Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: VARIETY; Pg. 1E
Length: 1288 words
Byline: STORY COLIN COVERT; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)
Body


Special to the Star Tribune
Both as a spy and a film-series brand, James Bond is invincible. The franchise, celebrating its 50th anniversary with this week's U.S. release of "Skyfall," is the longest-lived in movie history. Adjusting for inflation, it's also the most lucrative. The Bond formula of exotic locales, exquisite women, elegant tailoring and extreme danger spawned scads of imitators, but outlasted them all through sheer evolutionary agility. The films regained their youth and topicality with each new leading man, from "Dr. No's" echoes of the Cuban missile crisis to "Skyfall's" cyber-terrorism. 
That potent cocktail of old and new enables Bond to span a multitude of periods, locales and adversaries. Jason Bourne, John McClane or Ethan Hunt could never fit as smoothly in 1962 Jamaica and 2012 Shanghai. Bond's wide appeal began with Ian Fleming's Cold War spy novels, which cast his hero as a lethal mix of British gentleman and blunt instrument. Cary Grant was approached to take the role. Fleming was displeased when Sean Connery was cast, calling him "an overdeveloped stunt man." But as audiences embraced Connery, the novelist was won over. In later books, Fleming even gave 007 a partly Scots ancestry. In the years since, Bond has matured from a gadget-equipped action figure to a three-dimensional character. M has morphed from Bernard Lee to Judi Dench. The more times change, the more the iconic spy endures. Though his monomaniacal enemies hoped to control the world, it's Bond who achieved global domination.
Though duty has taken him all over the world, Bond has never set foot in Antarctica (no swank hotels) or Australia (because of Lazenby, no doubt).
Bond creator Ian Fleming worked in Britain's naval intelligence in World War II, forming an espionage commando team. Fleming wrote 14 Bond books, two of which -- "The Man With the Golden Gun" and "Octopussy and the Living Daylights" -- were published after his death in 1964.
Kingsley Amis, John Gardner and other ghostwriters added 33 titles. Charlie Higson began a series of Young Bond titles in 2005, bringing the total of non-Fleming Bonds to 40. William Boyd's as-yet-untitled 007 adventure, returning Bond to the year 1969, will be published in fall 2013.
Where are the other 00 agents? In various films, 002, 003, 004 and 009 have been killed. 001 and 005 have not been seen. 008 has been mentioned as a replacement for Bond, should he be sidelined. 006, believed killed, reappeared as the villain in "Goldeneye."
Despite his dreadful pickup lines, 007 has slept with 57 women to date, which puts him about 42 ahead of the typical Englishman, according to health studies. "The likelihood of James Bond having chlamydia is extremely high," says English health and medical reporter Dr. Sarah Jarvis. "If he came to my clinic, I would definitely advise him to have a test [STD]."
Best bad girl:
Rosa Kleb
Frumpy Rosa Klebb, in "From Russia With Love" is the most formidable femme fatale of them all, no subordinate but the main villain of the piece. Played by Austrian actress Lotte Lenya, she is a genuine sadist. She tests Red Grant (Robert Shaw), the assassin chosen to kill Bond, by punching him in the stomach with brass knuckles, remarking coolly, "He seems fit enough." Ultimately she goes after 007 herself, slashing at him with a shoe with a poisoned dagger in the toe. Lenya said that when she met people even years later, they looked at her shoes first.
Best Bond girl:
Honey Ryder
The central image of the original Bond movie isn't the hero fighting Dr. No, or production designer Ken Adam's striking, futuristic secret base. It's surf-drenched Honey Ryder (Ursula Andress) striding the Caribbean beach in her white bikini, all lips and stare and a big Bowie knife strapped to her thigh. She set the kiss-kiss-bang-bang template for the series' women. They offered more in the way of va-va-voom than coherence or character development, yet through their confidence and comfort with their sexuality, they represented a new kind of female freedom.
Honey was presented as a competent, resourceful, courageous, even dangerous woman, and her look became a classic pop-culture reference. Her appearance at the height of the Playboy era was rather tame, yet in a 2003 British TV opinion poll it was voted the sexiest moment in screen history. Andress became an instant sensation and went on to become one of the most photographed women of her time.
Best gadget: Aston Martin DB5
The ultimate tricked-out ride. Accessories include rotating license plates, machine guns behind lowering headlights and passenger ejector seat. The dashboard mapping device predicted modern GPS systems, its rotating tire-slashers inspired the craze for spinny hubcaps, and its ability to lay down a trail of oil and smoke predated the Yugo by 20 years.
Best Bond: Sean Connery and Daniel Craig
Six actors have played Ian Fleming's
lethal spy in the Eon Productions films.
The best? It's a tie between the man
who launched the series and the man
who rescued it. Sean Connery and
Daniel Craig capture Bond's ruthless
cruelty and cold charisma.
Each knows that even an iconic role
calls for some actual acting and when
the scene calls for it they get deep in
the game.And both men have a potent
physical presence. They look as if they
could flatten an adversary without
help from one of Q's chloroformemitting
fountain pens.
Fate dealt each actor an advantage
in this sweepstakes. Connery established
the Bond brand, setting the
competitive bar high for those following
him. George Lazenby was more
athletic, Timothy Dalton brought a
classical actor's dour focus to the part,
Pierce Brosnan had the best feel for
devil-may-care humor. But they just
weren't Connery.
Craig's casting ignited a firestorm of
controversy (A blond Bond? Unthinkable!),
but his brooding,muscular
portrayal proved his critics wrong.
His debut, the ambitious series reboot
"Casino Royale," introduced
a stripped-down, modern,
more thoughtful style to
the franchise. Craig plays
a spy who feels remorse
when colleagues die,who
sometimes blinks before
he pulls the trigger, and
struggles with his violent
impulses.
He's a Bond who can deliver a crisp
right cross, and a bruising emotional
wallop.
And he doesn't give a damn if his
martini is shaken or stirred.
WORST: Roger Moore
Roger Moore is the longestrunning
007 to date, and the
least suited to the role. More
lounge lizard than cobra,
incompetent in action scenes,
Moore faced lightweight,
forgettable villains, shifting
the films'tone from drama with
a dash of irony to self-mockery.
Hard to decide if Moore's lowest point
was donning a clown disguise in
"Octopussy" or his drowsy,Austin
Powers-quality sexytime with
Grace Jones in "A Viewto a Kill."
00?
Where are the other
00 agents? In various films,
002, 003, 004 and 009 have
been killed. 001 and 005 have
not been seen. 008 has been
mentioned as a replacement
for Bond, should he be
sidelined. 006, believed killed,
reappeared as the villain
in"Goldeneye.
Best villain:
Auric Goldfinger
He's got the best henchman
(silent, hat-flinging Oddjob), the
coolest methods for snuffing
enemies (paint them gold,
crush them in a car-smasher),
the clearest motivation
(simple greed) and the greatest
one-liners ("You expect me to
talk?""No,Mr. Bond, I expect
you to die.").German actor Gert
Frobe spoke minimal English
when he took the part, but his
performance is full-bodied, by turns
affable and chilling.And his laser-beam
vasectomy machine? Sheer genius.
WORST: Ernst Stavro Blofeld
The ultra-diabolical villain of a halfdozen
Bond films, overplayed to the
hammy hilt by Telly Savalas, Charles Gray
and Donald Pleasence. Inspired Mike
Myers'Dr. Evil.Having a white pussycat,
a Mao jacket and a secret volcano base full
of minions in orange jumpsuits is not the
same as having a personality.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); BONDS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (89%); NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); FICTION LITERATURE (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); COLD WAR (78%); WEAPONS & ARMS (75%); FILM HISTORY (74%); NEGATIVE TECHNOLOGY NEWS (73%); WRITERS (72%); CYBERCRIME (69%); TERRORISM (69%); NAVIES (67%); WORLD WAR II (67%); DEATH & DYING (62%); CYBERTERRORISM (54%); MOVIE (%); COMPARISON (%)

Industry: ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); BONDS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); FILM HISTORY (74%); WRITERS (72%); CYBERCRIME (69%); NAVIES (67%); CYBERTERRORISM (54%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

Person: JUDI DENCH (79%)

Geographic: UNITED KINGDOM (55%); ANTARCTICA (53%)

Load-Date: November 5, 2012


End of Document
