



 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
May 2, 2004 Sunday
Home Edition


Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Arts;; Review
Length: 720 words
Byline: KEVIN CANFIELD
Body


FICTION
Fidelity: Stories. By Michael Redhill. Little, Brown. $22.95. 211 pages.
The verdict: Evocative and uncommonly wise.
The characters that populate Michael Redhill's stories are in the cubicle next to you, behind the camera at your daughter's birthday party, on the faculty of the local college --- they are, in other words, the sort of normal, good-hearted people with whom we spend our days.
For the Journal-Constitution
This is Redhill's great talent. Like John Updike or Lorrie Moore or the underrated Ethan Canin, he plumbs the hopes and (often vast) insecurities of the common man and woman. His stories are never preachy, never show-offy, but are almost invariably revealing and instructive on the subject of the human psyche.
A slim book of 10 stories, "Fidelity" contains not a single unnecessary line of prose. One of Redhill's characters, he tells us, "could see the webbing under the skin of the world." The same might be said of the author.
As this is the Toronto resident's first collection of short fiction --- he has also published an acclaimed novel, "Martin Sloane" (2001) --- there is no such thing as the prototypical Redhill story. But one titled "The Flesh Collectors" is perhaps a good place to start.
A fellow named Roth is the protagonist. He is almost 50, on his third wife, but appears to be less in love with her than with his deceased second wife.
"Little bits of her went off regularly to be tested," Redhill writes of Roth's late wife, who succumbed to cancer. "Cell counts and biopsies. The children didn't understand why their mother was losing weight. She told them she was tired from the sickness and didn't need as much to eat as she did before, but Roth knew it was because they were taking her away, biopsy by biopsy."
Roth's new bride is urging him to get a vasectomy, but he is against it. What if, Roth wonders, there's a fourth wife? What if she wants a child? It is this dichotomy --- he empathizes with one character (wife No. 3) and gently chides another (the conflicted Roth) --- that makes Redhill's fiction such a rewarding read. He is funny but also a fearless observer of life's pathologies and heart-crushing crises.
Another story, "Long Division," is a darkly comic tale about a youthful math prodigy named Daniel who develops a theorem --- he calls it the "Marriage Correlative" --- that enables him to measure his parents' happiness. The boy is a lonely sort. Socially unequipped to be a schoolyard hero, Redhill's little genius is "left to wander around and look at the school and the street, and take math out into the world with him. Sometimes he spent time with the ugly kids and the ones who played fantasy games, but mostly he stood out on the sidewalk in front of the school and made the world collapse into formulae."
It is a simple but evocative image, this notion of "collapsing the world" into mathematical equations and theory, and a good example of why Redhill is such a skilled storyteller. In the hands of a writer who wore his intellectual credentials less gracefully, the inner life of a math whiz could be a torturous reading experience. But Redhill's lean sentences clear away all of the rhetorical posturing, leaving only the emotional elements that inform the best fiction.
Another story, called "The Victim, Who Cannot Be Named" finds a seemingly happy married couple --- two kids, nice house --- suddenly facing a parent's nightmare: In the mail, Peter and Margot Bowman had received a videotape of their 17-year-old daughter having sex with a pair of younger boys. Peter's little girl is not only sexually active, but judging by her performance, quite experienced, and this is more than the father can handle.
He commits at least one crime --- breaking into the home of one of his daughter's sex partners --- before Redhill ends the story with the reader puzzling over what might happen next. It's a tactic that forces the reader into Peter Bowman's shoes; he is a person a lot like you, Redhill seems to be saying: Finding yourself in his position, what would you do?
Like the finest practitioners of his art, Redhill understands that most of us are more alike than we'd care to admit. His slim book of stories examines these commonalties with uncommon wisdom.
Kevin Canfield's work has appeared in The New York Times, Slate.com and other publications.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (86%); FICTION LITERATURE (79%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (79%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (79%); WRITERS (79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); MARRIAGE (69%)

Industry: WRITERS (79%); BOOK PUBLISHING (74%)

Load-Date: May 2, 2004


End of Document
