



The San Diego Union-Tribune
April 4, 2021 Sunday
Final Edition


Copyright 2021 The San Diego Union-Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS; Part D; Pg. 1
Length: 1111 words
Byline: NICK CANEPA, Columnist
Body


Sez Me ?
Caught up in Sibling Revile-ry, Fredo Spanos really doesn't want to sell the NFL Team That Used To Be Here, possibly because it's the last thing left for him to screw up.
But Fredo (aka Dean) has a partner in sister Dea (aka Connie in the film), who is going to court demanding her brother sell the Judases (ironically, the suit was filed on Holy Thursday).
It's all about debt, and money of course, and Fredo owns a leaking canoe in the NFL's sea full of billionaire yachts. But I'm not about to get into cracking all the numbers, because we've been all over that and it bores the hell out of me.
The short of it is that Dea, as co-trustee, claims the trust's debts exceed $353 million and that her brother has no plan to pay the $22 million owed to charities. And Fredo, as usual, could lose.
There was talk in 2017 she wanted big brother to sell before moving the franchise out of San Diego to the L.A. area, where he couldn't draw at Carson High even after making the playoffs. He became an obvious embarrassment to The League, which would love for him to disappear, but appeased him just to stop his whining - no matter that he worked over a city that supported him for 56 years.
But today's subject must be: What now?
Optimists see the team sold and moved back to San Diego, where it rightfully belongs.
As usual, optimism escapes me. Far more ifs and buts than candy and nuts in this hit-the-trail mix. But it is must-watch sitcom.
First and foremost, where would the team play?
San Diego State's Too Small Stadium, scheduled to open in September of next year?
Petco Park, which doesn't seat that many more people than Too Small? Not happening.
On the scorched earth of San Diego Stadium, which actually may be in better shape now than when they actually played their last game in it?
No, we're asking a whole helluva lot for this to happen.
And that is, it must be sold to a billionaire many times over, who can buy land here and build the new stadium on his or her own. Our city's Ham & Eggers, as we have seen, certainly aren't going to pay for it - or, unfortunately, really care about erasing the biggest black eye in the history of this city (except maybe their self-inflicted pension plan).
There of course is speculative talk Amazon's Jeff Bezos, who's worth is somewhere up around the national debt, wants to buy an NFL team. Bezos purchasing a team and building a sports palace would be like me buying a pepperoni.
Even if he did, why should we believe he'd choose San Diego, although he certainly would be most welcome.
That's the kind of person it would take, though, one who doesn't give a damn.
Why any owner would want to remain renter to Stan Kronke's landlord in Inglewood wouldn't make sense, either. I can't believe L.A. ever is going to care about the J's.
Fredo made an enormous blunder moving there, but where he really screwed up was not choosing Vegas, where he's had a residence for years, would have longtime built-in team support, and a free stadium.
He couldn't continue playing here, couldn't fight City Hall, and I believe he tried 100 times over.
Plus, had he stayed, our stadium would have been condemned out from under him.
Put me down as hopefully pessimistic.
It's Easter, and I have a lot of eggs in my basket. But no chickens have been hatched for me to count. ?
Now, we easily could host baseball's All-Star Game. Unless we have some massive bicycle race scheduled downtown. ?
Jackie Robinson was born in Cairo, Ga. ?
2022 baseball: A starting pitcher will be eligible for a win after completing two full innings. ?
Friday night's Padres Postgame Show on Bally's was set to start at 10 p.m. At 10:40, the 4-2 game was in the top of the eighth. ?
I've seen enough. Baseball needs robo umps. ...
Stink O' The Week Sezment: Pro days. Who are the two greatest pro day quarterbacks of all time? Jeff George and JaMarcus Russell. ?
The Jets may discover what the Patriots did, that Sam Darnold is Jim Plunkett waiting to happen. ?
Darnold's problem is not skill. It's location. ?
Daniel Jeremiah would rank Sam just behind Trevor Lawrence and Zach Wilson in this draft. ...
Nick Saban says that, for defensive-minded coaches such as he, "offensive coaches are the Taliban." I think they're more Third Army, liberating 10,000 towns. ...
Robert Kraft says his Patriots have to get their quarterback position "solidified." Join the club, Bob. ?
The best college basketball player is point guard Jalen Suggs of Gonzaga, which has three players who can start on any other team in America. ?
And Chet Holmgren, a 7-1 center and the nation's top prep recruit (Minneapolis Minnehaha Academy), appears headed for Gonzaga. Some zig while the Zags zag. ...
NCAA Tournament Cinderellas rarely win anything. The original Cinderella did. ?
UCLA is NOT a Cinderella. ...
The Tournament doesn't care how you've played, but how you're playing. ?
Basketball coaches: Pretending to wear a mask is not wearing a mask. ?
Do you want your daughter playing for Baylor's Kim Mulkey, who says the NCAA should quit COVID testing and just play? Oh, and this brain tested positive. ?
The NCAA is challenging a group of Virginia urologists, who have trademarked "Vasectomy Madness," claiming it's too close to "March Madness." Well, both can be excruciatingly maddening. ...
Kansas men's basketball faces five major NCAA rules violations and gives Bill Self a lifetime contract. Higher learning lowering itself for money. ...
Jump balls should return. Just about every tieup is a foul, anyway. How can you reach around a player's body and grab the ball without fouling? ...
There's a hitch in the get-along between the Ham & Eggers and developers of the Sports Arena site. Which idiot couldn't have predicted that? ...
Hit City. As of midweek, San Diego State (.325) and USD (.324) were leading NCAA baseball in team batting average. ...
I do not care a whiff if the Biden dog has an accident in the White House hallway. I'd care if he had an accident in my hallway. ?
In L.A., where filthy celebrity laundry has been hung in public for a century, Tiger Woods soils his and the sheriff keeps it in the hamper. ...
Larry Doby was not Jackie Robinson. He was Larry Doby. And he was terribly  important. ?
The oldest hotel in the world is in Japan, run by the same family for 52 generations. And your room still isn't ready when you check in. ?
The Sun has named Prince William the world's sexiest bald man, knocking Fred Mertz from a 70-year perch. ...
It's now doubtful the Green Jackets will pull the Masters out of Augusta. And if you're waiting in line for golfers to boycott, bring some bottled water. ?
I gave up peaches for Lent. Can I eat them anymore?
 Twitter: @sdutCanepa

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Los Angeles Chargers owner Dean Spanos is being taken to court by sister Dea, who wants her brother to sell the team and claims the trust's debts exceed $353 million. PHOTOGRAPHER: Christian Petersen Getty Images
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Column

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: PROFESSIONAL SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CANOEING & KAYAKING (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); LITIGATION (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); CHARITIES (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%)

Industry: INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (61%)

Person: JEFFREY P BEZOS (50%)

Geographic: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%)

Load-Date: April 6, 2021


End of Document
