



The San Diego Union-Tribune
June 4, 2001, Monday


Copyright 2001 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: NEWS;Pg. A-3; INTERVIEW.
Length: 564 words
Byline: Leslie Gornstein; ASSOCIATED PRESS
Body

Anissa Ayala | Marissa Ayala | Mary Ayala
WALNUT -- Ten years after donating bone marrow that saved her sister's life, one of medical history's "miracle babies" hobbles down the living room stairs on crutches.
A stranger asks if Marissa Eve Ayala, 11, limps because of the marrow harvesting needle that pierced her hipbone when she was 13 months old.
Nope. Call this injury temporary.
"I jumped off a TV," the youngster said with a scowl yesterday, holding up a sprained -- but prettily manicured -- foot.  "During the party.  I was dancing to the music."
A day earlier, the Ayalas celebrated the controversial 1991 operation that freed Marissa's older sister, Anissa, from leukemia.
Today marks a decade since doctors at City of Hope Cancer Center injected Anissa with healthy marrow to replace the cancerous matter destroyed by exhausting radiation and chemotherapy treatments.
The Ayalas' quiet suburban home east of Los Angeles bears no traces of the national controversy that erupted when the family made their desperate decision.  Parents Abe and Mary, then in their 40s, chose to conceive a child after searching fruitlessly for donors with matching marrow to cure their dying 19-year-old daughter.
Ayala had his vasectomy reversed and in 1989, Mary became pregnant.
The Ayalas weren't the first to have a child for medical reasons -- by one estimate there had been as many as 40 -- but theirs was the first case to go public.
A firestorm erupted when the story hit the news.  It became a cover story for Time magazine.
The family was blasted by critics who portrayed them as heartless harvesters of children's body parts.  Others jumped to their defense.
"We were shocked," Mary Ayala said.  "Our phones were ringing off the walls.  We never thought this would go worldwide."
Anissa's doctors in nearby Duarte feared activists would kidnap Marissa after she was born.  There was even a TV movie about Anissa.
But a decade later: calm.  Critics backed down.  The hate mail ceased.  The security guards once hired to stand outside the hospital ward are long gone.
Most important, doctors and family members say Anissa, now 29, is completely cured.
The procedure meant a needle prick for Marissa but it followed weeks of hell for Anissa.  Chemotherapy and radiation treatments had left her so weak that at one point she begged her mother to take her home and let her die.
Instead, she received the infusion of healthy bone marrow from her sister.
Today, Anissa's 1992 wedding portrait hangs over the Ayala fireplace, showing the flushed bride bending down to kiss the flower girl, her toddler sister.
"She is a beautiful person," Anissa said.
But family members say they hope people will look at Marissa and see more than a "miracle baby."
"She just wants to be herself," Mary Ayala said.  "Not the little girl who saved her sister."
Marissa, who loves softball, dancing and "talking on the phone," gets annoyed at her continuing celebrity status.
"It bothers me, because it happens so often," she said.  "Even when I just want to go out to eat dinner with my mom and dad and sister, people will say, 'Oh, you're the one who saved your sister's life.' "
But her older sister has never forgotten.  Now divorced, she is an American Red Cross advocate who recruits Latinos for the national registry for potential marrow donors.
"My most important message now is to give back, to make a difference," she said.

Graphic

 
1 PIC; Raul Roa / Associated Press; Anissa Ayala (right) recovered from leukemia after receiving bone marrow from her younger sister Marissa, who was conceived for that purpose.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: BONE MARROW & STEM CELL DONATION (90%); CANCER (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); LEUKEMIA (78%); RADIOLOGY (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SPRAINS & STRAINS (76%)

Company: CITY OF HOPE  (56%)

Organization: CITY OF HOPE  (56%)

Industry: RADIOLOGY (78%); CANCER HOSPITALS (74%); HOSPITALS (73%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

Load-Date: June 6, 2001


End of Document
