



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
March 5, 2000, Sunday,
TWO STAR EDITION


Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: WORLD,
Length: 612 words
Byline: MIRO CERNETIG, TORONTO GLOBE AND MAIL
Dateline: BEIJING -
Body


Zhang Yi has grown up with one certainty. As a woman in 21st-century China, she must restrict her maternal desires to one, and only one, baby.
For two decades, that's been the paramount rule of the cradle in a land choking with 1.24 billion people. It is drummed into the collective consciousness by parents, teachers and Communist officials, all worried by the size of China's still growing and still mostly poor population.
Yet something has shocked Zhang, a soft-spoken college graduate. She just found out she has the state's permission to have two children.
"Two babies? I can't believe that," exclaimed Zhang, blushing profusely when advised of a little-publicized loophole in the regulations.
The overlooked exemption to China's one-child policy is taking effect as the first generation of statedictated only-children reach adulthood, marry and start planning families of their own.
As a "certified single child," Zhang, a 21-year-old receptionist for a foreign telecommunications firm, can have a two-child family if she marries a man who has no brothers or sisters.
"You must mean I can have two babies if I live somewhere other than China?" she wondered incredulously, like most young women told of the regulation.
No, China needs babies to reverse the aging of its urban population.
"I have never heard that before," she giggled, smoothing down her miniskirt and fussing with her hair. She let loose a wistful sigh: "Oh, it is so lonely to be a one-child. I would like to have two ' haizi' [children]. Is this really true?"
There are an estimated 60 million other single children who fall into the same category, most of them in the sprawling cities where China's birth-control policies were best enforced.
As a result, the Middle Kingdom could see a small boom of between 20 million and 30 million extra babies in the next decade, China's demographers estimate.
For the last 20 years, since the Communist regime ordered most of its women and men to limit themselves to one baby per couple, the rest of the world has come to view China as a place of Orwellian controls. In a land with only 7 percent of the world's arable soil but 22 percent of its people, Chairman Mao's fetish for having as many Chinese as possible had been in danger of turning into a Malthusian nightmare.
From that came the chilling practice of Communist sterilization committees, which zealously, although far from universally, doled out forced abortions to women and state-directed vasectomies to men who didn't follow the law.
China's population isn't shrinking yet. It will reach 1.4 billion in 2010 and hit a peak of around 1.5 billion or 1.6 billion in 2040 or 2050 before beginning to shrink. As one demographer explained, China's birth rate is now like a car that's still moving but where the driver has the foot firmly on the brake.
So why would they contemplate relaxing the one-child policy?
China's demographers had a simple reason when they made the birth-control laws: They knew their unprecedented move into the bedroom of the masses, cutting back China's explosive growth in only a few decades, would inevitably result in a sudden graying of China.
In most Western countries, it took more than a century to move from the high-birth-rate agricultural economy, where children meant guaranteed hands in the fields, to the low-birth-rate industrial economy.
China has done this, at least in its cities, in a single generation.
Official statistics show the troubling result: This year, there are nine workers to care for every Chinese pensioner. By 2025, the ratio will be 4-to-1, and by 2050 it will be slightly more than 3-to-1.
This makes China one of the most quickly graying nations on the planet.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: FAMILY PLANNING (91%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); COMMUNISM (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (79%); ADULTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (76%); CITIES (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); AGING (71%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (70%); ABORTION (69%)

Company: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT  (68%); I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT  (68%)

Industry: MEDIA & TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (52%)

Geographic: BEIJING, CHINA (59%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CHINA (95%)

Load-Date: April 14, 2000


End of Document
