



St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
January 3, 2008 Thursday


Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 1E
Length: 943 words
Series: TIMES STAFF WRITERS
Body


While the writers and producers slug it out in Hollywood, TV fans are stuck in the middle. The middle of the couch, that is, with nothing to watch but repeats, reality TV and replacement series. Since the writers aren't working on the endings to some series - or the beginnings to others - we decided to step in. Here are our suggestions for where some shows might go.
24
1. To accommodate star Kiefer Sutherland's 48-day drunken driving sentence, producers set the season in Glendale City Jail, from which Jack Bauer must escape, Prison Break-style, to stop a nuclear attack. The surprise, ripped-from-the-headlines ending: After torturing the secretary of state for two days, Jack learns the president was wrong about the terrorists' nuclear capability.
2. Jack Bauer vows to stay out of the war on terrorism and spend more time with his nephew. He takes a job as a mall security guard and foils a heist at the Orange Julius. He quits when he realizes he's not allowed to torture the skater punk he has been interrogating. Stuff blows up.
3. Jack's "nephew" Josh (you know it's his son) needs all sorts of rescuing, just like Jack's daughter, Kim. He's abducted by Russian terrorists. He's abducted by Mexican terrorists. He's abducted by alien terrorists. And then there's the part where he gets lost in the mountains and is stalked by a cougar.
GREY'S ANATOMY
1. Izzy discloses her affair with George was a ploy to gain Callie's love. Fed up with Meredith's refusal to commit, McDreamy enters the priesthood. The chief really does resign, buying an Airstream franchise. Yang realizes her ambition has blinded her and leaves medicine to operate a deli, only to become known as the Seattle Soup Nazi.
2. Seattle Grace tries to combat in-hospital fornication by installing glass elevators and cameras in the on-call room. It doesn't help. The hospital also pays for Mark Sloan to have a vasectomy. Meredith and McDreamy are on again, then off again, then on again, then off again, then on again, then off again, then on again, then off again.
3. Meredith dies horribly and the show is renamed Yang's Anatomy.
THE OFFICE
1. To placate his girlfriend, fired Dunder-Mifflin executive Jan Levinson, Michael Scott sues the company for treating him differently from other employees. Informed that a higher salary, better parking space and receptionist don't constitute discrimination, Michael breaks down during the deposition, admitting he expected to get fired years ago.
2. Dwight tries to win back Angela by taking Sprinkles' corpse to a taxidermist. It works. Andy, heartbroken, embarks on a career as a barbershop quartet singer.
3. Michael and Jan return to Jamaica to rekindle their romance. This time, instead of e-mailing topless photos of Jan to everyone in the company, Michael sends photos of both of them on a nude beach, reasoning that this will quell complaints of sexism. Pam helps Jim make the world's largest Jell-O mold. The IRS arrests Angela for tax evasion. Andy serenades her with Jailhouse Rock.
HOUSE
1. House collapses and becomes the patient. To ensure he gets the best care he pits new team against old team. Rather than compete, they take advantage of the opportunity to run scads of unnecessary medical tests and administer wrong treatments based on guesses. Turns out House's abuse of Vicodin has been masking a serious medical condition that no one suspects: He's actually British.
2. Cameron and Thirteen end up in a wrestling match over House, sending scrubs flying. To win the fight, Thirteen breaks down in tears and reveals that she is Cameron's long-lost cousin put up for adoption, and she wanted the job to be closer to her family. House still doesn't feel anything, but offers to sleep with her anyway.
3. Trying to land on a show someone is watching, ER hunk Goran Visnjic appears as the new doctor at Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital, becoming Dr. Cuddy's own McDreamy. This so distracts House that he actually kills the desperately ill patient he was torturing with needless tests, drawing the attention of authorities. After a short investigation, all the doctors except House's mournful pal Wilson lose their medical licenses for all the crazy stunts they've pulled the past three years.
UGLY BETTY
1. Unable to stomach another insult from Wilhelmina, Betty Suarez turns to Project Runway's Tim Gunn to update her look - ditching the glasses and braces for lasik and Crest Whitestrips. Asked to choose between suave boss Daniel and geeky boyfriend Henry Grubstick, she takes up with transsexual Alexis Meade - saying that she is the only one who understands her total transformation. Wilhelmina's frozen embryo wilts away, but she persuades Mark to impregnate her so she can pass off the child as Bradford's. Justin becomes a top child actor, but still asks that his mother do his hair, which makes Hilde popular among the Hollywood-in-New York crowd.
2. Betty gets Jack Bauer's help to off Wilhelmina.
3. Amanda discovers she's Danny DeVito's love child. Wilhelmina gives birth to a daughter with Spanish features who loves enchiladas. Bradford Meade returns from the dead as Brangelina Meade, the long-lost uncle/aunt to Alexis and Daniel. Brangelina promotes Mark to editor of the magazine and Betty becomes his assistant.
LOST
1. The smoke monster turns out to be Dick Cheney and the island was his secret, undisclosed location. Who knew?
2. Michael comes back with a speed boat and offers to take Sawyer waterskiing, where he jumps over a shark. Wait, maybe this show jumped the shark last season?
3. Just when things start to make sense, Jack gets knocked unconscious by the smoke monster and wakes up in bed with Suzanne Pleshette.

Graphic

 
DRAWING: Red, blue, and yellow televisions with screens reading "CHOOSE," "YOUR," and "ENDING" PHOTO (6): Kiefer Sutherland; Sandra Oh; Rainn Wilson; Hugh Laurie; America Ferrara; Harold Perrineau
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: TERRORISM (91%); NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); TERRORISM & COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); WRITERS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); PRISONS (75%); ADMINISTRATIVE & CLERICAL WORKERS (74%); LAYOFFS & DISMISSALS (72%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (70%); GOVERNMENT ADVISORS & MINISTERS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY (66%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (63%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%)

Industry: WRITERS (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%)

Person: KIEFER SUTHERLAND (79%)

Geographic: FLORIDA, USA (79%)

Load-Date: January 3, 2008


End of Document
