



Daily News (New York)
January 11, 2004, Sunday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2004 Daily News, L.P.
Section: SHOWTIME;; COLUMN
Length: 776 words
Byline: BY JACK MATHEWS
Body

Steve Martin used to say that comedy isn't pretty, and last year he seemed to prove it, appearing in three of  2003's ugliest movies - the patronizingly racist "Bringing Down the House," the witless "Looney Tunes: Back in Action" and the current family noisemaker "Cheaper by the Dozen."
Martin also used to say that he doesn't do physical comedy, but shtick is all he is now doing. Like Eddie Murphy, another fallen hipster, Martin is being reborn in cornball farces aimed at families and teenagers who like their comedy broa-a-a-a-a-a-a-d.
Martin eagerly obliges, mugging with his rubbery face, joshing with those contortionist gestures. He might as well dig out the rubber fish from his old standup act.
Those films aside, 2003 was a very good year for comedy, featuring so many genuinely strong performances that the Golden Globes' ballot for comedy acting is more interesting than the one for drama. The Hollywood Foreign Press Association almost always includes one or two cockamamie candidates for comedies or musicals, but every one this year is deserving.
The list includes Bill Murray ("Lost in Translation"), Johnny Depp ("Pirates of the Caribbean"), Jack Black ("School of Rock"), Jack Nicholson ("Something's Gotta Give") and Billy Bob Thornton ("Bad Santa").
My own ballot would look a little different. I think Murray's performance, as a washed-up movie star demeaning himself with a whisky commercial in Tokyo, belongs on the best dramatic actor ballot. And though Nicholson is very funny as a middle-age womanizer who's shocked to find himself attracted to a woman his age, he's an old hand at self-parody.
My choices to replace Murray and Nicholson are Jon Voight and Paul
Giamatti.
Voight's performance as the entirely corrupt and physically freakish warden of a juvenile boys camp in "Holes" is close to the best acting he has ever done. He plays a cartoon villain, but with a
relish and assortment of invented mannerisms that make it an original.
"Holes," an uncharacteristically smart Disney movie, was released in April and though it did strong business, Voight was unfortunately out of voters' minds by the end of the year.
Giamatti won rave reviews for his deadpan performance as the glum, stoop-shouldered Harvey Pekar in "American Splendor." It's hard to be engaging while playing someone as unappealing as the rude, self-loathing Cleveland comic book author, but
Giamatti pulls it off.
Voight and Giamatti, like Depp and Thornton, are not necessarily thought of as funny people. They can't screw up their faces like Martin and get a laugh for it, or cackle in a hyena's voice and make others laugh along, like Murphy. They have to invent characters and find the humor in them.
THE MIGHTY FINN
Of the three Golden Globers on my list, Black is the natural comedian. He does do physical comedy and gets easy laughs for it. But he goes much further with Dewey Finn in "School of Rock," taking him from an obnoxious rock music slacker through an evolution of character that brings out his endearing humanity.
Thornton's department-store Santa finds his humanity, too. But the transformation of this boozy felon is the least of his charm. He's a truly depraved soul, befouling the spirit of Christmas with bad language, booze, fitting-room conquests and temper tantrums, and Thornton gives himself over to this force of bad nature with an uninhibited mix of bile and glee.
But my favorite among all of 2003's comedy performances is Depp's. He named Keith Richards as his inspiration for wobbly pirate Jack Sparrow, but he also seems to be channeling the late
Foster Brooks. In the end, Sparrow is Depp's own creation and he almost
single-handedly elevates "Pirates of the Caribbean" to something more than an exploited theme-park attraction.
As I run last year's comedies through my mind, I stop on given moments:
Murray trying to strike a Frank Sinatra pose for his Japanese film crew in "Lost in Translation." "Ring-a-ding-ding," he says.
The panicked Nicholson shielding his eyes and holding an arm in front of him, as if the image of a naked Diane Keaton were that of Dracula.
Black leading his grade school band in heartfelt prayer: "God of Rock, thank you for this chance to kick ass."
Giamatti delivering Pekar's first line to his future wife: "You might as well know right off the bat," he says, looking at the ground, "I had a vasectomy."
Thornton's Santa explaining to young Willie why his beard is fake: "I loved a woman who wasn't clean."
Depp seemingly trying to focus on a would-be opponent and asking, "You look somewhat familiar, have I threatened you before?"
When I think of Martin, nothing comes to mind. 
E-mail:   

Graphic

 
MIXED NUTS Steve Martin in "Cheaper by the Dozen" (top), Billy Bob Thornton in "Bad Santa," Jack Black in "School of Rock" (right).
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (77%); CARTOONS & COMICS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%); WRITERS (60%)

Company: PRESS ASSOCIATION LTD  (55%); PRESS ASSOCIATION LTD  (55%)

Industry: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (77%); CARTOONS & COMICS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS (77%); WRITERS (60%)

Person: STEVE MARTIN (92%); BILL MURRAY (79%); BILLY BOB THORNTON (79%); JACK BLACK (79%); JOHNNY DEPP (79%); EDDIE MURPHY (58%)

Geographic: TOKYO, JAPAN (53%)

Load-Date: January 14, 2004


End of Document
