



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
September 29, 2001 Saturday
REGION EDITION


Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: MISCELLANEOUS,
Length: 1072 words
Byline: SALLY JENKINS, THE WASHINGTON POST
Dateline: NEW YORK
Body


The science of identifying the dead works like this: Something unmentionable is pulled from the rubble, and is then compared in a laboratory to something that someone brought from home. Many of the answers will lie in the sophisticated biotechnology of DNA analysis. Others will be found in the details that made a person: a crooked tooth, an old knee injury, a fingerprint from a diploma hanging on a wall.
 What can safely be called the world's largest morgue is now at the corner of 30th Street and First Avenue. Here in the chief medical examiner's office, the head of forensic biology, Robert Shaler, directs the vast and, in some cases, futile endeavor of trying to put names to what is left of the 5,960 people still lost in the collapsed twin towers of the World Trade Center. An entire block has been cordoned off to accommodate pitched tents and refrigerated trailers, where remains are being collected for future DNA testing. This will be the largest, most traumatic DNA identification project in history.
"It's massive," Shaler says. "We've never done anything like this before. I don't know of anybody that's ever been faced with this."
 The scientific term for remains is "tissue samples." Shaler's lab has already received 4,000 tissue samples, and he says workers can expect to receive at least 20,000, perhaps as many as 1 million. But the word "sample" doesn't properly do justice to what, exactly, arrives in the body bags.
 "Most of them are just pieces, parts, limbs, unidentified tissues," Shaler said.
 Distasteful as the job is, it's clearly also a way to help the victims' relatives cope with loss. "People want their loved ones home," Shaler said. "They want their loved ones with them."
 But some victims will never be identified. For that reason, a number of victims' family members came on Wednesday to the family assistance center at Pier 94 to apply for death certificates. It was the first day for doing so under an expedited plan arranged by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who has acknowledged that finding any survivor at this point would be miraculous, and that many bodies may never be recovered.
 Alfredo Bordenabe, 33, lost his wife, Krystine, an assistant saleswoman at a trading firm, who was pregnant with their first child. He arrived at the family center Wednesday with an envelope containing the documents of their life together. A lawyer helped him complete the paperwork, and told him the death certificate would arrive by mail within a couple of days.
 Not waiting for scientific evidence, Bordenabe had decided there is no hope that Krystine had survived. "My heart doesn't stop anymore when the phone rings or there's a knock on the door."
 When remains are found at ground zero in Manhattan, or at the landfill on Staten Island where debris is being hauled, a volunteer puts them into a body bag and takes the bag to an ambulance or refrigerated truck, which in turn transports the remains to the city medical examiner's office. There, Shaler's normal staff of 130 has swelled with an enormous team of volunteer technicians: forensic pathologists, radiologists, anthropologists, dentists. They are part of the federal Disaster Mortuary Operations Response Team, or D-Mort, which is not unlike belonging to the Army Reserve. During a disaster, they are called up much as soldiers are.
 At the examiner's office, the remains are scrutinized, measured, photographed, X-rayed and catalogued for potential clues. "Say this person had knee surgery, or a vasectomy, or an extra rib," explains Charles Wetli, the Suffolk County medical examiner who supervised victim identification for the 1996 crash of TWA Flight 800 off Long Island. "Well, that helps."
 The cataloguing is part of a dual process. "All this stuff is no good unless you've got something to compare it to," says Wetli, whose office has contributed five technicians to the trade center effort. At the family centers, staff members compile documents from the victims' families, the medical and dental records against which the remains can be compared. Once gathered, they must be catalogued and placed in a database. "This does not occur overnight," Wetli says.
 But most of the remains are so fragmented they'll have to undergo DNA testing. So the specialists have sought DNA from the victims' personal possessions, culled from their toothbrushes, or a T-shirt with an old bloodstain, or electric shavers. Comparison can also be made with the DNA of blood relatives, so specialists also interview them, taking swabs from their mouths and collecting personal items. This is easier said than done, especially if a victim was adopted, or was a foreign national, or had no living relatives.
 How long could all this collection and comparison take? Wetli says two years is a safe estimate.
 At some point, the recovery and identification effort will consume too many resources, or become technically impossible, and the medical examiner will have to define its limits. "You have to do that at one point or another, or it becomes an effort in futility," Wetli says. In the case of TWA 800, Suffolk County dealt with 230 victims; identification took 13 months and cost an estimated $1.5 million.
 Shaler hasn't yet reached that point -- so far, all remains brought to his office will be DNA tested. Wetli says the limit may well define itself, the point where common sense intersects with good science. "There will be a natural cleavage somewhere along the line," he says.
 Medical examiners have their own problems to face as they cope with the human wreckage. "One of the biggest challenges will be maintaining worker morale," Shaler says.
 In the TWA 800 case, some workers needed treatment for post-traumatic stress. After five weeks of working with the remains, photographers and radiologists and dentists were having nightmares.
 For some, the challenge is remembering that what they are photographing or coding was once a person. Every physician must keep some distance to function; if a pediatrician cried over every instance of childhood leukemia, he would be ineffective. But the dispassion can turn to coldness. To combat it during the TWA case, Wetli and his staff put up the victims' photographs in their laboratory.
 "It reminded us that these are real people and have loved ones," he says. "It helped give us that compassionate, human side of it. When we were dealing with the families we easily reverted back into our human mode, so to speak."
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: DNA (93%); DNA TESTING (90%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (90%); FORENSICS (90%); DETERMINATION OF DEATH (89%); FINGERPRINTING (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (85%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); TOOTH DISORDERS (71%); FAMILY (67%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (56%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (50%)

Industry: TEST LABORATORIES (78%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS & BIOTECHNOLOGY (77%); PUBLISHING (73%)

Person: RUDY GIULIANI (59%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

Load-Date: September 29, 2001


End of Document
