



St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
August 3, 2005 Wednesday


Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
Section: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1; Newspaper
Length: 541 words
Byline: JAMES THORNER
Dateline: LAND O'LAKES
Body


Say one thing about the 500 delegates of the National Association for Nude Recreation: They might be the lightest packing conventioneers ever to descend on Pasco County.
The nation's leading nudist organization will occupy Land O'Lakes' Caliente Resort next week. It's the 74th annual convention for a group formed by those who picnicked in the buff along New York's Hudson River in 1929.
"It's a celebration of nude recreation, and it's celebrated in our birthday suits," said Erich Schuttauf, the nudist association's executive director.
As one of the most luxurious resorts in an industry that includes lots of bare-bones campgrounds, the Mediterranean-themed Caliente on U.S. 41 was a natural for the role of convention host.
Though conventioneers begin filtering in Saturday, the highlight of the week begins Wednesday with a parade around Caliente's pool, grotto and artificial waterfall.
Leading the procession will be Lady Godiva, a naked woman wearing a long blond wig to represent the woman on horseback from English folklore. The horse will also be real, so real that the resort will take precautions.
"Lady Godiva will be followed by a man with a broom and wheelbarrow," said Jack DePree, the Caliente official leading the resort through convention week.
Not all is fun and games. On the ground floor of the three-story clubhouse, nudists will debate how to juice up their image. The association's membership has stagnated at about 50,000. "Rebranding" is the buzzword of the week.
The idea is to emphasize nude recreation, with its connotations of skinny dipping and topless sunbathing. Those activities are enjoyed even by some "textiles," a word used to describe the nonnudist public.
"The word nudism is being de-emphasized," DePree said. "Some people aren't comfortable with "isms' -   like they're expected to be part of a sect."
The keynote speaker for Thursday is Mike Veeck. His task is to keep the conventioneers in stitches - the laughing, not the clothing, variety.
Veeck is the son of baseball legend Bill Veeck, former owner of the Chicago White Sox. The younger Veeck worked as marketing director for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
Among his off-the-wall ideas was trying to create a team mascot in Dave the Dwarf, all 3 feet  2 inches of him. Another of his other little-appreciated promotions was "Duct Tape Night." As an owner of six minor league baseball teams, he's known for such wacky promotions as "Vasectomy Night."
The title of Veeck's speech to his barely clothed audience: "Fun is Good."
"He will be fully clothed when he gives his address," Schuttauf cautioned.
The 100-acre resort gained national attention last year when celebrity socialite Paris Hilton and her friend Nicole Richie worked there as chambermaids.
The pair's comedic videotaped escapades filled an episode of The Simple Life 2, a reality TV show on Fox. Now comes a second helping of publicity.
"The convention is an opportunity to show off what we've done at Caliente," DePree said.
Whether it's sipping a daiquiri under the stars, writhing on the nightclub dance floor until 2 a.m. or wallowing in a mud bath at the spa, conventioneers will sample how far nudism has grown in 74 years.
Said Schuttauf: "It's a chance for us to enjoy some very classy accommodations."
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (91%); NATURISTS & NATURISM (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (76%); REBRANDING (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PROFESSIONAL SPORTS (70%); FOLKLORE (66%); BRANDING (63%); NUDE (%)

Company: LAND O'LAKES INC  (58%)

Industry: NAICS311512 CREAMERY BUTTER MANUFACTURING  (58%);  SIC2021 CREAMERY BUTTER  (58%); RESORTS (89%); REBRANDING (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); BRANDING (63%); TEXTILES (62%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

Load-Date: August 3, 2005


End of Document
