



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
December 22, 2014 Monday
ONLINE EDITION


Copyright 2014 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10
Length: 755 words
Byline:  By the Editorial Board 
Body


More rights for rapists, fewer rights for women and a discussion about the definition of "legitimate rape."
In Missouri, it's as though the state's very own Todd Akin never happened.
State Rep. Rick Brattin, R-Harrisonville, filed a bill on Dec. 3 for next year's legislative session that would require a woman seeking an abortion to obtain written permission from the baby's father. Exceptions would be if the pregnancy was from incest, endangering the life of the mother or resulted from "legitimate rape."
Mr. Brattin actually used those words. He told Mother Jones magazine: "Just like any rape, you have to report it, and you have to prove it. So you couldn't just go and say, ‘Oh yeah, I was raped,' and get an abortion. It has to be a legitimate rape."
When will these guys learn?
Unless this is an elaborate Democratic ploy and Mr. Brattin is secretly a robot or a spy being used to discredit the state GOP, it's inconceivable that the party did not learn from the implosion of the six-term Republican congressman.
A refresher: In 2012, when Mr. Akin was the Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate, he was considered by many the favorite in the race against incumbent Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill.
He then went on the air on the Aug. 19 edition of "The Jaco Report" on KTVI-Channel 2 and, when asked by reporter Charles Jaco whether abortion should be legal in the case of rape, said: "If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down."
Oooh, boy. The congressman from Wildwood retreated wildly when his comment drew headlines worldwide - very few of them laudatory - but he couldn't walk it back far enough to get away. Missouri Republicans did everything they could to separate themselves from Mr. Akin, but they couldn't get him out of the race. Ms. McCaskill shredded him that November by more than 15 points, winning even in some of the state's reddest counties.
Like Cass County, from whence Mr. Brattin hails.
The state representative has been in office since 2010, and this is not his first toe-dip in the waters of extreme right-wingerism. Mr. Brattin, 34, who served six years in the U.S. Marines, owns a drywall company in his hometown.
He says he is the father of five and told Mother Jones that his inspiration for the father-permission bill was his recent vasectomy.
"When a man goes in for that procedure - at least in the state of Missouri - you have to have a consent form from your spouse in order to have that procedure done," Mr. Brattin said. "Here I was getting a normal procedure that has nothing to do with another human being's life, and I needed to get a signed form ... But on ending a life, you don't. I think that's pretty twisted."
No matter what Mr. Brattin thinks, he is wrong about a significant fact. There is no state law in Missouri that says a man seeking a vasectomy must have a spousal consent form. Doctors can choose to ask for one and good medical practice recommends a doctor should discuss the decision with the man and ask whether his partner is in agreement, but the answer has no bearing on the legality of the procedure.
With his vasectomy cited as inspiration for this legislation, you can't help but wonder what spawned some of Mr. Brattin's other ideas. For instance, legislation requiring that Missouri drivers license tests be administered only in English or American Sign Language. Xenophobia inspired by what, we can only imagine.
Mr. Brattin opposed restrictions on indoor tanning facilities and said such tanning "works you into being able to cope with the sun's exposure." Tan-spiration? Other highlights include support for firing squads in capital punishment cases and for teaching "destiny" as a valid theoretical substitute for evolution. Given that background, Mr. Brattin's father-consent legislation comes as no surprise.
What would be a surprise is if adults took back the state General Assembly and Republican legislators who use "rube bait" (a phrase coined by Mike Lofgren, who spent 30 years as a Republican committee staffer in the U.S. House of Representatives), such as guns, contraception and the death penalty to energize the party's base, went back to dealing with those issues, and others, in a more serious way.
"Legitimate" Republicans who want to be taken seriously should distance themselves from Mr. Brattin's uneducated and sexist blather and stop trying to pass legislation that turns women and others into second class citizens.
Rape is rape. Repeat it. Memorize it. Learn from the miserable failure of Mr. Akin.

Notes

   EDITORIAL: MISSOURI GOP FAILS TO LEARN FROM TODD AKIN'S FAILURE 

Graphic

 
 U.S. Rep. Todd Akin speaks at a Chesterfield news conference Friday, Aug 24, 2012 where he announced his plans to stay in the race for U.S. Senate. Photo by Robert Cohen,   Rep. Rick Brattin, R-Harrisonville. 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: EDITORIAL

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (99%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US CONGRESS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WOMEN (90%); ABORTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (79%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (78%); FAR RIGHT POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLITICAL EXTREMISM (67%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (66%); todd akin (%); rick brattin (%); mother jones (%); mike lofgren (%); rape (%); #otop (%)

Person: W TODD AKIN (90%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (57%)

Geographic: MISSOURI, USA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: December 22, 2014


End of Document
