



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
July 7, 2024 Sunday
TWO STAR EDITION


Copyright 2024 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: FORUM; Pg. D-3
Length: 810 words
Byline: Adriana E. RamÃrez
Body


When we bought our home, with its 10-foot by 20-foot square of grass in the back, the previous owner told us "I once cut it with some scissors!" I understood what she meant: the upkeep would be simple. It was, after all, a small patch of grass.
In the ten years that have passed, I have bought paving stones, dug holes for fruit trees, built planting beds - completely altering my terrain.
Eventually, when I moved some of those beds, my perennials surprised me by emerging in a completely different spot the next growing season. The tiger lilies, whose existence I'd forgotten, now grow through one of the apple trees, forever competing for whatever shreds of light filter down from the retaining wall.
As the news broadcasting from all the screens in the house gets louder and wilder, I find myself often retreating to the back yard.
Inviting gardens
We have a bench near the door to the kitchen, and I sit here, smoothing the wooden seat to the contours of my own, in contemplation until the noise of life cannot help but disrupt.
This, I tell myself, is the nature of things. Plants grow, plants die, the landscape shifts on whim, and still, there is permanence. The tiger lilies will grow, directly in sunlight or tall through the trees. There is hope in my garden. There is life. There is the opposite.
When I was a kid, I used to long "to live through an important time in history," or so I wrote in my high school journals. Now, I wish the opposite. I want normalcy, stability - boring and efficient times. Maybe it's because I have children myself these days. Maybe it's because I have a garden.
Gardens invite people to sit and be. They are places of repose as much as they are sites of labor. We work in the garden, pulling weeds and managing compost, so that we may sit on the bright blue adirondack chairs in deep nothingness too.
I grew up in a place with more lawns than gardens, and I think about my younger self a lot. Lawns are sites of activity, of play. Gardens are sites of wonder.
Perhaps I wanted to "live through an important time in history" because I was in a lawn world. My garden self cannot abide importance, my garden self wants to say "howdy" to her neighbor across the fence and go back to this book - it's a very good book.
I hate that the wifi reaches out here, although I love to catch my husband working diligently, programming software next to the hostas. The juxtaposition of the very-now with the naturally eternal brings me joy.
An adored, needed space
Sometimes, the best part of an evening is when he closes his laptop, opens a beer, and welcomes friends into the garden. It is no secret, I adore this space.
My family needs the sound of laughter, birds and crickets bouncing against our too-heavy-to-make-much-sound wind chimes, we need it to cut through the machine of never ending Discourse that dominates every screen.
The noise from the phone and the computer, as well as the politics of the day, cannot help but interrupt any contemplation. The headlines all project doom, and I'm wondering if calla lilies can forget their own shape to ignore all the "important history" that threatens to drown me.
I am tired, I am worried. I am joyous, I am well. The world is on fire, but me, I'm sitting here trying to keep the basil from bolting - the bitterness does no one good. I contain multitudes.
"Are men okay?" one headline reads. "Are liberal women okay?" reads another. "Are Republican women okay?" asks one magazine. "Is anyone okay?" seems to be the concern. Everything is up: depression, gas prices, vasectomies, maternal mortality rates, those irrepressible tiger lilies.
"You should write about how amazing Philadelphia is," my friend from Philly tells me in the garden, trying to avoid discussing the state of our country. Weeks before, another friend asked me to consider why there's no "Pennsylvania state pride, you know, like Texas." No one wants to hear about politics anymore. And we still have months to go.
New names, new garden
But look - the gladiolas are poking through. The hummingbirds have emerged, ready to gulp down our trumpet vine. We've eaten too many strawberries from a very small pot.
My children have hurt each other, wielding wooden swords on the deck, as I mutter soothing words about conflict resolution from the patio below, deep in a magazine story about a city I used to know, surrounded by blossoming rosettes.
A year from now, we will have a president. Two years from now, we'll be deep in another election cycle. There will be new names, spoken with the same salacious tones. And me (assuming that I survive it all), I'll probably be sitting in my garden, contemplating a different arrangement, perpetually shaping a small patch of grass that doesn't exist anymore.
Adriana E. RamÃrez, author of "Dead Boys," is a columnist and InReview editor for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Find her on X: @zadri.

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Adriana E. RamÃrez/Post-Gazette: Tiger lilies grow through the apple trees in the writer's back yard.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT (66%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (62%); SOFTWARE SERVICES & APPLICATIONS (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%)

Load-Date: July 7, 2024


End of Document
