



Daily News (New York)
April 15, 2002, Monday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2002 Daily News, L.P.
Section: NEWS;; SERIES
Length: 1142 words
Byline: BY DAVID HINCKLEY
Series: BIG TOWN CLASSIC CHARACTERS New Yorkers of the American Imagination
Body

HIS THRONE was a ragged chair in a shopworn living room in a nondescript house on a blue-collar street in Queens, but that didn't matter: When Archie Bunker came home from work at the Prendergast Tool and Die Co., he was a king.
And a good thing, too, because away from his chair, Archie was tormented at every step. Suddenly, his comfortable world was overrun. If it wasn't the spics or the sheenies or the jungle bunnies, it was the fairies or the freaks or the pointy-head liberals.
Not by coincidence was Archie named Bunker.
His living room was his last stand, Archie's Alamo, the one place where a man who just wanted things to be the way they always used to be had any shot at holding off a world that kept wanting to change them.
ARCHIE BUNKER hit the American TV set Jan. 12, 1971, the dawn of the '70s, as the angry protagonist of a situation comedy called "All in the Family." Conceived by 1960s liberals to show the true colors of the closed mind, bigoted buffoon Archie quickly became a lot more complex than that.
As the linchpin of TV's most popular show between 1971 and 1976, Archie for starters attracted more than a few fans who simply thought his slur-riddled ethnic rants were right on target. On the other end were critics who argued that the program's socially conscious creator, Norman Lear, sabotaged his own goal by pulling Archie's punches. If Lear was serious about shoving a bigot into America's face, they said, why was Archie not more offensive than he was?
But that sort of academic analysis had little to do with daily life at 704 Hauser St. in Corona, where Archie lived with his good-natured, slightly slow-witted wife, Edith, their mildly liberal daughter, Gloria, and Gloria's aggressively liberal husband, Mike, an unemployed student customarily addressed by Archie as Meathead.
This was the station in life to which Archie had risen, not because it was his choice, but because it was his lot.
One day, Mike, temporarily exhausted by Archie's abuse, fled to the kitchen to ask Edith why Archie mistreated him so.
"Do you wanna know why Archie yells at you?" softly explained the woman regularly called Dingbat by her husband. "Archie is jealous of you. You're going to college. Archie had to quit school to support his family. He ain't never going to be no more than he is right now.
"Now you think that over," she said.
And maybe Mike did. Archie probably didn't.
ARCHIE ON the Nixon presidency: "I'll tell you one thing about Nixon. He keeps Pat home. Which was where Roosevelt should have kept Eleanor. Instead, he let her run around loose until one day she discovered the colored. We never knew they were there. She told them they were getting the short end of the stick and we've been having trouble ever since."
Archie on, more specifically, the colored: "Their systems is geared a little slower than ours."
In the good old days, such remarks wouldn't have raised a murmur. Mississippi, 1924, no problem. Queens, 1924, no problem. Archie's problem was that he lived in Queens, 1971, with an integrated crew at the plant and a black family right next door: the Jeffersons.
It happened that George Jefferson was not so unlike Archie. George, for example, habitually referred to white folks as honkies. He liked to serve guests a drink called a White Mule. "What's that?" someone asked. "A Honky Donkey!" replied George, who thought that was pretty hilarious.
But Archie's side of the scale was where things fell when the real-life Sammy Davis Jr. - himself a huge "All in the Family" fan - dropped by to muse on whether Archie was prejudiced: "You prejudiced, Mr. Bunker? Why, if you were prejudiced, you would have called me nigger or coon or something. Not you. You came right out and called me colored."
Archie's face lit up with vindication. So, presumably, did Norman Lear's - as he had now managed to get the N-word onto the show without having his white character say it.
CARROLL O'CONNOR'S Archie Bunker was begot by at least two distinct TV ancestors. One was Jackie Gleason's blustering Ralph Kramden, though the difference between Ralph and Archie, ethnic slurs aside, was that Ralph never stopped thinking he was going to beat the system, that one day his ship would come in. When Archie came along 20 years later, the '50s had become the '70s and that dream had somehow dissolved. If Archie ever had it, he had lost it, leaving him with a sourness that was never a part of Ralph.
The other side of Archie's family was a mid-'60s British couple, Alf and Else Garnett, whose "Till Death Do Us Part" series portrayed two folks simply old, bitter and nasty. But the idea caught Lear's eye, and after several years and turndowns he sold it to CBS, which saw youth culture all around, looked at a schedule that included "Green Acres" and "Hee Haw" and worried it would become as extinct as Mitch Miller if it didn't get something more daring on the air.
Even after the '60s lowered the bar for acceptable public expression, it was hard not to notice a fat white guy sitting in his chair, cigar in hand, railing against everybody else.
Moreover - not unlike, say, your own Uncle Fred, who told great dinner-table stories even though you had to admit he was a frightful racist - Archie was entertaining. It was, after all, a sitcom.
Mostly a sitcom. Part of Archie's dilemma, of course, was that he had to face dramatic crises more often than the average blue-collar bigot:
Gloria talks Mike into a vasectomy. Mike becomes impotent. Archie almost has an affair. Edith leaves him. Edith is attacked by a rapist. A Jewish activist is blown up in front of their house by a car bomb.
Gloria has a miscarriage. Edith renounces God. Archie has a gambling problem. Gloria poses nude. A relative turns out to be a lesbian. Gloria has a baby. Edith goes through menopause.
The menopause episode did underscore the catholic nature of Archie's distress: He had no more time for Edith's problem than he did for the problem of segregated lunch counters. "If you're gonna have your change of life, have it right now," he bellowed. "You got exactly 30 seconds. Change!"
That was the short form of the discomfort spread over an episode that found Archie trapped in an elevator with a black businessman and a Puerto Rican couple about to have a baby. The baby was born while the other two men first helped and then marveled. Archie didn't even turn around to look. He simply didn't want to be there.
BUT THERE HE was all the same, and he soldiered on, because that was his lot. He saw Richard Nixon resign, saw the Commies win the war. He saw long hair on men become stylishly fashionable. He saw equal-opportunity legislation blossom like poison ivy.
And still Archie Bunker kept reloading and firing, defending his ragged throne as if it were the last chair in the world, his own last best hope.
Originally published in the BIG TOWN BIOGRAPHY series.

Graphic

 
Carroll O'Connor
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: LIBERALISM (89%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (72%)

Industry: TELEVISION COMEDIES (68%)

Person: RICHARD NIXON (50%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); UNITED STATES (90%)

Load-Date: April 15, 2002


End of Document
