



The Philadelphia Inquirer
September 27, 2006 Wednesday


Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES MAGAZINE; Pg. E04
Length: 675 words
Byline: Gail Shister, Inquirer Columnist
Body


He may be built like a streamlined humvee, but ex-Eagles linebacker Terry Crews is in touch with his feminine side.
With a wife and four daughters and a female dog, the beefy costar of Everybody Hates Chris has learned to kneel before the power of estrogen.
"I come home and everybody's crying," says Crews, in town today to flog Chris Rock's autobiographical comedy. "They say, 'It's all your fault.' As the man in a houseful of women, it's always your fault."
One of the most popular shows on The CW (the new network created by the WB-UPN merger), Chris chronicles Rock's teenage years in Brooklyn in the early '80s. Season 2 debuts at 7 p.m. Sunday on Channel 57.
As Rock's dad, Crews' Julian holds down multiple jobs and watches the pennies. He's crazy for his wife (Tichina Arnold). The family struggles, but there's no dearth of love for Rock and his two younger sibs.
"I love Julius," says Crews, 38. "He realizes that being a father is about sacrifice. If you're not sacrificing, you can never really call yourself a dad. You might be a biological father, but you're not a dad."
If nothing else, Crews is a dad. Even when it's unexpected.
When his wife of 17 years, Rebecca, told him last year she was pregnant, "it was shock and awe," he recalls with a chuckle. "We were done. I don't know how anybody got through all that contraception." (He has since had a vasectomy.)
Isaiah -- yes, a son! - was born in late June.
"He's like the little king in the house," Crews says. "When he falls, he doesn't cry. Women want to be cuddled, talked to, listened to. They have all those emotions. Boys just want to eat, sleep, and you know what else."
That's why Crews, 6-foot-3 and still at his playing weight of 245 pounds, works his commanding presence when boys come calling. His daughters range from 3 to 19.
"I try to intimidate the boys, but the girls say, 'Awww, he's just barking' You can't watch them 24/7. You have to trust them."
Crews says he's tough on attitude and manners because "they create who you are. The methods change all the time, but the principles remain the same: working hard and respecting authority."
Crews' wife "is the Julius of our family," he says. "She always says I'm spending too much money. She'll say, 'I noticed $4.95 missing from your account today. What did you buy?' She does not play when it comes to money. I'm thankful."
A Flint, Mich., native, Crews attended Western Michigan University on an art scholarship, then made the football team as a freshman walk-on. An all-conference defensive end, he was drafted by the San Diego Chargers in 1991.
Never an NFL star, Crews was traded to the Rams and Redskins. When Washington cut him, the Eagles picked him up at the end of the '96 season for the NFC playoffs.
Ray Rhodes was coach. Crews was an Eagle for three weeks. He was miserable.
"It was a weird time for me," he says. "I was in the twilight of my career, trying to find the next thing to do. I remember being in a hotel across from Veterans Stadium for Christmas. It was kind of dark."
He moved to L.A. to pursue acting and appeared with Rock in the big-screen remake of The Longest Yard. Rock "is a guy's guy. He found what he was born to do. He's the Kobe Bryant of the comedy world."
Jamie Foxx is a guy's guy, too. When Crews lost a $1,000 bet that he could press 500 pounds at Foxx's home gym, the Oscar winner wouldn't take a check.
"He told me where the nearest ATM was," Crews says. "You call that a friend? I walked into it. I let my ego get into that whole he-man thing."
So much for that feminine side.
Rose on "Late Show." Controversial baseball legend Pete Rose - a former Phillie - will make his first visit to David Letterman'sLate Show Monday, CBS announced yesterday.
Rose, who agreed to a lifetime ban from baseball in '89 amid accusations that he bet on baseball games while playing and managing the Reds, last chatted up Dave 15 years ago on Letterman's Late Night on NBC.
Contact TV columnist Gail Shister at 215-854-2224 or . Read her recent work at  gailshister.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); EMOTIONS (71%); CONTRACEPTION (69%); PARENTING (69%)

Person: CHRIS ROCK (79%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%)

Load-Date: September 27, 2006


End of Document
