



The San Diego Union-Tribune
December 3, 2005 Saturday


Copyright 2005 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-1
Length: 1399 words
Byline: Michael Stetz, STAFF WRITER
Body


Two o'clock feedings? Nothing to it. Diaper changing? Piece of cake. The sudden, without warning, spitting up of soupy green beans? No big deal.
But then comes the car seat.
And next comes -- at least a fleeting thought of it -- the vasectomy.
Few products can be as torturous as a child's car seat -- a bulky, plastic thing that comes with assorted straps and harnesses and instructions written by Martians.
As many as 82 percent of children's car seats are installed incorrectly, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
In San Diego County, one child safety advocate says the number is even higher. It's 96.7 percent.
Given the number of cars and the variety of car seats, there are hundreds of possible combinations when it comes to putting them in.
"Protecting your child should be the easiest thing to do, not the hardest," said Roxanne Hoffman, coordinator of the San Diego Safe Kids Coalition.
She, too, is continually amazed by car seats and how difficult it can be to install them correctly. And she has seen it all.
Her organization runs a program in which car-seat technicians teach parents how to do it right. And in most cases -- almost 97 percent -- the seats are improperly installed in one way or another.
Sometimes, it takes as long as an hour to get the seats in right. The technicians -- who undergo a 40-hour training course -- grunt, strain and fight with them.
They get sweaty.
At times, it seems as if they come pretty close to letting out a few bad words, but there are babies around.
Hoffman said of her program: "The need is incredible."
o o o
o o o
The whole family and then some gave it a shot, Julie Rumsey says.
Her father. Her husband. Even her housekeeper.
And everybody walked away frustrated and put-off and questioning his or her intelligence.
"We've been trying for a good couple of months," the La Jolla resident said about installing a car seat.
On this day, Rumsey turned to the pros to get the seat in right. She was at the Babies "R" Us in La Mesa, where Hoffman was running her program.
Rumsey was worried that she was doing more harm than good for her 10-month-old son, Caleb, who had just graduated from an infant seat to a traditional children's car seat.
And she has reason to worry. The number of children dying in car crashes has dropped over the past couple of decades, but such accidents are still the leading cause of death of children ages 4 to 12.
In 2003, more than 1,630 children younger than 13 died in car crashes -- up slightly from the previous year but down significantly from 1975 when 3,643 died.
It turned out that Rumsey and her army of family members had tried to use the so-called LATCH system to install the car seat, but in her vehicle, the LATCH system only works on the seats by the windows, not the one in the middle.
She didn't know this. She figured the middle seat was the safest.
LATCH stands for "Lower Anchors and Tethers for Children" and is supposed to make installation easier.
Instead of threading a seat belt through the car seat, parents can use latches to attach the seat to anchors in the car. Such anchors -- little metal bars buried beneath the seats -- are standard on cars built after 2002.
But the LATCH system has hardly proved to be the cure-all that was hoped, says Bessie Geilenfeldt, a child passenger safety specialist who was working on Rumsey's seat.
"It's just one more feature that people misuse," she said.
Rumsey, frustrated by LATCH, had used a seat belt instead and actually had the seat in pretty well, Geilenfeldt said. Seat belts can work just as well as the LATCH system, she asserts, as long as they are pulled tight.
Rumsey's car seat's harness, though, was too high. It should be at or below the child's shoulders, she said.
And it wasn't tight enough.
But, overall, that's not bad compared with what some parents do, she said.
Rumsey said this: "We're leaving this in the car, and no one is taking it out."
o o o
o o o
Car-seat manufacturers have been criticized for producing instruction booklets that make little sense.
You be the judge:
On page, 20 of a 50-page car-seat manual, it says: "Automatic (passive) 2-point seat belt has no lap belt. You must install a lap belt to secure a child restraint. You may also need to install an extra lap belt for an automatic 3-point belt.
The Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association, which represents car seat makers, said car seats come with different features, so directions can't be uniform. Manufacturers have been listening to parents in efforts to make seats easier to install, said Amy Chezem, a spokeswoman.
The difficulty parents have with cars seats is something the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has been trying to solve for years.
NHTSA yearly compiles Child Safety Seat Ease-of-Use Ratings to help parents make the right purchasing decision.
It also points parents to safety-seat inspectors in varying communities. Local police and fire departments and car dealerships have trained personnel available. The California Highway Patrol also has trained staff.
NHTSA believes that the LATCH system will prove to work better. It's daunting now because many cars made before 2002 don't have the necessary hardware, said Sandy Sinclair, a highway safety specialist for NHTSA.
Seat belts are made for adults, he said, not car seats. So it hasn't been easy to marry the two products.
Another problem is that consumers, when they stop having children, grow out of the need for car seats. And a new befuddled generation then needs to be educated.
Car seats are credited with helping save lives. Even if they are installed improperly, they beat the alternative: Moms and dads holding tots on their laps.
But some question just how safe car seats are for children older than 2. Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt, authors of "Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Signs of Everything," contend that seat belts work just as well.
Their argument, published recently in The New York Times, comes just as more and more states are requiring children to be strapped into some sort of car or booster seat until they reach age 6. That's the case in California.
NHTSA disputed the findings.
Parents just want safety. And they can't understand why it seems so difficult to provide it when it comes to car seats.
"The whole thing is painful, and nothing is more important," said Theresa Martin, another parent getting her car seat looked at at Babies "R" Us.
Big surprise: It had been put in wrong.
Resources for help
To get help installing a child's car seat, parents have several options:
o Call the Safe Kids Coalition, based at Children's Hospital, at (858) 576-1700, Ext. 5704, for information on safety checks.
o Go to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Web site to find inspection stations in their communities. Go to  and click on the icon, "Traffic and Safety," and then click on "Child Passenger Safety." Under Consumer Information and Services, click on "Child Safety Seat Inspection Locator."
o Call NHTSA at (888) 327-4236.
o DaimlerChrysler also has a Web site that helps parents find inspection sites. It's SeatCheck.org
Common mistakes
in use of car seats
The list of possible mistakes is long -- from botching the seat-belt routing to not using the locking clips correctly -- but parents normally make the same common errors when putting in car seats.
o First and foremost, parents fail to use the car seat in the proper way for the weight and age of their child, said Roxanne Hoffman, coordinator of the San Diego Safe Kids Coalition.
For instance, a car seat should be rear-facing until the child is at least a year old and, ideally, until the child is 18 months old. Some parents don't like to do so, because they can't see the child.
o Another common mistake is installing the seat too loosely. The seat shouldn't wiggle once in. One needs to pull the seat belts as tightly as possible, to keep the seat stable.
o Harness straps also are routinely too loose, Hoffman said. They should be snug around the child.
o The harness retainer clip -- the thing that snaps the vertical and horizontal straps together -- should be at armpit level, she said. Many parents have it at the child's belly. That's too low.
o Parents have a tendency to take children out of protective seats too soon, Hoffman said. The child should be at least 4 feet 8 inches tall and 80 pounds before being allowed to ride as a grown-up.

Graphic

 
2 PICS; 2 CHARTS; CAPTIONS: 1. Friends and family members tried to help Julie Rumsey put her child's car seat in correctly. And big surprise: All gave up. So she turned to the experts with the San Diego Safe Kids Coalition. 2. Resources for help 3. Pulling safety belts tightly is key to securing car seats. Use muscle. Lots of it. Mom Julie Rumsey gets tips from safety expert Bessie Gellenfeldt. 4. Common mistakes in use of car seats; PHOTOBY: 1,3. Roni Galgano / Union-Tribune 2,4. MICHAEL STETZ
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CHILD CAR SEATS (91%); CHILD SAFETY (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); SAFETY (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); SAFETY, ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (75%); TRAFFIC FATALITIES (75%); DEATH & DYING (64%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (60%)

Organization: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

Industry: CHILD CAR SEATS (91%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); TRAFFIC FATALITIES (75%)

Geographic: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%)

Load-Date: December 6, 2005


End of Document
