



St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
March 05, 2000, Sunday


Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
Section: PERSPECTIVE; LETTERS; Pg. 2D; LETTER
Length: 1372 words
Body


Re: If city sues Bayfront, the community will lose, Feb. 27.
Since Philip Gailey is the chief spokesman for the Times editorial policy, his lack of concern for women's reproductive rights leaves me shocked and dismayed.
The church/state abortion issue involving Bayfront Medical Center is not at all "murky," as characterized by Gailey. It is a clear-cut violation of a woman's right to choose. Six of the seven City Council members voted in favor of a lawsuit to separate Bayfront from its Catholic hospital partners. They found the issue very clear, as did the city's attorneys who recommended legal action.
LETTERS
In addition, it is interesting to note that Gailey's cavalier disdain for women's constitutional rights, as reflected in this column, was foretold in a previous column in which Gailey registered his approval of the men's religious/political movement known as the "Promise Keepers," notorious for excluding women from membership and relegating them to a subordinate position in the American family.
Miriam Toll, Gulfport
Principle abandoned
 It was a profound disappointment to read Philip Gailey's Feb. 27 column, If city sues Bayfront, the community will lose, defending Bayfront Medical Center's adoption of Catholic doctrine to deny women their constitutional right to reproductive choice.
What has happened to your newspaper's historic support for the rights of the individual? Where is your defense of principle over expediency and the bottom line? Why is it that once again women's rights are the sacrificial lamb? There is nothing "murky," as Gailey so insensitively puts it, about a woman's constitutional right to choice versus the right of a particular church to dictate policy in a public institution.
Planned Parenthood supports the St. Petersburg City Council's proposed declaratory judgment action.
Barbara A. Zdravecky, president and
chief executive officer, Planned
Parenthood of Southwest and Central
Florida Inc., Sarasota
Preserve free choice
Re: A risky lawsuit, editorial, Feb. 25.
   Your editorial asks, "What's the best that can come of a lawsuit?" and suggests that given the stakes involved, a lawsuit should be the last option. The American Civil Liberties Union agrees a lawsuit should be the last option and that quality medical services, emergency care and indigent ealth care are vital for our community.
   However, the ACLU believes the whole question of medical care at Bayfront Medical Center must be a matter of voluntary decision. Patients and physicians must be free to follow their private consciences. Any religious doctrine that interferes with doctors' ability to provide the medical care they determine patients need cannot be tolerated.
 You state that Bayfront Medical Center has promised to inform the city if the religious directives it has agreed to are to be expanded. However, the "Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services" is an intricate list of rules, and it has meant big changes for non-sectarian hospitals. Although the directives call for as much cooperation as possible in mergers with non-Catholic hospitals, they state that church doctrine must govern in cases of conflict with the wishes and medical needs of Catholic as well as non-Catholic patients. Nor can we assume that because the restrictions now include only abortion, this will continue to be the case.
   The Catholic directives as revised in 1994 prohibit offering abortion for any reason, vasectomies, tubal libations, in vitro fertilization, distribution of contraceptive devices, emergency contraception for women who have been raped, and condoms for HIV-positive patients. In addition, under the directives, hospitals are not to honor any living will or end-or-life instruction that a terminally ill patient may have signed that is contrary to Catholic teaching.
   The ACLU supports action of the City Council and Mayor David Fischer to eliminate from Bayfront Medical Center's policies any religious doctrine that bars physicians from providing the medical care they see fit.
Irene L. Miller, president, Pinellas
Chapter, American Civil Liberties
Union, St. Petersburg
The price of rights
 Re: A risky lawsuit, editorial, Feb. 25.
You ask: "What's the best that can come of a lawsuit?"
Answer: The citizens get back their Bill of Rights, that's what!
A small price to pay for democracy, I'd say.
Harvey Manning, Palm Harbor
Only lawyers will win
Lawyers will be the only winners in St. Petersburg's battle against Bayfront Medical Center.
In spite of the cooperative solutions offered by Bayfront Medical Center, the city has hired an outside law firm that wants to sue for the religious directives associated with Bayfront's ties with Bay Care. Lawyers will win in any case. If the city wins the lawsuit, everyone associated with Bayfront loses because the city government has no ability to manage the operation of a hospital. If the city loses, then the tax-paying public loses.
The city's decision to sue is a decision to enter into a zero-sum game wherein neither the city nor the hospital have any chance to gain and only the lawyers will win.
Jim Schroeder, Indian Shores
Heed the message
 Re: If city sues Bayfront, the community will lose, Feb. 27.
This could not have been said any better. Philip Gailey has cut through the grandstand rhetoric, political smoke and power struggle to tell it like it is.
Bayfront Medical Center is an exception hospital, and an essential community asset serving the needs of both paying and nonpaying patients. The St. Petersburg City Council itself approved Bayfront's joining the medical alliance that includes Catholic hospitals.
The thought of the City Council taking control of Bayfront is absurd. There is nothing to suggest that our city government is now or will become capable of handling oversight of such a venture. For any on the council thinking otherwise, examine the plight of local government health care facilities across our country.
City Council members, read and heed what Gailey has said! This is not about downtown parking meters. Get this one right! Because, "the stakes are higher than they (the City Council members) realize."
Donald D. Binford, St. Petersburg
On target
 Re: If city sues Bayfront, the community will lose, Feb. 27.
Thank you! Thank you! Philip Gailey's opinion on Bayfront was right on target.
I'll lose, too, because Bayfront is the hospital on my HMO. Truly, this is a dangerous course and, believe me, I laughed out loud when I read what Gailey wrote: "This City Council couldn't organize a two-car funeral procession."
Medical care is the only concern of sick people who need healing.
Judith S. Kennedy, St. Pete Beach
Is it a payback?
Re: Despite boom, Bush pushes tax cuts, Feb. 27.
With the donations George W. . Bush has received, it's quite obvious that the organizations and supporters are not overtaxed. I presume a tax cut would be some form of a "payback." It would also invite even larger donations in the future.
   A tax cut for the majority of the citizens would be hardly noticed, a drop in a bucket.
Paying down the national debt would be the intelligent thing to do.
Donald F. Kelly, St. Petersburg
Time for tax cuts
Re: Despite boom, Bush pushes tax cuts, by Bill Adair and Tim Nickens, Feb. 27.
This article reinforces the Times' hatred for George W. Bush in particular and Republicans in general.
Boom time is tax cutting time! I want tax cuts. Everyone I know wants tax cuts. The government must give our money back. Your article is an outrage. Propaganda time as usual.
Sally Ford, Redington Beach
Helping the people
 Does your paper find fault in a government taking care of citizens? It looks like it in your article Following the flow on Feb. 27. These Arab governments are using the oil money to build schools, hospitals, roads, etc., for the benefit of their people.
Do you think it would be different if that oil reserve were in the United States? You bet it would. There would be a hundred new billionaires. There would be no spending for public conveniences because that would not fit in the corporate picture - greed. And do you think you would be paying $ 1.40 per gallon? Guess again - more like $ 3 or $ 4 a gallon.
I find it disgusting to knock a country for taking care of its people.
John Sullivan, Largo
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%); ABORTION RIGHTS (90%); FAMILY PLANNING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS & CIVIL LIBERTIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PARENTING (90%); REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (78%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); ABORTION (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); LAW & LEGAL SYSTEM (75%); MEN (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); APPROVALS (68%)

Company: BAYFRONT MEDICAL CENTER INC  (95%); BAYFRONT MEDICAL CENTER INC  (95%);    AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (60%)

Organization: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION  (60%)

Industry: SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES;  (%); HEALTH CARE (89%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%)

Geographic: SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%)

Load-Date: March 7, 2000


End of Document
