



Daily News (New York)
September 28, 2008 Sunday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2008 Daily News, L.P.


Section: NEW YORK VUE; Pg. 8; SOAPSUDS
Length: 572 words
Byline: BY CAROLYN HINSEY
Body


Fresh off his latest split from another Logan woman, Nick asks Katie to move in with him this week on "The Bold and the Beautiful."
"His marriage to Bridget is over," declares Jack Wagner, who plays the seafaring Nick. "And Katie is pregnant with his baby."
Adding to the awkwardness of Nick's moving in with Bridget's pregnant aunt Katie comes the wrinkle that he is about to sign an agreement with Bridget's mother, Brooke, to share custody of their baby, Jack.
"I call him the seed man," quips Wagner. "He just plants his seed everywhere."
As for the agreement, "It's a big decision for Nick to do shared custody because he doesn't like [Brooke's love] Ridge. But Ridge says he is completely behind it and will do his best to make it work. And then Brooke and Nick have all these scenes with baby Jack. It's very intimate. She's very connected to the seed man."
Many viewers think Nick is still in love with Brooke, despite his new romance with her sister.
"There's going to be a little oil on the track here," says the actor, who shot to fame in the '80s as Frisco on "General Hospital" and then spent years as Peter on "Melrose Place." "That's why they did those scenes with the custody battle, making it legal. We give each other a look at the end, and Nick says, 'I guess it's just meant to be.' We played it light, but the underlying history of these characters is, 'I'd go back there in a minute.'"
More importantly, "Nick finally has a child."
And he's about to have another one with Katie ... or is he?
After Nick and Brooke sign the papers on Thursday, Katie collapses with abdominal pain.
"She was doing fine, so it's a bit random," says Wagner. "The action moves to the hospital where something happens. We're going to get back to the chemistry that originally put those two together in the first place. With Katie, there was always this underlying fun, but they were also butting heads. Maybe now we can get back to the fun and banter, and establish the relationship again."
It has been a long, difficult road for Nick with the three Logan women.
"It has been very drama-driven," agrees Wagner. "The pregnancy, the custody battle, the divorce. There hasn't been a lot of humor, although I try to put it in wherever I can. But then they tell me, 'Juggling the
baby's toys will not work here, Jack. We've got to be a little more serious here.'"
Sidebar:
WHO WHAT WHEN
ANSWERS TO YOUR QUESTIONS ABOUT DAYTIME SOAPS
Q On "One Life to Live," how did Brody get DNA proof that Shane is his son? I thought Rex was Shane's father.
T.K., via Internet
A He is. Brody stole a toothbrush from Rex (John-Paul Lavoisier, above) and claimed it was his own to get the DNA "proof" that he fathered Shane.
Q How was Ryan on "All My Children" able to get Annie pregnant when he had a vasectomy?
S.T., Queens
A Ryan received a letter saying his vasectomy didn't take. Annie intercepted the letter and purposely got pregnant, hoping to keep him in the marriage. It didn't work - he left her anyway,
and then she lost the baby.
Q What happened to Eileen Davidson (Ashley) on "The Bold and the Beautiful"?
Linda, via Internet
A Ashley's storyline dwindled after she broke up with Ridge. The good news is that Davidson has crossed Ashley back to "The Young and the Restless" and she has been promised a big story in the fall.
GOT A QUESTION ABOUT SOAPS?
Mail it to Ask the Soap Expert,
c/o The Daily News, 450 W. 33rd St.,
New York, NY 10001-2681 or e-mail 

Graphic

 
Jack Wagner
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Q-A

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); MARRIAGE (77%); AGREEMENTS (76%); TV (%); SOAP OPERA (%)

Load-Date: September 29, 2008


End of Document
