



The New York Times
July 15, 2007 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
Section: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 22; The Way We Live Now: The Ethicist
Length: 530 words
Byline: By Randy Cohen
Body


Years ago when I confirmed a new patient's pregnancy, she burst into tears. Her husband had had a vasectomy; her pregnancy was a result of a brief affair; she would not consider abortion. She begged me to keep her secret for the sake of her children and marriage. When unexpectedly confronted by her husband, I lied, saying his vasectomy must have failed. The marriage survived, and I believe my lie was justified. Was it?   Name Withheld
Ordinarily, there would be no opportunity to lie. Medical ethics compels you to preserve a patient's -- in this case, the wife's -- privacy (even if, as I do, you think your patient was wrong to deceive her husband). Certainly you would not have dropped by the house to set the guy straight. 
  But a quick decision was forced on you. And while your motives were admirable, you should not have lied, as I suspect you know: that's why this has stayed with you.
  Your lie deprived the husband of important information about the child he would be expected to raise. (What if you inspired him to sue the physician who performed his vasectomy?) And what of the child's interest in an honest account of his or her parentage? And has the biological father no standing here?
  Your well-intentioned lie furthered the couple's building a life together on a falsehood. If the husband's suspicions returned, he could have gotten a blood test. Or the truth might have come out through gossip, a medical emergency or the boyfriend's reappearance. If the husband was angry that day, think how he might feel later.
  Instead, you should have gently but firmly put the husband off and helped your patient think through the implications of dishonesty. She might have persisted in her deception, and the physician who performed the vasectomy might have abetted her lie, but that is beyond your control.
  When I arrived to baby-sit for a loving family with children I adore, the mother told me her daughter was coming down with a cold. Shouldn't she have warned me in advance? I'm a student and don't have time to get sick. I stayed, knowing this working mom needed the help, but my dad says I should have left. Is he right?   Eve Rybnick, West Orange, N..J.
  Your dad's advice is delightfully sans souci, but I'm glad he's not assigning air-traffic controllers. To take the rest of the day off. With those sniffles.
  You did well not to leave this mother in the lurch. She should have told you promptly about her child's health and let you decide if you wanted the job. An employer should not unilaterally and significantly alter the terms of employment. But her failure to alert you -- if it was a failure: her child's symptoms could have emerged late -- to this minor malady is insufficient reason to jilt her. Let's keep your peril in perspective. The daughter didn't have the plague; she had a cold, a routine hazard for anyone who leaves the house, and certainly for anyone who has contact with kids: they're walking petri dishes of who-knows-what.
  Incidentally, nobody has time to get sick, not even those spared the awesome burden of student life, and yet with ordinary prudence -- wash hands; eat properly -- few need turn hermit to avoid catching cold.  



Graphic

 
Drawing: (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)                                      
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (93%); MARRIAGE (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); ABORTION (78%); LEGAL PATERNITY (78%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); ETHICS (75%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (73%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH (73%); MEDICAL ETHICS (70%)

Industry: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%)

Geographic: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

Load-Date: July 15, 2007


End of Document
