



The New York Times
October 3, 2004 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company
Section: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18; CHRONICLE HUMOR
Length: 1723 words
Byline: By Neil Genzlinger
Body


THREE years ago, right about now, a lot of people were wondering if anything would ever seem funny again. The various mind-sets that make humor work -- the perverse joy of incongruity, the detached contempt of satire -- suddenly were nowhere to be found in the American psyche. ''It's the end of the age of irony,'' Graydon Carter, editor of Vanity Fair, said a few days after the attacks of Sept. 11. Steve Levitan, a television producer, put it just as succinctly: ''When you laugh at something, you feel guilty.''
 But it turns out that humor, like hope and Rasputin, is a very difficult thing to kill. In fact, it has returned with a vengeance, more scathing than ever. The apparent death of the formulaic sitcom has come not because nothing is funny anymore but because such warmed-over gruel isn't funny enough. Jon Stewart, the king of caustic, now rules with his ''Daily Show.''
  A bunch of new books are hoping to secure a significant spot in this revived humor landscape. Easier said than done. Getting laughs from a printed page is much harder than getting them in performance; there are no double takes or film-editing tricks to help sell the bit. Equally tricky are books about humor. The making of jokes, like the making of luncheon meat, may not be something people want to know too much about.
 So what's funny on the store shelves at the moment? It's a subjective question, of course, but we will here attack it with at least a veneer of objectivity. We will break assorted books down by various quasi-quantifiable criteria in an academic-sounding manner, and we will conclude with a cost-benefit assessment of whether there is a better humor investment you might make for the price of the volume. Lame? Maybe. But humor us.
 THE BOOK: ''The Suburban You: Reports From the Home Front,'' by Mark Falanga (Broadway).
 WHAT IT'S AIMING FOR: Wry suburban everyman wisdom.
 WHAT IT ACHIEVES: Irritating self-absorption.
 ANALYSIS: Falanga, who writes for GQ, The Chicago Tribune and Child magazine, goes for the Bill Geist market, telling tales about youngsters who play ball and parents who socialize at backyard barbecues. But instead of gentle chuckles, his stories trigger an urge to smack him upside the head. Perhaps this is because his everyman universe is one of German cars and golf lessons; cute stories become less cute when told from a vantage point of smugness and overprivilege. Perhaps it's because the whole book is written in the second person, so that those not in the upper-middle-class club are reminded of their inadequacy with every sentence. (''You live a few blocks from the lake. In fact, you paid more than anyone would guess for your house because it is so close to the beach.'') Mostly, though, the problem with ''The Suburban You'' is that its stories aren't very fresh or insightful. Others have done it much, much better.
 NUMBER OF TIMES IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH OUT LOUD: None.
 BETTER USES OF THE $21.95: Geist's 1992 classic, ''Little League Confidential,'' and a box of Girl Scout cookies.
 THE BOOK: '' 'Scuse Me While I Whip This Out: Reflections on Country Singers, Presidents and Other Troublemakers,'' by Kinky Friedman (Morrow).
 WHAT IT'S AIMING FOR: Beats me.
 WHAT IT ACHIEVES: Irksome, occasionally dazzling name-dropping.
 ANALYSIS: Friedman turns his swaggering Texas writing style to nonfiction -- or so he says, though there are times when you wonder if he's using the same definition of nonfiction as the rest of us. The collection of household names who turn up -- Don Imus, Joseph Heller, Bob Dylan, President Bush -- defies categorization, as do the stories he tells about them. The prose is, if nothing else, refreshingly brash. Here is Friedman describing Willie Nelson: ''When Willie's not playing golf, he's mystical almost to the point of autism, which is not particularly helpful if you're trying to interview him.''
 NUMBER OF TIMES IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH OUT LOUD: Non-Texans, a dozen; Texans, 473.
 BETTER USES OF THE $22.95: A couple of cheap cigars and the 30th-anniversary reissue of Friedman's CD ''Sold American,'' which includes the song ''Get Your Biscuits in the Oven and Your Buns in the Bed.''
 THE BOOK: ''Created in Darkness by Troubled Americans: The Best of McSweeney's Humor Category,'' edited by Dave Eggers, Kevin Shay, Lee Epstein, John Warner and Suzanne Kleid (Knopf).
 WHAT IT'S AIMING FOR: The sensation of being hit by a hip, humorous train.
 WHAT IT ACHIEVES: The sensation of being hit by a hip, humorous train.
 ANALYSIS: This collection of humor from the quarterly magazine McSweeney's has a smattering of pieces that go on too long or whose shelf life has expired, but mostly it breaks mold after mold in hilarious fashion. The titles alone give a sense of the lunacy: ''The Ten Worst Films of All Time, as Reviewed by Ezra Pound Over Italian Radio,'' by Greg Purcell; ''How Important Moments in My Life Would Have Been Different if I Was Shot Twice in the Stomach,'' by Jake Swearingen. Even the lists, employing one of the easiest comic devices and one seemingly beaten to death by David Letterman's nightly Top 10, are often home runs. Try, for instance, John Moe's ''Possible Follow-Up Songs for One-Hit Wonders'' (''How Are We Going to Get These Dogs Back In?'') and Jim Ruland's ''Bad Names for Boats'' (''Sea Pinto,'' ''U.S.S. Colander'').
 NUMBER OF TIMES IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH OUT LOUD: Dozens, if read in short bursts; too much of this kind of stuff at once can be numbing.
 BETTER USES OF THE $16.95: None.
 THE BOOK: ''Gasping for Airtime: Two Years in the Trenches of 'Saturday Night Live,' '' by Jay Mohr (Hyperion).
 WHAT IT'S AIMING FOR: Insider chic.
 WHAT IT ACHIEVES: Late-to-the-party whininess.
 ANALYSIS: Mohr, now the creator, executive producer and host of the NBC reality show ''Last Comic Standing,'' was a ''Saturday Night Live'' writer and performer from 1993 to 1995, not the show's best period. His book wants to document the ugly side of comedy making, but it provides no behind-the-scenes info that we haven't heard ad nauseam every time the show observes a milestone anniversary or some other special occasion. By his own account, Mohr made few contributions to ''S.N.L.'' -- so few that he dwells on individual lines he had in sketches -- and he sounds like the kind of employee who gives personnel managers fits. He even plagiarized an entire sketch. His comic tastes, too, are puzzling. He seems to have worshiped Chris Farley, but the anecdotes he tells about Farley make the fellow sound frat-house repellent rather than comedically gifted.
 NUMBER OF TIMES IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH OUT LOUD: None.
 BETTER USES OF THE $23.95: A down payment on the recently released DVD ''SCTV Network 90, Volume 1.''
 THE BOOK: ''It's Not Easy Bein' Me: A Lifetime of No Respect but Plenty of Sex and Drugs,'' by Rodney Dangerfield (HarperEntertainment). 
 WHAT IT'S AIMING FOR: A quick buck.
 WHAT IT ACHIEVES: A timeless something-or-other.
 ANALYSIS: Dangerfield's book is close to useless as autobiography: its anecdotes lack dates and sometimes locations, and it is stingy on domestic and biographical personal details. But it documents the one-of-a-kind humor of the man who gets no respect, who is now 82. How much of a true original is Dangerfield? When you read this book, you unconsciously do it in his voice; he is imprinted in your cerebellum like the ''Gilligan's Island'' theme song. Every few paragraphs the text is interrupted with a Dangerfield joke -- I told my doctor I want to get a vasectomy. He said with a face like mine, I don't need one,'' and ''I tell ya, my family were always big drinkers. When I was a kid, I was missing. They put my picture on a bottle of Scotch,'' and a zillion others.
 NUMBER OF TIMES IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH OUT LOUD: Normal people: approximately 120. ''Caddyshack'' fans: 2,000.
 BETTER USES OF THE $25.95: None that will be named here. Hasn't the guy endured enough disrespect?
 THE BOOK: ''Generalissimo el Busho: Essays & Cartoons on the Bush Years,'' by Ted Rall (Nantier Beall Minoustchine). 
 WHAT IT'S AIMING FOR: Overthrow of the United States government.
 WHAT IT ACHIEVES: Oddly, some valuable historical perspective.
 ANALYSIS: Ted Rall, a cartoonist and columnist for Universal Press Syndicate, is more hostile to President Bush than most members of Saddam's inner circle, as this collection of his work from recent years makes scaldingly clear. There's nothing really humorous here; the satire mixed into Rall's screeds is far too bitter for that. In a piece from October 2002, he calls the military mission in Afghanistan ''Operation Enduring Failure.'' In another 2002 piece, he refers to the Bush administration as a ''circus of hypocrites.'' The best part of the volume, though, is its earliest material, centered on the 2000 election. Rall, unlike practically everyone else, allowed the president no honeymoon. He labeled the election stolen early and often. The resolution of the whole mess was far too casual for his taste; there was, he felt, too much at stake. Given all that has happened since, it appears he was right.
 NUMBER OF TIMES IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH OUT LOUD: None. The fume-o-meter, however, for both pro-Bush and anti-Bush readers, will be close to exploding.
 BETTER USES OF THE $19.95: None.
 THE BOOK: ''Molvania: A Land Untouched by Modern Dentistry,'' by Santo Cilauro, Tom Gleisner and Rob Sitch (Overlook).
 WHAT IT'S AIMING FOR: The inattentive-travel-book-buyers' market.
 WHAT IT ACHIEVES: Greatness.
 ANALYSIS: The idea here -- a fake travel guide to a nonexistent country, looking and reading like a Frommer's -- may seem like a one-joke gimmick, but the execution, by a trio of Australian satirists, is sublimely brilliant. Yes, it rides on East European stereotypes (Gypsies especially come off poorly), but the parody of effete travel writing is what really makes it work. We learn not only about Molvania but about its great historical figures, like the artist Jzacol Rebljeten: ''A strong feature of his painting was the way he deliberately distorted the proportions of his subjects in what many scholars believe was an early attempt to abandon Naturalism in favor of the Mannerist style. Others have suggested he just wasn't very good at drawing.''
 NUMBER OF TIMES IT'LL MAKE YOU LAUGH OUT LOUD: If you're in the right mood, hundreds.
 BETTER USES OF THE $13.95: None.




Graphic

 
Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Review

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: DEATH & DYING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TERRORISM (71%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (65%); COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS (62%); Books and Literature (%); Books and Literature (%); Books and Literature (%); Books and Literature (%); Books and Literature (%); Books and Literature (%); Books and Literature (%); Books and Literature (%); Books and Literature (%)

Industry: TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%)

Person: JON STEWART (72%); Neil Genzlinger; Mark Falanga; Kinky Friedman; Dave Eggers; Jay Mohr; Rodney Dangerfield; Ted Rall; Santo Cilauro; Tom Gleisner; Rob Stitch

Geographic: UNITED STATES (78%)

Load-Date: October 3, 2004


End of Document
