



 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
May 25, 2002 Saturday,
Home Edition


Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Religion Faith & Values;; Letters
Length: 835 words
Byline: FRANK BRENNAN, EDWARD J. STROUGAL, GEORGE MILLER, A. BRYAN JAMES, FRANK DARTNELL
Body


Contraception, religion revisited
Stephen Kulik's blistering letter condemning contraception reveals a person caught up in a medieval time warp. Undoubtedly Catholic, he reveals a glaring ignorance of the roots of his own religion's moral worldview. The church's stance against contraception is nothing more than a logical extension of the early church fathers' repugnance toward sexual intercourse per se: to wit, Augustine's view that it was fundamentally "disgusting"; Arnobius called it "filthy and degrading"; Methodius, "unseemly"; Jerome, "unclean"; Tertullian, "shameful"; Ambrose, a "defilement."
Since unfortunately this horrific sex business was the only way to bring new souls into the fold, it grudgingly would be tolerated --- but only without passion and only with reproduction as its purpose. Is it any wonder, then, given this rootstock of belief, a later church father of enormous influence, Thomas Aquinas, continued the theme via the "natural law" argument against contraception? "Nature" (meaning God) made the genitals for reproductive purposes only: Any other purpose, especially pleasurable release, was an abomination.
For the Journal-Constitution
Thus, contraception was a twofold evil: Obviously, the offending couple were contravening conception, and --- horror of horrors --- they just might be letting themselves enjoy the sex act!  All this might be humorous if it weren't so sad. I'm an ex-Catholic, and I've seen firsthand how the church has destroyed the naturalness and joy of sex and left in its place a legacy of sexual guilt. The pedophilia scandal is just more residue emanating from centuries of warped teachings. I wish Kulik liberation, which he just might achieve with some long, hard thinking. Frank Brennan, Acworth
 
Salute to letter writer, newspaper
That Stephen Kulik's scintillating knowledge of this weightiest of subjects would be so eloquently illustrated in his own writing, and in the setting of a daily newspaper to boot, might be a miracle in present-day journalism. . . . I salute Mr. Kulik, this column and this newspaper! The presenting of this thoroughly apt and remarkably strong account, presumably as a defining initial offering, was a gesture of decided fairness. Many thanks to Faith & Values. Edward J. Strougal, Atlanta
 Sex justified only for reproduction?
According to Mr. Kulik, sexual activity is justified only if it might produce life. This means post-menopausal women and those with a hysterectomy, no matter their age, should abstain from sex. Oh yes, also include the young women who had ovarian cancer and had her ovaries removed. The man in his 20s who had a vasectomy is also prohibited. Pity the poor teenager who has been declared infertile. But no doubt Mr. Kulik has received divine guidance and these people are just out of luck. George Miller, Stone Mountain
 
Faulty premises, faulty conclusions
An "Oxford don turned to (fuzzy) math to defend faith." Philosophy starts from premises and uses deductive reasoning to reach conclusions. If you start with faulty premises, you will reach faulty conclusions.
To prove the reality of Jesus' resurrection, Richard Swinburne opines, "if there is a God of the traditional kind. . . ." From that premise anything becomes possible. He might well have started with, if there are purple unicorns dancing on the dark side of the moon. . . . "Given e and k, h is true if and only if c is true. . . . The probability of h given e and k is .97." Therefore, "the probability of the Resurrection comes out to be a whooping 97 percent."
Now I think I know where the image of fuzzy thinking philosopher, who is so smart he walks out into traffic, comes from. Swinburne's 97 percent proof sounds more like 97 proof to me.
Christians have been trying to sell me on this Bronze Age fairy tale all my life. Whether it's that old-time religion or dressed up in philosophical jargon, I'm still not buying.
I believe the myth of Jesus' death and resurrection and the many other undying God/hero myths it is based on are poetic metaphors meant to show us how we can change, here and now, in our own lives. I am constantly amazed at the lengths Christians will go to reconcile their belief in a pre-scientific mythological system with a postmodern worldview. A. Bryan James, Athens
 Instructions come with fish emblems
When Christians succumb to their definition of sin, they say the devil made them do it. When they become proselytizing nuisances, Jesus made them do it. And when asked why their faith should be considered the truer truth, their answer is, of course, because the Bible tells them so. All this makes me certain that those little fish emblems that Christians stick on their car bumpers come with detailed, no-brainer instructions. The free-thought challenged need that sort of thing. Frank Dartnell, Marietta
 
Send your letters to Faith & Values Letters, P.O. Box 4689, Atlanta GA 30302. E-mail to . Letters are edited at the discretion of the editor. Please keep letters to 500 words.  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (89%); SEXUAL BEHAVIOR (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (78%); SCANDALS (77%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (76%); WOMEN (76%); NEGATIVE NEWS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); MENOPAUSE (67%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (65%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); OVARIAN CANCER (60%); CANCER (50%)

Company: STONE MOUNTAIN CHEVROLET  (50%); STONE MOUNTAIN CHEVROLET  (50%)

Geographic: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%)

Load-Date: May 25, 2002


End of Document
