



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
December 7, 2021 Tuesday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2021 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A8
Length: 1050 words
Body


> Archiving note: This article has not been checked against the print edition and shall not be used as an official copy of the newspaper. To verify accuracy, please compare to our digital microfilm at 
Anti-choice means state control of a woman's body
Regarding "Few want Roe overturned, but abortion opinions vary widely" (Dec. 3): I believe the main question in the abortion debate is: Whose life and rights are more important? They cannot be equal. Does the woman, who is a fully sentient and self-aware being, stay in control of her body, or does the state control her body on behalf of a non-sentient embryo that may, or may not, fully develop?
A fertilized egg is not a human being; it is a potential human being. The same way a caterpillar is not a butterfly. A fertilized egg is not a sentient being. And religious definitions are irrelevant in a secular government.
Anti-choice is really about controlling women. There could be a huge reduction in abortions if we supported universal health care, paid maternity leave, free day care and comprehensive sex education. Teach boys that preventing pregnancy is equally their responsibility. Or how about controlling men's bodies by requiring all men, at the age of 18, to get a reversible vasectomy?
Do we want to tell women that, once pregnant, their rights end and they are "nothing but a host" as a former Virginia Republican state senator once stated? A complete loss of body autonomy is, basically, slavery.
Or do we tell women it is your body, it is your life. Here are all of your options. We trust you to make the best decision for you, according to your personal beliefs. That is what pro-choice really means.
Sandra Greenberg - Bridgeton
US needs a vacation from seeing Donald Trump's face
Regarding "Trump tested COVID-positive pre-debate, ex-aide says in book" (Dec. 1): I would like to propose a much needed refreshing vacation for millions of Americans: How about a week off without seeing Donald Trump's face? Trump's narcissistic head would implode. He would encourage his followers to fight like hell against it. There would be blowback from his enablers and Fox News, along with parades with his banner held high and all his supporters denying reality.
Jim Arnitz - St. Louis
Cuomo firing is a blow to journalism's integrity
Regarding the editorial "CNN's Chris Cuomo deserves an unceremonious boot out the door" (Dec. 1): The Post-Dispatch's outrage over CNN broadcaster Chris Cuomo is too late. When the accusations first surfaced, the media, including CNN, did not investigate. Only when the New York attorney general released a damning report did the media respond and CNN take action.
The reputation of professional journalism is, in my opinion, at an all-time low. I believe this is one more nail in the coffin.
Jim Beatty - O'Fallon, Ill.
Truly ‘pro-life' politicians would stand up to gun lobby
Regarding "Dems renew push for gun-control bills after Oxford shooting" (Dec. 2): What kind of country is so adamant about overturning Roe v. Wade that we fail to protect our living breathing children in our schools?
This is not a country that is "pro-life." Instead, it is a country where the almighty dollar speaks louder than any words. How many more thoughts and prayers do Americans have to hear before something is done about gun control?
The goal of this country is to protect our children with common sense gun laws. Let's stop this insanity. How many more shootings like Sandy Hook, Parkland and now Oxford, Michigan, will it take for politicians to take on the gun lobby? How many more parents and friends need to say goodbye to their children before something is done? The country is waiting.
Yvonne Serbell - Sunset Hills
Parson's mask stand suggests he doesn't value life
Regarding "Parson lashes out after news report reveals his office buried a study showing mask mandates work" (Dec. 3): Gov. Mike Parson's defense of his decision not to tell Missouri citizens about the safety factors favoring masks includes his tenacity about free choice. He reveals his lack of care for those who voted for him. He apparently relies on Missourians who showed similar support for Donald Trump, who once said he could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue in Manhattan and shoot somebody and not lose any voters.
Free choice is a personal matter. If free choice endangers those who have no choice in the matter, the issue is about arrogance. I had hoped Parson cared about who lives or gets sick and dies. Apparently not. Does he represent Missouri? Who can we trust if not each other?
Jim Hauschultz - Kirkwood
Consider the needy when spending Rams money
Regarding "Next up after Rams settlement: Dividing up the cash" (Nov. 30): Here are my suggestions about what to do with the settlement windfall: 1) Make sure every shelter and food bank is filled to overflowing with bedding, clothing and food. 2) Help fill all requests from the Post-Dispatch's 100 Neediest Cases campaign. 3) Donate a good chunk to St. Jude's Children's Hospital, Shriners Hospital for Crippled Children, and St. Louis Children's hospital. 4) Make sure all our early childhood schools have the money needed to fulfill all their clients' needs.
Let's take care of our own St. Louis. Let's show the country that we are committed to using that money to help our citizens. First things first.
Eileen DiGerolamo - Glendale
State and local tax proposal is a boon to the wealthy
Regarding "Nicklaus: SALT debate will show whether Democrats really want progressive tax code" (Sept. 26): Build Back Better gives the rich a pass on paying their fair share. The federal deduction for state and local taxes (SALT) limit goes from $10,000 to $80,000.
Bill Simon - Chesterfield
Parson's ‘hacking' probe is a clear abuse of power
Regarding "Missouri officials planned to thank Post-Dispatch before threatening newspaper, emails show" (Dec. 2): The Federal Bureau of Investigation's cybersecurity experts told Gov. Mike Parson that the Post-Dispatch reporter's work wasn't a hack. He still proceeds to waste our tax money on a sham investigation by the Missouri Highway Patrol, I believe, just because he doesn't like the Post-Dispatch. In my opinion, this is abuse of power and straight up corruption.
Denis Beganovic - St. Louis
Read more letters online
at STLToday.com/letters
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: ABORTION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); PRINT JOURNALISM (89%); JOURNALISM (79%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SEX EDUCATION (76%); CONTRACEPTION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LIFE FORMS (70%); NARCISSISM (70%); RELIGION (67%); COVID CORONAVIRUS (50%)

Industry: PRINT JOURNALISM (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%)

Person: CHRIS CUOMO (92%); DONALD TRUMP (87%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: December 8, 2021


End of Document
