



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
July 1, 2022 Friday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2022 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14
Length: 937 words
Body


Women pioneered a state that is abandoning them
Regarding "Abortions are banned in Missouri, but lawmakers say the fight isn't over" (June 25): My family has been in Missouri since before 1821 statehood. This land has been our home for over 200 years. Towns, streets, churches and farms still bear the names of the ancestors who came before me. The only time I have ever lived outside of Missouri was when my late husband was on active duty in the Marine Corps. The pride I have for my home state is insurmountable.
So I don't understand how a state my family sacrificed everything to build and protect would not protect me in return. Women's rights are human rights, and our bodies should not be regulated by the government. The women of Missouri are the descendants of the very pioneer people who first settled this land. We are important too. Our voices should be heard. We just took a huge step back in a fight we never should have had to participate in to begin with. I have never called another place home, but I cannot raise my daughter in a place that goes against everything I have ever taught her about her body.
I ask fellow Missourians to consider women's voices during the next election.
Misty Blum - O'Fallon, Mo.
Roe ruling empowers states at the people's expense
Regarding "Abortions in Missouri: Prohibited, no exceptions for rape or incest" (June 25): In response to the overturn of Roe v. Wade, Gov. Mike Parson stated, without apparent appreciation for the irony, "We are happy that the U.S. Supreme Court has … returned power to the people and the states to make these decisions." I believe that's a lie. The Supreme Court has actually taken the power away from the people and given it to the states. The only people who should have the power to make the decisions about whether to have an abortion are the people who are pregnant, in my opinion. Anything else is tyranny. If you don't own your body, then you are not a full citizen.
It has become quite clear to me that any vote for a Republican is a vote against women's fundamental rights as citizens. The Republican Party has worked tirelessly to take women's power over their own bodies from them.
Lisa M. Hummel - University City
Court is trying to return US to a time that never existed
Regarding the editorial "Missouri's women just became second-class citizens. But they can still vote." (June 24): Thank goodness for the recent Dobbs decision handed down by our brave jurists/politicians on the Supreme Court. We can now return to a wonderful time when the women were beautiful, the men were strong, the children were bright, and rape and incest never happened.
It was also a time when serious fetal medical problems never occurred. Only the vilest of women would engage in premarital sex or any sex that was without the absolute intent to procreate. Sundays were always the best day of the week, when everyone went to church to sing praise and relish in the New Testament. After church, the women would cook and clean. Ah, happy days are here again thanks to those wonderful Christian soldiers in black robes. Amen.
Ryan Geraty - Lake Saint Louis
Biden must battle court decisions with executive orders
I am anti-abortion but pro-choice. Anyone not possessing a uterus has no right to legislate a woman's body. Why don't my elected officials make men get a mandatory vasectomy? They seem to want women to give birth to a child of rape or incest and send that poverty-stricken child to school only to be killed by a mentally challenged teenager who buys a gun.
Francine Buerke - Affton
Consider hardship of raising a child resulting from rape
Regarding "Abortions are banned in Missouri, but lawmakers say the fight isn't over" (June 25): In Missouri, if I am raped and become pregnant, I will have to endure this pregnancy. My husband and my kindergarten-age child will also have to endure this and all the mental, emotional and physical anguish that follows. What am I to tell my child who we chose to have about such an event, should such a horror occur?
I have been fortunate so far to never have to make the difficult choice regarding an abortion. But I know that restricting and taking that choice away from people shatters multiple lives of born human beings.
Lindsay Hornsby - St. Louis County
Ginsburg's ego opened the door to conservative takeover
Regarding "Supreme Court conservatives flex muscle in sweeping rulings" (June 25): To understand what just happened, it's important to look a little further back in the Supreme Court's history. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was in very poor health. But to satisfy her ego, she stayed on the job instead of allowing then-President Barack Obama to nominate a replacement. The recent Roe decision might have been very different except that one woman enjoyed her job too much.
Robert Dye - Spanish Lake
To get visitors downtown, lawlessness must be stopped
Regarding "Are teens and scooters really the problem in downtown St. Louis?" (June 27): I went downtown last Saturday, and I believe it's becoming less and less attractive. I witnessed rolling-car mayhem. There were hundreds of cars and people on Broadway spinning and sliding under the interstate overpass. Police were called, but I didn't see any arrests made. One officer said police were under order to not arrest because Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner's office won't prosecute. And so the mayhem continues.
If Mayor Tishaura Jones wants to make St. Louis an attractive place for people and businesses, something needs to be done with arrests and prosecutions for unlawful behavior.
Dawn Gallaway - St. Louis
> Read more letters online at STLToday.com/letters

Graphic

 
 Editorial Cartoon by Dave Whamond via CagleCartoons.com - Portrait of a president / Presidential portrait gallery  THE TRUMP LEGACY  (Viewing the Presidential Portraits in the National Portrait Gallery, Uncle Sam stops at the place where Donald J. Trump's portrait should be hanging. With hat in hand, he looks sadly at a broken dish and ketchup stains on the wall.) 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: LETTER

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ABORTION (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS & CIVIL LIBERTIES LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WOMEN (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS & POLITICS (79%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); ARMED FORCES (70%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (59%); government and politics (%); stategovernment (%); localgovernment (%); commentary (%); reader opinion viewpoint (%); women's rights (%); women's health care (%); abortion rights (%); Donald Trump anger cartoon (%); publicsafety (%); downtown crime (%); U.S. Supreme Court justice (%)

Organization: NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%)

Industry: ARMED FORCES (70%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (79%); MIKE PARSON (79%)

Geographic: MISSOURI, USA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: July 2, 2022


End of Document
