



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
October 20, 2016 Thursday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18
Length: 1034 words
Body


Police shouldn't be required to defend actions every time
The editorial "Clarity from data" (Oct. 17) applauding the pledge of the Justice Department to create a national database on violent encounters between police officers and citizens is likely written from a sincere desire to end the ill will that writers believe is caused by a lack of information and a lack of proof that police are performing their very difficult jobs free from "the publicly held assumption of bias."
The editorial states that this database "along with substantiating material from dashboard and body cameras, also is the best way for police departments to defend themselves."
Some do not share this "publicly held assumption of bias" on the part of police. Some do not see the need to require police to mount a defense every time a violent encounter occurs. Many have seen how the public viewing of video on past encounters has failed to satisfy all parties, instead reinforcing previously held beliefs.
My experience has been that police go where they are called; they respond to emergencies as they find them, and when and where they occur. In the St. Louis area, these calls go at a disproportionate rate to areas with a high concentration of minority citizens. No one should be surprised that this higher call rate results in a higher rate of encounters, even violent encounters, between police and those whose actions precipitated those calls.
To assume that police must always defend their actions in these tense situations, proving their even-handed approach with substantiating material from cameras, places them in untenable and increasingly risky situations.
We have lost more than enough police officers to citizens who believe they have not been treated fairly, and to reinforce those feelings of persecution by forcing police to pile up their defenses every time they are called out is not the answer.
Deane Looney - St. Louis
Planned Parenthood will continue its mission
The editorial "Women in the crossfire" (Oct. 7) highlighted the important work done by Planned Parenthood on behalf of women's and men's health. This has been our mission for the past 100 years, and we have so much of which to be proud.
Birth control, once out of reach, is widely available. Abortion, once a crime, is safe and legal. Planned Parenthood, once a single storefront in Brooklyn, has nearly 650 health centers across the country.
Planned Parenthood's roots started in the provision of compassionate birth control services and education for women - services that helped them stay healthier and provide opportunity by enabling women to control their own fertility. Women are still our core patients, with one in five American women having been a patient of Planned Parenthood.
Much has changed in the past century, however. A whole menu of services for women is now available - pap smears, well women exams, breast checks, abortion, pregnancy testing, preconception counseling - as well as services for men, notably STD testing and treatment, vasectomy and education.
Our passion and our promise to every person who needs us is quality, affordable, respectful health care with the highest legal, medical and ethical standards. We're looking forward to the next 100 years of care and to meeting the needs of the communities we serve.
Mary M. Kogut - St. Louis President and CEO, Planned Parenthood of the St. Louis Region and Southwest Missouri
Paper shows its favoritism in presidential election
The Oct. 15 edition of the Post-Dispatch certainly displayed the hypocrisy and favoritism that the paper has toward the candidates for president as well as the violation of Joseph Pulitzer's position of never belonging to any party and to be drastically independent. On Page 1 is an extensive article regarding Donald Trump's supposed sexual activities from accusers who decided now is the time to make their accusations.
Meanwhile, on Page A6 is a short article regarding Hillary Clinton's sensitivity to Wall Street ties. So much for impartial reporting.
Richard E. Browning - Pacific
Criticism of Trump comes from all sides of political spectrum
As I read the Oct. 14 edition of the Post-Dispatch, I was surprised but supportive of all columns, including the Charles Krauthammer column ("It's not the ‘locker room talk.' It's the ‘Lock her up' talk"), that have concluded that Donald Trump is unfit to be president.
An Associated Press story on Page 1 reports that Michelle Obama finds the direct quotes of Trump to be "shocking and demeaning" to women. These comments were not high school or college "locker room" talk. They were made by a man who was then 59 who wants to be president. My 7th grade-educated father would describe these comments as those made by a dirty old man.
Krauthammer, the dean of conservative journalists, was even more specific in that Trump's comments regarding his promise to lock up his opponent and to attack and promise retribution against journalists and their organizations are more distressing to him. Included was the following: "In America we don't persecute political opponents."
The editorial "Abuse isn't a perk" concludes "Trump still believes that power gives him a license to do as he pleases. And that makes him very dangerous."
These words from conservative, liberal, moderate and progressive voices will mean nothing if we citizens do not demonstrate courage by voting and ensuring that Trump is not president. It depends on us, not the media.
Jim Zemenick - Webster Groves
Read Dylan's poems to appreciate his genius
Absolutely, Bob Dylan deserves the Nobel Prize in literature.
I have to wonder if Jane Henderson ("Does Bob Dylan deserve the Nobel Prize in literature?" Oct. 16) or any of the critics of the Nobel Prize being awarded Dylan have ever picked up the 610-page book "Bob Dylan Lyrics 1962-2001." I wonder if they have seriously read and contemplated the 12 poems in just the one section titled "Slow Train Coming." Yes, I have spent many cold evenings reading and marveling at the poems in addition to "Blowin' in the Wind."
His genius can't possibly be appreciated simply by the lyrics that made the Top 40 on the radio.
Gretchen Hermann - Old Monroe
> Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters

Graphic

 
 FILE - This July 22, 2012, file photo shows U.S. singer-songwriter Bob Dylan performing onstage at "Les Vieilles Charrues" Festival in Carhaix, western France. Dylan won the 2016 Nobel Prize in literature, announced Thursday, Oct. 13, 2016. (AP Photo/David Vincent, File) 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: LETTER

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); WOMEN (89%); FAMILY PLANNING (86%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (86%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (85%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); NEGATIVE NEWS (79%); WRITERS (78%); POLICE FORCES (74%); EMOTIONS (72%); MINORITY GROUPS (65%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (64%); ABORTION (61%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS, SCREENING & TESTING (60%); MEN (60%); MEN'S HEALTH (60%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (59%); reader opinion (%)

Organization: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%)

Industry: REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (85%); WRITERS (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (71%); BODY CAMERAS (70%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (64%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (93%)

Load-Date: October 21, 2016


End of Document
