



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
April 12, 2022 Tuesday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2022 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A8
Length: 997 words
Body


Hawley's definition of a woman exemplifies ignorance
I read Sen. Josh Hawley's quote in the Huffington Post where he stated: "A mother is a woman. Someone who has a uterus is a woman. It doesn't seem that complicated to me." When queried further if, after a hysterectomy, would that person still be a woman, he was quoted as stating, "Yeah. Well, I don't know, would they?"
I gave birth to three children who I'm very proud of. All of them are accomplished adults in their respective professions. But the fact that I gave birth does not define me. Some time ago, I had a complete hysterectomy on the advice of my gynecologist. This means I no longer have a uterus or any female reproductive organs. By Hawley's definition, I am no longer a woman, but I used to be because I was able to give birth. By extension of his definition, is a man who has prostate cancer or a vasectomy so he can no longer procreate no longer a man?
Sadly, I am one of Hawley's Missouri constituents, whom he purports to represent.
Lynn Glauber - Hillsboro
Appraise Trudy Busch's adult actions, not teen years
Regarding Tony Messenger's column "A beer heiress, the Veiled Prophet, and the potential for real change in St. Louis" (April 3): The origins of the Veiled Prophet go back to a charming but silly romance written in 1817 by Irish author Thomas Moore about the mythical kingdom of Khorassan. A young Persian princess named Lalla Rookh is betrothed to a king but falls in love with a poet, who is actually a prince in disguise. They marry and live happily ever after. The outfits chosen for the Veiled Prophet ball are taken from the book's illustrations.
In 1970, I was invited to join the Junior League of St. Louis, which had no Black members. When the first African American young woman was proposed for membership, many were pleased. But to our dismay, others opposed her admission. Several of us decided to work for her acceptance. Although initially rejected, she was proposed a second time and accepted. This quiet and persistent effort achieved the goal of integrating the Junior League.
In 1974, the Busch family suffered an unspeakable tragedy when 8-year-old Christina Busch died in an automobile accident. Trudy Busch was 16 at the time. Three years later, she was crowned Veiled Prophet Queen. Many hoped the family could find some joy in life again, although the loss would always be there.
Instead of criticizing what a 19-year-old girl and her family did in 1977, let's consider the fine and generous person she is today. Then we can decide on her qualifications for the Senate.
Margaret Gilleo - Ladue
Ukraine needs military help now, not in the future
Regarding "Seeing Bucha atrocities a turning point for many" (April 7): How much longer is the free world going to stand by and watch the slow-motion destruction of a sovereign nation and its people? While this Russian madman, Vladimir Putin, allows unspeakable atrocities against non-combatants, the world stands by, watching. We may not want boots on the ground, but we should be doing much more than we are.
The entire world should remember the result of allowing a despot, unprovoked, to invade a free country with impunity. It was called World War II. We can place any sanctions we want on Putin, but if it does not deter him, then military intervention is required. If freedom-loving countries don't do what is necessary to stop this man now, he will continue to throw the world into chaos. If we are going to allow ourselves to be blackmailed by the nuclear threat, just where does it end?
If we continue to supply just enough equipment to Ukraine so they don't lose this war, that is a win for Putin. The war could possibly go on for years. We need to supply everything the Ukrainians need now to actually win their country back, and in the process demonstrate to the world that this type of aggression will not be allowed to succeed.
Then after the Ukrainians win, the Russians responsible must be tried for their war crimes, and Russia must pay the cost of rebuilding everything they destroyed in their failed bid.
Denny Eagan - St. Louis County
Cori Bush lacks record that merits reelecting her
Regarding "Republicans head to court to break gridlock over Missouri's congressional map" (April 1): This year's election cycle will see the 1st Congressional District incumbent seeking reelection. The recently expanded district will have whomever is elected as their representative. As such, the stakes couldn't be higher for the electorate as to who is their voice in Congress.
As a person who calls the area home, and still has important ties in the newly created district, I am concerned about who the elected representative is and what that person is capable of.
In my opinion, Rep. Cori Bush, D-St. Louis, represents nothing more than herself and a very narrow agenda. Her legislative record is less than stellar, piggybacking on bills and rarely the architect of any meaningful content. My sincere hope is that her record of non-achievement will follow her right up to election day, and the corresponding result at the ballot box.
Arlie Appler - Rolla
State needs to help rural counties lacking fluoridation
House Bill 3010 contains a measure to fund the Office of Dental Health Fluoridation Pilot Program.
This funding would initiate a pilot project with new fluoridation technology making community water fluoridation more accessible for distressed areas. Currently, 36 Missouri counties are without fluoridated water systems. All are rural and 16 are in high-need areas experiencing a dentist shortage.
Statewide, more than 1,100 water utilities, serving nearly 1.5 million people, don't put fluoride in the water. Yet, research shows fluoridation is the single most effective public health measure to prevent tooth decay.
The state's funding for community water fluoridation is imperative for the dental health of Missourians.
Rob Goren - Sunset Hills
President and CEO of Delta Dental of Missouri
Read more letters online
at STLtoday.com/letters

Graphic

 
 Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., questions Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson during her Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing on March 22.(AP Photo/Alex Brandon) 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); WOMEN (78%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (74%); DEATH & DYING (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (54%); PROSTATE CANCER (52%)

Industry: OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); WRITERS (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%)

Person: JOSH HAWLEY (79%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (58%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); UNITED STATES (67%); UKRAINE (50%)

Load-Date: April 12, 2022


End of Document
