



The New York Times
June 25, 2008 Wednesday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
Section: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3
Length: 804 words
Byline: By FELICIA R. LEE
Body


Dr. Alfredo Quinones-Hinojosa, a brain surgeon at Johns Hopkins Hospital, walks the halls as if he owns the place, but no one can accuse him of forgetting his roots.
  In the documentary ''Hopkins,'' a six-part series about the hospital that begins on ABC on Thursday night (at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central), he recalls scaling a fence at the Mexican border and becoming an illegal migrant farm worker before landing at Harvard University. He is the same guy he has always been, he says, with a holistic approach to his work. ''I touch these people's brains,'' he says. ''I touch their lives, their emotions.''
  A world-class hospital as stage set for great stories about medicine and the human condition is by now a familiar conceit of TV dramas and documentaries. This time, the cameras in ''Hopkins'' go into the operating rooms and waiting areas of this Baltimore hospital and focus on the caregivers.
  In fast-paced one-hour episodes that weave together several narrative threads, viewers see physicians like Dr. Quinones-Hinojosa; Dr. Brian T. Bethea, a cardiothoracic surgeon whose grueling schedule imperils his marriage to his childhood sweetheart; and Dr. Karen Boyle, a surgeon in the male-dominated field of urology. The tales rival any on soap operas or prime-time dramas: a 2-year-old awaiting a heart transplant; a middle-aged man whose brain surgery might leave him in a vegetative state; parents who must decide whether to keep their daughter on life support.
  ''It's 2 in the morning, and we gave hope to a family,'' Dr. Luca Vricella, the chief of pediatric heart transplantation, says as he leaves 2-year-old Peyton in a room with a new heart beating in his chest. 
  Dr. Vricella, whose young patients call him ''Dr. Luca,'' said he agreed to be filmed because he thought the series had a lot to say about medicine and the real lives of doctors. ''What I want people to get out of the show is what physicians go through, what their daily lives are like,'' he said. ''It's a very challenging life.'' 
  Johns Hopkins -- a cathedral of medicine where the modern-day residency was born -- was also the subject of ''Hopkins 24/7,'' an award-winning six-part series on ABC in 2000. Then, as now, viewers were served a steady diet of blood, survival and heartbreak wrapped around stories like the one about Tiffany, a 14-year-old who lost her uterus to cancer in the 2000 program. 
  ''Why not go back?'' said Terence Wrong, the executive producer of ''Hopkins,'' whose documentaries for ABC have included ''Hopkins 24/7,'' as well as ''Hooking Up,'' about online dating, and ''NYPD 24/7,'' about New York City police officers. ''Medicine is not static at all. There are a million ways that technology has impacted it. Culturally, there are tremendous changes. In 2000 the chief of surgery at Hopkins said that women don't have the stamina to be surgeons. Eight years later, the chief is a woman.'' 
  Johns Hopkins was also a natural choice for pragmatic reasons, Mr. Wrong said. Newer, tougher patient confidentiality rules, as well as the association of cameras in intimate places with the worst of reality television, made it harder to gain unfettered access at places other than Johns Hopkins. ''Hopkins 24/7'' won the filmmakers a reservoir of goodwill and trust among doctors and administrators. 
  ''Hopkins'' is not television for the squeamish. Besides plenty of close-ups of exposed organs and tubes being inserted into moaning patients, there is the anguish of parents and other loved ones.
  The drama is intersected by  light moments, like the scene of young surgeons standing around the operating table, talking about the connection between dancing and sex. And Dr. Boyle, the urologist, often tries a light touch to handle the intimate  topics of sexuality and fertility. 
  ''Hello,'' she cheerfully tells a couple after the man undergoes an operation to reverse a vasectomy. ''We have sperm. We have great sperm.''
  Dr. Boyle, who has three children younger than 3 and is leaving the hospital this summer for a private practice, said: ''I wanted to show that as a woman in a male-dominated profession and specialty, you can still have a family.  I also hope people realize that male infertility can be evaluated and treated.''
  Although viewers will see many  good-looking young doctors in ''Hopkins'' and even hear some moody background music, Mr. Wrong is adamant that this is not reality TV. It's not ''Grey's Anatomy,'' either, he said, referring to the hit drama series on ABC in which the doctors manage a few surgeries between their romances and gossip sessions. 
  ''What I think is valuable in this is what was valuable to me personally,'' Mr. Wrong said. ''There is a lot of fear and mystique surrounding hospitals. I think we demystify that and make the doctors real people.'' 



Graphic

 
PHOTO: A Johns Hopkins Hospital surgery team in ''Hopkins'' on ABC.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF NEIRA/ABC)            
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BRAIN (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (87%); COMAS & VEGETATIVE STATES (78%); DEATH & DYING (78%); EMOTIONS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (78%); MEN (75%); UROLOGY (73%); FARM LABOR (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); PEDIATRICS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (68%); MARRIAGE (65%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (64%)

Organization: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%)

Industry: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (77%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (77%); CAMERAS (73%); UROLOGY (73%); FARM LABOR (71%); PEDIATRICS (71%)

Geographic: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); MEXICO (79%)

Load-Date: June 25, 2008


End of Document
