



USA TODAY
August 9, 2002, Friday,
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.
Section: LIFE;; COVER STORY
Length: 2414 words
Byline: Maria Puente
Dateline: BLOOMINGTON, Minn.
Body

BLOOMINGTON, Minn. -- Take a look at a pretty typical summer day here in Minnesota's third-largest population center.
The bank is busy, there's a line at the post office, and investors are glumly tracking the market at the local stockbroker. Patients are showing up for their doctor's appointments; next door, a woman is getting a mammogram. The day-care center is filling up with kids; so is the amusement park. Def Leppard is giving a concert, and families are lining up to get into the aquarium. At the high school, the principal is getting ready for back to school; at the university, students are hunched over computers in marketing and accounting classes. The bus station is bustling, the cops are patrolling, the barber is snipping, the travel agents are ticketing, the radio station is broadcasting.
And at the wedding chapel, a happy couple is posing. Right next to Bloomingdale's.
This is the Mall of America, the largest, most hyperkinetic mall in America, and 10 years old on Sunday. This is the mall the "experts" said would never work: "A white elephant!" they all cried from their big-city offices.
"We were wrong," admits retail industry analyst Neil Stern of McMillan/Doolittle in Chicago. Indeed. A decade after it opened with blaring trumpets of national publicity, the Mall of America has succeeded beyond even its boosters' dreams. This is a mall that has transcended mere malldom to become a peculiar combo of commerce and community -- a quasi-township under glass (OK, steel and skylights) 5 miles south of Minneapolis-St. Paul in Bloomington, a suburb.
But it has grown way beyond Bloomington; it practically fills its own ZIP code. It was designed to be a super-sized cathedral of consumption, but it also has evolved into a commonwealth of consumers -- millions of them from around the USA, not to mention multitudes of Canadians, Europeans, Asians, Latin Americans and even Australians.
Clearly, they're not here just to go to another Gap. So why are they coming? "It's the biggest and it has that wonderful title -- and that kind of thing really impresses Americans," says Eric Nelson, an English professor at St. Olaf College in nearby Northfield and author of Mall of America: Reflections of a Virtual Community.
Carol Thrasher of Raleigh, N.C., was certainly impressed. She was in town recently for a four-day conference but spent every night at the mall, where she trolled the bead shop for gifts for her jewelry-making daughter. "I like it because it's big," said Thrasher, who, as a budget analyst for the federal government, knows from big. "We don't have anything like this in North Carolina."
Lady, they don't have anything like this anywhere in America.
State's top tourist destination
There are three things most Americans associate with Minnesota: Garrison Keillor's Lake Wobegon -- which doesn't exist; cranky/zany ex-wrestler Gov. Jesse Ventura -- who's on his way out; and the Mall of America. You can't overstate the impact of the mall in pumping up the profile of a state that has a lot of lakes, a lot of snow and not much else.
"It put a state whose best-known city is fictional on the map," says Karal Ann Marling, a pop culture expert at the University of Minnesota who buses to the mall from downtown Minneapolis to track trends.
Still, if Lake Wobegon is a fantasy, the Mall of America is a kind of fantasy, too. And can a giant mall really be a community? "What's a community these days?" says Marling. "When you add it all up, I don't know if it results in a community, but I'm not so sure most of our downtowns do, either. But it's still a warm and fuzzy place to be."
The mall is Minnesota's top tourist destination, attracting more than 40 million people a year. Many are families -- Mom, the kids and Dad. "Hey, we're here for the kids, they love the rides," shrugged Laura Burton, with husband Scott, both 38, of Indianapolis, as they sent their seven sons (all under 14) off into Camp Snoopy on a Saturday afternoon.
On peak days (130,000 shoppers), the mall is second only to Minneapolis-St. Paul in population. "I've worked at three major zoos and aquariums, and all my colleagues would give their eyeteeth to have that many people walking by their front door every day with money to spend," says Steve Ordahl, director of Underwater Adventures, the 4,000-creature aquarium in the mall basement.
The mall has more than 520 stores; 86 restaurants, fast-food or specialty food stores; nine nightclubs; 15 movie screens; and a passel of other attractions. It employs more than 11,000 people. It has 2.5 million square feet of retail space and nearly 13,000 parking spaces. It generates about $ 860 million in annual sales and an estimated $ 1.2 billion for the state economy.
And all that is just Phase I; Phase II, in development, will feature hotels, more retail space, office space, a performing arts and exhibit space, a spa and health club.
Meanwhile, the mall approaches its 10th anniversary with its trademark blend of wholesome fun and Minnesota niceness. Given the derision directed their way at the beginning, no one would blame the managers and owners if they indulged in a few "nyah, nyah, nyahs." But that wouldn't be nice. Instead, they prefer understatement.
"I've been wrong before, too," says Herb Simon, co-chair of Simon Property Group of Indianapolis, the mall's builder, manager and part owner. "Everyone is entitled to a mistake."
Well-rounded, townlike mall
Almost nothing about the Mall of America is unplanned: Mall management deliberately sought out medical clinics and schools to help round out the mall's environment. Still, given the Brobdingnagian character of the place, it is something of a surprise that it has morphed into a town. At this point, the mall has almost everything any town might have except houses and a place to get an oil change. (Well, they do need a dry cleaner and a drugstore, but they're working on those.)
Every year a few people die here (heart attacks and strokes), a few women come close to giving birth, and, occasionally, someone commits suicide. But there isn't much crime, or at least not violent crime; credit-card fraud and shoplifting are the main problems. The Bloomington police established a substation at the mall this year, assigning five officers, a sergeant and a bomb-sniffing dog to join 120 mall security officers in patrolling the "streets."
"The mall is as close to a downtown for Bloomington as you're going to get," says Sgt. Jeff Potts, supervisor of the unit.
Like any town, the mall has neighborhoods, where tenants and employees get to know each other and keep up on the daily gossip and news. "We've bonded on this arm of the mall, so we're always waving at the (convenience store) guys across the hall," says Janet Watchman, a nurse practitioner at the Sage Women's Clinic, which provides free mammograms to needy women.
The Sage clinic and the next-door Quello Clinic, a full-size family practice, are the only medical facilities located in an enclosed mall. The bulk of Quello's patients are mall employees, says administrator Dan Grosskopf, but there are occasional outsiders, like the time he ran into a friend in the waiting room whose husband was getting a vasectomy. "They wanted to say they had it done at the Mall of America," says Grosskopf with a laugh.
Coincidentally, that's exactly what they say at the Chapel of Love, perhaps the most highly publicized feature of the mall since it opened eight years ago. Step right up and the wedding chapel will arrange it all for you -- a pastor, the music, the flowers, the photographer, the invitations, your dress and shoes, even a reception in one of the mall's event rooms. Prices start at about $ 260. Some 400 to 500 couples per year take the plunge here.
Kimberly Duncan, 22, and Michael Jason Weese, 24, a local couple who got married July 27, say they chose the chapel partly because neither belongs to a church, but also because they wanted something unique. They were not disappointed. This was no Las Vegas quickie wedding: The chapel's wedding "producers" had everything organized to the minute, and the Rev. Jean Rollin performed a meaningful, non-denominational ceremony.
The setting may have been unusual, but the details were traditional. The bride wore white and a tiara. The groom wore a tux. The chapel was decorated with flowers and candles. Some of the 16 relatives and friends in attendance wiped away tears as the couple exited the chapel to the mall in front of Bloomie's third-floor entrance.
"People never remember the name of the church where they got married, but I'm always going to remember I got married at the Mall of America," Weese says.
If you can't imagine getting married at the mall, imagine going to high school or college there.
At the Metropolitan Learning Alliance, about 120 sophomores, juniors and seniors drawn from area high school districts attend specialized classes related to retailing and management. Teacher David Ekback once assigned his sociology class to observe and write about the "Santa experience" during the holidays. "They looked at Christmas from a different perspective after that," he says.
The National American University, a private, for-profit school focused on business and information technology, jumped at the chance to move in when the mall suggested it eight years ago, says regional president Mary Ellen Schmidt. It's convenient for the many mall employees among the 300 students. The university even began computer classes for the platoons of mall walkers who want to learn how to e-mail their grandchildren.
"It really is a community -- we rely on each other," says Schmidt, waving a copy of the mall's newsletter, The Hot Sheet. "And like any city, it's constantly changing."
Nobody actually lives at the mall, but some people come close. Bridget Priesz, 40, mother of three, is a part-time student at the university, works there as a receptionist, and also works for the mall in customer service.
"And I got married at the mall -- that's how much I like it," she says.
TEXT IF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE
If you go…
The Mall of America is so big that you probably can't see it all in one day. In fact, mall officials say that if you spent 10 minutes in every one of its 520 stores, it would take 86 hours to complete the tour. And that wouldn't count all the specialty vendors and carts.
If your time is more limited, here are things you don't want to miss:
Family fun
* Camp Snoopy. A seven-acre amusement park in the center of the mall. The 25-plus rides include a roller coaster. Try the Log Chute ride over a 40-foot waterfall.
* Underwater Adventures. For budding marine biologists, check out the 1.5-million-gallon aquarium in the basement. There's a petting tank, too, and if you're really brave (and have $ 175 and a scuba certification), you can dive with the sharks.
* NASCAR Silicon Motor Speedway. Climb into a race car for a computer-simulated taste of the fast lane.
For shoe lovers
* Sketchers. The latest in cool sneakers, some with inline skates.
* Nordstrom's shoe department. There isn't another in a 700-mile radius, so shoe freaks make a beeline for this store famous for its quantity, quality and service.
For the specialist
* The Garlic Shoppe (oodles of garlic-y goodies); Teavana (for the elegant tea sipper); Lake Wobegon (goofy gifts from the most famous town in radio land).
For foodies
* Cafe Odyssey. Zagat calls it "theme dining for adults." Choose between the Machu Picchu, Atlantis or African Serengeti rooms, where videos related to the "theme" play on the walls. So, in the Atlantis room, you're surrounded by fish, sharks and other ocean creatures swimming in and around "ruins" of Atlantis. Food's OK, too.
Oddities
* QVC @ the Mall. The shopping channel's only mall store, with a sampling of all that stuff they sell on TV. They broadcast live from the store several times a day. 
* Aquamassage. A cross between a car wash and a tanning bed. You get in (fully clothed), they cover you with a tarp and thousands of jets of warm water zip up and down your body.
* Chapel of Love. One-stop shopping for a wedding. Buy anything you would need except the diamond. On most days, at least one happy couple is tying the knot in the tiny chapel.
Mall morphs to meet need
When the mall opened in 1992, there was real fear that people would become too tired or just refuse to walk the "Sprawl of America." So the mall proudly unveiled the "Pepsi Trams," a fleet of people-movers intended to ferry people back and forth along the mall levels.
Ten years later, the trams are stuck in the basement. They were a good idea except for one detail: "They couldn't get through the crowds," says Maureen Bausch, vice president for business development. "We haul them out for parades every now and then."
That's just one of the things that have changed at the mall in the past decade. Most of the switches reflect fluctuating trends in the culture and in retailing.
* Country/Western stuff: "Boots, hats, line dancing -- it was big in the '90s, then it went away," Bausch says. "Now it's back, but in the teen market." And it has been tweaked: Western/Native American/turquoise jewelry stuff is hot in stores such as Spirit of the Red Horse.
* Teen tracking: Retailers are mad for them. At opening, there were 30 stores, such as Merry-Go-Round and Capezio, catering to teens. Today, there are 86, such as Abercrombie & Fitch and Old Navy. Four more are expected to go in by the end of this year and three more next year.
* Tween tracking: The little darlings are beginning to take control of their parents' wallets. Stores aimed at 6-to-13-year-olds didn't exist back then; now there are three, such as Zutopia, and more on the way.
* Boys: "It used to be that Mom shopped for them until they got to be 18." Now they'd rather do it themselves -- and they're bargain fiends, Bausch says.
* Theme dining: Restaurants such as Rainforest Cafe and Planet Hollywood really peaked at the mall in 1996, Bausch says. "Now, good food is the priority and the theme stuff is secondary. The chef is king, and the restaurants that do best are those with the best food." Rainforest and Planet are still there, but there are more sit-down restaurants than in the past. And the newcomers, such as Cafe Odyssey, California Cafe Bar & Grill and Napa Valley Grille, are aiming for the "casual chic" crowd looking for a date-night experience -- a little shopping, dinner, movie, nightclub -- at the mall. "There's real competition (for diners) now, and that is a big change in itself."

Graphic

 
GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (MAP); PHOTOS, Color, Dawn Villella for USA TODAY (4); PHOTO, Color, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY ; PHOTO, B/W, Mall of America; PHOTO, B/W, PRNewsFoto; Teavana: George Hamrick assists Herman Turner with a tea selection. Goin' to the chapel: Michael Jason Weese and Kimberly Duncan got married at the Chapel of Love. Nordstrom's: Darla Klementz of Minneapolis, with son Jack, shops for shoes. Along for the ride: Riders on the swings get a bird's-eye view of the Camp Snoopy amusement park at the Mall of America, Minnesota's top tourist destination. Ocean creatures, too, are at home at the mall: Visitors walk through the Underwater Adventures observation tunnel at the Mall of America.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: POPULATION SIZE (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); CONSUMERS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

Company: MINNEAPOLIS-SAINT PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT  (53%); MINNEAPOLIS-SAINT PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT  (53%)

Industry: SHOPPING CENTERS & MALLS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); RETAIL & WHOLESALE TRADE (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); TRAVEL AGENTS (54%)

Geographic: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

Load-Date: August 9, 2002


End of Document
