



The New York Times
April 11, 2017 Tuesday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
Section: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27
Length: 969 words
Byline: By WILLIAM NEUMAN and J. DAVID GOODMAN
Body


A tall man in a pinstriped suit sat alone on Monday on an orange-painted wooden bench, eating a yogurt-and-granola parfait handed to him by a staff member, but attracting little attention from the other passengers on the Staten Island Ferry.
The tourists taking pictures of the Statue of Liberty paid little heed until reporters informed them of the man's identity: Bill de Blasio, the mayor of New York City. A few ferry riders then asked to take photographs with the mayor, which he agreed to do. 
  Such was the modest beginning of Mayor de Blasio's Staten Island Week, five days of conducting the city's business from the borough. It was a chance, he said, to get in touch with Staten Islanders, a group that often complains of being neglected by a Manhattan-centric government and one that voted for Donald Trump for president.
  After disembarking from the John F. Kennedy (the oldest of the ferry system's vessels), Mr. de Blasio walked with long strides to Borough Hall in St. George, where he entered Room 125, his City Hall for the week. Later he walked across the hall to Room 122, decorated with blue wallpaper and sepia photographs of past borough presidents, for a meeting with his commissioners, whom he regularly confers with in Manhattan.
  Before the meeting started, the Staten Island borough president, James Oddo, welcomed the mayor and his staff with two boxes of cannoli from Royal Crown, a well-known local sandwich and pastry shop.
  A short time later, Mr. de Blasio -- who spent much of last week on the West Coast raising money for his re-election campaign -- got into his black S.U.V. and drove to a news conference in Tottenville, on Staten Island's South Shore. He answered questions from the news media before climbing back into his vehicle and returning to Borough Hall.
  Asked if the mayor planned to have lunch at a local eatery, the mayor's press secretary, Eric Phillips, said no. The mayor, he said, had brown-bagged it, bringing food from off the island.
  So it was that during much of his first day bringing city government to Staten Island, Mr. de Blasio managed to avoid speaking to ordinary Staten Islanders.
  Inside Borough Hall, the doors to Room 125 were closed. Police detectives in suits stood guard outside. Mr. de Blasio did not emerge. Mr. Phillips said the mayor was preparing for a town-hall meeting to be held Thursday.
  Mr. de Blasio's schedule for the rest of the day also appeared to have little potential for contact between the governing and the governed. Still in Borough Hall, he was to appear at 7 p.m. via remote hookup on ''The Road to City Hall,'' a television program broadcast from the NY1 studio in Manhattan; at 10 p.m. he was to visit a street repaving project in the Huguenot section of Staten Island.
  It was not included on the mayor's official schedule, but Mr. Phillips said Mr. de Blasio would also have dinner at a local restaurant before stopping at the work site.
  The mayor's agenda for Tuesday does include face time with Staten Islanders; he is slated to hold short one-on-one meetings with constituents at Borough Hall. His schedule provides no time for him to take questions from the news media; the weekly opportunity for reporters to ask so-called off-topic questions came on Monday, at the appearance in Tottenville.
  It began with a discussion of the benefits of the mayor's neighborhood policing initiative, which will be expanded this month to include Staten Island's 123rd Precinct, the safest in the city as measured by crime statistics. Mr. de Blasio ticked off a list of the ways that Staten Islanders had benefited from his policies.
  Deaths on the island from opioid drug overdoses have fallen this year to 17, from 30 during the same period last year, the mayor said. And a program to reduce the booming deer population by performing vasectomies on male deer had contributed to a reduction in the number of reported deer-related motor vehicle collisions. (There have been 11 this year, compared with 16 in the same period a year ago.)
  ''Some of these policies are really working on Staten Island,'' Mr. de Blasio said.
  But Mr. de Blasio, a progressive Democrat, acknowledged that he was not popular among Staten Islanders, who tend to be more conservative.
  Although Democrats outnumber Republicans among registered voters by about one and a half to one on Staten Island, Mr. de Blasio received fewer votes there in the 2013 election than his Republican opponent, Joseph J. Lhota. And the mayor's poll numbers on Staten Island, as Mr. Oddo pointed out during remarks accompanying the cannoli giveaway, ''aren't great'' -- a gracious understatement.
  ''You should show up in places where people agree with you and places where people disagree with you,'' Mr. de Blasio said.
  There were plenty of the latter nearby.
  ''Staten Island is the stepchild of the city,'' said Al Forestier, 54, a retired correction officer who lives in a white clapboard house next to the 123rd Precinct station house where Mr. de Blasio held his news conference. Asked if he thought that the mayor's week in the borough might help improve things, Mr. Forestier said: ''It might help as far as how it looks. If he don't do anything for us, it's just a trip out to the island.''
  Paul J. Massey Jr., a Republican real estate sales executive who is running for mayor, held an event on the Staten Island waterfront, in the Clifton neighborhood, where he criticized Mr. de Blasio for not incorporating a Staten Island stop for the city's soon-to-open citywide ferry system. (One had been proposed by the city for that location but was ultimately discarded.)
  Citing the mayor's run for re-election this year, Mr. Massey said Mr. de Blasio was ''effectively holding a campaign publicity stunt'' on Staten Island, ''that by the way is taxpayer funded.''



Graphic

 
PHOTOS: James Oddo, left, the Staten Island borough president, welcomed Mayor Bill de Blasio to Borough Hall with local cannoli Monday.
 Staten Island residents watched Mr. de Blasio speak outside the 123rd Precinct station. He earned fewer votes from the borough than his Republican opponent did in the 2013 mayoral election. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)       
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%)

Organization: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%)

Industry: FERRIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (73%); RETAIL BAKERIES (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%)

Person: BILL DE BLASIO (92%); DONALD TRUMP (76%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

Load-Date: April 11, 2017


End of Document
