



The San Diego Union-Tribune
August 16, 2009 Sunday


Copyright 2009 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. E-4
Length: 738 words
Byline: Allison Block
Body


After more than two-dozen novels, Pulitzer Prize winner Larry McMurtry is still on his game. In 1966, he introduced readers to restless Thalia, Texas, teenager Duane Moore in "The Last Picture Show." Sex and football kept Duane sane through high school in the bleak, lifeless town where he seemed destined to live out the rest of his days.
McMurtry continued Duane's tale in three subsequent novels full of sorrow, whimsy and heart ("Texasville," "Duane's Depressed," "When the Light Goes").
Duane married his sweetheart Karla, made a bundle in the oil business, then saw his boomtown go bust. In the throes of depression, he abandoned his car and took to walking everywhere. He consulted a lesbian psychiatrist who convinced him to read Proust (it actually helped). Through it all, he weathered the emotional storms of his family and friends.
In "Rhino Ranch," the series' bittersweet conclusion, we find Duane in his late 60s, worn out and world-weary in the wake of a near-fatal heart attack. He's still carrying on, though, as loved ones die off. He'll need all the gumption he can muster: Life adventures yet await.
In the early pages of the novel, two of Duane's longtime friends, Boyd Cotton and Bobby Lee Baxter, are standing watch over Rhino Ranch, the preserve newly established by billionaire heiress K.K. Slater to help rescue the nearly extinct African black rhinoceros. Bobby Lee rambles on about sex and the penile implant he says has changed his life; Boyd is all business.
Talk soon turns to Duane, the "go-to guy" in the oil business. "Being the go-to guy can get irksome," says Boyd. "You might not always be in the mood to be gone to." Indeed, Duane has moved, to Patagonia, Ariz., with his new young wife Annie (Karla died a few years prior to the time-frame of "Rhino Ranch.").
Boyd and Bobby Lee are small-town folk; they've never seen the likes of K.K. Slater, who pilots her own Cessna and holds press conferences about saving the endangered species of the world. She has hired Boyd and Bobby Lee, though, and that's a good thing; work is scarce is Thalia and a job is a job.
Duane wants little to do with the Rhino Ranch. But when Annie leaves him, and he's mired in the blues, his shrink suggests maybe it's time to make a trip back to Thalia. He can think of at least one good reason to go: his beloved grandson Willy -- a newly-minted Rhodes scholar -- lives there.
Back in Thalia, Duane develops a certain curious attachment to Double Aught, one of the rhino reserve's horned beasts. The behemoth seems to appear at Duane's side out of nowhere, startling him. (How does one not notice a rhino?) On many an occasion, the two can be seem ambling together down the road. These are wonderful scenes, both wistful and wry.
K.K. Slater remains much of a mystery throughout Rhino Ranch. In a small town like Thalia, her level of wealth seems to make her unknowable. She likes and respects Duane, though romance never blooms. Indeed, Duane does have some interesting sexual episodes after Annie leaves him, namely with one Casey Kincaid, a voracious and barely-of-age local who talks him into getting a vasectomy, then abandons him post-snip. Their randy affair stands in stark contrast to Duane's sweetly platonic relationship with a Southeast Asian woman named Dal, who works for the company and becomes Duane's housemate for a time.
McMurtry is a master at rendering small-town Texas life, where everyone knows your business, for better and worse. His portrayals of women are consistently dead-on. But one of his greatest gifts is the ability to be both poignant and side-splittingly funny, often at the same time. Some of the novel's best scenes are between Duane and Bobby Lee. After the two consider taking some adult education courses, they head to a bookstore in Wichita Falls for a copy of "Don Quixote," and crack up the sassy young sales girl when they mispronounce it.
McMurtry finds a fitting exit for oilman Duane, who's become a bit cranky in his old age. But it's an endearing malaise. "It takes all kinds, I guess," muses Bobby Lee, during one of the pair's conversations on the state of the world. "I would dispute that," says Duane. "I think there are a few kinds we could do without."
Allison Block, a San Diego-based writer and book critic, hae written for Publishers Weekly, Booklist, the San Francisco Chronicle and the Chicago Sun-Times.
Rhino Ranch
Larry McMurtry
Simon and Schuster, 288 pages, $26

Graphic

 
1 DRAWING; PHOTOBY: Cristina Martinez Byvik / Union-Tribune
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: REVIEW; 

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: FICTION LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MAMMALS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); EMOTIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); DEPRESSION (75%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

Industry: BOOK REVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%)

Load-Date: May 5, 2010


End of Document
