



The San Diego Union-Tribune
February 22, 2022 Tuesday
Final Edition


Copyright 2022 The San Diego Union-Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS; Part D; Pg. 1
Length: 855 words
Byline: BRYCE MILLER, Columnist
Body


What bit of happenstance nudged a La Mesa man to create the sports startup Meetlete?
Was it the nerve-wracking graduation waiting game at Granite Hills High School? Was it a seed from a plucky car wash business at Del Mar racetrack? Was it a U.S. Border Patrol chase of a shooter in Chula Vista?
Try ? a vasectomy.
"The doctor that came in had USC scrubs on," said Rob Connolly, a 38-year-old father of two. "I'm a big Notre Dame fan. I was joking with him about USC a little bit. I was super nervous, because that's a surgery no man wants to do. He just asked me a question to get my mind off it.
"He said, 'If you could meet anybody, who would you want to meet?' I said I'd love to meet Lou Holtz. That's my all-time favorite coach. Then I thought, as Lou Holtz is getting older, I may never have the opportunity to meet him."
A snip here and a snip there tipped the first domino in the creation of Meetlete, a video meet-and-greet service that connects fans and sports figures. Comcast NBCUniversal announced today that Meetlete has been picked for one of 10 spots in its SportsTech accelerator program.
The financial support, mentorship and networking from a $200-something-billion goliath surely will cause an idea with legs to start sprinting like Usain Bolt. Heady stuff for a startup that began in a garage, a la Apple and Amazon.
"We were screaming," said Connolly, describing the scene with co-founder and Chief Technology Officer Vivek Parekh when they landed the spot. "We were just jumping up and down, we were so excited. The neighbors actually came over to see what was going on.
"It was like a 'Shark Tank' moment."
Connolly never found his comfort zone as a high school student, unsure of whether he would graduate until the final day. Though he excelled in a website design class, nothing else sparked his mind.
That caused sweaty palms as his diploma remained in flux.
"There were probably 400 kids in my class (at Granite Hills) and I was like No. 398," he said. "Traditional school just wasn't for me. I've always been a 'why?' person. I questioned everything.
"I had an uncle drive in from Palm Springs and I'm like, 'Oh my gosh, did he come all this way for nothing?' "
That solidified his commitment to steer away from college and forge a different, entrepreneurial path. He started his own gig at Del Mar, washing cars for owners and trainers.
Then a friend told him about the Border Patrol.
"I said, 'I can go hiking and ride ATVs and make six figures? That's my job?' " Connolly said. "But it just wasn't for me. I wasn't happy. I wanted to start my own business."
One day sealed things.
When gunfire broke out during a 2011 robbery attempt at an Apple Store, Connolly and other agents conducted house-to-house searches. He was there when a pair of suspects were discovered under an overturned kids pool.
"That's when I knew it wasn't for me," he said.
Eventually, Connolly started an app called AgentBuzz. He sold it to a Bay Area real estate company. The wheels kept turning.
In January 2021, Meetlete was born.
The service connects fans with 155 athletes (and counting) in four-minute video calls, with prices ranging up to the hundreds of dollars for former NBA star Metta World Peace, baseball's Johnny Damon and David Wells, UFC star Chuck Liddell and more.
In the age of Name, Image and Likeness opportunities for college athletes, local Aztecs including basketball's Keshad Johnson ($25) and football's Matt Araiza ($20) are becoming involved.
Former Padres manager Bruce Bochy and longtime broadcaster Matt Vasgersian are investors, while baseball's Joe Buck and Mark Grant are part of a band of advisers.
The toughest part has been keeping the Comcast NBCUniversal program a secret ... since November.
"It's been driving me crazy," Connolly said. "We're raising $2 million right now in the seed round. We've already raised $250,000 of that. I haven't been able to tell investors or anybody, because it's been completely a secret.
"This gives us resources beyond what we can comprehend. The credibility the Comcast NBC name brings is incredible."
Comcast NBC Universal invested $50,000 in Meetlete through the program, but the broader benefit is its commitment to connecting selected companies with partners like the PGA Tour, NASCAR, WWE and more.
Connolly said NASCAR and its Xfinity Series already have expressed interest in working with Meetlete.
"Most startups fail," Connolly said. "This gives us so much momentum."
Company representatives were invited to attend a private Super Bowl party thrown by rapper and business magnate Snoop Dogg.
"I was like, there's no way he'll be there," Connolly said. "He's performing in the Super Bowl. But he was there. It was like celebrity central. There's Jalen Hurts. There's Keenan Allen. There's Warren G. There's Busta Rhymes. It was pretty incredible."
Connolly was most starstruck by conversations with mega-entrepreneur Gary Vaynerchuk, an angel investor who backed Facebook, Twitter, Uber, Venmo and more.
Now, add in the invaluable traction of the Comcast NBCUniversal program.
Apparently, a vasectomy can be the solution to more than one problem.

Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Column

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: BORDER CONTROL (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (79%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (78%); BUSINESS INCUBATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); ATHLETES (74%); MENTORS & ROLE MODELS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

Industry: HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); BUSINESS INCUBATION (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (73%); CAR WASHES (72%); ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES (60%)

Person: USAIN BOLT (54%)

Geographic: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: February 23, 2022


End of Document
