



The Philadelphia Inquirer
June 15, 2006 Thursday


Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved


Section: SOUTH JERSEY; Pg. B01
Length: 660 words
Byline: Monica Yant Kinney, Inquirer Columnist
Body


In honor of Flag Day - which beleaguered state workers don't take off, contrary to popular belief - I bring you another installment of Masterpiece Theater in the Garden State.
Last week's episode featured South Jersey legislators Steve Sweeney and Paul Moriarty declaring war on the people who type memos in Trenton.
Forget terrorists. Apparently, it's unionized government workers and their grade-A benefits threatening our American dreams.
Judging by my in-box, many fell for the political stunt. Barely a day has gone by without e-mail quoting editorials heralding Sweeney and Moriarty as gutsy geniuses.
They're not just public servants. They're superheroes fighting overindulged office drones in the name of keeping the sales tax down - at least through the next election cycle.
In this week's episode, Sweeney rides his high horse a little farther by suggesting that legislators suffer the same 15 percent pay-cut pain he wants to inflict upon state workers.
Talk about a cliff-hanger.
I laughed. I cried. This is way better than Cats.
Feel the burn
I'd love to get credit for Senate Bill 1966, which Sweeney introduced days after I challenged him to put his pension where his mouth is. But so far, he's not offering.
"A lot of people asked me why I wouldn't cut my own pay," he told my colleague Kaitlin Gurney.
"In my business you don't ask someone to climb up a roof you're not willing to climb up yourself," Sweeney added, explaining why he decided to include fellow legislators on the list of people who might want to take him out at the knees.
Me, I'm applauding. Isn't that what you're supposed to do when watching political theater at its finest?
I'd love to be proved wrong on this one, but Sweeney's pay-cut proposal has about as much chance of becoming law as a bill requiring male legislators to get vasectomies.
Are no cows sacred anymore? Camden County Sen. Wayne Bryant will invite me to his place for steaks before he votes to take money out of his pocket.
Not that it will ever get that far.
In the 2004-05 legislative session, 7,370 bills were introduced, but only 570 passed, the smart folks at the Office of Legislative Services tell me.
At the risk of tarnishing your image of democracy: Many perfectly reasonable proposals languish in committee.
And some bills are born to die, introduced purely for sport, symbolism, or later use in campaign literature.
Riding to the rescue
Remember the last governor who raised taxes? (Florio.) Remember what happened to Democrats the next time they faced voters? (Bloodbath.)
Having finally regained control of the public purse, the Democrats have no intention of losing it again.
Thus, Sweeney's and Moriarty's blustering about bureaucratic belt-tightening should be seen as much as a survival tactic as a noble effort to squeeze five more hours of collating a week from those coddled clerks in the Commerce Department.
(They even launched a Web site, . Clever Use of Caps, Boys.)
These days, anyone with a brain is joining the good-government game.
Last week, Assembly Speaker Joe Roberts and Senate President Dick Codey announced that legislators would forgo their vacation and spend the summer sweating over property taxes.
This week, Assemblyman Lou Greenwald was kind enough to send me a flyer with a picture of what looks like a giant corkscrew boring into the Statehouse dome.
"Drilling to the Core" refers to his "revolutionary" plan to cut taxes by cleaning up government waste, ending pension abuse, and exploring savings from shared services.
Sounds great, Lou. Put me down for a big, fat rebate check, ASAP.
As I type, an e-mail from Sweeney arrives with the subject line: "Momentum continues to change the way Trenton does business."
The ironworker-turned-public-servant has added mind reader to his resume. And he's willing to do it all for 15 percent less pay.
Contact Monica Yant Kinney at 856-779-3914 or . Read her recent work at .
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEMOCRACIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS & POLITICS (77%); TERRORISM & COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TYPES OF GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); MAMMALS (73%); NEGATIVE NEWS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TERRORISM (56%)

Industry: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (75%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: June 15, 2006


End of Document
