



Daily News (New York)
November 14, 2013 Thursday
SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION


Copyright 2013 Daily News, L.P.


Section: SPORTS; Pg. 64
Length: 487 words
Byline: BY SETH WALDER with Kevin Armstrong
Body


Antonio Cromartie admitted that he doesn't have much of a relationship with former defensive coordinator Mike Pettine in the wake of a new book chronicling the 2011 Jets season, "Collision Low Crossers," (Little, Brown and Company), by Nicholas Dawidoff. It is scheduled to be released on Tuesday.
In the book, Dawidoff describes an incident between Cromartie and Pettine, now the defensive coordinator for the Bills, this week's opponent:
"When Pettine chided him, Cro said, 'Shut up.' Then he said, "(F---) you." Pettine told him quietly, 'Don't lose your cool. We're all in this together.' . . . As soon as Pettine left and the defense split into positional units, Cro said loudly that Pettine was 'a high-school coach' and declared he wasn't 'gonna take it' from him."
'If I talk to him, I'll punch him in the face,' Cromartie said, after then defensive backs coach Dennis Thurman suggested he discuss his issues with Pettine in private."
On Wednesday, Cromartie told The News that he didn't talk to Pettine before the two teams played each other at MetLife Stadium in Week 3.
"My coach was Dennis Thurman (who succeeded Pettine as coordinator). That's who I went to," Cromartie said of the incident two years ago. "There's nothing to write. That's two years old. So let it go. Whatever you get from the book is what you get from the book. It's not a story."
SNIP, SNIP
Also featured in the book is a revealing section on Cromartie's role as the father of 10 children.
Dawidoff writes:
"Walk-throughs the day before the game were uninteresting to most players, but not to Cromartie, who could never spend enough time on a football field. Cro had recently submitted to a vasectomy - 'I got snipped,' as he told (Dawidoff). Eric Smith surveyed the jubilant, excised cornerback and said fondly, 'I wish it had calmed him down!' "
CRYIN' BILLS
The Buffalo Bills are grumpy about how their games have been scheduled against the Jets. Gang Green will head to Buffalo this weekend to play their division rival off the bye, after having 10 days to prepare for the Bills in Week 3. Gang Green won that game, 27-20, after losing to the Patriots the previous week in the Thursday night game.
Buffalo isn't pleased that in both cases the Jets have had some extra preparation time before their game, and Bills President and CEO Russ Brandon complained while on WGR 550.
"We certainly have talked to the league about this because it's been disappointing where teams are coming off a bye or a long week," Brandon said. "This (Sunday) is the second time we're playing the Jets coming off a Thursday night game and now we're playing them coming off a bye. We lead the league in amount of games coming off of extra time or a bye week. It is a very, very tough job that they have in scheduling with all the different things that go into the formula and the stadium commitments and TV schedules, but it's certainly something that needs to be addressed."

Graphic

 
NLVL
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); COACHES & TRAINERS (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (79%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (74%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

Company:  LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (72%)

Industry: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (74%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, USA (73%)

Load-Date: November 14, 2013


End of Document
