



USA TODAY
February 16, 2007 Friday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIFE; Pg. 4E
Length: 857 words
Byline: Bill Keveney
Body


For a TV series, motherhood makes invention a necessity. USA TODAY's Bill Keveney examines how producers, writers and actresses on four shows are translating the happy news of a real-life pregnancy into the fictional world of a TV show -- or working around it.
Marcia Cross
Desperate Housewives
(ABC, Sunday, 9 ET/PT)
Character: Bree Van De Kamp
Due: April (twins)
When Cross told producers of her pregnancy in the fall, they were well into writing Season 3, which included Bree's marriage to Orson Hodge (Kyle MacLachlan) early in the season. They decided not to make that part of the story. "It seemed like it would be awfully quick" in their relationship, co-executive producer Bob Daily says. "And they had so much else going on in their lives with the mystery story" that culminates Sunday.
The mystery plotline was shortened to be completed before Cross went on leave, but matters got tricky when doctors prescribed bed rest for Cross with two episodes yet to film. Cross invited the show to shoot at her house; "Marcia was fantastic about all of this," Daily says.
Producers set up two sets, one of Bree's bedroom and another of her hospital room, where she's taken after a fall from a ladder. Actors then shot for two days. "It went very smoothly," Daily says.
Cross is off for now, but producers say it's possible she could return for the season finale, which will be shot in late April. "We're very hopeful," Daily says.
Diane Farr
Numb3rs
(CBS, tonight, 10 ET/PT)
Character: Megan Reeves
Due: March
Once producers decided against going the Three-FBI-Agents-and-a-Baby route, they had to find clever ways to hide Farr's growing belly. Much of it involved choreography -- timing the movement of extras to block the view of Farr before she is positioned behind a desk -- or an accordion file or "a really big computer," executive producer Cheryl Heuton says.
In the FBI office, "they time an extra to cross in front of me just as I hit the break between cubicles," Farr says.
Farr plans to work until a few days before she is due and hopes to return for the season finale. Producers have been accommodating, limiting her work hours and giving her time for a daily nap.
The show also has been careful. During a running scene early in the season, "when I was five seconds pregnant," there were two stunt coordinators, one for Farr and one for the rest of the cast. "This show is such a safe environment," she says.
Lately,  Farr's Reeves has been spending most of her time behind a desk. Despite it all, Farr has been hearing from eagle-eyed fans. "A lot of the mail is, 'In this scene, I could see the top of the bump. ...'"
Melissa McCarthy
Gilmore Girls
(CW, Tuesday, 8 p.m. ET/PT)
Character: Sookie St. James
Due: May
When Melissa McCarthy became pregnant, it made sense for  Sookie to be expecting, too.
That option presumably had been foreclosed after Sookie had her second child and ordered her husband, Jackson (Jackson Douglas), to get a vasectomy. However, writers already were toying with the idea that Jackson hadn't followed through. McCarthy's news made that story an easy decision, executive producer David Rosenthal says: "It seemed like a natural thing, her having another baby, but this one to be a surprise."
A maternity story is easier to incorporate into a family-centered show such as Gilmore Girls, especially with a supporting character. Girls already had one expectant couple, Lane and Zack. "It's created some nice issues for Sookie and Jackson in the second half of the season," Rosenthal says.
Since Sookie's pregnancy was revealed only recently, the character won't be giving birth this season. With the series' future undecided after this season, it could make for the world's longest pregnancy. Nonetheless,  her pregnancy is an enjoyable story for devoted viewers, Rosenthal says. "When Sookie started on the show, she was single. And now, seven years later, she's married and is about to have her third child. For fans, that's great  to see."
Jaime Pressly
My Name Is Earl
(NBC, Thursday, 8 p.m. ET/PT)
Character: Joy Turner
Due: May
Producers had considered and decided against a pregnancy for Joy before they knew Pressly was expecting her first child. When she broke the news, they revived that idea. The trick was incorporating it into the story line that had been chosen for Joy: a third-strike criminal trial that could carry a huge prison sentence. "So Joy finds out that if she was pregnant, she would have a better chance of a jury letting her off," executive producer Greg Garcia says.
But another question remained: What to do with the  baby?  An infant can be a cumbersome addition  to a comedy. Writers decided Joy would be a surrogate mom for her half sister, who wants a baby but doesn't want to sideline her pro wrestling career.
"Earl gets the two together," says Garcia, whose own wife is due in April.
Before the story line was  revealed last week, Pressly was seen mostly in close-ups and from other views to hide the pregnancy. But Pressly, who timed the delivery for the show's hiatus, is happy that the pregnancy could be part of Joy's story: "It's always better to have them write it in than to have to try to hide it." 

Graphic

 
PHOTO, Color, Danny Feld, ABC
PHOTO, Color, Scott Humbert, The WB
PHOTO, Color, Nick Falacci, CBS
PHOTO, Color, Paul Drinkwater, NBC
PHOTOS, Color, Getty Images (3)
PHOTO, Color, USA TODAY
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: PEOPLE

Publication-Type: NEWSPAPER

Subject: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WRITERS (90%); PREGNANCY (%); ACTOR (%)

Industry: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WRITERS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%)

Person: MARCIA CROSS (79%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (91%)

Load-Date: February 16, 2007


End of Document
