



The Tampa Tribune (Florida)
July 10, 2013 Wednesday


Copyright 2013 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: NATION & WORLD; NationWorld; Pg. 2
Length: 771 words
Byline: SARA SMITH

Kansas City Star
Highlight: PAGE 2 STUFF
Body


The first murder on The Bridge literally straddles America's border with Mexico. But this frustrating new drama from FX airing at 10 tonight is a child of Denmark and Sweden.
Those countries have their own brutal immigration issues, and a divisive politician's corpse found in both jurisdictions was a clever inciting event that was quickly exported.
Like AMC's The Killing, made from Forbrydelsen by Cold Case showrunner Veena Sud, The Bridge is based on a Scandinavian series, with mismatched male/female cops working the same case all season.
Cold Case creator Meredith Stiehm places the action along the line separating Ciudad Juarez from El Paso, Texas. (A French/English version involving the English Channel tunnel is being made, too.)
A judge's body was found on the Bridge of the Americas, and our two detectives, both played by Oscar nominees, clash right away. It's the first in a series of terse, cinematic encounters that echo the Danish series shot by shot.
German actress Diane Kruger is Sonya Cross, the El Paso detective who fulfills the difficult genius slot. The pragmatic, affable part of the formula is Marco Ruiz of the Chihuahua State Police, which is a scarier outfit than it sounds like.
Ruiz (Demian Bichir) shrugs sheepishly at Sonya's bossy brush-off, then promptly lets an ambulance cross the bridge while it's still a crime scene. Turns out, Sonya doesn't appreciate that kind of thing.
What's your name again? Badge number? she snaps. And she writes it down and submits a report, too.
Kruger's star-making role was in Inglourious Basterds, where badly executed accents are a recurring theme, but she never manages to sound quite American in The Bridge. She answers the phone Alpasa Homicide.
As the case gets weirder - turns out the body was actually that of two people - Ruiz and Sonya have to work together, and we learn that Ruiz has just had a vasectomy and that Sonya is really, really bad at being nice to people.
Ted Levine, fresh off his tenure baby-sitting an obsessive-compulsive detective on Monk, appears as the lieutenant who gets to smooth things over for Sonya. She has Asperger's and lives for the job, like other female cops we love.
But unlike Deb on Dexter, Sonya has zero empathy for victims, and she'd never defy the rules like Linden on The Killing. Kruger is compelling, but Sonya isn't trying to make friends.
An afternoon marathon of The First 48 will reveal that police are not required to be autistic or obsessive-compulsive or possess an autobiographical memory to solve murders. But this TV is scripted, and more body parts are found near giant power stations, so we can see Sonya becoming one with her notebook while the electricity crackles in the air.
Despite this subtle genius, the killer pretty much embarrasses law enforcement in the first three episodes. Until Sonya starts figuring stuff out, her Asperger's just renders her a humorless, rigid tattletale.
She's looking for the kind of spree killer who exists almost exclusively in our imaginations, plotting elaborate murders for years and always one step ahead. This guy obviously wants to make a point or two, like that insufferable jerk in Seven.
Helping the killer taunt the police is reporter Daniel Frye (Matthew Lillard doing his twitchy thing). After the killer steals his car and starts calling him, the show spends some time at the least realistic small-screen newspaper since Charmed. In real life, nobody says cub reporter, and none have been hired in the past five years, anyway.
Naturally, Frye lacks ethics or humility but has angry sources and a tequila hangover. 
Lillard provides some much-needed levity, but Frye is obviously not long for this world.
Elsewhere, Charlotte (Annabeth Gish), who first appeared with the ambulance on the bridge, is the center of another side story that involves some unfortunate appearances by Lyle Lovett as a slimy lawyer.
The Bridge will no doubt tie all these threads together in 13 well-executed episodes, after a lot of red herrings, victims killed in horrific ways and one final twist.
 It's guaranteed to be a depressing journey, and it's starting to feel like one we've been on before.
Move over, Katie Couric: Another Today veteran is looking to make waves in daytime.
On Tuesday, NBCUniversal Domestic Television Distribution announced plans for a new syndicated program hosted by Meredith Vieira.
The Meredith Vieira Show will debut in fall 2014 and will be produced out of New York City, with Vieira also serving as executive producer.
All of us at NBCU are so excited about this new show with Meredith, said Ted Harbert, NBC Broadcasting chairman, in a news release. 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: COLD CASES (90%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (90%); MURDER (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); IMMIGRATION (73%); POLICE FORCES (70%); ACADEMY AWARDS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); ASPERGER'S SYNDROME (60%); AUTISM (60%); MEMORY (50%)

Industry: TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); PUBLISHING (73%); ACADEMY AWARDS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (66%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (54%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); EL PASO, TX, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (90%); MEXICO (79%); ENGLAND (76%); SWEDEN (58%)

Load-Date: September 24, 2013


End of Document
