



Tampa Bay Times
November 12, 2016 Saturday
4 State / Suncoast Edition


Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


Section: NATIONAL; Pg. 10; YOUR LETTERS
Length: 932 words
Body


It's President Donald Trump - Nov. 9
I woke up in the middle of the night Wednesday feeling like I was still in the middle of a nightmare, but unfortunately it was not a nightmare. It is hard to conceive of rational people electing a man to the highest office who admits to having assaulted women, who is a racist, who has the temperament of a child, and who has no idea what America's role in the world is. He is what others in my time would have called a blowhard.
Besides electing him, they gave the party he leads control over the three branches of government to do as it wills. It is a party that wants us to go back to a time when discrimination was the norm. It is a party that doesn't believe in the science of global warming. It is a party that doesn't even believe in the fundamental right of women to control their own bodies, or that people should receive equal pay for equal work.
Forgive me if I don't cheer at such a moment when I see my beloved country reduced to this. We as a nation have taken a giant step backward for which surely we all will pay consequences, much like a child who plays with matches. I, however, will not quit on my country, which is as much mine as they think it is theirs. I will continue to fight for the principles I believe make America a great country, knowing that eventually a new dawn will arise out of the darkness.
Rene Tamargo, Tampa
* * *
It's President Donald Trump - Nov. 9
Media's responsibility
Donald Trump won the election fair and square. He also perpetrated the biggest fraud ever conceived against the American people. The fraud: his competency to hold the highest office in the land. I hold the media largely responsible for their giving him access to an open mic and not challenging his outrageous statements early in the campaign. He was their darling, responsible for high ratings.
Trump bullied the media and they allowed him to label them biased and untrustworthy. Bullying is his strong point; his entourage is filled with bullies. What signal does this send to our young people?
Hopefully the press will now do its job and make him accountable to the people. Never should a candidate be allowed to run for a public office without being fully vetted. The truth will eventually come out and the real Trump will be exposed for all to see. By that time it will be too late, damage done.
Jerry Denney, Tampa
- - -
A promise of change
Eight years ago, a relative outsider was elected as president on the promise of bringing change to Washington, and now, another outsider has done the same. The difference is that one is a thoughtful, principled man, while the other is not.
Like 9/11, we will always remember where we were and what we were doing on the day we heard the horrible news. God help us all.
Dennis Bush, Tampa
- - -
Obamacare factor
I never thought I would be grateful for the Affordable Care Act. The fact that it has become an overwhelming failure was instrumental in getting Donald Trump elected. In the last few days, after the astronomical increases in premiums and deductibles, the narrowing of choices of providers and major companies pulling out, many voters stopped backing a candidate who would perpetuate this loser. Now let's get back to a competitive system of procuring insurance with our choices, not what Washington thinks best.
Don Niemann, Seminole
* * *
Election Day
Good people make us great
On Tuesday I stood under a grand moss-covered oak tree outside a voting precinct. I went just to thank people for coming out to vote. I believe the greatest moment in the history of our country was the transfer of power from George Washington to John Adams. Everyone was polite and cheerful and people in cars that passed waved. I witnessed a poll worker escort a disabled voter back to her car. It reminded me once more that the good people of this country make it great.
Jane Gucciardo, Tampa
- - -
It's time to come together
The campaigning is over. The rebuilding has just begun. Our president-elect has reached out to those who supported him and to those who did not in an effort to unite and heal the deep political wounds we have inflicted upon one another.
I hope all of us who were supporting different candidates can agree that this country needs each and every one of us to work together. We, the people, are what makes America great. We are the foundation that holds this country together.
Yesterday we were divided; today we received the call to unite; tomorrow we start to rebuild.
God bless America. God bless our president.
Marilyn Messina, Tampa
- - -
Most votes should win
During my years in school, an election was defined as, "The person with the most votes wins." I have never really understood the Electoral College. We demand that other nations have a process of voting in which the person with the most votes wins. Should that not be how the United States elects our president? Every vote from all states must be counted, and the person with the most votes should be our president.
Dottie Clark, Apollo Beach
* * *
Command and control - Nov. 8, letter
Prevention is different
Regardless of people's views on abortion, they should be able to see the difference between it and a vasectomy. One is a procedure to prevent a birth, just as birth control pills do. The other is a procedure that ends a life.
What I object to is the fact there are numerous way to prevent the fertilization of the human egg without ending the life of a living organism (if not yet considered a human being). That is the difference. The taking of a life should always be the last resort in control; prevention should be first.
Wayne Parlow, Ridge Manor
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: LETTER

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); EQUAL PAY (76%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (73%); BULLYING (70%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (89%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (94%)

Load-Date: November 14, 2016


End of Document
