



The New York Times
April 13, 2014 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company
Section: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 4; COMMENTS
Length: 391 words
Body


The article last Sunday ''Banking on My Future as a Father,'' by Dan Crane, generated comments on nytimes.com/styles. Here are some highlights, edited for space and clarity.
''Would I have energy to be a new father at 50?'' You may have energy at 50, but when you are 60, that child will be 10. The difficult years of parenting have not yet started. Will you have the energy in your 60s to raise a teenager?
Nightwood, Michigan
And then, unless one is blessed with longevity, the child has a high likelihood of being fatherless at a young age. There are all sorts of unintended consequences to starting parenthood late.
JL, Maryland
Interesting read, but the article did not address the effect of freeze on the sperm. Will the quality of thawed sperm stay the same as fresh?
VS, Boise
Now that older men are full into the 'I forgot to have a baby!' mode, the truth is that at 42, your sperm may already be old, just as a women's eggs are already too old. Freeze your sperm before you are 30 or don't bother.
That's not to say a man in his 60s can't father a child -- see the oft-trotted-out examples Charlie Chaplin, Larry King and Tony Randall.
The people who make the best parents are the people who always knew they wanted marriage and a family, as that life is not for everyone. That does not mean that people who decided to have children late in life cannot make good parents, but the fact that so many couples get divorced after having children does not bode well for the children. They are not this year's fashion accessory, to be returned if it does not suit, and you cannot change your mind later if it doesn't work out, like you can with a spouse.
Children need a stable, intact home to grow and thrive, and many parents are not interested in making the sacrifices needed to give them that.
Nigel, New York City
Fascinating and thoughtful read. I would love to see huge numbers of men take this route who want to be sexually active but don't want to be responsible for birth control or are not yet prepared for unplanned pregnancy. Guys, freeze your sperm, then get a vasectomy. I'll wager it will make you incredibly desirable and in demand on the dating scene.
Ann, California
All of this is silly. If this article speaks to you, adopt. No testing, no freezing, no craziness. And your love will change the life of a child. Amazing.
Kristine, Illinois
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: MEN (78%); PARENTING (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); COURTSHIP & DATING (69%); MARRIAGE (69%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (67%); CONTRACEPTION (63%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%)

Load-Date: April 13, 2014


End of Document
