



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
October 6, 2002 Sunday
ONE STAR EDITION


Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: METRO,
Length: 1021 words
Body


Music still has power to move us
 He said: When I was 16, I used to love driving alone on long car trips. I still feel that way. I swear, when I get on that interstate and my wheels hit the road, I am young again, with a new and improved unscrewed attitude.
 The lack of gravity leaves me weightless, and the wrinkles fall away from my face. The freedom is intoxicating, and I feel myself gripped in the tractor beam of a distant new horizon. Goodbye jerkwater town! Goodbye boring friends! Goodbye stupid boss with your type-A personality!
I roll down the window and crank up the radio. ZZ Top is my time machine, the lyrics like magic: "Just let me know, if you wanna go, to that home out on the range … they gotta lotta nice girls ...."
 Then my daughter leans forward from the back seat and switches the radio dial to some group called Ratt Poizon, and I sink back in the seat, crushed by the weight of my broken dream. It's hard to be cool and carefree while suffering from a guitar-induced brain hemorrhage.
 Music has the ability to soothe or excite, unite or divide. And nothing can ignite a family fight quicker than a car radio. If you try to force a typical teen-age girl to listen to opera for a three-hour journey, there will be mayhem and mutiny. Force a 43-year-old father to listen to rap music for more than three minutes, and he will just get out and walk.
 I've heard studies where Mozart was played to houseplants and the plants thrived; but when heavy metal was played, the same plants withered. Further experiments with rap music caused some of these plants to grow spines and evolve into cactus. On a steady diet of oldies, the plants began drinking Metamucil and wetting themselves. After listening to country music, the plants began chewing tobacco and slouching. When forced to listen to Britney Spears, the plants just got up and shut the radio off.
 Anyway, my daughter's choice to listen to Stroke, Nine Inch Nails, Limp Bizkit with a side of Korn is typical for a girl her age. See, women go through four stages of music appreciation. The first is folk music and Disney tunes because they are innocent and cheerful. The second stage is boy bands such as Backstreet Boys and Kids Who Look Like They've Been Around the Block. This is the "denial of puberty" stage (which would be a good name for one of these bands), and singing ability is secondary to: "He's SOOOO cute!" The third stage is "revolution rock," and it includes any alleged music that is specifically designed to make a father dream of a vasectomy.
 Most of these revolting singers look like skid row crack addicts or hollowed out Prozac patients. (This stage gets interrupted when a woman marries and has a baby, and then she reverts back to stage one for a while.) In the last stage of a woman's life, she will appreciate country music with its simplistic philosophy. Now the singer must be over 30, still cute and also able to sing. He must be a good husband with strong family values and sing about poverty, misery, divorce and relationships gone wrong.
 Because my daughter has a conscience and doesn't want to be an orphan, she finally turns the volume down. The next song is by the Rolling Stones, but it's not an oldie. It's a new one, something we can both appreciate: "Don't stop, baby, don't stop." Well, whaddya know -- Keith Richards, 150 in rock years and still able to entertain and unite generations.
 We drive on, my daughter and I, singing together.
 She said: "This is WKYN bringing you love songs after dark to help you make it through the night. Our request line is open. Dedicate something to that special someone."
 That, right there, is probably the single biggest difference between men and women's taste in music. We enjoy mushy love songs.  Lyrics have hidden meaning.  We're saps for words that seem to speak to us about our own relationships.
 Music is powerful. It sets the mood, can give you chills, make you happy or sad or scared or feel like moving to its beat. There are other things, too. What would a birthday be without people singing "Happy Birthday"? What would Christmas be without Christmas carols?
 Almost every ceremony has a song associated with it. Presidential inaugurations have "Hail to the Chief." Weddings have "Here Comes the Bride." "We will, we will ROCK YOU" is the tune we belt out when our football team has just kicked the other team's butt. TV shows have their theme songs, too. Even our country has its own song, "The Star-Spangled Banner." And what about singing in the shower?
 There are songs in nature, from birds and wolves to whales. In the old days, men often spoke of wine, women and song. It's not much different today. We've just updated it to sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll.
 Most music is universal. It appeals to both sexes. Granted, some of the boy bands today are hand picked for young ladies while fawning girls also try to emulate Britney Spears.
 In our musical history, some decades were just plain better than others. Since we were teens in the ' 70s, that decade does it for us.
 By 1972, we had trouble getting out of the car. We'd get home and continue to sit in mom's car in her driveway transfixed, incapable of turning off the radio. The music was so good and plentiful, there wasn't any stopping point. One hand would be on the car door, the other on the ignition, but we couldn't force ourselves to turn the key. Carly Simon would declare "You're So Vain," and, just as soon as that was winding down, it bled into the Stylistics' "You Are Everything" or the Temptations' "Papa Was a Rollin' Stone" to Marvin Gaye's "I Heard it Through the Grapevine." We had it all in that decade, every kind of music from Motown, heavy metal, top 40, protest songs to classic rock, and every last bit of it was incredible. It was impossible to be upset in that decade, even when sitting in gas lines that wrapped around the block, because we could listen to the radio. If there was any bad music during that time, we surely can't remember it.
 People love sounds -- we love music. Why else would we hate mimes so much?
Donna and Eve Shavatt can be reached by e-mail at .  

Notes

L. Wayne Moss can be reached by e-mail at .  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: MUSIC (90%); RAP MUSIC (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (79%); HIP HOP CULTURE (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (79%); POP & ROCK (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (79%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (74%)

Industry: HIP HOP CULTURE (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (79%); PUBLISHING (74%); TOBACCO (68%)

Person: BRITNEY SPEARS (59%)

Load-Date: October 6, 2002


End of Document
