



Daily News (New York)
April 17, 2016 Sunday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


Section: SPORTS; Pg. 66
Length: 1461 words
Byline: BY GARY MYERS
Body


The price is always right - no matter how outrageous - if it results in a franchise quarterback who wins Super Bowls. Is Carson Wentz or Jared Goff that guy?
"It's always been a quarterback league," former Giants GM Ernie Accorsi was saying over the phone last week after the Rams blockbuster trade with the Titans. "It's a quarterback league more now than ever. If you really believe in a quarterback, then to me, it's hard to pay too much."
Accorsi, who retired as the Giants GM after the 2006 season, hasn't studied Wentz or Goff, so he was not offering his opinion on whether either was worth all that the Rams gave up to the Titans on Thursday to move up to the No. 1 pick to grab one of them. He just believes if you have a conviction on a quarterback, then you have to be bold in acquiring him.
His legacy with the Giants is the franchise altering deal on draft day with the Chargers in 2004 to get Eli Manning. Accorsi believed in the Manning bloodlines and specifically in Eli and was never concerned he paid too much. He was right. The two Super Bowl trophies in the Giants lobby are proof.
The Chargers had drafted Manning first overall knowing he wouldn't play for them, then agreed to trade him to the Giants when they were on the clock with the fourth pick. Accorsi picked Philip Rivers for San Diego. The Giants also included their third-round pick in 2004 and their first- and fifth-round picks in 2005. Interestingly, the Chargers wanted the Giants' second-round pick in '04 rather than their first round pick in '05, but Accorsi talked them out of it. He then took Chris Snee, who developed into one of the best offensive linemen in Giants history. He also refused the Chargers' demand to include Osi Umenyiora in the deal.
The Rams are desperate for a quarterback and desperate to make a splash in their first season back in Los Angeles. They gave up the 15th pick in the first round, two second-round picks and a third-round pick this year and their first- and third-round picks next year to the Titans in exchange for the first overall pick on April 28 and choices in the fourth- and sixth-rounds. The extra-second round pick the Rams owned had come from the Eagles last year along with Nick Foles in the trade for Sam Bradford.
Accorsi was the Colts GM when owner Robert Irsay traded John Elway to the Broncos. He was vehemently against dealing Elway, who refused to play in Baltimore because he didn't want to play for coach Frank Kush. Accorsi picked Elway anyway and then found out the next week while watching a basketball game on television that Irsay traded him to Denver for tackle Chris Hinton, who had been the fourth overall pick in the draft, the Broncos' 1984 No. 1 pick, which the Colts used on guard Ron Solt and veteran quarterback Mark Herrmann. The Broncos also agreed to play the Colts in preseason games in Mile High Stadium in 1984 and 1985. Irsay's share of the gate receipts were worth $800,000.
When Accorsi begrudgingly was shopping Elway before the draft, his asking price was three No. 1s and two No. 2s. He wanted one of the first-round picks to be very high in the round. His plan was if he couldn't have Elway, he was going to draft Dan Marino. He got neither.
Accorsi quit after the season a few months before the Colts left for Indianapolis. Elway played in five Super Bowls and won two of them. "What would you get for Elway now? Five No. 1 picks?" Accorsi said. "You can't overpay Willie Mays. You are not going to get up there that often and if you are able to get up there, every year is not the year you get the great ones. If you really believe the guy is a great one, I'd be a complete hypocrite if I ever said don't go do it. I just think the quarterback is so crucial. If you really believed in them, I applaud the Rams."
Wentz is a big, strong guy with the major negative that he played at North Dakota State. One source said he thinks Rams cocah Jeff Fisher looks at him and sees Steve McNair. Other say the Rams like Goff. Still another faction believes they haven't make up their minds, which is ludicrous.
The Rams didn't give up the guts of their 2016 and 2017 drafts without knowing who they are taking. That doesn't make any sense. They have fallen in love with Wentz or Goff, they just aren't saying who is the lucky guy.
GOFF FOR SECONDS
The Browns were thought to like Wentz over Goff, but with Wentz likely headed to the Rams, I think the Browns still should take Goff, who is more NFL-ready than Wentz. The Browns are 0-for-4 with first-round QBs since coming back into the NFL in 1999: Tim Couch, Brady Quinn, Brandon Weeden and Johnny Manziel. They can't count on RG3. If he was any good, he would be starting for Washington... If the Browns elect to wait until the second round to take Connor Cook or Christian Hackenberg, then they will likely go for UCLA linebacker Myles Jack or Florida State cornerback Jalen Ramsey with the second overall pick or trade out... Philly could be the team that tries to move up. The Eagles want a QB. Talks with the Titans didn't go very far... Ohio State running back Ezekiel Elliott is the best player in the draft. But with RBs devalued in a passing league, it appears the highest he might go is eighth to the Eagles... If the Giants didn't have so many other needs, Elliott would be a perfect fit for their offense. But 12 days before the draft, I think Notre Dame OT Ronnie Stanley makes the most sense. That would give them three No. 1 picks (Ereck Flowers, Justin Pugh and Stanley) and a second-round pick (Westin Richburg) to protect Eli Manning... Ryan Fitzpatrick's greatest leverage in his stalemate with the Jets is that Geno Smith is currently on top of the QB depth chart... It's heartwarming that Mike Tannenbaum and Terry Bradway have reunited in Miami. How soon before Eric Mangini joins them?
PARTY TIME
Reminder: I'm hosting a pre-draft event at Foley's at 18 West 33rd Street on Wednesday night from 7-9 p.m. Peter King of the MMQB and former Daily Newser Rich Cimini of ESPN are my guests for what will be a lively night of football talk. Admission is free. I will have copies of my "Brady vs. Manning" book if anybody would like to purchase an autographed copy.
Amy Schumer starred in "Trainwreck." It appears Johnny Manziel is starring in the sequel. There is also a mystery angle. Who is Manziel living with in L.A.? He said it was Super Bowl MVP and former Texas A&M teammate Von Miller, but that was wrong. Then it was reported to be suspended Browns wide receiver Josh Gordon and that was wrong. Then he and his buddies were accused of trashing a rented house in L.A. Where Manziel needs to be is a rehab center getting his life straightened out. It's telling that agent Drew Rosenhaus, who put up with Terrell Owens and Chad Johnson among other knuckleheads, dropped Manziel as a client last week.
ON THE SCHEDULE...
The hysteria over the NFL schedule release is, well, hysterical. A dedicated fan looking for inside information once called the league office to say he was putting off his vasectomy until the schedule came out so he could plan the procedure around his team's games. Just a guess, but a bye week would probably work best... Nine teams are scheduled for the maximum five prime-time appearances. Six made the playoffs last year. The Giants, Jets and Cowboys are the three that did not... I guess we can now assume the Giants will open the season every year in Jerry World in Arlington. This makes it three of the last four years... Not to be a pessimist, but the Jets schedule the first six weeks looks like a season-killer: Bengals at home, Thursday night in Buffalo, at Kansas City, Seattle at home, at Pittsburgh, at Arizona. They could be 1-5. And they still have to play the Patriots twice in the last six games... If the NFL wins its Deflategate appeal and Roger Goodell elects to reinstate Tom Brady's four-game suspension, he will miss the opening Sunday night game in Arizona, then home games against the Dolphins, Texans and Bills... All teams will play on New Year's Day, which is the final Sunday of the season. The Steelers hit the holiday jackpot: They are one of six teams playing on Thanksgiving and one of four teams playing on Christmas... Carolina at Denver is the first Super Bowl rematch on opening night since the Chiefs beat the Vikings in Super Bowl IV and then met in the opening game of the 1970 season, the first year of AFC vs. NFC regular season play following the merger... The Giants 2016 travel got much tougher when they finished in third place and automatically became the opponent against the Rams in London. So, instead of travelling 951 miles to play in St. Louis or the 2,789 miles to play the Rams in Los Angeles, the Giants will have to travel 3,458 miles to play across the pond on Oct. 23.

Graphic

 
After Rams make blockbuster trade to move up to No. 1 overall pick, which presumably will be either North Dakota State quarterback Carson Wentz (counterclockwise from top l.) or California passer Jared Goff, it tells what premium teams place on difference maker at most important position like when Colts chose John Elway in 1983 only to deal him to Broncos when he said he wouldn't play in Baltimore and when Giants GM Ernie Accorsi, who happened to be Colts GM in 1983, traded for Eli Manning after Peyton's little brother went No. 1 overall on draft day in 2004. Photos by DAILY NEWS, Getty and AP
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: COLUMN

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASKETBALL (74%); FOOTBALL (%); NFL (%); QUARTERBACK (%)

Organization: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); ST LOUIS RAMS (91%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (84%); TENNESSEE TITANS (83%)

Person: CARSON WENTZ (79%); ELI MANNING (79%); JARED GOFF (79%); PHILIP RIVERS (79%); NICK FOLES (59%)

Geographic: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

Load-Date: April 17, 2016


End of Document
