





Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
January 1, 2006 Sunday Metro Edition


Copyright 2006 Star Tribune
Section: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 14F
Length: 690 words
Byline: Mark Athitakis
Body


Special to the Star Tribune
Near the end of "Physical: An American Checkup," James McManus'
loose-limbed chronicle of his travels within the U.S. health-care
system, he describes a dinner-party conversation with an oncologist
from a prestigious Chicago hospital. "Do you know the three most
overrated things on the planet?" she asks him. "Home cooking,
out-of-town sex and the Mayo Clinic."
McManus doesn't voice an opinion about the first two matters, but
he's much more charitable toward the Mayo. Around the time he was
finishing his tremendous 2003 book about competitive poker,
"Positively Fifth Street," he took a magazine assignment to fly
from Chicago to Rochester, Minn., and get a checkup through the
Mayo's Executive Health Program. (It costs $8,484, including
colonoscopy, $250 more than the standard physical - the added cost
essentially making the process speedier.)
McManus presents himself as the sort of guy who's consenting to
do this only because he's getting paid: He's in his early 50s,
"squishier than I'd like through the middle," and though he's
willing to confess that his smoking, eating and drinking habits are
doing him harm, he's not quite ready to give up his vices. "I need
to live large! (But not chubby)," he proclaims, which makes him a
stand-in for a lot of male American boomers.
His trip to the Mayo - during which he's "bled, scraped, shaved,
freeze-dried, stressed, scanned, and sanded, all by the best in the
business" - makes for about 70 pages of laugh-out-loud observations
about what happens when you give complete strangers the freedom to
poke and prod your schlumpfy, middle-aged body.
For three days he endures humiliating body-fat measurements
("26.6 expletive percent"), impersonal assistants ("No earwax in
here, Mr. McAnus"), and the ghastly laxative drink he has to take
before his colonoscopy ("my cocktail of little barbed hooks").
But under this veneer of self-deprecating humor, McManus is
harboring some serious anger at how the health-care system
operates. He believes that antidepressants may have contributed to
the death of his teenage son, and he's positively apoplectic about
the Bush administration's restrictive policies on stem-cell
research, which he persuasively argues kneecaps researchers'
ability to find cures for a host of diseases - including juvenile
diabetes, which afflicts one of his daughters.
McManus' jeremiads about President Bush's "fixed-in-Sakrete"
mentality are just as compelling as his comic observations about
his Mayo trip, but the jumble of tones and topics in "Physical"
ultimately makes the book feel disjointed. A brief commentary about
"boutique" medical treatments similar to the Mayo's Executive
Health Program bleeds into a personal essay about his struggles
over whether to get a vasectomy, which segues to a chapter about
tobacco addiction that's part history, part comp-lit essay.
"Positively Fifth Street" certainly didn't lack for sprawl, but
in that book McManus had two great stories to tell - his surprise
success as a competitor in the World Series of Poker, and the trial
of the couple accused of murdering its host, Ted Binion. With a
hand like that, he was more than welcome to expound at length on
such topics as game theory, David Sedaris' genius and breast implants.
"Physical" doesn't have a story arc so much as a handful of
assertions: U.S. medicine is good but flawed and inequitable, South
Korea is our best hope for medical innovation now that politicians
have helped stifle it here, he really ought to cut down on the
booze and smokes.
That last is a tough task - harder than writing a brilliant book
on poker or even a lesser one on health and medicine. McManus
writes that despite the Mayo trip, he's done little to change his
eating and drinking habits, and that he smokes five to 10
cigarettes a month. At a checkup a year later, a doctor asks him if
he smokes.
"Haven't had a cigarette in over five years," McManus tells him.
Mark Athitakis is an editor at the Chicago Reader.

PHYSICAL
By: James McManus.
Publisher: Farrar, Straus, Giroux; 256 pages, $24.
Review: A funny, self-deprecating and passionate (if somewhat
disjointed) take on the U.S. medical system and the author's own
health.

Graphic

 
PHOTO
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (79%); WRITERS (79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); DIABETES (73%); ONCOLOGY (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); SCIENCE POLICY (73%); SMOKING (73%); book; review (%)

Industry: ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); WRITERS (79%); ONCOLOGY (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%)

Person: HEALTH CARE  (89%);  DISEASES & DISORDERS  (77%);  WRITERS  (74%);  SMOKING  (72%);  PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS  (72%);  ONCOLOGY  (72%);  BABY BOOMERS  (72%);  SCIENCE POLICY  (60%);  DIABETES  (60%);  STEM CELL RESEARCH  (60%)

Geographic: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED STATES  (97%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA  (79%)

Load-Date: January 9, 2006


End of Document
