



The San Diego Union-Tribune
May 17, 2020 Sunday
Final Edition


Copyright 2020 The San Diego Union-Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS; Part D; Pg. 1
Length: 957 words
Byline: NICK CANEPA, Columnist
Body


Sez Me ?
College football needs a czar. The NCAA's Mark Emmert, who is close to getting a career vasectomy, carries false papers.
He thinks he is. He sure isn't.
What's necessary is a boss of all bosses, a capo de tutti capo.
Everyone has a different book, especially now, none with the same page.
Back in my halcyon days - which I guess means long ago - when I was not-so-much-of-a-student/non-athlete, I was in a class with two outstanding Aztecs football players.
After the NFL Draft, I never saw them again.
The term student/athlete didn't apply then, and it sure doesn't now.
Given the possibility uneducated, uncaring COVID-19 may continue to shutter schools this fall, what to do? Can there be games - especially football, the revenue aorta - without students on campus, with the kids going to class over the internet?
It can and might. Joe Burrow won the Heisman taking his LSU classes via computer. Not every campus in America is going to be open anytime soon. San Diego State - all 23 CSU schools - won't completely be this fall.
And face it, a whole lot of games in all sports have been played when school is not in session. It is not a requirement.
But NCAA chief Emmert, jockey of one of the most hypocritical horses in sports - it can't catch the NFL in that race, but it's game - says he can't envision college football without students attending class.
"If you don't have students on campus, you don't have student-athletes on campus," he says. "If schools don't reopen, they're not going to be playing sports. It's really that simple."
Well, it isn't that simple.
Emmert has no power over football. Nada.
Sooner or later, the Power Five conferences - Pac-12, SEC, Big Ten, Big 12 and ACC - are going to break from the NCAA. They've been on the verge of it for a while, and this may push them into their own room.
They run college football. The big boys have been tapping strength out of the organization for some time, and the NCAA in its weakened state is not going to be able to stand on its own. Few figs remain on this tree.
The bullies have won this fight. If the NCAA really cared that much, it would have demanded a level playing field long ago - and there was a time when it had the clout to do so.
Only about 25 percent of college football revenue comes from TV as opposed to the NFL's 85 percent. Universities need fans, but right now, it's state-to-state.
My vision is nowhere near good enough to see the Mountain West and Pac-12 having football seasons, classes or no classes.
SEC Commissioner John Swofford says: "We're going into this year with the anticipation of playing at this point in time. But there's a lot that can happen between now and then."
Oklahoma coach Lincoln Riley: "I think bringing back players June 1 is one of the most ridiculous things I've ever heard. We've got to be patient. We've got one good shot at this."
All I know are three things:
1. If the SEC doesn't play football, the South, where the game is handwritten in its Bible, will sink to the point of never rising again.
2. Lincoln Riley is right.
3. A boss is needed. The NCAA is sitting for its own last supper, waiting to eat the Big Chicken Dinner. ...
Joe Buck says Fox seriously plans to pump in fake crowd noise during NFL telecasts if no fans are allowed. Bush league, but I can see loud, fake crowd noise when the Judases have the ball at home. ?
If you think the Steelers (allegedly) paying James Harrison's $75,000 fine for an illegal hit was the first time a team did so, well, you're the person I've been searching for all my life - the one with deeds to the Brooklyn Bridge and Florida swampland. ?
Pittsburgh management claims it was a gift card to Primanti Bros. ?
Has anyone asked the question: How are NFL teams signing these players/draft choices (such as Tua) without a physical from a team physician? I am, but I know League rules last as long as they can change them. ?
If there is a season, the Seahawks will travel 23,000 more miles than the Ravens. ?
Just read this: "The Cowboys had one of the greatest drafts ever." People said the same thing about the Spruce Goose. Don't know until it flies. ?
The Seahawks' Quinton Dunbar has been arrested. So the Chiefs have had a good weekend. Thus far. ...
MLB will stop players from spitting. That's like telling a person who drinks a case of beer a day to stop urinating. ?
There is concern that, if baseball's return is about money, the fans won't come back. Fans always come back. ?
Breaking: Instead of using special mud, umps will rub baseballs with Purell - if MLB can find enough. ?
RIP, Jerry Stiller, who as Frank Costanza was similar to Gov. Newsom, with "a strange, halting way of speaking." ?
The year Michael Jordan turned to baseball, the Bulls went 55-27. ?
People have trouble receiving their stimulus checks, but the Lakers, worth $4.5 billion, at least saw fit to return their $4.6 million check from the Payroll Protection Program. ...
I sing a Gershwin-Heyward tune when I wonder if anything will happen to Duke over this Zion Williamson flap. "Plenty O' Nuttin'." ?
Stink O' The Week Sezment: Asterisks. Don't do asterisks, unless it's M*A*S*H. ...
Stink II: The prolonged red tide. ?
How the hell, in 2020, can "correct" be connected with "politically." ?
Suddenly useless: My daily calendar. ?
George Raveling: "Wearing a mask is a sign of respect." A whole lot of human disrespect out there. ?
Cleopatra was Greek, which explains my affinity for gyros. ...
Easy to see why scientists shouldn't run for any political office. Nobody listens to them. ...
Astronomers keep talking about finding "intelligent life" in space. How about on Earth? ?
Genius never fades. ...
"It is better to light a candle than curse the darkness." - Eleanor Roosevelt
 twitter: @sdutCanepa

Graphic

 
PHOTO: NCAA President Mark Emmert says he can't see football games being played if students aren't back at school. PHOTOGRAPHER: Matt York AP
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Column

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STUDENT ATHLETES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ATHLETES (79%); MEN'S SPORTS (79%); PROFESSIONAL SPORTS (79%); SCHOOL SPORTS (79%); SPORTS REVENUES (79%); COVID CORONAVIRUS (54%); COVID-19 CORONAVIRUS (54%)

Industry: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: May 18, 2020


End of Document
