



Daily News (New York)
June 24, 2003, Tuesday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2003 Daily News, L.P.
Section: GOSSIP;; COLUMN
Length: 1162 words
Byline: BY GEORGE RUSH AND JOANNA MOLLOY With Suzanne Rozdeba and Ben Widdicombe
Body

Adam Sandler knows that clothes make the man - and the dog. "The Wedding Singer" star wore a black tux and white yarmulke Sunday to his own wedding to longtime girlfriend Jackie Titone. So did his bulldog, Meatball.
When he wasn't looking after Meatball, Sandler was doing his best to frustrate paparazzi trying to invade the Malibu ceremony. Sandler floated giant balloons above the oceanside estate he rented from Dick Clark so helicopter-borne lensmen couldn't get a clear shot.
But he wasn't shy about prominently posting his own shots of the bride, the groom and the dog on his Web site, adamsandler.com.
Despite the evasive maneuvers, we have gleaned that the guests included Jennifer Aniston, Winona Ryder, Sharon Osbourne, Dustin Hoffman, Rob Schneider, Quentin Tarantino, Garry Shandling, Chris Rock, Rodney Dangerfield and Dana Carvey.
The night before, many of them attended a rehearsal dinner at the home of Sony Pictures Vice Chairwoman Amy Pascal and her husband, New York Times reporter Bernard Weinraub. While the rehearsal menu had a Hawaiian theme, the wedding dinner leaned toward Jewish favorites, starting with matzo ball soup.
This is the first marriage for Sandler, 36, and Titone, 28. The model-actress, had parts in several of his movies - playing a waitress in "Big Daddy" and an angel in "Little Nicky."
Jack's track
Sandler had to do without one buddy at the wedding. His "Anger Management" co-star Jack Nicholson couldn't break away from New York, where he's been shooting a romantic comedy. What's more, it was his weekend with his children by Rebecca Broussard - Lorraine, 12, and Raymond, 10.
On Thursday, they checked out "Movin' Out," stopping backstage to meet Elizabeth Parkinson, John Selya and the rest of the cast. On Saturday, the Nicholson clan hit "Gypsy." Sunday found them at the Subway Series, in a box with Rudy Giuliani and his son, Andrew, Yankees President Randy Levine and Bobby Zarem.
P.S. Unlike his predecessor, Mayor Bloomberg was in the Mets section. "He sat with the home team," said his spokesman. "He'll be at Yankee stadium next weekend."
Tadpole time
There must be something in the water in Hollywood. First it was Demi Moore, 40, dating Ashton Kutcher, 25. Now Cameron Diaz, 30, is flinging with Justin Timberlake, 22.
The "Charlie's Angels" cutie and her tadpole toy-boy first hooked up in April at the Nickelodeon Kid's Choice Awards in Los Angeles. Now grainy pictures of the couple stealing a kiss outside Diaz's Hollywood Hills home have appeared in the U.K. press.
She was also spotted backstage at Timberlake's show in L.A. last Monday and at the House of Blues after-party.
Though her rep said yesterday that the two are just friends, one of Justin's pals suggested more is going on.
"He's 22," the friend tells us. "If you could go out with Cameron Diaz, wouldn't you? But there's not a lot that can happen between them in the next couple of months. She's promoting her 'Charlie's Angels' movie. And he's on tour."
But somehow, we figure, lust will find a way - it certainly has for Moore and Kutcher, who were in deep canoodle on Saturday at Flow on Varick St.
"They were making out constantly," says a spy who reports that an herbal aroma was wafting from the table the couple shared with several others.
Arrested appetite
Mike Tyson must have worked up an appetite Saturday when he was arrested after allegedly assaulting two tourists who wanted his autograph.
After spending several hours at the Brooklyn precinct, Tyson headed to Bravo Gianni's restaurant on E. 63rd St. Fittingly, the boxer ordered pasta prigioniera - "prison pasta," made with a tomato-based eggplant sauce that's apparently a favorite of inmates in Italy. (The man who chomped Evander Holyfield is also known to enjoy orecchiette pasta - "little ears.")
A spy says: "Mike couldn't have been more friendly. He was signing autographs for everybody."
Is he an Ozzy?
Ozzy Osbourne is looking to his lawyers to exorcise a Satan-worshipping dominatrix who claims he's the father of her 6-year-old son.
Sheron Lutz claims Ozzy Jr., who has a speech impediment just like the former Black Sabbath frontman, was the result of a 1996 liaison after a party.
But a rep for the rocker, who already has two adopted and five biological children, says the Prince of Bleeping Darkness hasn't sired any other princelings.
"Ozzy, who had a vasectomy 17 years ago, has no idea who this woman is and has no intention of making any payment," says a spokeswoman.
Osbourne himself says, "The most precious thing I have in my life is my marriage and my children and now someone is trying to destroy the harmony in my family."
The rep added that Osbourne's slurred speech was a result of his "lifestyle," and not a genetic trait.
Harvey says 'Damn'
Miramax boss Harvey Weinstein is betting on Broadway again with a big-screen adaptation of "Damn Yankees."
The show tune-loving mogul has tapped "Chicago" executive producers Neil Meron and Craig Zadan to film the 1955 hit musical. The baseball fantasy, originally adapted by George Abbott, Richard Adler and Jerry Ross from the novel by Douglass Wallop, is about a man who makes a deal with the devil to help his team thwart the Yankees.
The original Tony-winning production made a star out of Gwen Verdon. The show was revived in 1995, starring Jerry Lewis as the devil.
Post toastie
We thought the New York Post might have learned its lesson after we busted one of their contributors plagiarizing a story from the National Enquirer. But Rupert Murdoch's minions are still taking short cuts.
Sunday, when the Kangaroo Chronicle ran a story about "The Hulk" taking in $23.8 million on its opening day, the summary of the plot notes that, "[Eric] Bana plays a scientist whose genetic experiment to create superhuman beings bound for Mars goes wrong.   The same experiment transforms three escaped convicts into supermutants  "
Eagle-eyed blogger Paul Frankenstein noticed two problems with the above: It's completely wrong (there's no Mars and no escaped convicts in the movie), and it's lifted almost word-for-word from the Internet Movie Database. Guess you can't always believe what you read online - or in the Post.
Surveillance
LOU REED showed his vicious side Saturday when some rude bar patrons wouldn't stop talking during his performance at Vegas' Hard Rock Hotel. After marching off-stage briefly, he returned to hear someone yell, '[Bleep] you, Lou!'" According to our spy, Reed replied, "No, man, [bleep] you!" and demanded that the lights be turned on so he could spot the loudmouth 
BILLY JOEL doesn't usually dine with the maitre d' at the restaurants he frequents, but he made an exception on Saturday. His girlfriend, Kate Lee, has signed on as hostess of Jeff and Eddie's, the new Sag Harbor seafood joint owned by Jeff Resnick and and lawyer Eddie Burke Jr. Lee, 25, who had the night off, joined the 54-year-old Piano Man at a table with Jimmy Buffett, the bistro's landlord 
DIANE KEATON lunched at 75 Main St. in Southampton.

Graphic

 
ADAMSANDLER.COM THE WEDDING ZINGER: Adam Sandler couldn't resist clowning as his bride, Jackie Titone, smiled indulgently. The pair were married at a waterfront property rented from Dick Clark, where even Sandler's beloved bulldog, Meatball, sported a yarmulke. ADAMSANDLER.COM GETTING A GRIP: Ashanti's dress was barely there,which must be why one of her dancers decided she needed some extra (ahem) coverage at the Much Music Video Awards in Toronto.The Murder Inc. songstress was in the running for Best International Video - Artist for her tune "Happy," but Sean Paul grabbed that prize for "Gimme the Light". Zoran Bozicevic Globe Photos. YOU'VE GOT IT Bill Maher arrived at Flaunt magazine's Summer Reign party in L.A. with luscious pinup Coco Johnsen on his arm. Fans of Mr. Politically Incorrect can catch him next month,when he'll play four shows at the Hudson Theatre. Chris Weeks Filmmagic.com
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); COURTSHIP & DATING (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); TRENDS & EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); COMEDY FILMS (65%)

Company: HOUSE OF BLUES  (50%); HOUSE OF BLUES  (50%)

Industry: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); THEME RESTAURANTS (72%); COMEDY FILMS (65%)

Person: ADAM SANDLER (79%); CHRIS ROCK (79%); DEMI MOORE (79%); WINONA RYDER (79%); ASHTON KUTCHER (75%); QUENTIN TARANTINO (71%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%); JENNIFER ANISTON (58%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); AMY PASCAL (52%)

Geographic: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%)

Load-Date: June 24, 2003


End of Document
