



Tampa Bay Times
September 16, 2018 Sunday
4 State / Suncoast Edition


Copyright  2018 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


Section: LOCAL; Pg. 6; OBITUARIES
Length: 11948 words
Body


POSEY, Michael Lewis 28, of Inverness, died Sept. 13, 2018. Private services Monday, 11 am, from Chas E Davis. Burial will be in Oak Ridge Cemetery.
BAEHR, Kenneth Edward 98, of Beverly Hills, FL died Sept. 11, 2018. Graveside service, Friday, Sept. 21, 2 pm at Florida National Cemetery. Chas E Davis F. H., Inverness
TASARO, Michael W. of Spring Hill, Florida, passed away September 9, 2018. He is survived by his loving family. International Cremation Services
WALLACE, James R. 59, Spring Hill, passed away Sept. 10, 2018. He is survived by two sisters and a brother. All services are private. International Cremations Services is handling the arrangements.
AVERILL, Dr. Walter III passed away September 10, 2018. He is survived by his loving family. International Cremation Services
TOBEY, Linda 70, passed away September 8, 2018. A memorial service will be held Sept. 18, 6 pm, at Christian Life Assembly of God, 13065 Jacqueline Rd. Brewer & Sons/Brooksville
BERTHELETTE, George "Don" 75, loving husband of Priscilla Alice, died on Friday, September 7, 2018. Don and Priscilla moved to Brooksville, FL, in 2005, from Rhode Island. He was a retired Silversmith from Reed & Barton of Taunton, MA. He was an avid racing pigeon flyer in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Florida. Don loved to travel and experience different countries and cultures. He especially enjoyed his annual trip to the Dominican Republic, making new friends, greeting those he saw annually, and taking in its people and culture. Besides his wife, he is survived by his children, Susan Berthelette and spouse, Dena Berthelette of Brooksville, Michael Berthelette and spouse, Allen Coleman of Tampa, and Charles "Chuck" Berthelette and spouse, Steven Perry of Raynham, MA; his many grand- and great-grandchildren, whom he adored; and many brothers and sisters, including Pauline Hampson of Spring Hill, FL. A Celebration of Life Mass will be held at St. Anthony's Catholic Church, Brooksville, 11:30 am, Friday, October 5. In lieu of flowers, donations to St. Jude Children's Hospital in his memory would be greatly appreciated.
REIS, Thomas E. 73, passed Sept. 13, 2018. Survived by son, Thomas; brother, William; 2 grandchildren; 1 great-grandchild; companion, Marguerite. Brewer & Sons (352) 688-4991
WEIMER, Edna A. 96, of Spring Hill, died Sept. 9, 2018. Graveside Service at Grace Memorial Gardens Sept. 18, 10 am. Brewer & Sons (352) 796-4991
BLAKE, Eve passed suddenly Aug. 27 2018. She was a pioneering Tampa business woman, and wife of longtime labor leader, Morris Blake. She personified service to the community and dedication to her family. Eve Blake is survived by her children, Steve, Vernon, James Blake and Felecia D. Brother Vernon and nephew, Chucky. Eve will be remembered for her strong work ethic, her loving smile, and ability to always see the good in everyone. We will be having a Celebration of Life Sunday, Sept. 23, 11-4 pm, at Legion Post 111, 6918 N. Florida Ave. Adams and Jennings Funeral Home
BRAY, Joseph "Tim" 67, passed away September 9, 2018. Tim is preceded in death by his twin daughters, Jamie and Jessie; brother, James Bray; sister, Faith Bray; mother, Miriam Morris. He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Pamela H. Bray; brothers, Steven (Bessie) Bray, William David Bray, Johnathan Mark (Joy) Bray, Benjamin Michael (Shirley) Bray; numerous nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held Saturday, September 22, 2018, 3:30 pm, at Blount and Curry MacDill, 605 S. MacDill Ave., Tampa, FL 33609. The family will accept friends at 2:30 pm. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Humane Society of Tampa Bay, 3607 N. Armenia Ave., Tampa, FL 33607. Please visit Tim's online guestbook at: 
BOOS, Frederick Apgar "Fred" 80, of Temple Terrace, FL, and Lavallette, NJ entered into eternal rest Friday, September 7, 2018. He was born July 5, 1938, in New Jersey, the son of Helen Elizabeth Apgar Boos and Frederick Augustus Boos. He spent his childhood in Irvington, NJ before moving to the shores of Lavallette, NJ in 1956. He graduated from Irvington High School and Rider College, Trenton, NJ. Fred went on to meet his beloved wife, Constance Huntington Platt, and they married December 29, 1962, for 56 amazing years. They were blessed with two wonderful children Scott Frederick and Natalie Gayle. Fred spent his early years as a Lavallette ocean lifeguard and earned the well-deserved nickname of "Moose." He was a master mason and went on to earn a 32nd Degree Masons, to ultimately become an Egypt Temple Shriner. Fred sat as a board member for the Lavallette Board of Education and Board of Adjustments, and for the Sandcastle Condominium. He was the past president as well as the director of the Useppa Island Club Fire & Rescue Department. Fred coached Temple Terrace Little League baseball. He was a member of the Temple Terrace Presbyterian Church, Union Church of Lavallette, Temple Terrace Golf & Country Club, and The Waterjet Technology Association. Fred and Connie were Hospice 2011 honorary chairs of the Island Night annual fundraiser and continue their philanthropic support. Fred was employed from 1960-1971 with Allen-Sherman-Hoff Company as a startup engineer for materials handling systems in coal and oil burning power plants throughout the USA, Canada, and Europe. He concurrently owned and operated Electro-Controls, Inc. that later sold to General Electric. Fred was then employed by Stone and Webster Engineering Company of Boston, MA as a startup engineer at many power plants here in the United States then later transferred to Tampa Electric Big Bend Station, Apollo Beach, FL. In 1975, Fred founded Blasters, Inc. He later owned Lift-All, Inc. and Blasters Ready Jet. Fred was a pioneer and global leader in the water jetting industry. He developed and patented specialty robotics and motion control devices for surface preparation and concrete hydro-demolition. His historical projects included the Howard Frankland Bridge rehab, NASA space shuttle rehab, several 250 feet to 1,000 feet tall Naval towers lead paint abatement project, Trident nuclear submarine missile tube replacements, Virginia class submarine fleet coating removal, concrete removal of two 500-foot tall concrete cooling towers, design and manufacturer of the Liquidator stripe removal systems, the patented Ready Jet concrete removal system, and Pipe Viper coating removal on the exterior of natural gas transmission lines. Fred holds multiple patents in numerous countries around the world. Fred was an avid yachtsman and loved his time on the waters of Barnegat Bay and the Atlantic ocean of the Jersey shore, Florida's East and West coasts, Bahamas, and Key West. He and his one true love, Connie, enjoyed travels around the world on many exciting trips. Fred adored and enjoyed his children and grandchildren who all share his love of the water. His zest for life was infectious. His smile, sweetness, laughter, and witt will be dearly missed by all who knew him and loved him. Fred is predeceased by his parents, Helen and Frederick Boos; his mother and father-in-law, Richard and Eleanor Platt; and his brother-in-law, Jeffrey Platt. He leaves his loving wife, Connie; his son, Scott and wife, Kris of Tampa; his daughter, Natalie and husband, Doug of Temple Terrace; six grandchildren, Peyton Elliott, Lindsay Boos, Austin Elliott, Audrey Boos, Ellie Boos, and Abigail Elliott; sister-in-law, Julia Platt; nephews, Keith and Brad Platt and their families; and two granddogs, Salty and Wrigley. A memorial service will take place Monday, September 17, 2 pm, at Temple Terrace Presbyterian Church, and followed by a Celebration of Life at Temple Terrace Golf & Country Club. Donations may be made in Fred's memory to LifePath Hospice c/o Circle of Love for Grieving Children, 3010 W. Azeele Street, Tampa, FL 33609; Temple Terrace Presbyterian Church Capital Improvement Fund; or Union Church of Lavallette Memorial Fund.
WESTMORELAND, Larry Wayne "Butch" 68, of Tampa, passed away September 8, 2018. He is survived by his loving family and friends. Florida Mortuary (813) 237-2900
MESS, Helen Marie (Gatterdam) 87, of Tampa, passed away Monday, Sept. 10, 2018 at Concordia/John Knox Village. She was born in 1931 to Paul and Ruth Gatterdam in La Crosse, Wisconsin. "The Lovely Mess" lived life to the fullest and was an Army wife who traveled the world with her husband, John Mess. She enjoyed playing Bridge, and in her youth was quite the athlete (though she cheated). She was preceded in death by her husband, John and sister, Ruth Kendall. She is survived by her daughter, Paula Mess of Lauderhill, FL; son, Kerry Mess of Aurora, GA; brother, Paul Gatterdam of Pennington, New Jersey; and various nieces, nephews, and friends. Thanks to those friends who kept in touch with her through these trying times. In lieu of flowers, feel free to make a contribution in Helen's name to a charity of your choice. Arrangements by: Blount & Curry (813) 876-2421
FERNANDEZ, Dorothy Mae 63, of Tampa, passed away September 04, 2018. Dorothy is survived by a loving family. No services at this time. Sunset Funeral Home
MARTIN, Ann Marie 84, of Tampa, FL, passed away on September 10, 2018. She is survived by her loving family. No services at this time. Sunset Funeral Home
BURNHAM, Susan (Chace) "Sue" age 89, passed away on September 4, 2018 in Traverse City, Michigan. She was born on July 13, 1929 in Cincinnati, Ohio. Sue graduated from Miami University in 1952 with a BA in Education and minor in musical performance. Sue was a long-term resident of Avila in Tampa, Florida and is survived by her beloved husband of over 62 years, Lewis A. Burnham. Sue developed fond memories and lasting friendships over 15 moves throughout the Midwest, Japan, Ohio, Florida, and Michigan. Sue taught school in the Colerain school district, English to Japanese students, and the piano to many. She loved tennis, golf, and a good laugh at happy hour and will be remembered for her tremendous energy, enthusiasm, wit, and a welcoming smile for anyone lucky enough to cross her path. Surviving are her beloved daughter, Liz (Tom) VerSchure; son, Steve (Christina); son, Jim (Lee); and her cherished grandchildren, Zak VerSchure, Nick VerSchure, Emily Burnham, Chloe Burnham, and Tristan Burnham. Sue was the devoted sister of the late Robert, William, Benjamin, John, and James Chace, and sister-in-law, Marian (Robert) Chace, and she is also survived by her nieces and nephews. There will be a celebration of her life at 2 pm held on September 16, 2018 at the Central Methodist Church Chapel, 222 N. Cass St., Traverse City, Michigan 49684. Please direct donations to the Church in care of the Music Fund.
FREY, Frank Leo It is with deep sadness we announce the passing of Frank Leo Frey, 80, of Fitchburg, WI, on August 23, 2018. Frank was born to Evelyn (nee Pond) and Frank Frey in Monroe, WI, April 26, 1938. At the age of nine, he and his family moved to San Leandro, CA where he attended school and cultivated lifelong friendships. Having served in the U.S. Navy as an airman, mechanic, and member of the rescue squad, Frank was stationed in San Diego, CA, Guam and Japan. Frank loved flying and held a pilot's license for small aircraft. His first private flight was in 1964 in a tandem-seated plane flying over Oakland, CA. Frank met and married Claire (nee Kuhn) Frey in California May 17, 1964. They had two children, Kierstin Page Frey, Antioch, CA and Kevin Karl Frey, Madison, WI. During the summer of 1969 they returned to Frank's roots in the Midwest, living in Fort Atkinson, Cambridge and Madison, WI. Frank had two primary passions; driving and community. His motorcycle, perhaps, was his greatest of all. He and Claire traveled the country via his Honda Gold Wing tour bike. As a member of the Gold Wing Road Riders Association (GWRRA), Frank took part in numerous "Wing Dings"; motorcycle rides for charity (Ride for Kids); and camping excursions. He was an avid Green Bay Packer fan; NASCAR and racing fanatic; and brother of the Free & Accepted Masons of Jefferson County. Frank shared his time between Wisconsin and Florida and met friends wherever he traveled. Frank was preceded in death by his parents and brother, Larry Frey of Florida. He is survived by Claire Frey; his children, Kierstin and Kevin and son-in-law, Ronald Bennett of CA. Memorial services will be announced at a later date. Please share your memories at: 
MORGAN, Lee Roy 62, of Tampa, passed away on Friday, August 31, 2018. He is survived by his loving family. International Cremation Services
JACKSON, Russell A. "Russ" 81, Tampa, FL passed away August 31, 2018. Russ is survived by his son, Jason (Donna) Jackson of Lutz, FL; his brother, Charles (Bernadette) Jackson of Collegeville, PA; his sister-in-law, Alice Jackson of Williamsport, PA, and extended family. A funeral mass will be held at St. Timothy Catholic Church in Lutz, FL Friday, September 21, 2018 at 9 am. Interment will be scheduled at a later date in Williamsport, PA. Blount & Curry Funeral Home
GONZALES, Julian Cabrera 85, of Tampa, passed away September 11, 2018. He is survived by his loving family. Sylvan Abbey Funeral Home
CREWS, Joyce A. 76, of Nobleton, passed away September 11, 2018. She was born October 1, 1941, in Valdosta, GA. She is Catholic by faith and attended St. Anthony's Catholic Church. Joyce is predeceased by her husband, James Crews. She is survived by her two sons, Greg Crews of Merritt Island, FL, Phillip Crews of Nobleton, FL; one grandchild, Samantha; and sister, Phyllis Fender of Valdosta, GA. Joyce will be missed but never forgotten. Brewer & Sons/Brooksville
BORRELL, Clyde (Pate) age 69, passed away Aug. 25, 2018, surrounded by her loving family. She was preceded in death by her parents, Dr. Julian Carey Pate and Helen Clyde Pate, and father, Virgil Smith. She is survived by her mother, Duckie Smith; children, Frances Clyde Chavez (Tom), TJ Borrell Jr. and Tara Horstmeyer (Neal); sisters, Christine Warren (Steve) and Andrea Turbeville (Dewey); her grandchildren, Sabrina, Samantha, Savannah, Pace, Asher, Canon and Isabella; nephews, nieces, and many beloved extended family and friends. A Tampa native, Clyde was previously active in many local clubs and organizations. A private memorial service for family is planned.
KING, Maora Jane "Skippy" 93, died at home July 7, 2018. Beginning in the late 1960s Skippy began working to help battered women, sometimes sheltering them in her home. She worked closely with Pat Gonzalez to open The Spring in 1977, a center to assist battered women. Skippy was also a driving force in organizing The Women's Center, which was incorporated in 1972 when she became the Director. This was one of the first facilities dedicated to women's reproductive rights in Tampa. In addition to abortions, they offered general health care, vasectomies, a 24-hour answering service, and the first feminist bookstore in Tampa in 1975, The Feminist Connection. Throughout the years she helped other cities start their own Women's Center. In the seventies, NOW awarded her one of the first Diana Awards, which honored those who worked for women's rights. In 1977, she became an LPN, and then trained as a lay midwife and in 1982 opened the Alternative Birthing Center. In addition to the many home births she participated in, she helped other birthing centers get started around the state. One of the hallmarks of her career was her case begun in 1978 to be licensed as a lay midwife, which went to the Florida Supreme Court before it was finally won in 1982. At the Midwives Association of Florida conference in 2009 she was honored as a founding mother. Skippy was predeceased by her son, Larry King; her grandson, Ben King; and her best friend and partner of 33 years, Penny Pohle. She is survived by her daughters, Jane Witt Kemmis (Doug) of Sacramento, CA, Penny Maora Witt of Olympia, WA, and Jimi Lin King (Leon) of Tampa, FL. Skippy is also survived by five grandchildren; 14 great-grandchildren; and three great-great-grandchildren. Many thanks go to the Plum Team at Lifepath Hospice and to Serenity Meadows Funeral Home.
BROUGHTON, Genevieve On September 5, 2018 Genevieve Broughton (Carlisle) passed away at the age of 93, in Brandon, Florida. She was the beloved wife of the late C.W. "Pete" Broughton for 45 years; devoted mother of Shirley Smith (Jerry), Judy Vital, Luther Broughton (the late Cecelia), Robert Broughton (Cyndi), Phillip Broughton (Jean), Bruce Broughton (Linda), Dean Broughton (Wanda), and the late Ronald Broughton. She was cherished grandmother of 21 grandchildren, 59 great-grandchildren, and 40 great-great-grandchildren. Genevieve was the co-owner of Broughton Texaco in Wimauma and a lifelong active member of the Wimauma Church of God. The family will receive friends on Wednesday, September 19, 2018 at Wimauma Church of God, 5504 FL-674, at 10 am where a funeral service will be held at 11 am. Interment to immediately follow in Fellowship Cemetery, Lithia. Arrangements by: Sun City Center Funeral Home (813) 634-9900
KELLY, MaryLee Janice (Roberts) 81, died Sept. 6, 2018 with her family at her side. She graduated 9th grade as salutatorian from Mango School in 1952, then went on to graduate from Hillsborough High School. MaryLee was a current member of Seffner Church of Christ, but for most of her life was a member of the Nebraska Ave Church of Christ. She was preceded in death by her husband, Mark A. Kelly. MaryLee is survived by her son, Mark Kelly and wife, Angela; two remaining sisters, Patricia Aldridge and Alma Kudlinski; grandson, Christopher and his fiance;, Jessica (carrying the great- granddaughter of MaryLee); granddaughter, Megan and; great-grandson, Brayden; extended family and friends. Private graveside services will be held September 22, 2018, followed by a Celebration of Life Pot Luck. Anyone wishing to attend, contact Mark for directions and bring a dish of food in lieu of flowers!
COLMORGEN, MICHELE Wheeler "Shelly" 75, of Tampa passed away peacefully in her home holding the loving hands of her family on September 12, 2018. Shelly was an incredible Mom to her two daughters, Lisa Bozeman Polanco and Nickole Bozeman and welcomed their spouses, Franco Polanco and Melanie Bevan into her life with open arms. She was the best Nana in the world to her three grandchildren, Austin, Kristyn, and Anjalique. She was also a loving sister to her two brothers, Maurice J. Wheeler Jr. and Jon Scott Wheeler, and her sister, Sharon Wheeler Leafe. Shelly spent her days in her garden feeding her birds and squirrels, and sitting in her swing watching over her beautiful plants and flowers. Her neighbors all knew her as "Mrs. C" and could count on seeing her walk her beloved dog, Mickey, down the block several times a day. If you called Shelly on any Sunday in the fall, she would answer the phone with an exuberant, "GO BUCS!!" and would spend the day sitting in her chair watching her favorite team and drinking her Natty Lights. Every family birthday was celebrated with a Nana Party where she was surrounded by those who loved her most. In lieu of a formal service, Shelly's ashes will be spread in her beautiful garden at her final Nana Party with close family and friends. Shelly would have wanted all who knew her to remember her bright smile, gorgeous blue eyes and giving spirit, and to perform an act of kindness in her honor instead of flowers or donations.
SHIVELY, Lois Lorene (Faris) quietly passed away Sept. 3, 2018 in Tampa, FL. She died of age-related medical complications at age 93. Lois was the daughter of Forrest and Opal (Sargent) Faris and was born in Indian Springs, IN Feb. 2, 1925. She was preceded in death by her three brothers, Doug, Don, and Gene; and her husband of 69 years, John Adrian Shively. She is survived by four children, David, Ann, Ted, and Janet; nine grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren. All were intimately a part of her life and loved to come to Tampa to visit Nanny and Grandpa John. Lois led a fascinating and full life. She was high school valedictorian, proud Indiana University alumna, loyal collegiate basketball fan, active tennis player into her 80s, avid reader, and hostess extraordinaire. John's career as a physician and professor took them on journeys throughout the world. Wherever they resided, Lois provided indispensable support while pursuing her many interests and activities with family, friends, and church. She was loved by many and kept in touch with a lifetime of friends and relatives. Lois and John spent several happy years in retirement at University Village in Tampa and she will be sorely missed by the many staff members and aides who assisted during her time there. A Celebration of Life service will be held for Lois at Lake Magdalene United Methodist Church at 10 am on Saturday, Sept. 22, 2018. Blount & Curry Funeral Home
SANTIAGO, Naquan R. 31, of Lutz, FL and formerly of Lakeland, FL, died September 10, 2018. He is survived by his mother, Yesenia Torruellas; his sister, Tavesha Y. James; brother, Ahmir D. Torruellas; grandparents, Florencio R. Catala and Maria Torruellas. Friends will be received at the Rusurrection Catholic Church, 3855 S. Florida Ave., Lakeland, FL on Wednesday Sept. 19 from 11 am to mass time of 12 pm. Online memorial and guestbook at: 
ANTONETTI, Lt. Joseph S. (Ret.) 93, passed peacefully Monday, Sept. 10, 2018. Joe was born and raised in Boston, MA, graduated from Boston College, served in the U.S. Navy during WWII, and relocated with his family to Tampa in 1958. He continued to serve in the Naval Reserve until his retirement from the U.S. Navy. Our beloved father, grandfather, great-grandfather, true friend, animal lover, kind and witty soul, was predeceased by his son, Stephen; and is survived by his wife, Hilda; daughters, Linda M. Antonetti (Mirek) of New York City and Diane (Antonetti) Serrabella (James) of Palm Harbor; son, William (Bill) G. Wynne of New Port Richey; grandchildren, Carey, Dana (Jason), Ryan, Stephen, Joseph and Paul; great-grandchildren, James and Jacob; and stepdaughters, Cheri Kugle and Debbie Gordon of Sorrento, ME. A celebration of Joe's life will be held Saturday, Sept. 15, 11:30 am - 1:30 pm at St. Mark Village, 2655 Nebraska Ave., Palm Harbor. In lieu of flowers, Joe would request that you donate in his honor to the Humane Society, ASPCA, or your preferred animal shelter/rescue organization. We will always love and miss you, Joe.
GOLDMAN, Lorraine "Libby" 89, of Tampa, passed away Sept. 13, 2018. She is survived by her loving family and many adored friends. For service information please visit: segalfuneralhome.com
RUBLER, Valerie Nedelsky passed away Monday, Sept. 3, 2018 at the age of 82. She and her devoted husband, Michael, spent more than 49 years building a life together and raising three children. She ran a household and cooked for every occasion.She was a no-frills lady who wasn't afraid of hard work. She spent 15 years at the Department of Defense as a contract negotiator. She returned to the workforce when her kids got older, working in an administrative capacity at University of Miami and retiring from there after a 16 year career. She took great pride in her children, the journalist, the psychologist-turned-supermom and the Air Force master sergeant. She cheered tirelessly for the Miami Dolphins and Miami Hurricanes, but never let her loyalty lapse for her hometown Chicago teams, notably the Cubs and Bears. Later in life came her true loves, her three grandsons. She delighted in every drawing, every awards ceremony and every impromptu living room performance. She is survived by her husband, Michael; her children, Diane, Julie (Eric) and Steve; and grandsons, Beckett, Cameron and Parker. A memorial will be held Saturday, Sept. 22 from 1-5 pm at: Blount & Curry Funeral Home, 3207 W. Bearss Ave.
FONTE, Rosemary went to be with the Lord September 14, 2018 at the age of 57. A Tampa native, she was born on July 7, 1961 to Angelo Fonte Sr. and the late Carol Lumia Fonte. Rosemary is also predeceased by her brother, Kelly Fonte and stepmother, Dorothy Fonte. Rosemary is survived by her beloved father, Angelo Fonte Sr.; her loving siblings, Angelo Fonte Jr. (Dee), Donna Thompson (Chuck), Edward Diaz (Tricha), Debbie Harker (Dennis) and Mike Diaz (Dyna), "Mama", Ruby Baker; as well as many cherished aunts, uncles, cousins and extended family. A funeral Mass will be held Tuesday, September 18, 2018 at Sacred Heart Catholic Church, 509 N. Florida Ave., Tampa at 10 am with a gathering time from 9-10 am, burial following at the Italian Club of Tampa Cemetery, Tampa. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in Rosemary's name to the Children's Advocacy Center Foundation, 700 E. Twigg St. #102, Tampa, 33602. Funeral Arrangements entrusted to: Gonzalez Funeral Home
COTTON, Lawrence Anthony Sr. "Larry" 66, departed this life Sunday, August 19, 2018. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Joyce; his son, Lawrence and daughter, Katurah; brother Ronald and wife, Rumi; niece, Asia and nephew, Rhon. Larry is best known as the food aficionado and host of WFLA TV's Daytime show segment Larry's Good Eats, which he enthusiastically appeared for 17 years. Larry worked at WFLA for 29 years until his retirement in 2016. Larry was a kind and loving husband, father, brother and friend. He leaves many cherished memories in the hearts of those who loved his kind and gentle spirit, including his aunt, Fannie Cockfield of Cleveland, OH, and a host of relatives and friends. He was preceded in death by his parents, Anthony J. Cotton and J. Marian Cotton. A celebration of life will be held for Lawrence Anthony Cotton Sr. at 12 Noon, Saturday, September 22, 2018 at Beulah Baptist Institutional Church, 1006 W. Cypress Street, Tampa, FL 33606. Blount & Curry West Chapel
HENDERSON, Isabel With great sadness the family of Belle Henderson announces her passing on September 14, 2018 at the age of 90. She will be lovingly remembered by her children, George and Linda Henderson, Susan Rochford; grandchildren, Amanda Deaton and Jonathan Henderson; great-grandchild, Margeaux Henderson; her brother, Joseph Solimeno and many nieces, nephews and friends. Belle was an active member of the Council of Catholic Women of Incarnation Church and dedicated her services to many church activities. Belle's passion for ballroom dancing, work with Guide Dogs for the Blind and kind spirit will be remembered by all who knew her. A celebration of her life, officiated by Belle's dear friend, Brother Albert Marie, will be held 7 pm, Monday, September 17, at Blount & Curry Chapel, 605 S. MacDill Ave, Tampa. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated 11 am, Tuesday September 18 at Incarnation Catholic Church, W. Hillsborough Ave, Tampa. Belle danced through life with a smile and is now dancing in heaven. In lieu of flowers, a donation to Southeastern Guide Dogs is appreciated: (/            
ALPIZAR, Linda 76, of Tampa, FL, died Friday, September 14, 2018. She is survived by her loving family. Garden of Memories Funeral Home
DEVINE, Shirley A. 83, passed away September 8, 2018. She is loved and will be deeply missed by family and friends. Cremations of Greater Tampa Bay
MARTELI, Richard Jr. 55, Tampa went to be with the Lord Sept. 8, 2018. Richard was a U.S. Veteran. He loved his family, friends, life and pets. He is survived by his father and mother Richard Sr. and Grace; sister, Rosalia; his loyal pets, Pepe and Gizmo and many family and friends who love him dearly. Comfort is taken in Matthew 5:8 Blessed are the pure of heart, for they will see God. As you always were a pure heart and good soul. Mass Tuesday, Sept. 18, 2018, 10:30 am at St. Joseph's Catholic Church Tampa. Military funeral to follow 2 pm, Florida National Cemetery Bushnell.
HAINES, Lynn Ruth passed away September 7, 2018. She was born Nov. 5, 1938 in Waukegan, IL. She is survived by her children, Carl Babnik (Marie), Michael Babnik, and Vicki Mueller (Bill); as well as her grandchildren, Kim, Lacey (Nash), Alex, and Jacob. She is also survived by her brothers, James (Sally) and Chuck (Phyllis). Mom loved her family and loved everything to do with animals, God's special creatures. She loved her little kitty, Abbott. In lieu of flowers, please consider making a contribution to Save A Pet, Grayslake, IL 60030, (847) 740-7788.
COLLINS, Winifred Ray 78, of 104 Arbor Court, passed away Sunday, September 9, 2018, at the Martha Franks Retirement Home. He was born in Evansville, IN, and was a son of the late Prentice and Nina Goodson Collins. Mr. Collins was a retired police officer and a US Army Veteran. He enjoyed fishing, hunting, old cars, and doing community service. He was a loving man with a warm heart for his granddaughters and his dog, Luke. Mr. Collins is survived by his wife of 56 years, Sharon Collins of the home; daughter, Cindi Ray (Carey) of Waterloo, SC; brothers, Paul Collins and Larry Collins; sister, Carolyn Collins; and grandchildren, Megan Ray (Richard Snow, fiance;) and Breanna Ray. In addition to his parents, he is predeceased by his brothers, Donald, Kenny, Harold, and Mike, and sisters, Wilma and Sondra. Funeral services will be held Monday, September 17, 2018, at 1 pm, at the Gray Funeral Home Chapel in Laurens, SC with burial at the M.J. "Dolly" Cooper Veterans Cemetery in Anderson. SC. The family will receive friends prior to the service from 12-1 pm at the funeral home. Condolences may be expressed online at:  Gray Funeral Home of Laurens, SC
SHAFFER, Kimberly L. 58, of Lakeland, FL, died Sept. 12, 2018. Survived by husband, Mark and her loving family. Coastal Cremations (813) 395-6988
WOOD, Col. Robert D. USA (Ret.) passed away September 7, 2018 at the age of 81. After graduation from Mt. Carmel, IL High School, he attended the University of Illinois where he joined Army ROTC, attained his private pilot's license, and met his wife of 60 years, Barbara Burns. Following graduation, he spent 28 years in the Army Infantry, was a Ranger and Airborne qualified. He served in the 101st Airborne Division, spent two tours in South Korea, served two tours in Vietnam one with the 1st Bn 5th Infantry Regiment (Bobcats) of the 25th Infantry Division. He commanded the 4th Bn 6th Infantry in Berlin, Germany and was a graduate of the Army War College. He received his MBA at George Washington University. His final assignment was at MacDill AFB. After retirement, he served in a leadership position with MPRI. Bob and Barbara retired to Sebring, FL in 1998. He became a Rotarian, an elder at First Presbyterian Church and a member of the Airport Authority. He started the US Sport Aviation EXPO. He is predeceased by his parents Virgil and Bernadine Ibbotson Wood. He is survived by his wife and three daughters, Elaine Wood, Woodbridge VA; Amy Wood, Riverview FL; and Elise Huszar, Tampa FL, his two grandchildren, Grant and Madison Huszar, and son-in-law, LTC (Ret) Paul Huszar. He is also survived by his brother and sister-in-law, COL (Ret) Nelson and Fay Wood of West Virginia and sisters-in-law, Joan Scarpati of Sebring and Kay Wood of Alexandria, VA. For the full obituary, visit: 
WARSICK, Frank M. September 25, 1925-September 4, 2018, his light shone to God's glory on earth and is now shining in Heaven. A U.S. Navy World War II veteran, Frank served in many vocations during his almost 93 years of life. However, his passion remained music. Self-taught initially, he began playing trombone at age 17, entering the United States Naval Band. After discharge, he continued formal training at University of Tampa, earning his degree in music education. While at UT, he played trombone in the Tampa Philharmonic under direction of conductors Lyman Wiltse and Alfredo Antonini. Additionally, Frank enjoyed playing in "Big Band " ensembles in Hillsborough and Pasco counties, including the Swing Sound and The Serenaders. Yet, he treasured most among his accomplishments creating and nurturing band programs, both in the Hillsborough County School District and particularly at Temple Heights Christian School. He was predeceased by his wife, Mary Laxton Warsick; and leaves behind to celebrate his life his children, Francine (Adam) Gersting, Michael (Sherri) Warsick, Katrina (Ron) Warsick-Rinzivillo; grandchildren, Dr. Nicole (Jake) Brainard, Alan Haddock, Daniel Warsick; sister-in-law, Carol Laxton; niece, Claudia Snook; nephews, Bob (Cindy) Laxton, Paul (Sydney) Laxton, Mark (Alice) Laxton, Steve (Linda) Stoltenborg; as well as many beloved great-nieces, nephews and friends. Frank's family expresses deep appreciation for the care provided him, especially by Dr. Arnie Tannenbaum & Associates, Dr. Khaja Zaki, Dr. Radhika Menon as well as the staff of Bayonet Point Hospital. Visitation will be Sunday, September 16, 2018 from 4-6 pm at Dobies Funeral Home in Hudson, Florida and a graveside service will be Monday, September 17, 2018, 1 pm at Florida National Cemetery, Bushnell, Florida.
JONES, Melton 78, of Land O'Lakes, FL passed away September 5, 2018. He is survived by loving family and friends. Loyless FH (813) 996-6610
CASEY, R. Carol 66, of New Port Richey, FL, passed away September 11, 2018. Born in Latrobe, PA, July 17, 1952, daughter of Al and Rita Bridge Casey, she graduated from University of Pennsylvania Wharton and University of Chicago Booth Schools. Carol had a career in private placements, municipal bonds, foreign exchange, corporate treasury and pensions. She was a member of Daughters of the American Revolution, Friends of New Port Richey Public Library, St. Petersburg Bridge Association, Greater Belleair Young Women's Society, and Our Lady Queen of Peace Church. Survived by brother, Paul (Carol) Casey; husband, Raymond Celli; son, Casey Celli; and three grandchildren. Memorial mass to be scheduled. No flowers; donate to Organ Fund, Our Lady Queen of Peace Catholic Church, New Port Richey, FL.
MINAUF, Frank 79, passed away September 8, 2018. He is survived by his loving family. Whitfield Funeral Home
GRENZ, Ann F. 70, of Port Richey, passed Sept. 9, 2018. She is survived by husband, Fred; children, Amanda and Fred Jr.; siblings, Gene, Victor and Jan; and 4 grandchildren. Michels-Lundquist
PHILLIPS, Rita Ann "Chickie" 79, of Hudson, FL, died Sept. 10, 2018. Survivors: husband, Jack; sons, John and Bob; grandsons, J.P. and Owen; two brothers; several nieces and nephews. Dobies F.H./Hudson
DUNCAN, Mary Ruth 90, of Spring Hill, passed away Sept. 10, 2018. Survivors, son, Joseph; daughter, Trason Straquadine; 15 grands; many great-grands; and extended loving family.
METCALF, Paul David On September 10, 2018, Paul David Metcalf, beloved father, son, brother and friend passed away at 64 years old at home in New Port Richey, FL. Paul was born October 30, 1953 to Beatrice Metcalf nee Weaver, currently of Myerstown, PA and the late David Anthony Metcalf. He will be remembered as a loving father by his son, Paul Jr.; and daughter, Tiffani. He will be sadly missed by his siblings Ken (Cindy) Metcalf, and Carol (Peter) Mayberry, and many nieces, nephews, and extended family. Paul spent a career in the financial services industry and a retirement on the golf course, making many beloved friends along the way. A memorial service will be held in his honor 1 pm September 22, 2018 at: Christman's Funeral Home, 226 Cumberland Street, Lebanon, PA
SIDDELL, Malcolm 80, passed away September 12, 2018. He is survived by his wife, Judith; son, David; daughter, Lori; two granddaughters, Brooke and Taylor. Whitfield Funeral Home
HORTON, Evelyn Caroline 96, of Land O' Lakes, FL, passed away Sept. 7, 2018. Evelyn is survived by her loving family, she will be truly missed.
FITZGERALD, Gary Edward 66 years young, of Zephyrhills, FL, passed away suddenly September 8, 2018. He is survived by his loving and loyal wife, Lillian Rivera Fitzgerald; son, Sean P. Fitzgerald; daughter, Cheryl E. Meyer; his two younger brothers; sisters-in-law, and nieces and nephew; James C. Fitzgerald and Joanne Fitzgerald, their daughter, Kristen; and son, Kevin; and recently retired Army CW5 Jeffrey J. Fitzgerald and Donna Fitzgerald, and their daughter, Shannon. Gary was born in Massapequa Park, Long Island, NY, November 29, 1951 to Eileen and Edward Fitzgerald. Ever-energetic and always fit, Gary enjoyed the freedom of the outdoors and the open skies, his favored activities included walking his dogs every day, camping, and flying his Buckeye powered parachute. A funeral will be held 7 pm, Tuesday, September 18, 2018 at Whitfield Funeral Home, 5008 Gall Blvd., Zephyrhills, FL. The family will receive friends one hour prior to the service. As per Gary's wishes, his remains will be cremated.
PETRYNA, Judith L. 78, of Zephyrhills, died Sept. 13, 2018. Survived by husband, David; daughters, Sally, Karen; brother, Ronald; grands, Tommy, Sarah. Coastal Cremations (813) 395-6988
PICKUTOWSKI, John Anthony died Sept. 11, 2018. Survived by daughter, Stephanie Apamdoc, Portland, OR; sister, Janet Tammer, Portsmouth, RI; and a grandchild. Coastal Cremations (727) 645-6975
DOWDY, James W. 85, of Port Richey, died Sept. 14, 2018. Survived by cousin, Ruth, and several nieces and nephews. Morgan Funeral Home
SINISCALCO, Philip 90, died Sept. 11, 2018. Funeral Mass 10 am, Sept. 18 at St. Joseph Catholic Church. Family will receive friends 6-8 pm, Sept. 17 at: Whitfield Funeral Home.
RIVERA, Norberto 71, passed Sept. 13, 2018. Survived by his wife, Carmen; children, Robert, Elizabeth, Raymond, Richard, Ernest; many siblings; grands and great-grandchildren. Faupel FH
KARGMAN, Lawrence H. 65, died Sept. 5, 2018. Service Friday, Sept. 21, 2018, 10 am at Dobies FH, Congress Street. In lieu of flowers, donations to Metropolitan Ministries
OWSLEY, Jack Lee 83, of Hudson, passed away Sept. 13, 2018. Survived by loving wife, Cloma and family. Memorial Wednesday, Sept. 19, 2018, 2 pm at: Dobies Funeral Home, Hudson Chapel
NIRMUL, Annieroodh 74, New Port Richey, passed Sept. 14, 2018. Survived by wife, Premilla; son, Ajay; daughter, Narisha Johnson; five grands; one great-grand; eight siblings. Dobies/Old CR 54
CROWLEY, Hazel B. 76, Holiday, died Sept. 14, 2018. Survived by husband, Thomas; daughters, Lynda and Karen; eight grands; five great-grands; and many beloved family members. Dobies/Holiday
FIELDHOUSE, Helen D. 102, Palm Harbor, passed August 23, 2018. A Celebration of Life will be held at St. Mark Village Chapel, Thursday, September 20 at 2 pm. Curlew Hills Memory Gardens
GREEN, James A. "Jim" 83, originally of Defiance, Ohio, passed away Aug. 31, 2018. Jim was preceded in death by his wife of 56 years, Frances Green; son, Kirk Green; and brother, Tom Green. He is survived by his son, Craig Green (Tandy); granddaughter, Jennifer Curell (Craig); grandson, Robert Green (Rebecca); and great-grandchildren, Amelia, Luke and Ava Curell, and Thomas and Cora Green. Mr. Green was an employee of the Johns Manville Corp. where he was awarded numerous sales and leadership awards during his 40 years of service. His lifelong love of sports cars started back in Defiance, Ohio, where Jim was both club champion and president of the Fort Defiance Sport Car Club. He raced with both British and German made automobiles and owned many Mercedes and BMW sports cars throughout his life. Jim also loved boating and was a member of the Clearwater Yacht Club. A celebration of life will be held for Jim at Serenity Gardens Memorial Park, 13401 Indian Rocks Rd, Largo, FL 33774, Sunday, Sept. 23, 2018 at 11 am with inurnment to follow. You may leave words of comfort and sympathy at . Hardage-Giddens, Edgewood Chapel, 729 S. Edgewood Avenue, is serving the family.
JEFFRIES, Francis A. 87, passed on August 26, 2018. He is survived by his sis- ter, son, daughter, daughter-in-law, grandchildren, great- grandchildren, nieces, nephews, and friends. A Memorial Service will be held at The Salvation Army Church, 1625 North Belcher in Clearwater on Friday, September 21, at 11 am. Burial will be at Bay Pines National Cemetery at 2 pm, with military honors.
JONES, Roger N. 76, of Largo, passed away September 10, 2018. Survived by loving wife, Lonna and other loving family and friends. R. Lee Williams & Son (727) 527-1177
BLIZZARD, C. Robert "Bob" 80, died Sept. 10, 2018. He is survived by wife, Sara; children, Genevieve (Vance) Williamson, Paul (Robin) Blizzard; grandchildren, Christopher (Becky), Kendall, and Tyler Williamson, and Lillie Blizzard; one great-grandson, Michael Vance Williamson; two brothers and two sisters. There was no service. Memorials in Bob's name can be made to the Scott Hembd Memorial Scholarship Endowment Fund at South Dakota State University.             
HOLCOMB, Theodore P. III "Ted" 67, of Palm Harbor, FL, died on Sept. 9, 2018. Survived by his sister, Claudia (Jack) Alwood; and nephews, Joshua, Andrew, and Benjamin. Dobies F.H., New Port Richey, Florida
CARPENTER, Phillip 74, passed Sept. 9, 2018. Memories will be cherished by his wife, Carolyn; children, Mike, Ray, and Robyn (deceased); grands, Caleb and Cary. Beacon Direct Cremation
GORDON, Jean Hurd "Dickie" died suddenly of a heart attack September 6, 2018. She was 84. Born in Utica, New York June 6, 1934, she was the daughter of Kenneth Start Hurd and Jean Smith Hurd Laidlaw. She was predeceased by her brothers, Eric Start and Barton Crawford Hurd. Jean is survived by her sister, Dorothy Anne (D'Anne) Hurd and her husband, George A. Forsythe and their sons, Eric and Douglas Forsythe. She was the devoted mother of, and is survived by, her two children, Deborah Jean Gordon Widra; husband, Gregory G Widra and sons, Ian and James Widra; and by her son, William Scott Gordon, wife, Julie Ballard Gordon and their sons, William and Thomas Gordon. She is also survived by her devoted friend and partner, Larry Marionneaux and his children, Rob and Susie who were especially instrumental in her care in her later years. Growing up in New Hartford, New York, Jean (nicknamed Dickie by her family) was Vice President of the Senior class, Vice President of the Honor Society and captain of both the junior varsity and NHHS varsity cheerleading teams. She also played interscholastic field hockey and basketball. Jean was dance director of the Junior Show and Chairman of the Senior Ball where she was crowned Prom Queen. She was an acapella chorus soprano and continued her musical singing in Cleveland in an all female quartet. She attended Wells College and in 1954 married Robert W. Gordon. After Bob's service in the Air Force, the couple settled in Shaker Heights, Ohio where they raised their two children and where Jean was a devoted caregiver to Bob's mother, Marie, for many years. Bob and Jean moved to Palm Harbor, Florida in 1986, where Jean became an active member of the Florida Gulf Coast Alzheimer's Support Group. Bob died in 2005. Jean's business career included positions in the Development Departments of University School in Hunting Valley, Ohio and the Berkeley School in Tampa, Florida. Jean enjoyed cooking, tennis, and family gatherings at Morehouse Lake in the Adirondacks. Jean was a born caregiver. Her cheerful nature and patient disposition were reflected in her nickname, "Saint Jean." She will be missed by all. A memorial service in Utica, New York is planned for a later date. Please access:  for updates. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to either Florida Gulf Coast Alzheimer's Supportt Group, 14010 Roosevelt Blvd. #709, Clearwater, Florida 33762 (alz.org/flgulfcoast) or the Aloha (camp) Foundation, 2968 Lake Morey Road, Fairlee, Vermont 05045.
GUTHRIE, John Berry Jr. of Largo, Florida, passed away peacefully in his home September 10, 2018. He was 92. John was born to J.B. and Marie Deibel Guthrie in Jacksonville, FL on July 22, 1926. The family moved to his grandparents' Jeffersonville, Indiana farm when John was 1 and to Bardstown, Kentucky when he was 11. He had fond memories of growing up around many cousins and with his siblings, Ruth, Robert, Mary, Mill and Lewis. After graduating from Bardstown High School (1944), he served in the U.S. Navy (WWII). John had a life-long love of sailing and the water. John attended the University of Kentucky (B.S., Electrical Engineering, 1950). After short-term jobs across the United States, John and his former spouse, Marion, settled in Largo in 1956. There he raised four children and lived ever since. He was an early recruit and worked 30 years at the General Electric Pinellas Plant. John was an elder at First Presbyterian Church, Dunedin and then Hope Presbyterian, where he faithfully served the people with energy, intelligence, imagination, and love. In retirement John moved to Shipwatch Yacht Club and was active on the HOA board. Alongside the late Naomi Becker he passionately supported the St. Cecelia's Inter-Parrish Singles Club (SCIPS). He spent his last years enjoying life, dancing, entertainment, and meals with Hazel Burt and other dear friends at Royal Palms. A soft-spoken and humble man, John will be remembered for his quick wit, funny phrases, kindness, thriftiness, and eagerness to lend a helping hand or take on a project. In addition to sailing, he loved dancing, biking, swimming, and growing plants. John is survived by his children, John B. (Amy) Guthrie, Philip Guthrie, Anne (David) Pankratz, Jean (Brian) Bacardi; his grandchildren, John (Rachita) Guthrie, Thomas (Adrea) Guthrie, Steven (Rachel) Pankratz, Michael Pankratz, Kristen Pankratz, Braven Bacardi, Jared Bacardi, and Ranyar Bacardi; his great-grandchildren, Christopher and Juliana Pankratz and Zoey and Brooks Guthrie; his sisters, Mary Conley and Mildred Downing; and his brother, Lewis (Barbara) Guthrie. A memorial service will be held at Hope Presbyterian Church, 1698 South Belcher Road, at 11 am, on Tuesday, September 18, 2018. Friends are welcome to the service and reception that will follow. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests donations to Hope Presbyterian Church of Clearwater.
HOLLSTROM, Dr. Gregory II 51, of Largo, passed away Saturday, Sept. 8, 2018. Greg was a relentlessly motivated, positive, and caring person. He lived the mantra that anything worth doing was worth doing well and doing the right way. Greg was born in Petoskey MI and graduated from Cheboygan High School as its Valedictorian and point guard for the basketball team, which was a passion that he practiced daily year around. He never missed a day of school as he loved learning anything and everything. He attended Michigan State University and received his Bachelor's Degree in Human Biology and Doctorate in Chiropractic Medicine at National College of Chiropractic in Lombard, IL. Greg was never content with standing still and continued his education attaining a Diplomate in Chiropractic Neurology and Certification in Electrodiagnostic Medicine. Greg was devoted to his patients and passionate about helping each one attain the highest level of health possible for them. He started in solo practice in Seminole and later merged his practice with his father's in Largo. Needing a new challenge, Greg became a consummate triathlete, training for and competing in multiple triathlons and Ironman Competitions. Greg's true love and passion was his family including his wife, Irene; his daughters, Lindsey and Riley; his best friend, his sister, Gwen (Jay) Daniel; as well as his parents, Dr. Greg and Kathy Hollstrom and Patricia and Richard Saienga as well as a large extended family. A Celebration of Life service will be Saturday, Sept. 22 at 1:30 pm at Serenity Funeral Home, Largo, (727) 562-2080. In Lieu of flowers, donations in Greg's name are suggested to . Condolences may be offered at:            .
PARR, Dan E. 93, World War II veteran, passed on Satuday, Sept. 8, 2018, leaving behind a loving family. The arrangements will be announced at a later date.
WESTROPE, Taryn L. 63, of Dunedin, passed away peacefully Sept. 9, 2018. He is survived by his loving family. Please visit: 
BODKIN, Corey Alan 41, of Clearwater, Florida passed away September 8, 2018. Corey is survived by his loving family. Arrangements: Anderson McQueen
STOECKLER, Charles 54, of Largo, died Sept. 9, 2018. Survived by a loving daughter and grandchildren. Private services will be held at a later date. Serenity Funeral Home, Largo
HERRING, Ann Marie was born in Louisiana, July 25, 1942 and was so tiny she fit in a shoe box. She joined the Army after high school and traveled to New York where she saw Broadway shows and enjoyed the city during her stay. She then moved to Florida, married James C. Herring, and had four children. Ann studied and graduated from Tomlinson to become a lab tech and worked for many years at Morton Plant hospital while living in Dunedin where she was a Falcon fan. Ann died at home, Saturday, September 8, 2018 attended by her loving family. She was predeceased by her life partner, Kay Schmitt, and is survived by her four children, Julia Paulsen, James, Todd and Tonia Herring and Kay's son, Conrad Schmitt; and her adored grandchildren, Jonathan and Jack Waldron and Derek and Rylan Herring. She had three great-grandchildren. There will be a memorial, September 8, 2019 at Curlew Hills. She was greatly loved and will be forever.
KELLENBERGER, Robert Joe born Sept. 10, 1956, passed away Aug. 25, 2018. His 61 plus years were filled with the love of golf, drums, music, pyrotechnics, gardening, scuba, fishing, and his pets. He started work at the A&W, was a volunteer fire fighter, and later owned Bob's Paper and Produce. He was an experienced cook at several beach restaurants over the years. He is survived by his daughter, Joanne Rosenbalm; grandchildren, Kameron and Brittany. He is further survived by siblings Ronald, Richard, Donna, Dennis, and Debbra and their families. A celebration of his life will be held Sunday, Sept. 23, 2 pm, at the Chapel at Indian Rocks First Baptist Church.
CHIARIELLO, Robert Edward 75, passed away peacefully at home September 5, 2018. Robert was a friend to everyone he met. Born and raised in New Jersey, he was a U.S. Army veteran and a proud Teamster. He was preceded in death by his wife of 39 years, Linda, and beloved sister, Joan. He is survived by his four children, Paul (Debbie), Stephanie (Cathy), George (Angel), and Lana; seven grandchildren, Winston, Michael, Madison, Mikayla, Matthew, Ian, and Tanner; siblings, Terry, Frank, Ronald, and Mark; and several nieces and nephews. We take comfort in knowing that Bobby will be remembered fondly by the hundreds of friends and acquaintances he made over the 40 years he lived in the Tampa Bay Area. Robert requested that his ashes be scattered at sea.
MARKOVITZ, Harriet June 88, of Tarpon Springs, passed away Sept. 11, 2018. Survivors include her daughters, Paula, Ellen and Nancy; and five grandchildren. Dobies FH/Tarpon
LOFGREN, Peter A. 79, of Largo passed away peacefully surrounded by loved ones Thursday, September 13, 2018. Peter was born in Boston, MA, January 19, 1939 to the late Harold and Elizabeth (Toner) Lofgren. He was one of 12 children. Peter served in the U.S. Air Force as a plane mechanic and later owned a restaurant on Cape Cod, MA. He moved to Largo, FL in 1998 where he enjoyed traveling, cruises and spending time at the Largo Elks Lodge #2159. His favorite pastime was singing and his favorite songs were ''Sweet Caroline" and "Danny Boy". Peter will be lovingly remembered by his partner of 15 years, Edith Day; and her three children; and six grandchildren. He is also survived by five children, 10 grandchildren; and three great- grandchildren from his first marriage. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be offered to Suncoast Hospice, 5771 Roosevelt Blvd., Clearwater, FL 33760. Visitation will be Tuesday, September 18, 2018 from 11 am - 12 pm with Funeral Services at 12 pm all at Serenity Funeral Home, 13401 Indian Rocks Road, Largo, FL 33774, (727) 562-2080. Condolences may be offered at: .
FAVERO, Mickey 89 years old, passed September 9, 2018. Our beloved mother and wife passed from this world to God's open arms. Mickey was the loving wife of Gene Favero for 70 years. In short, a real love story from the beginning to present. Gene, 94 of age, was always by her side. She was the mother of four children, David Favero, Jody Favero and her husband, Joe Allkula, Marybeth Favero and her husband, Rick Johnson, and Tom Favero and his wife, Debi. She had 10 grandchildren. While she was many things to many people, she was always simply the best mother and wife, always doing the right thing, not the easiest, but always the right thing. She was an incredibly beautiful person inside and out and touched countless souls throughout her long and colorful life. For all who knew her, it is a loss that is indescribably painful, a loss that is difficult to put into words. Mickey was loved by all who were blessed to know her and we take solace with the comforting knowledge and peace that she is now in God's hands for eternity. God Bless Mickey Favero. Simply put, the best mother and wife ever. A celebration of Mickey's life will be held at 11 am, Saturday, September 22, at Moss Feaster Funeral Home, Dunedin Chapel, with a gathering held prior to services from 10-11 am. MossFeasterDunedin.com
KAHL, Marie R. 79, of Palm Harbor, passed away peacefully in her sleep September 6, 2018. Services will be held Saturday, Sept. 22, 2018 at 12 noon at Curlewhills Funeral Home.
FLAMMER, Nancy J. (McMullen) 88, one of the kindest people God ever put on this Earth, passed away at home in Palm Harbor, FL September 13. 2018. Nancy was born January 3, 1930 in Clearwater, FL, to Hugh and Jessie McMullen. She graduated from Clearwater High School in 1948. During her years at Clearwater High School, she met Karl F. Flammer, whom she married in 1953. Family was most important to Nancy, as well she enjoyed gardening, boating, and cheering on the Florida Gators. She was also involved with Mease Hospital as a volunteer in the gift shop for decades. Nancy is survived by her loving husband of 65 years, Karl F. Flammer; sons, Jim (Diane) and Mark (Tammie); four grandchildren, Meghan Purvis, Jessica Flammer Koch, Grant Flammer, and Erick Flammer; and one great-grandchild, Braxton Purvis. She was preceded in death by her parents, Hugh and Jessie; twin sister, Betty Blackburn; and sisters, Edie McMullen and Jessie Fleming. A visitation will be held from 5-8 pm Wednesday, September 19, 2018 at Sylvan Abbey Funeral Home, 2853 Sunset Pt. Rd., Clearwater, FL. A private family graveside service will be held Thursday, September 20. 
CARAVAS-MISOYIANIS, Stella was born in Weirton, WV, the only child of immigrant parents, Irene Kontokosta Caravas and Gust. She married Charles Kyriako Misoyianis 1953 in Brooklyn, NY. They were childhood sweethearts and married as soon as the Korean Was ended. They had no children but they do have 12 godchildren. Stella attended Weir High School, West Liberty University, Geneva and WVU and taught school four years in Weirton and 26 years in Steubenville, OH. Stella retired in 1979 at the age of 50 and then moved to Clearwater. She was very active in her career and was a life member of Ohio Teachers, ST.R, past president and present member of All Saints Philoptochos and was honored by the Greek Orthodox Diocese of Pittsburg for outstanding work in her diocese. She was also a Charter member of the Pallas-Athene Chapter of the daughters of Penelope Choir and Jr. Goya Advisor, past president of the Karthamelian Society, member of Ayia Markella-Weirton and Steubenville, Ohio. Stella was a member of All Saints Church in Weirton, where she served 10 years on the board and was past treasurer. She was a previous member of the Weirton Woman's Club, Elks, VFW and Delta Kappa Gamma Society International, and member United Way. At West Liberty, she belonged to Nathan Shotwell Society in which she left a Scholastic Endownment in her memory. In Florida, she taught Sunday School at St. Stefanos Church and along with her husband, started the Agape Seniors Club. She was a member of Holy Trinity Church-Clearwater, St. Stefanos-St. Petersburg, St. Raphael, Nicholas and Irene-Palm Harbor, All Saints in Weirton. Stella will be interred at Sylvan Abbey Memorial Park Peacefield Mausoleum-Clearwater. Sylvan Abbey Funeral Home Clearwater, FL 33759 Sylvanabbey.com
TUFANO, Virginia 83, of Clearwater and Missouri, passed away peacefully Sept. 11, 2018. Survived by her loving family. For condolences and more information, visit: 
ZEH, Walter "Ike" passed away Sept. 12, 2018. He is survived by his wife, Rose; sons, Kevin and Steven; one grand, four great-grands; sister, Carolyn. Rhodes Funeral Directors 446-3055
FAMBRI, Ennio 77, was born in Italy and passed away surrounded by his loved ones in Largo, FL Sept. 12, 2018. He is survived by a loving family and many friends.
WETZEL, Vickie Lee 73, of Largo, passed away September 14, 2018. She is survived by her loving family. Anderson-McQueen Funeral Homes Tyrone, is in charge of Arrangements.
KUEHN, Julia A. 88, Tarpon Springs, passed Sept. 13, 2018. Survived by son, James; daughter, Karen Glatt; three grands; four great-grands. Predeceased by husband, Leslie. Dobies/Tarpon
KROUSKOS, Irene 88, of Tarpon Springs, passed away September 13, 2018. She is preceded in death by her son, Mamas. Irene is survived by her husband, Pantelis; sons, Demetrios, Nicholas, and George; eight grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; sister, Maria; and brothers, Mamas, Anthony, and Sakellaris. A visitation will take place from 6-8 pm, Tuesday, September 18, 2018 at Dobies Funeral Home in Tarpon Springs. A funeral mass will take place at 11 am on Wednesday, September 19, 2018 at St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Cathedral. Dobies F. H.-Tarpon Springs
KEARNEY, Carlisa "Not too good to feel this bad!" With deep sorrow Carlisa Kearney passed this Saturday, Sept. 15, 2018; taken too early by Colon cancer after a brave two-year fight. She was born November 3, 1958. She leaves behind her loving husband, Paul; beautiful daughter, Kayleah; sisters, Ronda, Lisa and family; and brothers, Randy and David and their families; stepdaughters, Sarah and Rebecca; grandkids, Addie, Anna, and Deja; her parents, Ramsey and Sandra; plus many other family and friends that could take up the rest of this page. Carlisa is now with the angels and wishes nothing but love and light for all who walk this earth. In lieu of flowers, Carlisa requested donations to be made to the Colorectal Cancer Alliance. A celebration of life will be held for her family and friends in both Clearwater, FL and Nashville, TN details to be announced soon.
TURNER, Gwendolyn "Gay" died September 9, 2018 in Seminole, Florida at the age of 88. Gay was born in Silver Ridge, Maine and was one of seven children. She met her husband of 43 years, Sidney H. Turner while he was serving in the United States Air Force and stationed in Maine. Together they lived in Maine, New Mexico, California, Georgia, and Florida. Gay was a devoted wife, mother, and grandmother and spent her days as a homemaker taking care of her family. Her favorite pastime was sewing and she loved birds, especially owls, cardinals, and hummingbirds. Gay was predeceased by her parents, Fred and Lillis Ambrose; six siblings, Leigh, Dean, Mona, Maitland, Madeline, and William; and her husband, Sidney H. Turner. She is survived by her son, Patrick Robinson (Stephanie) Turner of San Antonio, Texas; daughter, Joan Jenkins (Chuck) Graffam of Orrington, Maine, and daughter, Debra Ann (Chuck) Butler of Steinhatchee, Florida. She is also survived by many beautiful grandchildren, Jennifer Turner of Chicago, Illinois, Sean Turner of Richmond, California, Stacy Graffam of New Milford, New Jersey, Tony Graffam of Eddington, Maine, Chad Graffam of Glenburn, Maine, Jeremy Graffam of Jonesport, Maine, Lisa Koon of Lexington, South Carolina, Kristen Lefkimiotis of St. Petersburg, Florida, Jamie Sparrow of Ellicott City, Maryland, Jessica Ellis of St. Petersburg, Florida, and Chuck Butler Jr. of Pinellas Park, Florida. Gay also leaves behind 13 great-grandchildren and one great-great-grandchild on the way. Because of the outstanding and loving care Gay received during her several stays at St Anthony's Hospital and in lieu of flowers, donations can be sent to St Anthony's Hospital Foundation, 1200 7th Avenue North, St Petersburg, Florida 33705.
BARRETT, Douglas Paul 48, passed away unexpectedly at home in Maine on September 7, 2018. He went to St. Petersburg High School in Florida and enjoyed a career in real estate. He loved animals, hockey, and cooking. He will be greatly missed and forever remembered for his great sense of humor and his generous heart. He is survived by six children and their mother, Lisa Jones: Neil, Kellie, and Jacob Ferguson, Amanda Chestnut and her husband, Paul, Stephanie Ravi, and Zachary Barrett. Douglas also leaves behind his girlfriend, Sue Shaw; his mother, Joyce O'Neil; and four siblings, Dawn Bloom and husband, David, Philip and wife, Sue, Daniel, and Martin and wife, Patty Barrett. Douglas also had three grandchildren, many nieces and nephews, and other loving family members. A service has not yet been scheduled.
HAYWARD, Jason Lee 45, passed away peacefully September 9, 2018 surrounded by his loving family. He was born December 12, 1972 in Grand Rapids Michigan, moving to Florida in 1975. Jason is survived by his mother, Sandra Seib; stepfather, David Seib; sister, Jill Hayward; and three children, Alysa, Kyle, and Austin, all of whom loved him dearly and will miss him very much. Family, friends, and others whose lives Jason touched are invited to a celebration of life at the Sports Bar & Grill, 1160 94th Ave. N., St. Petersburg, FL, from 2-6 pm Saturday, October 27, 2018.
MITLIN, Ira 96, passed away peacefully Saturday, September 8, 2018. He was the loving and beloved husband for 68 years of Beverly Mitlin of St. Petersburg, FL, and recently of Canton, MA; loving and beloved father of Marjorie Mitlin (Steven Bloom) of Sharon, MA, and the late Robert Mitlin of St. Petersburg, FL; adoring and cherished grandfather of Rachel Bloom (Dan DiCenzo) and Daniel Bloom; doting great-grandfather of Doug DiCenzo; and dear friend to many. Ira had a successful and rewarding career in commercial real estate, first in New York City and then in St. Petersburg, where he was a key player in the renaissance of the city. Funeral services were private. A celebration of Ira's life will be held in St. Petersburg at a future date. Donations in Ira's memory may be made to the palliative care unit of the Veterans Administration Hospital, Building 4, Unit 4-2C, Attention: Nurse Manager, 940 Belmont Street, Brockton, MA 02301. 
WEIHMAN, Betty Marie passed away Tuesday, September 11, 2018, at the age of 92. Betty moved to St. Petersburg in the 1940s with her mother and sister and worked at Webb City before taking a job as a bookkeeper with a small accounting firm. She married Francis Weihman and became the office manager for Apple Homes, working for Jack Apple for over 40 years. Betty is survived by her son, David Michael; her sister, Shurlee Haller; and her sister's family in Minnesota. Arrangements are being handled by Memorial Park Funeral Home and a private ceremony will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Alzheimer's Association.
BOND, Cary Lamar Greene 94, of St. Petersburg, died peacefully June 14, 2018. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held Friday, September 21, 2018 11 am, at First Presbyterian Church, 701 Beach Drive NE St. Petersburg, FL 33701. A private family burial was held for Mrs. Bond and she was laid to rest at Royal Palm Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, donations in Cary's memory may be made to First Presbyterian Church, Museum of Fine Arts or to Suncoast Hospice. Mrs. Bond's full obituary was published on June 20. Condolences may be shared with the family at: 
REDMOND, Allan Lee 95, of St. Petersburg, is survived by daughters, Laura, Judy, and Maureen; granddaughter, Tara; and great-granddaughters, Riley and Elliette. Allan was born in Chicago, IL, graduated from Lane Tech High School, and attended the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. He was a licensed Marine Engineer on Merchant Marine ships during WWII. He was a founding member of Sea Towers Federation condominiums, where he was an owner since 1971 and served as Governor several times. He was also active in USA Dance group where he enjoyed big band music and ballroom dancing. His service will be held October 13, 12 pm, at Friendship Community Church, 4321 Duhme Rd., Madeira Beach; with reception following at the American Legion Post 252, 11433 Park Blvd., Seminole. He will be interred at Bay Pines Veterans Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Suncoast Hospice, Friendship Community Church, or a charity of your choice.
READ, Nancy passed away August 12, 2018. She is survived by her husband, Alan; a son, Russell Valenti; grandson, Jake; and a sister, Martha Ball. There will be a celebration of life reception at the Bellair Country Club Saturday, September 22 from 2-4 pm. Please make memorial donations to Southeastern Guide Dogs. R. Lee Williams & Son 
GARNER, Dorothy 87, of St. Petersburg, FL, formerly of Waynesboro, PA, passed away September 7, 2018. She was born in Mercersburg, PA. She was a registered nurse and retired from Bayfront Medical Center. She was preceded in death by her son, John Garner. She is survived by son, David Garner of Clearwater, FL and daughter, Melissa McGinnis of Tavares, FL.
HOLDER, Ida Fay 76, of St. Petersburg, passed away September 11, 2018. She is survived by her daughter, Lisa Blackburn and loving family. ALife Tribute-Largo (727) 559-7793.
LOHWASSER, Leona "Lee" passed away Sept. 6, 2018 surrounded by loving family in Asheville, NC. After retiring from the North Penn School District in Lansdale, PA, Lee moved to Florida and spent many happy years hosting visitors from the north, dining out, playing bingo, and enjoying her friends in the Princeton Building at Five Towns. She was preceded in death by her parents, sister and husband. She is survived by her son, Richard (Sharlene); daughter, Leigh (Stephanie); granddaughter, Rebecca (Ryan); granddaughter, Stephanie; sister-in-law, Irene; and best friend, Inge Knapp. We will forever remember her sunny smile and loving personality.
VILLINGER, Linda E. 74, passed away August 11, 2018 in St. Petersburg, FL. Born December 12, 1943 in Fairmont, WV, Linda attended Fairmont High School and continued her education at Fairmont State College, graduating with a BA in Art. In addition to post-graduate studies in Art at Kent State and West Virginia Universities, Linda worked as an art teacher in the Ohio school system, and lived in various places, including Honolulu, HI, where she was an interior decorator. Linda moved to St. Petersburg in 1973 and worked at GTE, Haslam's Bookstore, and the St. Petersburg Times (now the Tampa Bay Times), before retiring from the newspaper's library as a data base editor. Naturally curious, Linda enjoyed learning about the world through reading and traveling. She was also an artistic person who engaged in many creative pursuits, especially sewing and quilting. Linda was predeceased by her parents, Ralph W. and Eloise Byrd Villinger, and is survived by her brother, Rev. Fredric W. Villinger and his wife, Dr. Elizabeth Allen-Villinger; niece, Binti Villinger; and nephew, Douglass Villinger, his wife, Naoko Villinger, and their son, Kaito Villinger. The family wishes to express its appreciation to the staff at Westminster Suncoast retirement community, where Linda happily spent the last decade of her life. There will be a Celebration of Life at Westminster Suncoast, 1095 Pinellas Point Dr. S., St. Petersburg, Monday, September 24, 2018 at 10 am in the main building (the mid-rise). In lieu of flowers, Linda requested that friends and family honor her memory by supporting their favorite charity, or with a donation to the Suncoast Hospice Foundation or the Westminster Suncoast Foundation. Linda will be greatly missed by all who knew her.
QUIGLEY, Robert E. 67, of Spring Hill, passed away Sept. 13, 2018. Survivors include a daughter, Amy; sons, Robert and Peter; four grandchildren; one sister; one brother. Dobies FH/Holiday
COLE, Patricia Ann passed away September 12, 2018 in St. Petersburg Florida surrounded by family at the age of 81 years. Born in Hamilton, Ohio August 29, 1937 Patty Ann lived a wonderful life with her one and only sweetheart Ronnie Cole. Patricia is preceded in death by her loving husband, Ronald Christian Cole. Ron and Pat lived in Hamilton, Ohio before retiring to St. Petersburg, Florida. Patricia is preceded in death by her sister, Jacquelyn (Murden) Swain and brother, Richard (Butch) Murden. Patricia leaves behind her loving family, two daughters, Rhonda (Cole) Copas of Commerce Township, MI and Karen (Cole) Ford of Hamilton, OH; four grandchildren, Michael Copas of St. Petersburg, FL, Alisa Copas of South Lyon, MI, Ryan Copas of Tampa, FL, and Matthew Ford of Hamilton, OH; four great-grandchildren, Halie Copas of St. Petersburg, FL, Natalie Copas of St. Petersburg, FL, Christian Copas-Bennett of South Lyon, MI, and Joseph Copas- Bennett of South Lyon, MI; one great-great-granddaughter, Elaina Lynn Skillings of St. Petersburg, FL; a sister, Judith Yerigan; brother, Robert Murden. Services will be held at Greenwood Cemetery Mausoleum in Hamilton, Ohio Friday, September 21, 2018 at 2 pm. Zettler Funeral Home is serving the family. Online register book is available at: 
KEMMSIES, Ilona M. (Blauhut) 81, passed away Aug. 10, 2018 in Friburgo, Brazil after several years of battling declining health. Ilona maintained a residence in St. Petersburg, FL where she attended Grace Lutheran Church. Ilona is the wife of the late Herbert Kemmsies and the daughter of the late Alexander and Pauline Blauhut. She is survived by her two sons, Dr. Walter Kemmsies (Kim) of Savannah, GA and Victor Kemmsies of St. Petersburg, FL; her grandson, Alex Kemmsies (Maschenka) of New York; and her brother, Adolf Blauhut (Barbara) of Exton, PA. A Memorial Service will be held at Grace Lutheran Church, 4301 16th St. N., St. Petersburg 33703, Saturday Sept. 29, 2018 at 11 am. Donations in Ilona's memory may be made to Grace Lutheran Church.
COOK, Barry Sexton 75, of St. Petersburg, passed away September 12, 2018 at the Bay Pines VA Hospital after a long illness. He will be greatly missed by all those whose lives he touched. Barry was born in Fall River, MA to William H. Cook and Doris Sexton Cook-Krava. He was the beloved brother of his late sisters, Carolyn Hadaway of Candler, NC and Doris Taylor of Fall River, MA. Barry served in the Marine Corps from 1959 to 1965 and was an optical technician for over 40 years. He was an avid billiards player and greatly enjoyed spending his time with other Veterans. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Bay Pines Hospice Center. Sorensen Funeral Home (727) 323-5111
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: OBITUARY

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: DEATH NOTICES & OBITUARIES (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CREMATION (90%); DEATH & DYING (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); ETHICS (73%)

Industry: CEMETERIES (89%); PUBLISHING (73%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (64%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

Load-Date: September 17, 2018


End of Document
