



St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
February 10, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition


Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
Section: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 17A; LETTER
Length: 1795 words
Body


Re: Gov. Jeb Bush and the "One Florida" plan.
Gov. Bush has been in office a little more than one year, and we have seen his many initiatives and accomplishments. This is interesting when compared to the "old he-coon's" tenure as governor, when nothing got accomplished. In fact, if you look back in the St. Petersburg Times' articles on Gov. Lawton Chiles, you might have found one every month or so telling some insignificant fact, having no impact on issues that would improve things for the residents of Florida. Conversely, articles on Gov. Jeb Bush have been published daily, concerning initiatives to help accomplish goals outlined in his platform to help Floridians move ahead.
Gov. Bush's One Florida plan allows for no discrimination, with equal requirements for all Floridians, equal opportunity for all, and it requires identical standards without discrimination. Obviously, under affirmative action the rationalization is that unequal standards would get equal results with racial quotas.
LETTERS
We cannot achieve racial harmony with double standards, believing that one race is inferior and must have special privileges to achieve its full rights as American citizens.
Robert Jeeves, Homosassa
High ground has been lost
 Re: Gov. Bush receives an earful, Feb. 4.
Due to the unbelievably rude, obnoxious and overtly racist behavior at the One Florida meeting of Miami blacks who loudly demand perpetual anti-white discrimination, blacks have now forfeited the last tattered scraps of the higher moral ground.
Richard Daughty, Pinellas Park
Put it to a vote
Re: One Florida.
Here we go again. If the people of Florida wanted to keep affirmative action then why is it that all the polls say the vast majority is ready to vote it out.
If it were the other way around, you would be pointing this out in every article you print. Instead you keep trying to force your ways down our throats. Just put it on the ballot, and let's be done with it.
Robert Avington Jr., Gulfport
Is aid always demeaning?
Re: The governor is doing the right thing, letter, Feb. 3.
  The letter writer feels "very strongly" that Jeb Bush "is against affirmative action justifiably because the concept is demeaning to women and minorities." 
I wonder how many stockholders and CEOs feel "demeaned" by accepting government subsidies, preferences and other gratuitous handouts?
Al Younghaus, Belleair Bluffs
Let's help Bush avoid more criticism
 Re: Road rockier for One Florida, Feb. 5.
So, the governor's spokesman, Justin Sayfie, described his boss' abbreviated 2 1/2-hour appearance at his One Florida public hearing as showing "tremendous courage by going there and listening to what people had to say."
With that attitude, I suggest that the people send him a loud and clear message on a future second Tuesday in November so he won't be in a position to "listen" any more!
Duane Welch, Homosassa
Race remains an issue
Re: Bill Maxwell's subject matter.
Within the past few days I've read: 1) about an editorial stating that slavery existed only briefly in America and had no lasting effects 2) about four white police officers who are about to go on trial for the brutal murder of a young African male who threatened them with a wallet and a beeper 3) about a white professional baseball player (a role model, right?) who has been suspended for his disgusting remarks about immigrants and minorities.
And people are asking why Bill Maxwell continues to write about race issues. Hello! This is one 63-year-old white lady who says, "Keep writing, Bill - until the problem is solved." Wouldn't it be a beautiful day if it was no longer necessary to talk about color?
Geneve Collins, St. Petersburg
Bush agenda is suspicious
 Re: Dear Jeb, your attitude needs work, by Bill Maxwell, Jan. 26.
It's refreshing when a reporter, a journalist of Bill Maxwell's stature, steps back, if just for a moment, from the responsibilities of his everyday professional journalistic duties and passionately divulges the real fire in his belly. Wow!
By the fourth paragraph, a smile developed, followed by a cheer as I deliciously consumed his thought-provoking message to the governor. When those hateful, critical letters arrive from right-thinking, insensitive, uncompassionate Bush-lovers displaying their disgust for Maxwell and his e-mail letter, I will cheerfully celebrate its glorious, rewarding content. As they say, "I couldn't have said it better."
I try hard to trust and understand Jeb Bush, but his political agenda is suspicious. His personality reveals an imperious, arrogant, lordly leader. He is crass, undiplomatic and rejoices in this supercilious attitude Maxwell speaks of.
I hope everyone, especially those who voted for Bush, are watching him and his political appetite. I am already seeing numerous injurious changes in his new legislation, primarily in the erosion of consumer rights and privileges from his new tort reform.
It is payback time. He has many debts to pay for numerous extravagant contributions from demanding corporate America.
This tawdry appetite for power will come to haunt Jeb Bush. That attitude will get him in serious trouble, and I'm sure we will eventually see him for what he really is. I am confident that Bill Maxwell and the St. Petersburg Times will valiantly scrutinize his every move.
Frank J. Koskosky, Bayonet Point
Abortion isn't moral
Re: Hospital agreement needs rewriting, letter, Feb. 2.
  I am frankly appalled by the letter writer's comment, "abortion can be the moral choice." Since when is killing someone ever the "moral choice"? Roe vs. Wade may be the "law of the land," but that doesn't make it "moral" to kill a person, a blessing from God!
The letter writer suggests that those offended by the practice can simply choose one of the Catholic hospitals in the system. Perhaps, those few who do not see it as offensive can choose another facility for their "medical care."
I would think that if Bayfront is facing financial ruin, the health and well-being of more than just a few would be affected if the hospital had to close its doors or reduce major services! I commend Sue Brody and her board for doing what they saw fit to serve the community to the greatest degree. Thank you all for caring about our needs!
Gina M. Longino, St. Petersburg
Don't expect church to compromise
 Re: Chance for compromise, editorial, Jan. 28.
The subhead of this editorial takes a rosy look at the city's dispute with Bayfront Medical Center:
"one thing becomes clear. There is room for the city to work out its differences with the hospital without a lawsuit."
As a long-time professional mediator, formerly an adjunct professor at Stetson Law School teaching the subject of mediation to law students, I strongly disagree with the editorial writer.
After months of stubborn resistance, Bayfront Medical Center finally releases to the city the key operating agreement linking it with St. Anthony's Hospital. The agreement very clearly gives the Catholic hospital members of BayCare Health Alliance the right to demand that Bayfront and its other non-Catholic hospitals limit medical procedures to comply with the ethical and religious directives of the Catholic Church. At the moment, the only prohibited practices are elective abortion (clearly permitted by law and standard medical practice) and euthanasia. But other procedures, such as vasectomies, tubal ligations, so-called abortion pills, etc., may also be prohibited in the future as "inimical" by Catholic ethical and religious directives regarding health care. The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, or even the Bishop of the diocese of St. Petersburg, is empowered to amend or reinterpret these directives.
Catholic religious dogma (or that of other Christian faiths based on the New Testament) are not subject to negotiation. Their beliefs are based on the inerrant word of God. God does not compromise. God's word is final. God's word is made known through the Vatican for Catholics.
Someone should tell this editorial writer that hope for compromise in this case is simply whistling in the dark.
Sidney M. Goetz, Gulfport
Be prepared for nuclear war
 Re: Candidates should discuss nuclear arms, letter, Jan. 29.
The letter writer indicates that all nuclear weapons should be destroyed. If this were done, then any rogue nation could secretly develop nuclear weapons and force the surrender of all other nations.
I recommend the opposite. Let us build and maintain an arsenal second to none. Let us develop the defenses to defend our land and our people. Then let us prepare for the eventuality that all this will not be enough. Let us prepare survival stations under the ground, under water and in space - stations in which cadres of people can live for decades or centuries. In case of a nuclear storm engulfing the entire world, these cadres could wait until the Earth has cooled down and then come back to repopulate it.
Nuclear weapons are here to stay. They will be used. When they are, the wise will have prepared for them and will endure. The foolish will not and will perish.
R.O. Whitaker, Apollo Beach
Hype shouldn't distort history
  Re: U.S. drops millions to hype coin, Jan. 19.
Before the revisionists, assisted by careless journalists, sink their teeth into the tale of Sacagawea, it would be worthwhile to first peruse the Lewis and Clark journals.
The expedition had been under way for six months when a French Canadian trader named Charbonneau was signed on. Sacagawea was one of two teenage Shoshone girls captured by a raiding party of Hidatsas Indians four years earlier. Charbonneau had won the girls while gambling with the Hidatsas. Sacagawea was nearly 15 and six-months pregnant at the time they joined Lewis and Clark. The reader will find that Sacagawea was not a guide, nor did she lead the expedition to Oregon. Her significant contribution was as an interpreter for Indian languages of the West. The image that appears on the coin is imaginative since neither sketches nor descriptions of Sacagawea were included in the journals.
Hopefully, this remarkable story of the greatest expedition in our history will not be victimized by the "hype" over a coin. By the way, on Feb. 11, 1805, Sacagawea gave birth to a healthy, active son, Jean Baptiste Charbonneau. Both remained with the expedition until August 1806.
Donald F. O'Neill, Clearwater
Share your opinions
We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.
They can be sent by e-mail to  or by fax to 893-8675.  
They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.
Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all letters can be published.

Graphic

 
BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, Don Addis; Jeb Bush tries to piece together a puzzle of the state of Florida with Elmer's glue.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); RACE & ETHNICITY (90%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (74%); MINORITY GROUPS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); RACIAL JUSTICE (73%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); NEGATIVE NEWS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (63%)

Company: PUT IT TOGETHER  (54%); PUT IT TOGETHER  (54%);    BILL MAXWELL  (63%)

Organization: BILL MAXWELL  (63%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (78%)

Person: JEB BUSH (93%)

Geographic: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: February 10, 2000


End of Document
