



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
October 15, 2018 Monday
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: MAGAZINE; Pg. D-4
Length: 740 words
Body


DEAR NATALIE: In light of all of the stories coming out about sexual assault, I began feeling depressed and sad about a situation I experienced as a young woman. My husband asked me about why I have been so down lately, and I told him what had happened to me in college. He was upset that I never told him this story and says he feels "betrayed" that I hid this from him. He said he would have been supportive but now feels as though there is a "void" in our relationship because I didn't tell him about this. He's been acting distant ever since. How can I explain to him that my past trauma wasn't something I wanted to relive or talk about with anyone? How can I get him to understand? - CAN'T GO BACK
DEAR CAN'T GO BACK: I am so sorry to read that you had a traumatic experience when you were younger. Many women and some men are being forced to relive times in their lives that they may have tried to block out or move on from. The insensitivity around the topic of sexual assault and harassment has been worsened by so many media outlets treating it as clickbait instead of what it is: collective pain.
Your husband's response to your admission is very troubling. Instead of being supportive, he has chosen to take a somewhat adversarial stance and put the blame on you for not sharing this personal pain with him. Maybe he feels hurt that he wasn't privy to this information, and it is making him feel distant. Whatever the case may be, he is handling it in an unhealthy way that is certainly not going to bring you together.
It's unfair that he feels entitled to every moment of your life. It was your choice to keep that information to yourself, and in light of what has happened on the national stage lately, it only makes sense that it would come tumbling out now. If anything, he owes you an apology, not the other way around. Tell him that you feel hurt by his reaction and didn't share the information because you just didn't want to relive that experience. If he can't accept that, then counseling may be in order so that you can discuss this issue with a third party who can keep it focused to the problem at hand - which is his insensitivity - and not force you to rehash old pain unless you want to and on your own terms.
DEAR NATALIE: My boyfriend, who's 36, recently told me that he never wants to have kids. In fact, he informed me that he is planning on getting a vasectomy and wanted to know my thoughts about it. We have been dating for two years, and I am about to turn 32 years old. I haven't thought too much about having a family, but now that he is putting this out there, I'm worried that I may want them. I really want to be with him, but I don't know if I will want kids or not. What should I do? - BABIES ON THE BRAIN
DEAR BABIES ON THE BRAIN: This is a tough one. He has every right to do with his body what he wants, and if he knows without a doubt that he never wants children, then a vasectomy is a safe way to ensure that. Now, he can always freeze his sperm as "insurance" in case he changes his mind, but nothing is a guarantee.
The good thing is he was sensitive enough to bring it to your attention before he does it. In any case, you have to decide if you really want to spend your life with him, and if so, do you want to spend your life with him regardless of whether you have a family together? For some people, family planning is a make-or-break part of their relationships. For others, not so much. If you are wishy-washy on this, you have to tell him. Either way, it is better to hash this all out before heading further down this road together.
Sometimes, love isn't enough. We must have the same vision of the future with our partner if we want to have a chance at long-term success. If kids are part of your vision and not a part of his, it may be time to part ways.
Natalie's Networking Tip of the Week: Make sure you are taking time for self-care. We are all constantly on the go, meeting new people and planning new adventures. It's easy to forget to slow down from time to time and just breathe. Taking time to recharge your battery will make you a better friend, lover, sister, brother, mother, father, daughter, son or colleague.
Natalie Bencivenga is the Post-Gazette's Seen and society editor. She has a master's degree in social work from the University of Pittsburgh. Need advice? Send questions to  Follow Natalie on Twitter @NBSeen and on Instagram @NatalieBenci.

Graphic

 
PHOTO: John MacDougall/AFP/Getty Images:
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: WOMEN (90%); COURTSHIP & DATING (78%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (74%)

Load-Date: October 15, 2018


End of Document
