



USA TODAY
June 3, 2004, Thursday,
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.
Section: NEWS;
Length: 924 words
Byline: John Ritter
Dateline: REDWOOD CITY, Calif.
Body

REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -- Scott Peterson couldn't have killed his pregnant wife, Laci, because evidence will show that her fetus was born alive after she disappeared Christmas Eve 2002, Peterson's lawyer told a jury Wednesday.
In an opening statement on the second day of Peterson's double murder trial, Mark Geragos said forensics experts who examined the remains of baby Conner for the defense would testify that Laci Peterson carried him to full term and his umbilical cord was cut as if at birth. The defense theory is that unknown abductors killed Laci.
"This baby was born alive," he said. "If this baby was born alive, clearly Scott Peterson had nothing to do with this murder."
Geragos said that if Peterson had killed his wife on Dec. 24, the fetus would not show evidence of birth. But prosecutors say their experts will testify that the child died in the womb and was expelled from Laci Peterson's body in the bay.
The defense lawyer attacked the prosecution's case against the former fertilizer salesman as weak and vindictive and said testimony would offer explanations for circumstantial evidence prosecutors have amassed in the 17 months since Laci Peterson vanished from the couple's home in Modesto, Calif. The trial was moved about 90 miles to this city near San Francisco because of pretrial publicity in Modesto.
Geragos said police harassed his client, repeatedly searched his house, took his belongings, turned his friends and family against him and tried to manipulate him into confessing.
No direct evidence found
Crime lab scientists pored over more than 100 bags of evidence exhaustively, Geragos said.
"What did they get out of all those tests? Zip, nada, nothing," he said.
Prosecutors say Scott Peterson's motive for killing his wife was that he wanted to start a new life with his mistress. They say he killed Laci Peterson and dumped her body off the Berkeley Marina in San Francisco Bay on the pretense of a fishing trip. Peterson, 31, could face the death penalty if convicted.
Prosecutors say he meticulously planned the crime, but they have no direct evidence -- no confession, no murder weapon, no witnesses and no cause of death. The bodies of Laci and Conner Peterson washed up separately on the shore almost four months after Laci disappeared.
Geragos didn't dispute Peterson's infidelity but told the jury that because he cheated on his wife doesn't make him a killer. "He is clearly a cad," Geragos said. "If you want to say his behavior is boorish, we are not going to dispute that."
But at the time Laci Peterson disappeared, he said, Scott Peterson had only had a few dates with Amber Frey, a massage therapist, and hardly knew her. "Was he therefore ready to chuck entirely the life he had built up with Laci for a woman with whom he had two dates?" Geragos asked.
In phone talks with Frey after Laci Peterson was missing but before her body was found, Scott Peterson said he hoped she would be found, at one point saying, "I love her, no question."
Frey agreed to let police record her calls from Scott Peterson after she learned he was married. "If he's trying to off his wife in order to be with Amber, will he tell her he hopes she comes back alive and he loved her?" Geragos said.
Peterson initially told police he'd gone fishing alone Dec. 24 and returned home to find his wife gone.
Prosecutor Rick Distaso contended Tuesday that Peterson's alibi was a sham, that he wasn't an avid fisherman. He said Peterson had fresh-water gear, some still in its packaging, for a saltwater fishing trip. He implied that Peterson bought a two-day fishing license to cover the period when he planned to dump his wife's body. He said Peterson paid cash in early December 2002 for a fishing boat and didn't tell his wife.
But Geragos said police found other expired two-day licenses in Scott Peterson's possession. He said Laci not only knew about the boat but also went to her husband's shop to see it days before she vanished.
Other leads ignored
Distaso said Scott Peterson lied when he told police his wife was watching a segment on meringue on her favorite TV show, Martha Stewart Living, when he left home to go fishing. The prosecutor said the meringue segment had aired the day before, on Dec. 23. But Geragos played a tape for the jury of the Dec. 24 show with Stewart discussing meringue.
The prosecution stressed that Peterson was apathetic about his wife's disappearance, but Geragos insisted he was active in the search for his wife. He said he usually opened a volunteer center each morning, searched prenatal clinics in the area, set up a hotline and "went anywhere where he thought they were searching for Laci."
Geragos has insisted that investigators homed in on Peterson and ignored other leads. He told the jury that two witnesses will testify about a suspicious van in the Peterson neighborhood on Dec. 24. One, a former reserve police officer, will testify that he saw two men shove a woman who looked like Laci Peterson into a van.
Witnesses who saw Laci walking her golden retriever, presumably after Peterson left to go fishing, also will testify, Geragos said.
Prosecutors told the jury Tuesday that when Frey told Peterson she wanted a serious relationship and more children, he said her daughter was enough family for him. He said he was planning to get a vasectomy. But Geragos said Peterson painstakingly redecorated a room into a nursery.
"The idea that Scott wanted no children, the prosecution is fixated on that," Geragos said. "Scott was excited. He went to every single appointment with Laci's doctor."

Graphic

 
PHOTO, B/W, Paul Sakuma, AP; PHOTO, Color, Paul Sakuma, AP (page 1A); Outside court: Jackie Peterson, Scott Peterson's mother, smiles as defense attorney Mark Geragos hugs her Wednesday. Geragos gave his opening statement on the second day of the murder trial in Redwood City, Calif.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: MURDER (94%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (93%); EVIDENCE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); MISSING PERSONS (90%); PUBLIC PROSECUTORS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (89%); DEATH & DYING (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); FORENSICS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); WEAPONS & ARMS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); EXPERT WITNESSES (76%); MASSAGE SERVICES (67%)

Industry: PUBLIC PROSECUTORS (90%); LAWYERS (78%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (71%); MASSAGE SERVICES (67%)

Geographic: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%)

Load-Date: June 3, 2004


End of Document
