



The New York Times 
August 5, 2022 Friday 22:00 EST


Copyright 2022 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: CROSSWORDS
Length: 720 words
Byline: Caitlin Lovinger
Highlight: Byron Walden is here to make you furrow your brow.
Body


Byron Walden is here to make you furrow your brow.
— Byron Walden is a prolific weekend constructor; we last solved a puzzle of his on a Sunday in April, and this is his 66th Saturday grid. You can count on a thicket of debuts — 12 today — and clues that will make you do a double take, or triple take, or even need to take a break to think things over.
This grid is gorgeously arranged, as well; there might not be any showy spans, but the northeast and southwest corners, in particular, are gracefully packed with interlocking long entries.
Tricky Clues
5A. I love this single-word clue, “Jubilate,” although I always thought it meant to make someone happy, rather than to express happiness by doing a JUMP FOR JOY. This phrase tickles me. It has appeared in only a couple of puzzles before, once as part of a  that looks like a happy solve.
26A. Wow, did this entry sneak up on me! It’s a debut, and I fell right into the trap that Mr. Walden mentions in his notes — I needed the first letter, which is the last letter in GUSTAV Graves, to think of VASECTOMY.
53A. This is another debut. “Someone who can’t stand working?” is a DESK PERSON, as in, someone who performs professional duties sitting down, not who loathes those duties. Of course, both could be true. This entry makes an interesting bookend to 5A.
6D. This is a debut, a phrase that feels like a bon mot from someone famous. To me, it sounded either Orwellian — “Four legs bad, two legs good,” “war is peace” — or like something out of a Lewis Carroll book, along the lines of “curiouser and curiouser!” The origin of UP IS DOWN is a mystery, though. Unsurprisingly, it’s often used in political reporting these days.
7D. The pun-indicating question mark in “Dead ringers?” got me going in a couple of directions, none of them correct. At first, I thought of dial phones, landlines, flip phones and so on — obsolete things with “ringers.” Then I played off the idiom “dead ringers,” or doppelgängers, and tried to come up with something creepy (ghost twin, haunted mirror, you know). The answer isn’t so far-off — MEDIUMS are folks who can speak to the deceased. (Do they answer a phone? Do modern spirits prefer to text? I’m sure I will.)
14D. “Partnership agreement?” is another nice pun. I thought of “prenup,” which is too straightforward. This entry is a free method for keeping the peace: a cheerful YES DEAR.
24D. Trying to come up with a ? In this case, “Amazon area” refers instead to a giant company that specializes in ETAIL.
33D. For a nice double cultural reference, this “Italian painter Andrea” is DEL SARTO, who makes his first appearance in the Times puzzle since the 1970s. Del Sarto was a  and became a subject for a long story-poem by Robert Browning in 1855. Although I failed to find the etymology of UP IS DOWN, this poem is apparently the origin of another famous oxymoron: “.”
[Video:  ]
Constructor Notes
I’m guessing the entry that will garner the most attention is 26-Across. Despite the fact I’m also the person who in The Times, there’s no agenda here. Neither were, um, seed entries. I had a whole grid built with UP IN ARMS, but when I thought of UP IS DOWN, I decided it would be a better entry, and that led to VASECTOMY.
The clue “Form of birth control” is from the editors, but I like it because I think it is a useful exercise for solvers to think of how many forms of birth control associated with women they thought of before considering forms associated with men. My original clue was a bit of trivia I found interesting: “Procedure legalized in France in 2001, but banned in Iran in 2014.”
Want to Submit Crosswords to The New York Times?
The New York Times Crossword has an open submission system, and .
For tips on how to get started, read our series, “.”
Need to reverse course?
Subscribers can .
Trying to get back to the puzzle page? .
What did you think?
PHOTO: Guests waited to get their fall issue of Vogue signed by Anna Wintour and Victoria Beckham at Fashion&#39;s Night Out in New York in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Casey Kelbaugh for The New York Times FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: News

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: INTERNET RETAILING (50%); Crossword Puzzles (%); Walden, Byron (Crossword Constructor) (%)

Industry: RETAIL & WHOLESALE TRADE (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (50%)

Person: Walden, Byron (Crossword Constructor)

Load-Date: August 5, 2022


End of Document
