



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
October 8, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION


Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
Section: A&E, Pg. F3
Length: 986 words
Byline: Joe Williams; Of The Post-DispatchADVERTISING; BALLOT ISSUE; BILLBOARDS; ADS; LBIZ PROPOSITION A; PROP A; CAMPAIGN 2000; NOVEMBER ELECTION; 2000 DEBATE; ARGUMENT; ENVIRONMENT
Body

 
* Roadside ads pay the bills and help us pass the time.
I think that I shall never see a tree as lovely as a billboard for Meramec Caverns.
Supporters of Proposition A on the Nov. 7 ballot are quick to point out that Missouri has far more billboards than neighboring states. Despite the best efforts of Lady Bird Johnson, who spearheaded the Highway Beautification Act of 1965, there are about 13,000 advertisements along Missouri highways (down from a peak of 55,000 in the mid-'60s). If well-intentioned groups such as Scenic Missouri have their way, that numb er will be whittled down by local ordinances until Interstate 44 looks more like the German Autobahn than the main artery of the hillbilly heartland. And that would be a shame.
If you've ever driven across states like Kansas or Nebraska without the benefit of visual diversions, you know the true meaning of the word tedium. You realize pretty quickly that a billboard for the Walnut Bowls factory or a painted barn or farmhouse urging you to See Rock City is a lot more entertaining than yet another amber wave of grain. Without the stamp of human activity, the Great Plains are just plain monotonous.
Preservationists say that billboards block their view of nature's majesty. But if those folks are so intent on enjoying the American landscape, maybe they should exit the interstate and actually commune with the trees instead of trying to get their fix while driving 70 miles an hour.
Across our vast continent, there's plenty of scenic splendor that's nowhere near a highway or a billboard. We're smart enough to keep Taco Bell from putting a neon sombero on top of Mount Rushmore. But wide strips of asphalt that propel gas-burning machines from Point A to Point B ought to be fair game for free-market competition.
The real issues here are economic. The revamped interstate highway system not only bypassed the small towns of Route 66, it also cut them off from the only means of advertising that was feasible for businesses that depended on weary travelers and impulse buyers.
You won't find many mom-and-pop diners in your AAA tour book. Undoubtedly, fast-food restaurants and the major hotel chains are now the main beneficiaries of the billboards, and they hardly need our sympathy. So be it.
We can argue all day about whether McDonald's is superior to the hambur ger stands of the 1950s. But it's hard to contend that most people would rather raise their own livestock and power their buggies with coal than participate in the modern world. To pretend that we're not living in a capitalist society is willful ignorance.
Advertising is the oil of our economic engine. Without ads, there would be no free television or radio, and newspapers such as this one would cost $ 5 an issue. Indeed, the Post-Dispatch is itself a major advertiser: Clever ads for the Post even adorn the tarps and turnstiles of Busch Stadium.
What the billboard censors fail to appreciate is that some ads are justly beloved. Vintage placards like the Wall Drug and Burma Shave signs are now celebrated as witty expressions of an emerging roadside culture.
After World War II, the Stuckey's restaurant chain and the South of the Border souvenir complex in South Carolina posted so many billboards that kids in the back seats of station wagons would scream for rubber tomahawks until their parents relented. Now anthropologists are writing books about those signs.
Perhaps the real problem with the billboards of today is that most of them are so uncool. Promoting malt liquor in black neighborhoods is asking for trouble, and the highway ads for "Microsurgical Vasectomy Reversal" are wasted on those of us who like our reproductive organs just fine the way they are. Billboards for truck stops and fast-food joints lack the human touch of the hand-painted signs in the Arizona rug-peddlers' corridor that announce "Nice Indians up ahead."
In a country that rewards ingenuity, historic signs deserve preservation. Proposition A would not only impose a freeze on new billboards, it would also restrict the upkeep and landscaping of existing ones. If the measure passes, we can expect to see great old billboards for places like Exotic Animal Paradise and the Munger Moss Motel deteriorate before our eyes.
Perhaps if historic billboards were saved and new billboards had to meet common-sense standards of design and placement, most people would be satisfed. But who's going to determine which old ads are historic and which new ones are reasonable?
On the other hand, without all this government meddling we might eventually be treated to an awesome "Blade Runner"-type landscape of spinning 3-D billboards that blow smoke rings and play tape-recorded jingles as we pass. And to appease the nature lobby, we could devise billboard-blocker software that would substitute virtual reality cornfields for the beaming visage of Yakov Smirnoff.
Whatever happens on election day, advertising is not going to disappear. When we stamp out advertising in one sector, it balloons in another. Cigarette companies sponsor concert series. Budweiser paints its distinctive bow-tie logo on race cars. Even individuals advertise. We use our T-shirts and license plates to announce our affiliations, and vacationing farmers from Collinsville will stand outside the "Today Show" in the freezing cold to wave placards that say "We're rooting for horseradish."
Consider what has happened in Eastern Europe in the last decade. During the Stalinist era, the boulevards of Moscow and Prague were wiped clean of commercial taint. But the minute the Berlin Wall came down, billboards for Levi's went up on the gray walls of the tenements, and the people cheered.
That's the pact we've made with the devil of commerce. When materialism is taken to its logical extreme, we end up with either the clamor of competing voices or the silence of centralized control. Most Americans find the clamor of voices more heartening.

Notes

Ideas Commentary

Graphic

 
PHOTO, GRAPHIC Photo / Graphic / Illustration (of a billboard) - Pleasure Bound!  Old Trail Drive in Theatre
Classification


Language: English

Subject: MOUNTAINS (75%); ORDINANCES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%)

Company: TACO BELL CORP   (53%);  TACO BELL CORP  (53%);   TACO BELL CORP   (53%);  TACO BELL CORP  (53%)

Industry: SIC5812 EATING PLACES  (53%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); FAST FOOD RESTAURANTS (85%); HOTEL CHAINS (70%); LIVESTOCK (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

Geographic: MISSOURI, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (71%)

Load-Date: November 2, 2000


End of Document
