



The San Diego Union-Tribune
March 8, 2005 Tuesday


Copyright 2005 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: LIFESTYLE; Pg. E-1
Length: 1235 words
Byline: Cheryl Clark, STAFF WRITER
Body


Ask UCSD gynecologist Dr. Jessica Kingston what the biggest frustration in her practice is and she'll answer with a long, deep sigh.
So many female patients "are sexually active, don't want to get pregnant but aren't using any form of contraception," she explained. When she asks them why they don't, she hears a sad array of excuses "based on ignorance."
"They say they're not told about birth control, that they can't afford it, didn't think it was available to them or tried it and didn't like it. You'd be surprised how common this is." And many get stuck with an unwanted pregnancy as a result.
Last December, a federal report underscored her concern.
The National Center for Health Statistics surveyed women and girls in 120 cities, including San Diego, to learn their contraceptive practices. It found 7.4 percent from the ages of 15 to 44 who weren't trying to get pregnant weren't using any form of birth control, an additional 2.2 percent compared with 1995.
Extended to the general population, that means a total of 4.6 million sexually active women at risk for unintended pregnancy.
The reliance on luck alone to prevent pregnancy belies the fact that the number of products to prevent conception is more varied and effective than ever.
"There are more products out now, so that means more choices for women and the more able they are to find a method that meets their needs to avoid unintended pregnancy," said Cynthia Dailard, senior policy analyst for the nonprofit Guttmacher Institute, a national group focused on reproduction issues research.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved more than 20 brands of birth-control pills, several brands of spermicides in foams, gels and sponges, several intrauterine devices and cervical caps, a patch and 66 brands of male condoms (many in dozens of colors, sizes and shapes). There is even a condom women can wear internally.
Other options include an injectable form of the hormone depo-provera, which prevents the ovary from releasing an egg. It can be administered at a clinic or doctor's office -- as infrequently as once every three months -- so women don't need to worry about forgetting a daily pill.
And there's even the so-called "morning after" or Plan B, a pill whose manufacturer, Barr Pharmaceuticals, has applied to the FDA for approval for over-the-counter sales.
Plan B, which interferes with the process leading up to fertilization but does not reverse it, is 95 percent effective if used within 24 hours after intercourse. If taken between 25 and 72 hours, effectiveness drops to 61 percent.
By far the most popular techniques -- primarily used by women who are older -- are permanent, with 10.7 million women opting for tubal sterilization and another 4.2 million relying on their partners' vasectomies. A new procedure called transcervical sterilization is minimally invasive, using a coil inserted into the fallopian tube to prevent conception.
Risky choices
Dr. David Preskill, obstetrician/gynecologist with Kaiser Permanente in San Diego, said he was encouraged by one section of the report: Women are increasingly likely to use contraception during their first premarital intercourse -- from 43 percent before 1980 up to 79 percent by 2002.
But he was dismayed by another, that a steadily increasing number of women report depending on their partners' withdrawal to prevent pregnancy, 24.5 percent in 1982, 40.6 percent in 1995 and 56.1 percent in 2002.
"Relying on male withdrawal is tantamount to no contraception at all," said Preskill, who worries "that will increase the controversy over what women will do about unintended pregnancies, and whether they will terminate."
But with all these choices, and so much at stake, why are increasing numbers of women forgoing birth control?
Some women may think they can't get pregnant, perhaps because they've been lucky so far, said Mosher. Others might be ambivalent, not really caring whether they get pregnant or not.
Dailard said many women aren't using contraception because many school and community sex education programs tout abstinence and mention contraception only in the context of their failure rates, the message required in order to receive $170 million in federal funds.
In California, some organizations receive that money, but public schools cannot because a 2004 state law prohibits any public school from offering sex-education programs in which the message is restricted to abstinence. "They also must provide information on other methods to prevent pregnancy and STDs (sexually transmitted diseases)," said Ken August, state health spokesman.
For nationally recognized birth control expert Dr. Robert Hatcher, much of the blame for lack of contraception use is based on economics.
"There's an increase in the cost of contraception that isn't covered by health plans, a decrease in federal funding for family planning clinics and more difficult access for the poor," said Hatcher, obstetrics and gynecology professor at Emory University in Atlanta and senior author of Contraceptive Technology, an 18-edition book series he's published since 1969.
That's been Barbara Mannino's experience at the Vista Community Clinic. "Often, the cost of birth control isn't covered," said Mannino, the clinic's director.
Those covered by Medi-Cal might qualify for the low $20 office visit fee, which covers three months' worth of pills and lab costs. But, she said, she must pay it four times a year. If they're uninsured, the cost for a 28-day package of birth control is $36.
Hatcher also suggested that some women have based their decision to not use pills on an erroneous interpretation of a 2002 study that linked hormone products designed to replace that which is lost in menopausal women to an increased risk of breast cancer, heart attacks, blood clots and strokes.
Use issues
Another reason women may be distrustful of contraception has to do with how condoms, birth control pills and some other devices are traditionally used, that is, incorrectly. Condoms often aren't properly removed. Birth control pills aren't taken every day.
In a study of well-educated faculty and students at two East Coast universities, participants removed their pills from a computerized device that electronically recorded when daily doses were missed. "It turned out, 50 percent missed three or more pills a month," Hatcher said.
Hatcher and others emphasized that contraceptive device failure rates -- calculated as unintended pregnancies per 100 users per year -- are often misunderstood. In fact, they're based on failure rates of perfect use versus typical use -- sometimes used incorrectly -- based on an average of 83 sexual intercourse events for every 100 women in one year.
For UCSD's Kingston, efforts to increase contraception awareness is part of each day's struggle. "Approximately 50 percent of pregnancies are unintended and about 50 percent of those end in abortion," said Kingston.
Preskill, the Kaiser Permanente obstetrician/gynecologist, pointed out that pregnancy "is significantly more risky than contraception and abortion."
And when unintended, it can be "most costly to society."
Contraceptive use among U.S. women
Method No. of users % of users ...... (in thousands)
Tubal sterilization 10,727 27.7
Pill 10,410 26.9
Male condom 7,889 20.4
Vasectomy 4,215 10.9
Withdrawal 1,178 3.0
Injection 1,146 3.0
Rhythm 883 2.3
Diaphragm 720 1.9
Other 670 1.8
Implant 515 1.3
IUD 310 0.8
TOTAL 38,663 100.0

Graphic

 
1 PIC; 1 DRAWING; 1 CHART; CAPTIONS: 2. Contraception in the U.S. 3. Peer provider-case manager Sonia Chavez (left) gives Irma Hinojosa, 18, family planning advice at the Vista Community Clinic.; PHOTOBY: 1. Christina Martinez / Union-Tribune 2. SOURCE: THE ALAN GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE 3. Laura Embry / Union-Tribune
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (93%); CONTRACEPTION (92%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); WOMEN (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (85%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (79%); MENOPAUSE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (73%); GOVERNMENT STATISTICS AGENCIES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); STATISTICS (68%); US FDA APPROVALS (65%)

Company:  BARR PHARMACEUTICALS INC (51%)

Organization: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (59%)

Industry: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (85%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); MANUFACTURING (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS & BIOTECHNOLOGY (70%); US FDA APPROVALS (65%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: March 10, 2005


End of Document
