



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
March 16, 2015 Monday
FINAL EDITION


 Correction Appended

Copyright 2015 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A1
Length: 1033 words
Byline:  By Lilly Fowler St. Louis Post-Dispatch   
Body


In 1836, several French nuns arrived in the Carondelet neighborhood of St. Louis. The sisters established hospitals and schools here in the Midwest and in California.
Three centuries later, Mark A. Jablonski, a vice president at St. Jude Medical Center in Fullerton, Calif., is striving to keep the mission of the Sisters of St. Joseph of Orange alive.
For help he's turned to the Aquinas Institute of Theology, a small Roman Catholic graduate school housed in a former factory. The school sits next to St. Louis University.
There, doctors, administrators and other health care leaders take courses on Bible interpretation; Jesus, church and the healing ministry; and the foundations of morality.
They aren't the kind of classes that first come to mind when thinking about medical care. But as the number of nuns and priests who established Roman Catholic hospitals slowly dwindles, lay leaders across the country are increasingly taking their place.
The master's program in health care mission at Aquinas aims to help those lay leaders to honor Roman Catholic traditions, training them in the history and ethics behind Catholic-based healing.
That includes taking on controversial topics, such as birth control, abortion and euthanasia. But much of the emphasis is on outreach to the poor - an area some criticize, arguing Catholic hospitals do less than they claim.
"Even though people in our organizations aren't Catholic, they need to understand what part of our identity is not compromised," said Sister MaryAnne King, a manager with the Holy Redeemer Health System in Huntingdon Valley, Pa., who is enrolled in the program.
She belongs to the Sisters of the Holy Redeemer, a congregation with only 18 nuns left in the United States.
Jablonski said sisters like King embody the essence of Catholic health care.
"They didn't get involved in health care to form hospitals," he said."They got into health care because they were responding to the needs of the poor and the needs of the sick."
Sister Jean DeBlois heads the program at Aquinas. She said an emphasis on compassion, as well as a preference for those at the margins of society, sums up the theology of Catholic medical care.
ETHICAL DECISIONS
The Roman Catholic church has a long tradition of service to the sick in the United States, dating to 18th-century New Orleans, when the first Roman Catholic nuns in the New World, the French Ursuline sisters, arrived in the city and established a school, orphanage and hospital.
Today, 645 Catholic hospitals exist, according to 2013 statistics from the American Hospital Association Annual Survey. One in six patients is admitted into a Catholic hospital, or 5.2 million annually.
Despite its noble intentions, Catholic medical care receives its fair share of criticism. Much of the disapproval stems from a set of health care guidelines established by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. Some of those guidelines are well known: bans on abortion and contraception, for example.
The bishops' guidelines, however, also forbid tubal ligations and vasectomies, as well as a number of infertility treatments. "Reproductive technologies that substitute for the marriage act are not consistent with human dignity," the guidelines state.
Catholic institutions may also deny patients' requests to be removed from feeding tubes or life support, even when those wishes are expressed in living wills.
Some have increasingly become concerned with these kinds of prohibitions, as a greater number of Catholic hospitals have merged with non-Catholic hospitals, forcing them to abide by the same rules.
Lois Uttley, director of MergerWatch, a patients' rights advocacy group, also worries about local bishops intervening in tricky medical situations, based on their interpretation of the rules.
"Medical and ethical care decisions are in essence second guessed by the bishop," Uttley said.
The main focus of the Aquinas program isn't to hammer home more conservative Catholic positions on health care. But it does want students - including those who are not Catholic - to have a command of the issues and thinking behind the church's various positions.
"We believe those who lead a ministry of the church have to have a sound understanding," said Sister Colleen Mary Mallon, a professor in the Aquinas program.
"We're not proselytizing. We're not trying to turn them into Catholics," DeBlois said. "The study of theology is in itself a transformative experience."
CHARITABLE CARE
But some of the criticism also stems from the level of charity care offered by Catholic hospitals.
Experts say Roman Catholic institutions often aren't any better at serving the poor than for-profit health care systems.
"Catholic hospitals like other hospitals are serving the general public," Uttley said. "They are in a competitive marketplace. In order to survive, they have to behave like health care businesses."
According to a 2013 study by MergerWatch and the American Civil Liberties Union, overall, public hospitals do a better job of providing charity care than Catholic systems, dedicating 5.6 percent and 2.8 percent respectively of total gross patient revenue, to the poor.
Here in St. Louis, SSM Health Care, one of the largest Catholic health systems in the nation, boasts a slightly larger number, using approximately 3.7 percent of its operating revenue for charity care, according to a 2014 overview by the St. Louis Area Business Health Coalition.
Jablonski maintains Catholic facilities have a stronger tradition of serving the needy, though he acknowledges that the commitment varies from institution to institution.
"I think there's always been a higher degree of awareness. Now whether we're doing it any better, I guess that depends on the local area and the leadership of that local community."
King, the nun who leads Holy Redeemer, said leaders of the institution refused to abandon maternity care despite it not being a moneymaker for the health system. Soon after, four hospitals in the area closed their maternity units.
"Suddenly our numbers went through the ceiling," King said. "We're still not making money, but we're certainly breaking even because now we have all these other people. Where would they have gone?"
Correction


French nuns arrived in the Carondelet neighborhood of St. Louis in 1836, nearly two centuries ago. A story on Monday's front page misstated the time span.
Correction-Date: March 17, 2015

Graphic

 
 Julie Mercer-Kidd (left), director of Mission Services at Mercy Hospital in Springfield and Tracey Biles, Vice President Mission at Mercy Hospital in Ada, Okla., attend a class at the Aquinas Institute of Theology on Thursday, Feb. 13, 2015 in St. Louis. Photo by Huy Mach,   Sr. Colleen Mary Mallon, an associate professor of theology, teaches a class at the Aquinas Institute of Theology on Thursday, Feb. 13, 2015 in St. Louis. Photo by Huy Mach,   Mark Jablonksi (center) and other healthcare administrators attend a class at the Aquinas Institute of Theology on Thursday, Feb. 13, 2015 in St. Louis. Jablonski is the Vice President Mission Integration at St. Jude Medical Center in Fullerton, Calif. Photo by Huy Mach,  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS VOCATIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); THEOLOGY (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); CUSTOMS & CULTURAL HERITAGE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); ABORTION (66%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); EUTHANASIA (51%); aquinas institute of theology (%); health care (%); roman catholicism (%); catholic hospitals (%); #hcp (%)

Industry: HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (94%)

Load-Date: March 17, 2015


End of Document
