



The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
April 9, 2008 Wednesday
Online Edition


Copyright 2008 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: ACCESSATLANTA; Pg. 0
Length: 672 words
Byline: RODNEY HO

Staff
Body


Wednesday, April 9, 2008, 07:26 PM
Hey, it's been a loooong five months without fresh episodes of "The Office" and we've missed you, babe!
Honestly, with so much pentup expectations, this episode was not as good as I had hoped. But even a so-so "Office" with a less-than-bravura ending provided a fair share of laugh-out-loud moments.
Dwight falling apart when he finds out he is not invited to the dinner party. The tour of the bedroom when Michael demonstrates sleeping on the bench in front of the king-sized bed. Michael proudly displaying his 15-inch plasma screen TV. Angela not letting Michael hug her.
Many of the best lines come from Pam. When she finds out dinner will take three hours, she tells the fake documentarians: "I don't care what they say about me. I just want to eat. Which I realize is a lot to ask for --- at a dinner party!
When Jan says she heard Pam had dated Michael: "I have never ever dated or wanted to do anything resembling dating Michael. Ever. Not ever. Not now. Not then. Not now. Not ever. Ever."
Pam uttering "Awesome!" when Dwight invades the party with his former babysitter.
The triple vasectomy moment was hilarious. "Snip snap snip snap snip snap!" Michael says.
And best line at the dinner table:
Dwight: "I know you love beet salad. I've seen you eat it many times."
Angela: "The thought of popping one of your beets into my mouth makes me want to vomit!"
And here are some random news bits not quite big enough to merit a standalone entry:
-Ryan Cameron's latest foray into TV, his talk show "Ryan Cameron Uncensored," aired in the winter on the Starz cable network. According to PR person SImone Smalls, the show will return this summer though she didn't have any details. 
-Kevin & Taylor on 104.7/The Fish are finalists in the "air personalities of the year in a major market" competition from the Gospel Music Association.
-In the print edition, I wrote a piece for the print edition about former Conyers resident Jack McBrayer. His show "30 Rock" came back after a long break Thursday night. McBrayer is also in the Mariah Carey video "Touch My Body." Check it out here:
-Tom Taylor, who writes for radio-info.com, noted the following study:
"Digital radio users do not spend less time with AM/FM Radio." Time Spent Listening is almost identical, between total persons 12+ (2 hours and 48 minutes a day) and those Arbitron/Edison identify as "digital audio listeners", who've ever listened to an audio podcast, subscribed to XM/Sirius, or listened to online radio in the last month. That figure is two hours and 45 minutes. Or as Arbitron's Pierre Bouvard puts it, there are simply people who like a lot of radio, in all forms and flavors. In fact, "only 10% of those in the study report less radio listening due to time spent with an iPod or MP3 player." While "more than 70% expect to listen to the same amount of AM/FM radio", regardless of whether they're XM/Sirius subscribers or online radio listeners. Pierre says "It's a myth to say they're killing traditional AM/FM radio."
B98.5 changes out its maybe 25 percent of its 300 songs every six months. The less obvious adds: "Sweet Home Alabama" by Lynyrd Skynyrd, "Heartbreaker" by Pat Benatar, "Edge of Seventeen" by Stevie Nicks, the Rolling Stones' "Beast of Burden," Chad Kroeger's "Hero." The one relatively recent song: Daughtry's "It's Not Over." Others have been on the station before though some probably not for years: "Take it on the Run" by REO Speedwagon, "Tears in Heaven" by Eric Clapton, Thompson Twins' "Hold Me Now," "Nightshift" and "Lady (You Bring Me Up") by the Commodores, Dazz Band's "Let It Whip," "Angel" by Shaggy, "More Than a Woman" by the Bee Gees, Sarah McLachlan's "Adia," Elton John's "Bennie & the Jets," Ace of Base's "The Sign," Melissa Etheridge's "I'm The Only One," Eurythmics "Sweet Dreams," Janet Jackson's "Control," "Escapade," "What Have You Done For Me Lately" and "Miss You Much."

Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Blog

Publication-Type: Newspapers

Subject: COURTSHIP & DATING (87%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (77%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (75%); MUSIC (72%); MUSIC GENRES (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%)

Industry: CABLE TELEVISION (77%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (72%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (69%)

Person: MARIAH CAREY (50%)

Load-Date: April 23, 2008


End of Document
