



The San Diego Union-Tribune
June 5, 2015 Friday


Copyright 2015 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: Local; Pg. B-1
Length: 687 words
Body


I’ve completed my first week as a devout Kaltduscher and, honestly, I’ve never felt so supermanly, so insufferably proud of myself.
Look, I try to conceal feelings of superiority over the steamy mass of Warmduschers, the derisive German word for “warm showerers,” but it’s really hard.
Since going cold naked turkey, I’ve cut by some 80 percent the water for my daily ablutions, which were averaging two luxurious warm showers a day.
It may be hyperbolic to say the drought would be kaput if a critical mass converted to Kaltduschen, but I believe the savings could rival, say, turf removal.
After a week on the cold front, I no longer dread the icy plunge. The spirit of Katharine Hepburn, a fierce advocate of cold bathing, doesn’t need to hector me to man up.
Fifteen minutes after a freezing 90-second shower, I feel toasty. Blood, which migrated to warm the body core, surges back to hydrated skin.
I’m even shaving with cold water, something I would never have thought possible. Call me übergeschnappt! (i.e., super-crazy.)
For deep-seated cultural reasons, German is the default language to celebrate a stroke of hygienic genius that not only saves water but, as I detailed last week, promotes health, beauty and happiness (at least as hyped on a number of websites).
When I turn the cold faucet and step into the shower, I channel German so guttural it originates in my large intestine.
Neighbors a block away can hear me spluttering, “Ich bin ein Kaltduscher!”
And you should know I don’t speak German.
Still, I was pleasantly shocked — geschockt! — to receive an email from Ed Leon, a former German teacher at Point Loma High whose wife is German.
Leon told me the first column “had me practically rolling on the floor” in part because his German, Swiss and Swedish friends routinely “tout the benefits of Kaltdusching.”
It’s going to require a quantum leap, to be sure, but the northern European view should go mainstream in San Diego, where the slogan greeting arrivals at Lindbergh Field would be: “Warm Days, Kaltduschen!
But first the region must overcome deep-seated sexual prejudice.
On Tuesday, the Poway City Council was wrapping up its meeting when Mayor Steve Vaus, as is his custom, offered a water-saving tip.
This time, he said, he was “stealing from a great source, Logan Jenkins.”
Yes, the mayor in the black cowboy hat was endorsing my coldly comforting crusade.
How cool was that?
“That was his wife’s idea!” interjected Councilcard Jim Cunningham, eliciting ribald laughter.
Tragically, cold showers are the butt of jokes. They’re the comic dampeners of desire, which is always hot, hot, hot.
Think “Light My Fire.”
“Chill My Core” just doesn’t have that amorous ring. (And who can forget the classic Seinfeld “shrinkage” episode?)
“Cold showers to save water? I don’t think so,” wrote Bob Cain from Kensington. “By the way, you forgot one more benefit — birth control.”
The reality, as I explained to Cain, is the exact reverse, at least as it applies to males.
If every man, at least those without vasectomies, took daily cold showers, their fertility would be pumped up, research suggests. (Some junk science suggests testosterone would also spike. Nature’s Viagra? Not so far-fetched.)
Bottom line, heat puts a sleeper hold on swimmers who must, if one of them is to reach the goal, be numerous and wide-awake.
Remember the old debate over boxers vs. briefs? The infertilizing effect of briefs was overstated, I gather, but the Mayo Clinic includes saunas and warm baths among environmental hazards to sperm motility.
On a basic Darwinian level, Kaltduschers should be more attractive to women than wimpy Warmduschers. Forget survival of the fittest. Survival of the coldest.
Finally, it was gratifying to receive a warm note from Mike Lee, San Diego County Water Authority spokesman and former star U-T environmental reporter.
“Thank you for your leadership in finding innovative ways to save water, including taking cold showers,” wrote Lee with just a micro-whiff of sarcasm. “You are an inspiration.”
I’m trying not to preen.
Has there ever been a way to save the world that hurts so good?

Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: MAYORS (84%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); EMOTIONS (78%); WATER CONSERVATION (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); CITIES (60%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%)

Geographic: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (73%); NORTHERN EUROPE (53%)

Load-Date: June 5, 2015


End of Document
