



The San Diego Union Tribune
August 18, 2018 Saturday
Final Edition


Copyright 2018 The San Diego Union-Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: LOCAL; B; Pg. 8
Length: 610 words
Byline: Ernie Cowan
Body


The response to last week's column on the challenge of saving a garden from hungry rabbits made me feel like Paul Revere.
As I made my midnight ride through the madness of munching bunnies, never did I dream that so many others would be ready to enter the battle, even virtually.
My story told of my wife's struggle with hungry bunnies following a major landscaping remodel of our yard here on Mt. Whoville. Desiring to be water-wise and wildlife-friendly, we removed our grass and replaced it with walkways of compacted decomposed granite, islands of native vegetation, succulents and plants that attract birds and butterflies. We added drip irrigation and lighting. 
Turns out, the lighting only lets us see the hungry rabbits quite well as they nightly devour our expensive plant collection.
Email responses were quick and plentiful, offering every solution from Draconian to deranged, including advice from Sandra Furfaro that "you may as well surrender."
Some offered short, 2-cents-worth comments, while others sent extensive tomes that even drifted into the political.
Darrell Reich offered everything from Googling a rabbit recipe to getting a dog or cat. He may have also been encouraging me to consider long-distance relocation of a rabbit by including a U-T cartoon about Congressman Hunter and his traveling pet rabbit.
Pam McCormick suggested I invest in a miniature Doberman pinscher.
"Ours simply loved chasing, digging after and, sometimes, consuming wabbitz. Not a retriever, though. They'll chew on anything. On the flip side, cats like to stalk and won't grow bored in a hopping yard," she wrote.
Fred Parker admitted none of the so-called "barriers" worked. But he claims to have won the war.
He tried a garden fence, but that's expensive and the critters will even tunnel underneath.
His second approach was to purchase a humane trap that does not harm the animal.
"Over nine months I caught and relocated 16 rabbits by putting a tray with cabbage, salad, carrots and apples," Parker said. He even used apple cider spray on the trap to remove human scent.
I suggested this to my wife. She wondered if Parker might be releasing his trapped rabbits near us? It would explain the population explosion.
Perhaps one of the best solutions came from Miriam Gitchoff who suggested purchasing slightly old carrots and scattering them around the plants. We'll give that one a try.
A solution I like even better came in from Valarie Iverson.
"Perhaps some Bailey's in your wife's morning coffee will make the problem more tolerable," she wrote. I know it would for me.
There were suggestions for liquid Deer and Rabbit Fence, and just as many saying it doesn't work.
Falconry, free rabbit vasectomies in exchange for carrots, owl boxes and pellet guns were also recommended.
Someone suggested we consider notifying local coyotes that there are lots of rabbits in our yard. Not quite sure how to do that.
Then there were e-mails simply commenting on how they enjoyed my column and found it funny.
Kati did not see the humor. My chuckling only makes things worse.
This morning, another prized succulent was missing. Mt. Whoville was in turmoil. I've done what I can to help without resorting to violence.
As Kati yelled at the offending hares, I decided it was time to retreat to my ham shack and the sanctuary of earphones.
"Sorry, honey, I can't hear you. I'm listening to Lithuania."
Kati has not let up in her efforts to rid our garden of rabbits. It gives her purpose.
Her kind nature and love of animals has kept her from violent measures.
I probably have nothing to worry about until I find a hare in my soup.
Email  or visit erniesoutdoors.blogspot.com.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: MAMMALS (90%); DOGS (89%); CATS (87%); PETS (78%); ANIMALS (75%); WILDLIFE (75%); RELOCATIONS (65%)

Industry: FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%)

Load-Date: August 18, 2018


End of Document
