



Daily News (New York)
November 13, 2009 Friday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2009 Daily News, L.P.


Section: NOW; Pg. 40
Length: 471 words
Byline: BY CRISTINA KINON
Body


Donny dazzles 'em with glitter
"Dancing With the Stars" (ABC) Each couple was assigned a Latin dance from a particular decade, like a '70s samba or a '60s jive. Seventies heartthrob Donny Osmond (r.) scored an '80s paso doble and went all out in the costume department. His look was a Little Richard/Adam Ant/Michael Jackson mix that was so mesmerizing I couldn't tell you if he danced a paso doble, samba or the Electric Slide. The judges awarded him only a 24, but in my book, you score a perfect 30 for wind machine usage alone.
NOW THAT'S GOOD TV: Aaron Carter pulled a '90s samba out of the hat for his Latin routine. How lucky! Aaron was HUGE in the '90s, don't you remember? "I Want Candy"? "Crazy Little Party Girl"? "Please Don't Go Girl"? Those were all hits from his first two albums, in 1997 and 2000. Remember? Anybody? Nobody? Was I the only 15-year-old back then with awful taste in music?
"The Hills" (MTV) In a proactive sort of checkmate tactic, Spencer visited his doctor to see about a vasectomy, to make sure wife Heidi didn't "accidentally" get pregnant as she often threatens to do. The good doctor talked Spencer through the graphic procedure and pointed out that it was essentially permanent. Sorry world, he didn't go through with it. You spent 30 minutes thinking about Spencer's swimmers for no good reason.
NOW THAT'S GOOD TV: How many times do Audrina and Justin Bobby need to get together over dinner to talk about the sad state of their "relationship" before they realize they've done the same thing about 17 times already, with no concrete resolution? I think MTV keeps forgetting to send them new scripts, so they just use an old one over and over.
"So You Think You Can Dance" (Fox) We learned a lot about the top 16 dancers this week, thanks to rehearsal footage in which each revealed some personal information. For instance, we learned that Karen is now divorced from her husband, who also auditioned for the show but was cut in the Las Vegas round. And that Mollee is deaf in her left year. Interesting stuff! You know what's not interesting? Pauline talking about how much she eats. Just what America wants to see, some tiny little thing shoving her face full of French fries and not gaining a pound. Nobody thinks your fast metabolism is adorable, Pauline.
NOW THAT'S GOOD TV: This week, newly partnered duo Channing and Victor (above) performed a contemporary routine choreographed by Stacey Tucci. It was about a couple in a toxic relationship. Isn't every contemporary routine about a couple in a toxic relationship? Without even watching it, I could have told you most of the choreographed moves: One dancer pushes the other away, she grabs his shirt in desperation, someone covers the other person's mouth or heart and, at the end, someone walks away slowly. It's like breakup charades.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: COLUMN

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); DANCERS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%); REALITY TV (%)

Industry: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); DANCERS (78%)

Load-Date: November 13, 2009


End of Document
