



The New York Times
June 4, 2009 Thursday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
Section: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1; BOOKS OF THE TIMES
Length: 915 words
Byline: By JANET MASLIN
Body


HOME GAME 
  An Accidental Guide to Fatherhood 
  By Michael Lewis 
  Illustrated. 190 pages. W. W. Norton & Company. $23.95. 
  Michael Lewis's ''Home Game'' is meant for the man who has everything -- including a grudging attitude toward raising his own children. Affecting a curmudgeonly stance that owes something to Professor Henry Higgins, Mr. Lewis writes of how he deigned not just to let a woman into his life, but also three children. 
  While his wife figures only tangentially in the book, is given scant credit for her efforts and is referred to as ''incubator of the source material,'' the children become the center of Mr. Lewis's universe, much to his initial horror. ''Maternal love may be instinctive,'' he writes, with a touch of candor in a book that is otherwise gruffly facetious, ''but paternal love is learned behavior.'' 
  ''Home Game'' is about Mr. Lewis's learning process. Based on a series of columns he wrote for Slate, the book frames a series of anecdotes about child rearing in terms well suited to Father's Day. (Four years ago Mr. Lewis hailed that holiday with a conveniently timed book about his high school baseball coach.) No greeting-card saccharine here: Mr. Lewis manages to work business, baseball and golf references into stories about his children's behavior. And no analogy is too manly to be out of place. When he takes his oldest child to school so that his wife and new baby can sleep, he writes, ''I am the good soldier who has leapt on the hand grenade, so that others may live.'' 
  At times he veers close to real misanthropy. (About spreading illness: ''School-aged children are the rats of our time.'') But Mr. Lewis knows better than to cross that line. Like Christopher Buckley writing, at the other end of the life cycle, about his parents' deaths in ''Losing Mum and Pup,'' Mr. Lewis buffers any discomfort with urbane polish and storytelling skill. Both books manage to be bright and blithe while describing some of the most earthshaking events in their authors' lives.
  ''Home Game,'' a more glib book than Mr. Buckley's, has three sections, one for each of Mr. Lewis's children. (''Memory loss is the key to human reproduction,''  he writes about how he managed to become a father of three.) This book has the sense to begin when its author's oldest daughter, Quinn, is already walking and talking, not to mention cursing like a sailor, thus mastering ''the secret of making Daddy stop the car.'' When little Quinn is teased by a group of boys and manages to outmaneuver them, Mr. Lewis recalls beaming with pride. The author of ''Moneyball'' and ''Liar's Poker'' was delighted to realize that his girl had the instincts of a winner.
  The section about Quinn takes the family to Paris. There Mr. Lewis discovers toddler-rearing classes very like American ones. ''If you have a gift for frightening new parents,'' he writes, ''your fortune in this world is secure.'' We later learn that he has at some point written descriptively about the city, because when Mr. Lewis is at his very lowest someone compliments him on descriptions of being in the Luxembourg Gardens with his son. Only the indignant realization that he is being confused with Adam Gopnik (''Paris to the Moon'') jump-starts the Lewis ego and makes the author feel like himself again.
  When a second daughter, Dixie, is born, ''Home Game'' is galvanized by sibling rivalry. Once again Mr. Lewis enjoys watching Quinn flex some muscle. Quinn says she hates Dixie; her father is glad she understands that Dixie's very existence is a violation of her property rights. ''It boded well for her future in the free market,'' he says. 
  With two children and with all semblance of normalcy disrupted, Mr. Lewis asks why adults bond to their offspring at all. ''It's because you want to hurl it off the balcony and don't that you come to love it,'' he writes, noting that the same things said about children could be said about dogs. But by this point he's hooked, and now the stories in ''Home Game'' become riddled with stealth affection. When the idea of a third child arises, he writes, ''it was up to me to prevent it, which is to say that it was only a matter of time before it happened.'' 
  Because this book is less casually structured than it appears to be, it saves the delivery-room experience of childbirth (''the sound of a hairless dog escaping from quicksand'') for the last child. Mr. Lewis describes his hospital experience from the standpoint of a man who would rather have been anywhere else. Then he describes taking the girls to the hospital ''so that they can meet their new baby brother and see firsthand the joy of partial disinheritance.'' 
  Stress and cynicism mount as Mr. Lewis contends with his wife's postpartum depression and chooses a book by Malthus, who warned of the dangers of population growth, as his escapist reading. Still, the book's sourpuss stance begins to weaken. And thanks to the birth of a son to whom he can say, ''How you doin', buddy?'' Mr. Lewis is finally hooked.
  Big finish: ''Home Game'' ends with a section devoted to Mr. Lewis's vasectomy. If it does nothing else, this part of the book confirms that he is as squeamish as he has claimed to be. It also levels the figurative playing field by making sure that no member of this family will be embarrassment free. This book is dedicated to the three Lewis children with one caveat: ''If you don't want to see it in print, don't do it.'' In ''Home Game'' that's no idle threat.



Graphic

 
PHOTO: Michael Lewis (PHOTOGRAPH BY TABITHA SOREN)(pg. C8)          
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Review

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BASEBALL (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS (70%); MEMORY (67%); COACHES & TRAINERS (65%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (65%); GRENADES (62%)

Company:  W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

Industry: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%)
Home Game (Book)
Home Game (Book)

Load-Date: June 4, 2009


End of Document
