



Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
April 24, 2020 Friday
METRO EDITION


Copyright 2020 Star Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4B
Length: 1664 words
Body


Lofthus-Plass, Beverly 94 years, resident of The Pillars of Highland Park, formerly of Minnetonka. Preceded in death by husband Herbert, parents Elmer & Dorothy Lofthus, brother & sister-in-law Donald and Frances. Survived by son & and daughter-in-law Bill and Bev Wright. Granddaughter Katie (Jason) Leyendecker great grandchildren Audrey & Olivia Leyendecker. Nieces and husbands Sue and Mark Austin, Julie and Jeff Graen and their children. A member of the United States Cadet Nurse Corps during WWII and nursing graduate of ABNW Hospital she had a rich 55 year career in nursing and counseling including the energy and passion to help start up West Suburban Teen Clinic. A celebration of life to be announced at a later date.
Benjamin, Robert Bedell Robert "Bob" Benjamin died April 15, 2020, in sunny San Diego, under the loving care of his daughters and hospice. He escaped the Corona-virus but died from compli-cations of a broken hip. Robert was born on July 4, 1924 and grew up in Pipestone Minnesota as the eldest child of Walter G. and Mabel Benjamin. He contracted and survived Polio, weathered the great Depression, and developed a life-long love of hard work and learning. At Hamline University in St. Paul, Minnesota, he earned a BA. His years there were interrupted by World War II. He became a Navy pilot and navigator and flew in the Pacific. Bob returned from service and married Betty Mae Waidelich on June 7, 1947. Betty supported the young couple while Robert attended medical school at University of Minnesota. They moved to Oregon for his Residency. After returning to Minnesota, Robert joined a small group practice, the St. Louis Park Medical Center. Over the course of his career he contributed to its expansion into a large health care provider. He mentored many young doctors, taught surgery at the University of Minnesota, authored books on surgery, and served on the board of the clinic. He believed that family planning was a basic right and became an expert in vasectomy surgery. He offered Thursday evening procedures so men could easily recover missing only one day of work. Along with their activism, Bob and Betty shared a zest for life. Bob built a wilderness cabin on the shore of Lake Superior. Later the isolated retreat was traded for a cabin on Madeline Island. Bob served on the Wilderness Preserve board there, as well as pursuing gardening, photography, chess, tennis, hiking and boating. Their love of travel took them around the globe. Many road trips included visits to friends and family. After Betty died, Bob married Cathy Coult. She shared his love of books, music, and travel until dementia overwhelmed her. Bob is survived by four siblings (Walter [& Majorie] Benjamin, Martha [& Willis] Unke, Roger [& Nancy] Benjamin, and Mary Louise [& Dale] Bowen), three children (Scott [& Ruth] Benjamin, Diane [& Matt] Uren, Laura [& Scott] Kopperud, eight grandchildren, and 12 great grandchildren, all of whom will miss his terrible jokes, great generosity, and wise advice. Service to be determined. Donations may be made to Madeline Island Wilderness Preserve (PO Box 28, La Pointe, WI 54850) or Planned Parenthood ().
Sunness Wilson, Jodee passed away on April 20, 2020. She is survived by her husband, Patrick and their dog, Angel. Private family service will be held. Interment at Sunset Cemetery. Memorials may be made in Jodee's name to Animal Humane Society and Union Gospel Mission. Sunset Funeral Home 
Yesnes, Morgan Alexander March 22, 1996 April 22, 2020 Morgan was the most amazing and brave young man. He faced imminent death multiple times and met it head on with a clarity about what was most important; his family, friends and having fun. His whole being exuded love to everyone he ever met and everyone returned it in kind. He was sweet, funny, smart, extroverted and loved to talk. There isn't a person, doctor or medical professional that didn't fall in love with him when they met him and were amazed by his will to live life to its fullest. He loved all sports, but especially baseball. He had a knack for statistics and could recite who was traded to what team and when and where they went to school. Morgan avidly watched the Twins, Vikings, Gopher sports and college basketball. (He was crushed when Covid-19 cancelled March Madness). He was a voracious reader and discovered a love of history as he was graduating from Edina High School and entering Augsburg University. While he loved every history class he ever took, he was enamored with World War II. He was moved by the enormity of the losses when he visited Normandy, the D-Day beaches and Pearl Harbor. While his heart disease gradually stole away his physical ability to experience life, he never looked at the world as a glass that is half empty. He only looked for the opportunities to have fun, to help others and to give and get love. In order to give back for all the support he received, he volunteered at Ronald McDonald House and Children's Hospital in Minneapolis. His final act of love was donating to Life Source so other people would have the opportunity for a new life. Our world now is very empty without him and all the joy he brought us. Morgan is survived by his parents, Lori Larson and David Yesnes; sister, Sydney Yesnes; aunts and uncles, Shelly and Adolf Dockham, Karyn Olson and Terry Johnston, Gary Larson; and many cousins. Morgan was preceded in death by grandparents, Barbara and Erwin Yesnes, Mayme and Walter Larson; uncle, Greg Larson and aunt, Linda Riddle. The family wants to thank the many medical professionals that gave Morgan the opportunity for an amazing 24 years and his family the chance to love him. Dr. Alison Cabalka, Dr. Yoav Messinger, Dr. Daniel Weisdorf, Dr. Michael Samara and Leslie Macho. Their constant belief in Morgan's ability to overcome every obstacle, gave us all the courage to persevere. Private family services will be held. A Zoom Shiva will be held Saturday, April 25 at 7:00 pm and Sunday, April 26 at 7:00 pm. A memorial service to honor Morgan's life will be held later this year. You can help us continue Morgan's legacy by donating to Ronald McDonald House. Hodroff-Epstein 612-871-1234 
McCawley, David E. Age 81, passed away April 19th from Covid-19 at North Ridge Health Care Center. Preceded in death by wife, Denise, parents, Mary and Emmett, sibling Patricia, and grand daughter-in-law, Julianna Risk. Survived by children, Laura McCawley (Jim Herbert) Sean McCawley (Julie); grandchildren, Jason, Sarah, Victor, Tatiana, Ryan and Alayna, great grandchild, Roman. A private graveside service will be held at a later date.
Brooks, Donna Lu (Bertelsen) Age 86 of St. Louis Park passed away peacefully on April 21, 2020 at Covenant Living of Golden Valley. Donna was born August 12, 1933 in Thornton, Iowa, to Hans and Hulda Bertelsen. She is preceded in death by parents Hans and Hulda, husband James (Jim), and brother and sister-in-law Eugene and Arlis Bertelsen. She is survived by children, Spencer Brooks and Celeste (Scott) Ulberg, beloved grandchildren Henry and Lilly, her dog Kirby, special nieces Lori, Terri, and Sue, and many dear relatives and close friends. Donna grew up on a farm in Thornton, Iowa. She attended Iowa State Teachers College and taught 2nd grade in Iowa. She was married 40 years to Jim, until his death in 2000. Donna lived in St. Louis Park for 60 years. Donna worked 30 years as a dedicated Special Ed. paraprofessional in St. Louis Park. She was an avid Minnesota sports fan. Go Twins! Donna enjoyed serving on Altar Guild at Lutheran Church of the Good Shepherd, her bowling league, traveling, dogs, baking, sewing, listening to Sid Hartman, ice cream, and time with her grandchildren and friends. She was dearly loved and a friend to all, and will be remembered for her sweet, thoughtful and kind spirit. A private burial will be held at Lakewood Cemetery on April 25. A public celebration will occur at a later date. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations to Animal Humane Society in Golden Valley or Park Nicollet Struthers Parkinson's Center. Gearty-Delmore 952-926-1615
Peterson, Robert "Bob" Age 75 of Excelsior. Passed away Thursday, April 16 after a brief illness. He was born in Waverly, MN. on June 26, 1944. Bob was a special man who leaves behind his wife, Linda and three children, Jim (Tammy), Chris (Aimee) and Julie (Matt) Thornton; nine grandchildren: Emma, Madison, Sadie, Kylie, Owen, Conner, Henry, Harrison and Hayden. Preceded in death by parents, Millard and Lorraine. Survived by brothers-in-law, Larry (Kathy) and Doug Schroeder. Bob started Peterson Drywall 40 Years ago. Through the years, his business became much more than just a business. His focus became more about the success of the relationships he made and not just the work being performed. He loved what he did, but he loved his employees, contractors, and clients more. For Bob it was a labor of love and that is what he valued most. He will be greatly missed by all and forever remembered for his love of the Lord and his family. He enjoyed golf, his garden, fishing and vacationing in Florida Keys. Funeral Mass of Christian burial will be live streamed at tinyurl.com/sjbyoutube on Wednesday, April 29th 11:00 a.m. Private Interment at St. John the Baptist Resurrection Cemetery in Shorewood. In lieu of flowers, memorials can be made in memory of Bob to St. Johns gifts and memorial fund at 680 Mill Street, Excelsior, MN 55331. Huber Funeral & Cremation Services Excelsior Chapel 952-474-9595 
Bowman, Marilyn B. Age 92, of Burnsville, MN. Passed away April 22, 2020. She was loved and will be deeply missed by her children (Bob and Judy) and their spouses, her step-grandchildren (Heather, Jessica and Andrew), her sister Carol Berge and her son James Berge, her niece Val Swift, her nephew Steve Banton, and by many dear relatives and friends.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: DEATH NOTICES & OBITUARIES (92%); DEATH & DYING (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); HOSPICE (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS (75%); MILITARY MEDICAL PERSONNEL (75%); WORLD WAR II (75%); MENTORS & ROLE MODELS (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); BONE FRACTURES (70%); CORONAVIRUSES (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); LAKES (60%); WILDERNESS (60%); OBITUARY (%)

Industry: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS (75%); MILITARY MEDICAL PERSONNEL (75%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (74%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%)

Geographic: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (88%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: April 24, 2020


End of Document
