



Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
April 26, 2020 Sunday
METRO EDITION


Copyright 2020 Star Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 7B
Length: 40217 words
Body


Guckeen, Steven Age 75, of Champlin passed away March 7, 2020 in Mesa, AZ. Preceded in death by his parents, Lawrence & Margaret and brother, Richard "Dick". Survived by his wife of 55 years, Joan; children, Amy (Neil) Jennissen, Renee (Dave) Garrison, & Mike (Raquel) Guckeen; grandchildren, Matt, Amanda, Clayton, Courtney, Trevor, Anna, Taylor, and Tyler; and 3 great grandchildren. In light of concerns regarding the community spread of COVID-19 the visitation, mass, and interment will be private. A Celebration of Steve's Life will be held at a later date. Memorials preferred to an organization of your choice. Evans-Nordby 763-424-4000 evansnordby.com
Innes, Daniel Lee Born in Bemidji, MN 1933 passed away Feb. 18, 2020 in Richmond, CA, where he has lived for the past 71 years. He will be dearly missed by brother Robert Innes and families of Long Lake & Maple Plain.
Best, Judy A. 81, of Chaska, passed away peacefully on April 10, 2020. Preceded in death by oldest son, Mark. She was an RN who, along with her later-to-be husband Mike Best, opened Methodist Hospital in 1959. She worked several years until her family grew to 4 sons. She then became a school bus driver for Eden Prairie, from which she retired after 28 years of driving. She is survived by husband, Mike; sons, Paul (Stacey), David (Cheryl), Daniel; daughter-in- law, Lenise; and 7 grandchildren: Matthew, Nickolas, Peter, Jacob, Savannah, Emily and Gabrielle. She was a frequent attender of boy's hockey and Practices, where she showed up wearing a yellow snowmobile suit, which earned her the nickname of Tweety - after the cartoon character. The name stuck for the rest of her life. Memorial services will take place at a future date when we can gather in a church.  Strobeck Johnson 952-938-9020
Savage (Grenek), Helen Frances Age 101, passed away peacefully on April 15, 2020. She entered this world during the pandemic of 1918 and quietly left it on a trail of tears and love from her family during the 2020 pandemic. Preceded in death by her parents, six siblings and her grandson. Survived by her brother William; her children, Mike (Joanne), Pat (Joyce), Mary Jo Haverty, Jim (Jill), Peggy (Larry) Moon, Chris (Jim) Soldin; 12 grandchildren, 15 great grandchildren and many nieces, nephews. Helen was the eldest of 8 children. She graduated from South High School where she was a star athlete and student. She was a survivor as a single parent of six children in the 50's; a time in which this role was least understood or supported by society and her Catholic Church community. She fervently worked to maintain a safe, loving home for her family. She worked 30 years in the printing industry. She fought for her right to become the first female Apprentice Journeyman in her company; a position with higher pay & benefits formerly reserved only for men. She weathered a hostile work environment as she filed a discrimination claim through the Equal Opportunity Employment Commission. She won her case. Later, her company named her Employee of the Month. She was quoted saying "Some men felt their masculinity was threatened, but there should be no difference between men's & women's work" and that her effort "made a chink in the armor of the system, but it will take time for women to be allowed to take the responsibility they are capable of." As a pioneer for women's rights her children learned the importance of standing up for their beliefs, even in the face of tough obstacles. Let it be said without reservation the love of her family was her best creation. Her final years were spent in Raleigh, NC in the loving care of family. Memorials preferred to  . A private celebration of her life will be held at a later date.
McKenna, Ardelle M. Age 84 of New Hope passed away April 19, 2020. Services will be at a later date. Full notice to follow.  Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Lacy, Marian Marie Marie Lacy of Edina, MN and Naples, FL, passed away at age 90 on Wednesday, April 15, 2020. She is survived by her loving husband of nearly 69 years, Richard; son, Dean (Karen) Lacy of Park City, UT; daughter Diane Lacy Harr of Edina, MN; son Jim (Colleen) of New Orleans, LA; grandchildren Brooke (Matt), Amanda, Kelsey (Charlie), Ricky, Jacob, and Samantha; great-grandchildren Brodie, Cole, Drew, Dean, and her newest great-grandchild due in October. Marie was preceded in death by her parents Edith and Tracy Tobey, sister Gladys Wilcox, and son-in-law Scott Harr. Marie grew up in Elmira Heights, New York and studied to be a registered nurse. After school, Marie and Dick moved to the midwest and settled in Edina where they enjoyed time together raising their family. Marie loved golfing at Edina Country Club and The Vineyards in Naples. She pursued projects with the Minneapolis Women's Club and created many needlepoint pieces of art. Marie lived life with a kind and caring heart and will always be remembered for sharing her time, her laughter, and her joy with everyone she knew. Marie's celebration of life will be held at a later date. Memorial gifts may be made to Alzheimer's Association.
Hernandez, Jesse J. Age 86 of Savage, MN passed away April 17, 2020. Due to the pandemic, Services and interment at Fort Snelling will be held at a later date. A complete notice will be published when services are confirmed.
Martin, Marilyn E. (Maenke) Age 84 of Andover. Service postponed. Future date Pending.  Coon Rapids 763-767-1000
Rypkema, Wallace Reed "Wally" Age 95, of Richfield. Preceded in death by wife, Kathleen "Kay". Survived by children, Craig (Ida Mae) and Pamela; 4 grandchildren; 11 great-grandchildren; and 2 great- great grandchildren. Memorial Service later. Morris Nilsen Chapel 612-869-3226 
Cronin-Anfang, Colleen Marie 63, died on Friday, April 10, 2020. She was born on April 22, 1956, to Jack and Mary Jane (Collins) Cronin in Minneapolis, MN. Upon her retirement from the State of Minnesota, Colleen enjoyed spending winters in Tucson, AZ. Colleen loved to travel, spending time outdoors, creating beautiful art work and spending time with family and friends. Colleen remained positive even with all the challenges thrown her way including a courageous battle with cancer. She never complained and never stopped fighting. Colleen was loved by many! She is survived by her children Alyce (Jonathan) Croy, and Abby (Travis) Larson, her grandson Ethan Croy, her parents Mary and Jack Cronin, her siblings Kathleen (Steve) Coleman, John (Anne) Cronin, Maureen Cronin, Teresa (Greg) Ulrich, Kelly (Brian) Lamensky and Dan (Tina) Cronin and numerous nieces, nephews and great nieces and nephews. She is further survived by other relatives and many friends. In light of the current events, a celebration of life for Colleen will be held later.
Lundoff, Alice K. Was born February 12, 1936 in Astoria, Queens and died April 1, 2020 at the Ebenezer Care Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota from complications resulting from influenza. Alice worked in book publishing in New York City for many years as a picture researcher, finding photos and illustrations for text books, histories, art surveys and other publications. She was one of the founding members and a past President of the American Society of Picture Professionals, a former chair of the Committee for the Picture Collection at the New York Public Library and a Board member at Light Opera of Manhattan, amongst other activities. She also volunteered with Big Apple Greeters and spent her retirement conducting numerous walking tours of her beloved New York City. Alice travelled extensively, visiting most of the U.S. and Europe, as well as Australia, Peru, Costa Rica and Egypt. She was beloved by all who knew her well. Alice is survived by her daughter, Catherine, and her daughter-in-law, Jana, both of Minneapolis, as well as extended family members and good friends.
Foss, Vernon L. Age 79, of Brooklyn Park, passed away on April 7, 2020. Survived by wife, Ruby; children, Julie (Randy) Peaney and Jonathan (Vicki) Foss; 6 grandchildren; and 1 great-grand child. Memorial service to be held at a later date.
Sarratore, Sherri Lee age 58 years formerly of Niles, Michigan, died on Monday, April 13, 2020 at the University of Minnesota Medical Center. She was born on Valentine's Day, 1962 to Anthony V. and June W. (Fuller) Sarratore. She founded the Casa de Coco Conservation Project, in Barra de Pacuare, Limn, Costa Rica dedicated to conserve and protect sea turtles. She was preceded in death by her parents, June and Anthony Sarratore, and by all her aunts and uncles. Sherri is survived by her sisters, Linda Kay Sarratore of Niles and Debbie Sue Sarratore of Glide Oregon; many cousins; her beloved companion, Gaby in Barra de Pacuare. Committal of her cremated remains will be in Mission Hills, Niles, MI.
Hamann, Gerry K. of Eden Prairie, passed away April 13, 2020, following declining health after major heart surgery. Gerry was born and raised in St. Paul and celebrated his 80th birthday last September. He was preceded in death by his parents Kenneth and Helen Hamann and his second wife Sandy Hamann (nee Thiel) of Breckenridge, Minnesota. He is survived by his brother Cris (Dianne) Hamann of Eden Prairie, and sons Mike (Lara) Hamann of Evanston, Illinois, Andy (Tammy) Hamann of Paris, France, and Tim (Jessica) Hamann of Seattle, Washington. He will be missed and fondly remembered as 'Grandpa G' by his six grandchildren, including Elise, Nick, Henry, Anna, Emily and Aoife. After graduating from St. Cloud State University in 1961 with a degree in English, Gerry married his former wife, Connie Winkowski (nee Frank) of St. Cloud. They lived in Chanhassen and Rochester before settling in Eden Prairie to raise their three boys. Gerry taught English and Speech in the Centennial School District through the 1960's before starting a career in sales. He worked for Northwestern Mutual Life for several years before selling homes for local MN real estate developers Orin Thompson, Centex Homes and RMC Homes. Gerry played hockey for St. Paul Central High School, was a member of The Order of DeMolay - St. Paul Chapter and served in the Army Reserves from 1959-1965. In his retirement, Gerry enjoyed golf and boating, spending as much time as he could with family and friends. We will remember Gerry for his intelligence, sharp wit, fondness for telling jokes, hospitality, and resilience. He loved his family fiercely and will be dearly missed. A celebration of Gerry's life will be announced later this year. facebook.com/groups/ GerryHamann
Corens, Florimond 'Bob' passed away peacefully on April 13, 2020. He is survived by his wife Evelyn, son Paul Corens (Kim), daughter Andrea Wilson (Adam), and five grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at a later date at Excelsior Covenant Church.
Dennison, Charles L. Jr. Age 78 of Eagan, MN (formerly of Portland, ME) passed away April 8, 2020 at his residence surrounded by his family. He is survived by wife of 36 years, Janice Dennison, children Rhonda Hudek (Cole), Lynn Erickson (Scott), Charles Dennison III (Renee), Tonya Dennison (Tom), Arnie Dennison and Step-children Tom Peterson, Lynette Fredrickson and Larry Peterson. Brothers Leroy Dennison (Gerry) and Wayne Dennison, 24 Grandchildren, 19 Great Grandchildren and so many relatives and friends. Preceded in death by daughter Christine Dennison, step sons Rick Peterson and Terry Peterson. He was a US ARMY veteran who served in Korea, loving husband, dad, grandpa and friend. After serving his country Charlie worked as a CNC Machinist for Lull Industries in St. Paul, MN for decades and then went to work as a custodian for Cretin-Derham Hall, where he retired. He will be remembered for his hard work and huge heart for people. Due to the health and safety concerns regarding the COVID-19, a planned burial at Fort Snelling National Cemetery and memorial service will be announced later when gathering restrictions have been removed.
Lundell, Judy A. Age 72 of So. Mpls, died April 18, 2020. 31-year employee U of MN. A private family service will be held. Arr. by Lundberg Funeral Home, Cannon Falls. 
Hagen, Judith Ann Age 67, of Walker, MN passed away peacefully with her family by her side on Sunday, April 19th, 2020 at the Heritage House Care Center in Park Rapids, MN. Judy was born in Minneapolis, MN on March 23rd, 1953 to Mark and Vianna (Webinger) Hagen. Judy loved being outdoors. You could find her in her garden tending to her flowers, canoeing, or cross- country skiing and snow shoeing with her family and friends. She had a love for traveling, she and her mother Vianna traveled the world together. Judy enjoyed cooking, but she loved to bake and was always making goodies for everyone. Her smile will be forever missed. Family that Judy is reunited with are her parents, Mark and Vianna; grandparents, Walter and Anna and Horace and Isabel; aunts, Lavaun Kondrak, Rita Schultz, Hazel, Nancy and Charotte and uncles, Ed Schultz, Walter Webinger, Jr., John and Almer. She leaves behind her brother, John (Geneva) Hagen; nephew, Jamie (Casey) and their children Jordyn, Jacksen and Caeley; nephew, Jeffrey; aunts, Betty Evans, Helen Walters and Sandra Fredrikson; uncles, Lawrence, Roger and Bob, many cousins and many friends. At Judy's request, no services will be held. Memorial preferred to Hope Lutheran Church, P.O. Box 506, Walker, MN 56484 Judy's care has been entrusted to Northern Peace Funeral Home of Walker, MN. Condolences: 
Legvold, Charlotte H. Age 103 of Bloomington at home with her Lord and Savior Jesus Christ on April 6, 2020. Dearly loved and missed beyond words. Preceded in death by parents Hans Caroline Legvold; siblings William, Ole, Justus, Frances and Mildred. Survived by many loving nieces, nephews, grands, great grands; and many close friends and her life-long best friend Lorraine Stevenson. Char had worked for Russell Miller and Peavy Milling Company for many years. She played the piano and organ at church for over 50 years. Char enjoyed singing, home decorating, baking, flower arranging, camping, skiing, road trips and time with family and friends. Char was God's gracious gift to all who knew her. She will be remembered for her sweet loving nature, always content and grateful. She was wise and though quiet, was known for her one-liners. She loved God's Word and was faithful in prayer. "It is by grace you have been saved...not by works, it is the gift of God." Eph. 2: 8,9. Memorial service later when possible to gather. In lieu of flowers, memorials appreciated to Grace Church in Eden Prairie, Slavic Gospel Assoc., Prison Fellowship or Union Gospel Mission.  Werness Brothers 952-884-8145
Yenor, Delores Marie age 85 of Blaine. Passed away peacefully in her sleep on April 16, 2020. Preceded in death by her husband Lorin; son Kenny; daughter Michelle; and great-grandson Jordan. Survived by daughter Catherine; sons Butch (Pam) & Phil (Jolene); 3 grandchildren; and 6 great-grandchildren. Special thanks to friends and family, Select Care staff and residents, and Moments Hospice. Private interment Ft. Snelling. Celebration of life to be held at a later date. Twin Cities Cremation 651-645-1233
Mahowald, George was born on January 24th, 1937 in Mpls., MN & passed away on April 19th, 2020 in Mpls., MN at the age of 83. Preceded in death by grandson, Joe Mahowald and daughter-in-law, Cindy Mahowald. Survived by wife Darlene of 64 years; children, Karla of Onamia, MN, Steve of Onamia, MN, Candy (John) Willis of Tucson, AZ and Dave (Patty) of Circle Pines, MN; 8 grandchildren and 17 great grandchildren. George loved the outdoors and fishing was his favorite hobby, summer and winter. He will be truly missed, especially during our "Mahowald" taco fries. A celebration of George's life will be determined at a later date. Bradshaw 612-724-3621
Soule, Jonathan Edward Age 65, of Fridley passed away on April 16, 2020 after an extended illness. Jon was born in St. Paul and grew up in Roseville; attending school later at both St Cloud State University and the University of Minnesota. He married Cynthia Johnson in 1985 and they made a home in Fridley. He had a 22-year career as a correction officer at Stillwater Prison; and was a proud retiree member of the AFSME Council 5 Union. Jon was a man with a vast range of interests including supporting the Twins, Wild, Vikings and Gophers to raising Blue Ribbon dahlias to show at the State Fair. He traveled across the US with his wife to watch drag racing events and locally attended outdoor concerts at the Minnesota Zoo and Cedar Cultural Center. He found time to help his friends and maintain friendships with his coworkers between raising produce and being an active participant in local politics. Jon is preceded in death by his parents, Wilbur and Miriam Soule; and brother-in-law, Steven Johnson. He will be deeply missed by his wife, Cindy; brother, Robert (Barb) Soule; sister-in-law, Beverly (Dan) Nesser; nephew, Jeff Soule; niece, Kelsey Johnson; many cousins, friends, and union brethren. A special thanks to the care team at Lifesprk. Memorials can be made to the American Heart Association. MillerFuneralFridley.com
Snyder, Janet M. Age 74, formerly of Brooklyn Park passed away April 19, 2020. Preceded in death by sisters Oriet Althoff and Carol Stadsklev. Survived by husand LeRoy; daughter Kimberlee McConnell (C.B.); sons Daniel, Darrin and Kris; granddaughters Katie, Lindsay, Kjersti and Ambjor; sisters Carolyn Ellefson, Sherry Belden (David) and Wanda Strike (Dale); several nieces and nephews. Funeral service will be at a future date.  Coon Rapids Chapel 763-767-1000
Wiehle, Betty Jane Age 95, of Mpls. Passed away on April 18, 2020 of natural causes. Preceded in death by husbands, Richard Wiehle and Ernie Wiehle; daughter, Mary; son, Dennis and daughter in law, Colleen Wiehle. Survived by sons, Richard (Barb) and Greg (Jill); step children, Duane, Sharon, Diane and Dale; 11 grandchildren and 6 great grandchildren. A private family service will be held. Interment Fort Snelling National Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, memorials preferred to North Memorial Hospice Foundation. Bradshaw 612-724-3621
Specken, Carol Ann Age 80, of Hopkins, passed away on Sunday, April 19, 2020. She was preceded in death by beloved husband, Kenneth; and son Mike. Carol is survived by daughters, Vicki (Todd) Gause, Jodi (David) Brandenburger, Lori (Mitchell) Reins, and Heidi (Robert) Brandenburger; 10 grandchildren; 13 great-grandchildren; and siblings, Bonnie (John) Gannon, and John (Judy) Stadden. A private service was held for family. Interment at St. Vincent De Paul Cemetery in Osseo. Evans-Nordby 763-424-4000 
Murphy, Robert E. of Bloomington, MN., age 73, died April 17, 2020. Rob was born in Rhinelander, Wisconsin and was a graduate of the University of Minnesota where he was an active member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. He worked for many years at IBM in sales and sales management and then was part-owner of a business equipment company. Rob was an avid golfer and member at Minnesota Valley Country Club for many years. He also loved horse racing. He loved his family and friends and delighted in phoning friends on a regular basis to remind them of favorite stories. Rob is survived by his wife of 37 years, Judy and children, Melissa Olmscheid (Lee) and Robert K Murphy; step-children Telari Bohrnsen (Will) and Peter Hart. Grandchildren Nico Olmscheid, Megan Olmscheid, Nola Bohrnsen, and Alaena Bohrnsen. Family and friends will deeply miss the twinkle in his eye, his infectious humor, and the unbridled enthusiasm he brought to the things and the people he cared about. There will be no memorial service due to the COVID-19. Memorials preferred to Midwest Horse Welfare Foundation, 10990 State Hwy 73, Pittsville, WI 54466 
Haug, Bette age 93, of Crystal, formerly of Golden Valley passed away Apr. 18, 2020. The memorial service for Bette is being postponed. Details will be announced at a later date.  Robbinsdale Chapel 763-537-2333
Lindahl, Helen L. Age 97, passed away April 18, 2020. Preceded in death by parents, Frank and Nellie Lindahl; brother, Stanley of Dresser, WI; sister, Carol Lindahl. Survived by sister-in-law, Mavis Lindahl; nephew, David of Dresser, WI; niece, Mary Jo (Gary); great nephews, Eric & Ethan Spears of Mt. Horeb, WI; special friends, Ben & Sharon Garcia; many cousins & friends. Helen graduated from Osceola, WI, High School & Minneapolis Business College. She worked at Ameriprise her entire career.
Pocrnich, Patricia K. Age 86 of Minnetonka, went to Heaven on 04/18/2020. Preceded in death by husband, Michael; and parents, Martha and Joseph Rooney. She volunteered for 22 years at Sharing and Caring Hands and was a long-time member of Immaculate Heart of Mary Church in Minnetonka. Survived by sister, Ann McCormick; nieces, Patti (Dave) Tritch, Joann (Vergil) Ulrich, Susan (Kevin) Kern, Fran Madeoy; nephew, James (Patricia) Kanipes. Memorials preferred to Notre Dame Academy. A private interment will be held at Fort Snelling National Cemetery.  Edina Chapel 952-920-3996
Ralls, Gerda Anna age 94 of St. Louis Park, went to Heaven on 04/19/2020. A private family burial will be held at Ft. Snelling National Cemetery. Washburn-McReavy Edina Chapel 952-920-3996
Arneson, Donald Clifford Age, 87, long-time resident of Prior Lake passed away suddenly on April 18, 2020. Don was born on June 11, 1932 in Benson MN to Clifford and Lucille Arneson. Don's career was education. Don loved to read, write and was a published author. Don served at his church, Prior Lake Players and the Peace Corps. Don is survived by his wife Joyce Arneson and 6 children, 16 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren. Ballard-Sunder 952-447-2633 
Anderson, Judith Ann 12/12/43 - 04/12/20. My beloved wife, you're free from your suffering on earth, walk freely now. The Lord has you now, but I have you in my heart. Survived by husband, Andy; sons, Joe, Jeff and Jim LeTourneau, many brothers and sisters. Service at later date.
Stout, John Henry 91, died Saturday, April 18, 2020 at his TowerLight residence in St. Louis Park, Minnesota. He was born in 1928 in Des Moines, Iowa, the son of C. Fred and Ruth Stout. He graduated from St. Louis Park high school in 1946. He is a graduate of University of Minnesota and an army veteran. He married Norma Nash August 19, 1950 in Baudette, Minnesota. John is survived by his wife Norma Stout, his daughter Nancy (Donald) Neumann, his son Robert (Connie) Stout, his son Thomas (Christie) Stout, 8 grandchildren, and 10 great grandchildren with another one on the way. John was employed by Waseca Mutual Insurance Company. He was a member of Edina Morningside Church for 75 years where he served as head usher and on the Board of Trustees. John was an avid gardener. His display gardens were admired by many who viewed them from Browndale Park. Other features in the yard were a stilt house built by John and a raspberry patch. He was a family man with impeccable character who will be greatly missed. There are no funeral arrangements at this time.
Carlson, Richard Husband of Karen and father of Christian passed away at home April 08 from heart failure. Dick was under the care of Providence Hospice. Dick began his travel career with Northwest Airlines in 1964. He was reservation manager in several NWA cities. The last being Minneapolis 1988-92. Dick was a world traveler be it air, rail or on cruise ships. Memorial remembrance may be made to Providence Hospice, Portland OR.
Duepner, Beverly Arlene Age 86 of Crystal, passed away peacefully in her home surrounded by family on April 19, 2020. She will be forever loved by her children: daughter, Lynn (Ben) Michel; sons, Steve (Sue), Greg (Kimberley), and Dan (Brenda); grandchildren, Jerome, Kyle, Justin, Jason, Kelsey, Edie, Matthew, Ella, and Evan; 3 great-grandchildren; sister, Dorothy; and brother, David. She enjoyed spending time with her friends at the YMCA and the VIP Extension Club. Beverley was preceded in death by her loving husband of 65 years, Edward C. Duepner Jr.; brother, Baird; and sister, Donna. Due to the circumstances surrounding the coronavirus pandemic, a private graveside ceremony will take place at Glen Haven Cemetery.  Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Lawson, William J. Age 84, passed away peacefully April 19. Bill grew up in NE Mpls, graduated from McDonell High School in Chippewa Falls (WI) and returned to NE Mpls. Bill was an Air Force Veteran, St. Thomas Univ. graduate, English teacher, writer, and coach, worked at the Mpls. Park Board and USPS-BMC. Bill loved music, sports and reading. Bill cherished his faith, family and friends. He was passionate about his grandchildren's interests and activities. Preceded in death by parents, William and Ann, brothers, Todd and Tom, and son, Mark. Survived by sons, Steven (Tamara), David (Valerie), John (Robin) and Robert (Barbara), grandchildren Chris, Nick, Justin, Rebecca, Matthew, Tony, Ian, Will, Joey and Benny; siblings, Sr. Jackie, Jeri Pitra, Janice (Lee) Donais, Jim (Rose), Mary Michele, and sister-in-law Rose Lawson, and many nieces, nephews and friends. Private service held at Our Lady of Lourdes Church where Bill was a long-time parishioner. A celebration of his life will be held at a later date. Memorials may be made to Food for the Poor, Inc., Our Lady of Peace Hospice Home and ProLife Across America.
Klopp, Margaret Joan Age 87, of Minneapolis, passed away peacefully April 20, 2020. Joanie was a Public Health Nurse for Hennepin and Ramsey Counties for over 25 years. She was a longtime member of the Southside Singers, an active member at St. Albert the Great Catholic Church and was an avid doll and bear collector. A memorial service will be held at a later date. A complete notice will follow. Bradshaw 612-724-3621 
Mars, Marlene R. (Canfield) Age 78, of Crystal, MN passed away on April 14, 2020. Preceded in death by her husband of 50 years, James T. Mars, parents Stewart & Alice Canfield, Brother Merlin Canfield and Grandson Jacob Mars. Marlene is survived by her children Duane (Lisa) Mars, Dawn (Jim) Stroschein and Doug (Melissa) Mars; 9 Grandchildren, Joshua (Chelsea), Jesse (Tanya), Chris (Cari), Jenna (Eric), Tommie (Lauren), Natasha (Sidney), Alicia (Chad), Lindsey (Daniel) and Travis; 19 Great-Grandchildren Esme, Calliope, Parker, Payton, Skyler, Noah, Maaliyah, Aurora, Laniah, Tommiah, Mateo, Aaron, Alaina, Charlie, Shawn, Alex, Adrian, Tommy and Mckenzie. Marlene graduated in 1958 from Patrick Henry High School in Minneapolis, MN. She was part of her Class Reunion Committee for many years. She enjoyed keeping in touch with many of her former classmates. Marlene lived her life faithful to God. She served as church treasurer, she was involved in Motion Choir, Chancel Choir, Loaves and Fishes, Feed My Starving Children and many other volunteer opportunities through her church. Marlene retired from J.C. Penney's after 25 years of service. She loved to sew, knit & crochet, garden and music. She was especially enjoyed listening to Barber Shop music. She will be remembered for her kind heart, generosity, and bright smile. She had unwavering strength and determination during her 26-year battle with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Marlene's most cherished times were spent with family, church friends, J.C. Penney gals, and her life-long friends, Steve, Sally, Kay and Bob. She will be missed tremendously! "Forever with the Angels, always in our hearts!" In lieu of flowers or memorials, you may donate in honor of Marlene to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society or the American Cancer Society. Due to the COVID 19 virus, a Celebration of Life will be held at a later date.  Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Dale, Christopher Frank Oct. 7, 1959 - April 17, 2020 "If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away." Henry David Thoreau Christopher died at his home in Orono MN. of natural causes on Friday, April 17. He graduated from Orono High School where he played hockey, as well as trumpet in the concert band. A skilled auto body technician, he worked most of his career at Charlie's Auto Body in Long Lake, MN. Chris loved his dogs and cats, rock bands (especially RUSH), his riding mower, his back woods, Lake Superior, skiing at Lutsen, Swedish meatballs, reading James Lee Burke, and solitude. He was preceded in death by his grandparents and his brother, Jonathan. He is survived by his parents, Michael and Marcia Dale, his beloved cousins, his aunt and uncle, John and Marilyn Dale, and his niece and nephew, Maggie and Adrian Dale. Services are postponed, pending the status of the corona virus pandemic. Memorials may be directed to UnderdogRescuemn.com, secondhandhounds.org, or the charity of your choice. David Lee Funeral Home Wayzata 952-473-5577 
Meyers, Harriett "Sue" June 25, 1934 - April 20, 2020. Preceded in death by husband, David J. Meyers; parents, William and Claire Wolkoff. Sue is survived by her brother, Stan; 3 sons, Jon (Denise), Joe (Tina), and Bill (Beth Wischman); grandchildren James (Beth), Tamara Draeger (Jared), Shaina, Sheila Brown (Clarence), Stacy Tonniges (Dave); 10 great- grandchildren, nieces, and nephews. PRIVATE BURIAL at Temple Israel Cemetery. Memorials to David J and Sue Meyers Jewish Youth Experience Fund at Temple Israel or David J and Sue Meyers Jewish Experience Scholarship Endowment Fund at the Jewish Federation of Omaha Foundation. John A. Gentleman Mortuaries and Crematory Pacific Street Chapel, 14151 Pacific Street 402-391-1664 
Blood, David E. 85 of Victoria, MN passed away of illness April 11, 2020 at Birches at Trillium Woods of Plymouth. David was preceded in death by his beloved wife of 65 yrs Betty Lou Blood; son Michael; parents Andrew and Uldeen Blood. Graduating Mpls Southwest 1952, he proudly went on to serve as a police officer and detective for the City of Edina 1958-1990. David is survived by his loving family; daughter and son-in-law Robyn and Patrick O'Brien of Verona, Kentucky; son and daughter-in- law Jonathan and Jennifer Blood of Minnetrista; grandchildren Erin Blood-Hunt and husband David, Benjamin Blood, Molly Blood, Michael O'Brien, Kelly O'Brien, Grace Blood, Nicholas Blood; great grandchildren James and Andrew Hunt; brother & sister-in-law Robert and Mary Blood of Brooklyn Park; nieces, nephews, other relatives and friends. In lieu of flowers, memorials preferred to Holy Family Catholic High School in Victoria. Memorial services will be planned at a later date at Colonial Church of Edina with burial at Eden Prairie Cemetery. Condolences: 
Goulette, David R. Age 83. Lifelong Resident of Bayport, passed away April 19, 2020 from complications of COVID-19. A private family Graveside Service will be held at Hazelwood Cemetery, Bayport. A service to celebrate his life will be announced when we are able to safely gather again. Memorials may be directed to the Music Ministry of Trinity Lutheran Church, Stillwater. Sandberg Family F.H. 651-777-2600 sandbergfuneralhome.com
Arbogast, Joyce M. 69. Survived by children, Jacob (Marie) Schulz, Rebecca (Jay) Wright; grandchildren Douglas, Kristopher, Thomas, Ryan, Hazel; sister, Lynn; special friend Darcy Sthilaire. Life celebration later.
Blumb, Dennis W. Age 83 of Robbinsdale, passed away April 19, 2020. Survived by loving wife, Mary (Esther); children, Scott (Terri), Todd, Tim (Jolene), Jennifer (David) Miller, Vicki, Randy (Miria) and Joe; 16 grandchildren; 26 great grandchildren; one great great grandchild; brother, Doug Blumb; sister-in-law, Carole Anderson; other relatives and friends. A special thank you to the North Memorial Hospice Nurses. Memorial service at a later date. Memorials to the MS Society. Gearty-Delmore 763-537-4511
Walz, Reta Age 70, of Big Lake, formerly of Elk River, passed away peacefully on April 20, 2020. Preceded in death by husband, Robert "Bucky"; parents, Alfred and Helen Maslonkowski; siblings, Bernie, Dolores. She will be missed by her children, Lisa (Doug) Blomquist, Todd (Elaine), and Chad; grandchildren, David, Tanya, Jenna, James, Mark, Tom, and Tim; 7 great-grandchildren; siblings, Joanie, Jeanne, Mary, Donald; sister-in-law, Diane and extended family and good friends. Service details will follow.
Benjamin, Robert Bedell Robert "Bob" Benjamin died April 15, 2020, in sunny San Diego, under the loving care of his daughters and hospice. He escaped the Corona-virus but died from compli-cations of a broken hip. Robert was born on July 4, 1924 and grew up in Pipestone Minnesota as the eldest child of Walter G. and Mabel Benjamin. He contracted and survived Polio, weathered the great Depression, and developed a life-long love of hard work and learning. At Hamline University in St. Paul, Minnesota, he earned a BA. His years there were interrupted by World War II. He became a Navy pilot and navigator and flew in the Pacific. Bob returned from service and married Betty Mae Waidelich on June 7, 1947. Betty supported the young couple while Robert attended medical school at University of Minnesota. They moved to Oregon for his Residency. After returning to Minnesota, Robert joined a small group practice, the St. Louis Park Medical Center. Over the course of his career he contributed to its expansion into a large health care provider. He mentored many young doctors, taught surgery at the University of Minnesota, authored books on surgery, and served on the board of the clinic. He believed that family planning was a basic right and became an expert in vasectomy surgery. He offered Thursday evening procedures so men could easily recover missing only one day of work. Along with their activism, Bob and Betty shared a zest for life. Bob built a wilderness cabin on the shore of Lake Superior. Later the isolated retreat was traded for a cabin on Madeline Island. Bob served on the Wilderness Preserve board there, as well as pursuing gardening, photography, chess, tennis, hiking and boating. Their love of travel took them around the globe. Many road trips included visits to friends and family. After Betty died, Bob married Cathy Coult. She shared his love of books, music, and travel until dementia overwhelmed her. Bob is survived by four siblings (Walter [& Majorie] Benjamin, Martha [& Willis] Unke, Roger [& Nancy] Benjamin, and Mary Louise [& Dale] Bowen), three children (Scott [& Ruth] Benjamin, Diane [& Matt] Uren, Laura [& Scott] Kopperud, eight grandchildren, and 12 great grandchildren, all of whom will miss his terrible jokes, great generosity, and wise advice. Service to be determined. Donations may be made to Madeline Island Wilderness Preserve (PO Box 28, La Pointe, WI 54850) or Planned Parenthood ().
Shaw, Alvin 79 of Minneapolis. Passed away Saturday, 04/18/20. Survived by his sister Ella and niece Kimberly.  Edina Chapel 952-920-3996
Hyde, Richard L. Age 85 of Cottage Grove, passed away April 21, 2020. Rich is survived by his wife of 59 years Joanne; sons Darrell (Leanne) and David (Roxanne); grandchildren Jenna, Allyssa, Nathan and Josh; brother Bob and brother-in-law Jon Lundin. A private family service will be held at St. Luke with interment at Ft. Snelling at a later date. Memorials may be directed to St. Luke Lutheran Church, The Disabled American Veteran's or to the donor's choice. kokfuneral.com
Roath (Eickstadt), Claire Mae Age 85, of St. Michael passed away peacefully on Saturday, April 18, 2020 at The Legacy of St. Michael, from natural causes related to Alzheimer's. She was born on May 21, 1934 in Mahnomen, Minnesota the daughter of Fred and Mary (Saice) Eickstadt. Claire worked at Mercy Hospital in Admitting before moving to The City of Anoka where she was a Utilities Billing Representative for over twenty years. In addition to her work she also enjoyed volunteering in classrooms, being band mom for Marching Band, and heavily involved in church activities at St. Stephens Catholic Church in Anoka. Bingo was her favorite pastime! There wasn't a weekend that went by that she didn't jump on the bingo bus to Mystic Lake. She also enjoyed crocheting, word puzzles, walking and spending time with her grandchildren. Claire is survived by her children Dawn Roath, Owen Roath, Shirley Cushman and Jackie (Dave) Earls; grandchildren Missy Spencer, Natalie Roath, Jeremy Roath, DJ Earls, Derek Earls, Jake Montague, Breanna Winkelman, Ashley Cushman, Parker Cushman; many great grandchildren (Brayden, Haylee, Elian, Thea, Riley, Max, Aliyah, and future baby girl Earls); a brother Clifford "Shorty" Eickstadt; and many other relatives and friends. Preceded in death by her husband Owen Roath, a granddaughter Brittnie Montague, her parents and 9 brothers and sisters. Due to COVID-19, a private graveside service will be held at a later date at Fort Snelling National Cemetery. We would like to thank St. Croix Hospice and The Legacy of St. Michael for the loving care provided to her during her Alzheimer's journey. Serving the family The Peterson Chapel St. Michael-Albertville Funeral Home 763-497-5362 
Johnson, Matthew Kim Age 43 of Hopkins, MN, passed away April 20, 2020 of a motorcycle accident. Survived by parents Gary and Kuncha, sister Jennifer Noetzli, her husband Christoph Noetzli, aunt Sandra Johnson and cousins Tracy White and Cami Johnson. Private service at Washburn-McReavy Dawn Valley Funeral Chapel 04/24/20
Kaderlik, Leonard Thomas 85, of Bloomington, passed away April 20, 2020. Preceded in death by parents, Helen and Thomas Kaderlik; sister, Lillian and brother, Richard. Survived by loving wife and best friend, Judy; brother, Marvin (Judy) Kaderlik; sisters, Patricia Kaderlik and Sharon Rasmussen; many in-laws and nieces and nephews. Many thanks to the compassionate nursing staff at Fairview Southdale Hospital as well as his caring doctors. Services will be scheduled for later, with burial at Ft. Snelling.
Bergquist, Donna Mae Age 80 of New Brighton, passed away peacefully April 16, 2020, at Johanna Shores of Arden Hills after bravely living with Parkinson's Disease and then devastating Lewy Body Dementia. Born in Two Harbors, MN, August 19, 1939, 100% Swedish and very proud of it. Preceded in death by father Ruben Erickson, mother Olga, husband Jerry, sister Jeanne Olsen. Survived by brother George Erickson; beloved daughters, Tammy Wiggen and Terry & Monte Marquis; much loved grandsons Reed & Katie Wiggen, Macklin Marquis, Cole & Talia Wiggen, Dillon Marquis & fiancee Cierra; very special nieces Renell Volz and Beth Doce; Godson Chris Olsen; many dear family members, friends and former co- workers. Sincere and grateful thank you to so many very special people for their outstanding care at Presbyterian Homes - Johanna Shores and Optage Hospice. No service due to Coronavirus. Rest in peace dear Mom, you will be sadly missed and lovingly remembered.  Hillside Chapel 612-781-1999
Ballentine (Holzinger), Janice L. Age 66, formerly of Columbia Heights, passed away April 20, 2020. Preceded in death by husband, Richard. Survived by daughters, Michelle and Joni (Mark); son, Michael; grandchildren, Ashley, Josh, Justin, Vanessa, Marissa; mother, Louella Holzinger, who passed away April 22, 2020; aunt, Beverly White. Private service with burial in Kenyon, MN.  Northeast Chapel 612-781-6828
Rocheleau, Marie Helen (nee Heck) born January 15, 1929 in Northfield, MN, died peacefully, April 20, 2020. She was preceded in death by her husband of 54 years, Merle A. Rocheleau, parents, Joseph and Frances Heck, 2 infant sons and grandson, Douglas. She is survived by her children, Mark (Julie) Rocheleau, Gary (Rebecca Jacobson) Rocheleau, Carol (William J.) Sweasy, Ellen Hinds, Mary (Gregg Curry) Tracy, Jennifer (Pete) Kolias; grandchildren, Justin (Kelly) Rocheleau, Daniel Rocheleau, Joelle Rocheleau, Jessica Rocheleau, Gina (Jerome Migut, Jr.) Rocheleau, Bridgett (Doug) Mayeux, William P. (Jolene) Sweasy, Allison (Adam) Gettings, Stephen (Tito Prieto) Hinds, Marissa Galan, Joseph Hinds, James (Jessica Johnson) Hinds, Andrew Gutierrez, Catherine (Brian) Abshier, Lauren Tracy and 21 great-grandchildren. Marie grew up in the North Minneapolis area, graduated from North High School, lived near Osseo, MN and was active in St. Vincent de Paul Catholic parish for many years. Marie lived in Texas from 1979 moving back to MN in 2003. Marie worked many jobs during her life, though homemaking and raising her children was her main career. She is best remembered for her love of laughter and singing and hugging her many children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. A Celebration of Life will be planned later, dependent upon Coronavirus restrictions.
Knight, Kimiko H. age 88 of Plymouth. Funeral service pending. Washburn-McReavy Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Koerner, Frederick "Fritz" Passed away at St. Therese of New Hope on April 20, 2020 at the age of 86 due to complications from Covid-19. He was born November 30, 1933 in Grand Rapids, MN to George and Bernice Koerner. Fritz attended school and grew up in Bovey until his family's move to Litchfield where Fritz graduated high school. He then joined the Navy. While serving in the military he married his high school sweetheart, Jeanne (Carlson) Koerner and they were married for 66 years. Upon discharge, Fritz attended school at the University of MN while working for Honeywell in Minneapolis. Honeywell sent him all over the world working in the aeronautics division (and for many years on the SR71 Blackbird), raising his family and traveling. After retirement, Fritz moved up to his lake home in Bovey for 25 yrs, then out to Laughlin, NV for 4 yrs. Most recently he moved to the Minneapolis area to be near his family. St Therese of New Hope was his final resting place. Fritz is preceded in death by his parents, George and Bernice. He is survived by his wife, Jeanne; son, Mark (Kim), daughters, Kathy (Scott) Bennethum, Kandice (Michael) Bennett; brother-in-law, Roy (Maureen) Carlson; cousin, Jack Lavalier; special lifelong friends, John Ryan and Randy Schendel; 11 grandchildren and 12 great-grand-children. A special thank you to the Veteran's Affairs of Minneapolis, the North Memorial Hospice team, and the St. Therese of New Hope staff. A graveside Celebration of Life will take place in Litchfield, MN at a later date.
Shobe, Mary Lou (Kemple) A long-time resident of Maple Grove, MN passed away on April 19th, 2020 in Orlando, FL. Mary Lou was born to Louis and Inez Kemple in 1931 at her parent's home in Spring Valley, MN. After completing her nursing education at Glenwood Hills Hospital in Golden Valley, MN she worked as a psychiatric nurse. In 1952 Mary Lou married Ronald Shobe and worked with him as a partner in both their life and business ventures. The Shobes sold their business in 1984 and retired, spending much of their time in Fort Myers, Florida where they enjoyed an extensive social network. A highly active member in her community, Mary Lou was a charter member of St. Gerard's Parish, and a member of the Board of Directors at both Community Emergency Assistance Program (CEAP) and North Hennepin Community College. Mary Lou loved being with her many, many friends. A good cup of coffee, dinner, or a round of golf were always good reasons to socialize! She is proceeded in death by her husband Ronald, and survived by her children Scott Shobe, Carol Turner, and Mark Shobe (Jane). Mary Lou is also survived by her grandchildren Bradley Turner (Jenn), Stephanie Shobe McKinley (Ryan), Samantha Shobe, Patrick Shobe, and great grandchild Grayson Turner. Her grandchildren and great grandson brought her tremendous joy in her later years. A remembrance and celebration of life will be held at a later date. Evans-Nordby 763-424-4000 
Alfson, LeAnn J. age 57 of Ham Lake, passed away April 18, 2020. Due to health and safety concerns regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, the Memorial Service for LeAnn is being postponed. Details will be announced later. Thurston-DeShaw Funeral Home Andover 763-767-7373 
Nielsen (McCabe), Anna M. Age 89, Of Burnsville.Survived by children, Cindy (Michael) Vance, Tess Newell (Tom Moreland), Jim (Marlene) Nielsen; 8 grandchildren; 9 great-grandchildren; cousin, Janet Briggs; sister-in- law, Yvonne McCabe; and numerous family and friends. Preceded by husband, Paul; son, Joe; brother, James McCabe; and parents, Thomas and Marie. Public Mass and Memorial service to be held at a later date. Interment St. John the Baptist Cemetery, Burnsville. Memorials preferred to American Lung Association and St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital. McNearney-Schmidt Funeral Home Shakopee 952-445-2755 
Dirnberger, John F. "Jack" 90, of Big Lake Minnesota, passed away at home surrounded by his family on Friday, March 20, 2020. Jack was born in Underwood Township, Redwood County on Christmas Day, 1929. He met his future wife, Doris Omtvedt, at the Echo State Bank and they married in 1955. Jack and Doris were blessed with four children. Preceding Jack in death were his parents, Jack and Erna, siblings, Mary Eggerling and James (Jimmy), grandson, Brandon and great-grandson, Jaden. He is survived by his wife, Doris, daughters, Rebekkah, Sandra (m. Charles Wagner), and Nichol (m. Norman Ginther), and son, Timothy, five grandchildren and ten great-grandchildren. As an Elder of Riverside Alliance Church, he was often found greeting members on Sunday morning. He was a mentor to many, including the members of his bible study group. He traveled seven times to Kerch, Ukraine to serve at the Hope Center through Global Action. The orphans affectionately referred to him as "Jack who killed crocodile". He loved bringing ice cream treats to all at the camp. Jack enjoyed gardening, yard work, and especially trimming trees. He and Doris enjoyed building and furnishing dollhouses for their granddaughters. He enjoyed hunting deer, bear, turkey, elk, and even alligators. Jack was an avid trapper of snapping turtles. He continued to drive for West Metro until three weeks before his death. He will be missed by many and deeply by his family and his friends. A celebration of life will be planned for summer.
Gothberg, Kenneth James died unexpectedly on April 3 of heart-related issues at his home in Buffalo, MN. He was 71. Ken, a 1966 National Merit Scholar graduate of Central High School in Grand Forks, North Dakota, went on to earn an engineering degree from the University of North Dakota in Grand Forks. His engineering career included service with Potlatch in Cloquet, MN, and the 3M and Imation Companies in the Twin Cities. A long-time resident of St. Louis Park, Ken was very involved in civic activities including service on the City's Charter Commission and Planning Commission. In addition, he received the Minnehaha Creek Watershed District Citizen Engagement Award in 2013 for his outstanding efforts to keep the Creek clean and accessible. He was preceded in death by his parents Johnny and Florence, and his brothers- in-law, Kacey Beck and Tracy Johnson. He is survived by Bridget (Beck) his wife of 45 years; his brother, Gary of Colorado and sisters, Marilyn Johnson and Carol Nelson of North Dakota, and many nieces and nephews. A formal memorial service will be held in the fall. 
Green, Edith Lou Age 84, of Brooklyn Center, passed away April 19, 2020. She was born Aug. 6, 1935 in Billerica, MA to Eric & Polly Wilton. After high school she enlisted in the Air Force for 4 years, met and married Edmond Green Jr. Edy will be sadly missed by her children: son, Greg (Vy); daughters, Helene Redden and Michelle Long; 7 grandchildren, 1 great-grandchild and many other relatives and good friends. A Memorial Mass will be scheduled when travel and assembly becomes safer for family and friends.
Johnson, Amanda Lee age 29 of Grand Rapids MN, passed away suddenly on April 17, 2020. Preceded in death by grandparents, Robert Johnson, Jane Nelson & aunt Tracy Johnson. Survived by fiance, Derrick White and his mother, Carla; children, Jadah, Malikai and Dominick; mother, Tracy Johnson (Jamie); father, Kevin (Sue) Johnson; brother, Dylan Johnson; sister, Gabby Johnson; grandfather, Jim "Papa" Nelson; grandmother, Rosanna Johnson; aunts, uncles, cousins and many other family and friends. A celebration of life service will take place at a later date. Interment Union Cemetery, Mound. In lieu of flowers, memorials preferred to the family c/o Huber Funeral Home, 1801 Commerce Blvd, Mound, MN 55364. Huber Funeral & Cremation Services Mound Chapel 952-472-1716 
Fischer, Luvern E. "Vern" Age 90 of New Hope, formerly Mounds View and Spring Lake Park. Passed away April 19, 2020. Luvern was born on Dec. 3, 1929, in Mount Carmel, ND. He served in the Navy during the Korean War and worked for IBM for 30 years. Preceded in death by wife, Janette; his parents; seven brothers and one sister; son-in-law Richard Lambert. Survived by children, Catherine (Vince) Bendanillo, Joyce Lambert, Donna, Gail (Joe) Eliason, Sandy (Rick) Buchman, MaryJo (David) Gurney, Jim (Michele); grandchildren, Brendan, Patrick (Iza), Nicholas (Brittany), Alyssa (Dan), Madalyn, Karina, Alaina and Samantha; great-grandchildren, Logan, Rori, Parker, Quinn and Asher; 4 brothers and many family and friends. Due to Covid 19 there will be a Celebration of Life at a later date. In lieu of flowers memorials preferred to the St. Therese Foundation, St. Therese of New Hope, 8000 Bass Lake Rd., New Hope, MN Private interment Greenwood Cemetery, Tower City, ND
Sebek, Betsy Anna Born: July 4, 1931, Died: April 18, 2020. Memorial service and burial at a later date.
Gaskill, Rex William passed peacefully on April 10, 2020. Born in Kansas, Rex was a long-time resident of Minneapolis, MN. Born 12-21-1942, Rex was raised by his grandparents, graduated from Hutchinson High (KS), an AA Hutchinson CC, a BA in Communication from Fort Hays State, a MA in Communication from U Nebraska Lincoln and additional coursework from Harvard and the U of Minnesota. Rex taught at several colleges ultimately beginning a long career at Normandale CC in 1973 where he taught Speech Communication and was Director of Forensics and served as faculty association president. He also served as Dean of Liberal Arts and Dean of Business. Rex was active in numerous state and national organizations in Speech and Forensics receiving countless prestigious awards and service recognition. A lifetime patron of the arts, Rex also served as a volunteer for the Normandale Foundation, MSP Airport Commission, First Universalist Church & St. John's Episcopal and on countless committees for MN Higher education. Survived by husband Paul Strandberg, brothers, nieces and nephews, devoted colleagues and fieldsmen's life will be celebrated at a later date. Memorials may be sent to the Normandale CC Foundation.
Anderson, Warren Richard Age 85 of Apple Valley passed away on April 08, 2020. Preceded in death by parents, Wilbert Anderson and Sophia Hjemeland; first wife, Jacqueline Pamlby; 4 siblings; and daughter, Bilinda Holtz bauer. Survived by loving wife, Janice Dodge Anderson; daughter, Cristy Blom; sons-in-law, Mark Blom and Terry Holtzbauer; grandchildren, Shane Blom, Aleesha Blom, David Radunz, Justin Holtzbauer and Katrease Holtzbauer; and 11 great-grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date at Church of the Risen Savior in Burnsville, MN. Condolences: 
Sunde, Milton "Milt" John Age 78, died April 22, 2020 in Bloomington, MN surrounded by family after a courageous battle with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Milt was born February 1, 1942 in Minneapolis and is preceded in death by parents George and Marie Sunde and brother Gerald. He is survived by his loving wife of 54 years Barbara Sunde, his brother Edward, children Jennifer (Neil) Craigan, Katy Sunde, Molly (Andrew) Polding, Amy (Kase) Macosko, and eight grandchildren who adored him. Milt was a big guy with an even bigger heart; he was the one you wanted on your team. After serving as captain of the University of MN football team, highlighted by a 1962 Rose Bowl win, he joined the Minnesota Vikings (1964-75) appearing in two Super Bowls and one Pro Bowl. In 1974, he received the 'YMCA-Brian Piccolo Award' and the 'MN Ten Outstanding Young Men Award', both in recognition of humanitarian service and commitment to bettering one's community. Throughout his life, Milt was involved with many impactful organizations including Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Hope Presbyterian Church, IFI Prison Ministries, Walk for Mankind, Wheels for the World, Street Hoops and Roundball Classic Summer Camp (founder). As a man of great faith, he also initiated a lakeside Sunday worship service in Amery, WI, where his family has enjoyed a summer cabin for over 40 years. Professionally, Milt founded two successful sports-related companies and passionately coached several girls high school basketball teams. Milt was genuine, humble, hard working and loving. He had the ability to quickly connect with others and brighten any room with a joke and a smile. While we will no longer hear his jokes or see his smile, we know Heaven is brighter and stronger today! A private burial service will be held at Dawn Valley Cemetery in Bloomington, MN and a Celebration of Life service will be held at a later date, details to come. In lieu of flowers, Milt's family asks for donations to be made to Minnesota Fellowship of Christian Athletes, 
Hoskins, Alfred Age 83, passed away at home, with his family by his side, on April 17, 2020. A celebration of life service will be held once current restrictions are lifted. Emblom Brenny Funeral Home of Little Falls is assisting the family. Alfred worked at Twin City Milk Assoc. He finished his career at the Orono School District as Facilities Manager. He is survived by his wife Patricia; daughters, Mona (Jay Behrens), and Melinda; grandsons and great grandson. Condolences: 
Jack, Suzanne R. of Pisgah Forest, NC passed away Friday, April 17, 2020. She was born in Binghamton, NY on February 2, 1938 to the late Paul Alfred Robert and Elsie Winans Robert. She married John Milton Jack on December 21 1957, thus beginning a 63 year odyssey that led to 17 homes in nine states, before settling in the mountains of western North Carolina. Suzy retired from a successful 25 year Real Estate career in Minnesota in 2005. She is the mother of three children; John H. Jack (Susan) of Midlothian, VA., Catherine Clary (Michael) of Pisgah Forest, N.C., and Andrew R. Jack of Hendersonville, NC.. She is grandmother of eleven cherished grandchildren and two great grandchildren. One brother, Daniel Robert, of Skaneateles, NY, survives her. Private services will be held at a later date. Condolence:  Moore-Blanchard Funerals & Cremations are caring for the family.
Johnson, Raymond C. "Ray, Zo" Age 92 of North Mpls, died April 21, 2020. He was a WWII veteran who joined the Marines at age 17 and served in China, and he was a retired mail carrier. His thunderous laugh would light up a room and his favorite place was the cabin on Limestone Lake. Preceded in death by parents Raymond and Laura, wife Elayne, and daughter-in-law Sheryl. Survived by brother, Clifford 'Buster' Johnson; children, Sandra (Joe) Noard, Brad, Marlo (Sandy); grandchildren, Brandon (Dallas), Tony, Andrea (Ryan), Jessica, Mitch, and TJ; great grandchildren Micah, Aurora, Ava, Darren, and Brooke. Memorials preferred to St Therese Oxbow Lake. A memorial service will be announced later when gathering restrictions are removed.  Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Johnson, Edward G. Longtime resident of Richfield, passed away on April 20, 2020 at the age of 99. He was preceded in death by his wife, Bernice. Ed was a World War II veteran who served in both the European and Pacific Theaters. Following his graduation from the University of Minnesota, Ed served as a captain in the Air Force. Dr. Johnson had a dental practice in South Minneapolis for three decades before retiring in 1985. He is survived by his daughters, Vicky (Joe) Swedenburg and Lory (David) Westlin; four grandchildren, Jaina Shaw, Jacob Westlin, Marcus Lewis, and Joseph Westlin; and two great- grandchildren. Thank you to the staff of St. Therese Home in New Hope for their kindness and excellent care. Ed was buried in a small private ceremony at Pleasant View Memorial Gardens, Burnsville.  Bloomington, MN 952-888-7771
Johnson, Arlouine "Arlo" 83, of Bloomington, formerly of Worthington, went to be with her Heavenly Father and Lord Jesus Christ on April 20, 2020. Memorial service at a later date due to COVID-19 restrictions. Arlouine was a good and faithful servant of her Lord, and an inspiration to many with her heartfelt devotionals she shared on social media. Arlo was a member of Oxboro Evangelical Free Church. She was a gifted poet and writer and her annual Christmas letter was anticipated by many friends and family. Arlo had an immense capacity to give love and was always ready to greet you with a big smile. Arlo enjoyed watching the birds and squirrels in her backyard and always made sure they were fed. Arlouine leaves behind her children Mark (Ada) Lupkes, Tim (Bev) Lupkes, Karla Olson and Dan Lupkes; grandchildren Lee (Danielle), Gregory (Khrys), Alan (Kayla), Bryan (Katie), Dan (Tanya) and Gerardo; great grandchildren Penny and Charlotte; daughter-in-law Joan Lupkes; brother Dennis (Cheryl) Uphoff; sister-in-law Barb Uphoff; and many additional family members and a host of dear friends. Arlouine will be reunited in Heaven with her beloved son, Philip Lupkes; her parents William Sr. and Irene Uphoff; brothers William Uphoff Jr. and Delmar Uphoff and Olen Lupkes. Cards of condolences can be sent to:  Werness Brothers 952-884-8145 2300 W. Old Shakopee Rd. Bloomington, MN 55431
Ford, Beryle Our beloved father, Beryle Ford, passed away on Monday, April 13th, 2020 at the age of 96. Dad is survived by brother Glenn Ford, children: Richard Steger, Alane Turley, Gwen Voegtle, (Gary) Crystal Ford, many grandchildren, great grandchildren, great-great grandchildren, nieces and nephews. Preceded in death are his parents, George Belden Ford, mother Florence Isabell (nee Slemmon), siblings Brydene Brant (Roger), Delores Langton (Rod), Marion Wilson (Lester), Charlotte Orr (Ralph), Roland Ford (Rose), Allan Ford, daughter-in-law Connie Steger, and son-in-law Connie Turley. Dad was born 09/16/1923 in Dryden, Canada. He grew up in the Hinckley area and graduated from Hinckley High School. Dad lived in south Minneapolis while working for the U.S. Post Office downtown. He retired in the 1970's and enjoyed hunting, fishing, and going to casinos. Because of CO-VID 19 restrictions we are unable to have a service yet. Interment and graveside service are planned in the future at Ft. Snelling. 
King, William Abbott Died of natural causes at the age of 101 in Saint Paul, MN. Bill is predeceased by his wife of 55 years, Patricia O'Donnell King. He is survived by his children, Janet King; Martha King; Will King (Lisa); and John King; and grandchildren Benjamin Faltesek; Elizabeth King; Alexandra King-Dale (Matthew Dale); Natalie King (Max Hohlen); Nora King; and Elmo King, and great granddaughter Annette Hohlen. Bill was born in Minneapolis to Lyndon M. King and Helen Abbott King. He attended Blake School in Hopkins, MN, and St Mark's School in Southborough, MA, where he was a star baseball pitcher. He attended Yale University before joining the U.S. Navy during World War II, serving as a pilot and navigator. His flight crew made a forced landing in Russia, where they were interned for 9 months. Bill worked for Northrup, King & Co., the family seed business, in the field and as secretary and then treasurer. He married Pat in 1947. Bill retired early to return to his love of geology. He studied at the University of Minnesota and prospected for gold in Idaho and Montana. Bill also served on the boards of Abbott Northwestern Hospital, MacPhail Center for Music, Washburn Center for Children, and Lakewood Cemetery. Bill is the great-grandson of William S. King, newspaper journalist, Congressman, and promoter of Minneapolis city parks. He is the grandson of Dr. Amos Abbott, who founded Abbott Hospital, now Abbott Northwestern. Throughout his life, Bill was an avid athlete, playing baseball, tennis, and golf; a voracious reader of Western novels and scientific magazines; famously, he loved chocolate ice cream. Burial will be by private interment at Lakewood Cemetery. A memorial service will be planned for a later date.
Wirz, Suzanne M. Age 81, 0f Nowthen. Passed away on April 21, 2020. She is preceded in death by her husband, Bob; parents, Robert & Elsie Thomas; sister, Carolyn Stewart. Suzanne is survived by her children, Pamela (Dave) Beckman, Peggy (Jerry) Armstrong, Steve (Renee) Wirz, Patty Wirz and Randy (Nichole) Wirz; grandchildren, Ben, Ross (Janna), Rachel, Mandy (Cory), Andrew, Nick and Zoey; 3 great-grandchildren; siblings, Jackie Kennen, Bob (Pam) Thomas, Jerry (Ceil) Thomas, Bill (Diane) Thomas, George Thomas, Judy Ross, Tom (Lisa) Thomas, Mike Thomas; other family and friends. Services for Suzanne will be at a later date. Dare's Funeral Home 763-441-1212 
Terry, Dean Eugene Dean Terry, age 84, passed away peacefully in Minneapolis, Minnesota on April 16th, 2020. He will be missed by his wife, Victoria Terry, his daughter, Lesley Terry, grandson, Jesse Terry, sister, Sharon Ness, and his friend, Carol Novochis. He was preceded in death by his first wife and mother of Lesley, Mavis (Gardner) Terry, his parents, Lois and James Terry, and his siblings, Delain, Judy, and Colette (Donald). Born in Clear Lake, Iowa and raised in Hayfield, Minnesota, he graduated from Hayfield High School. Dean served in the Air Force, stationed in Gloucester, England. After returning, Dean graduated from Macalester with a degree in business. Dean was a prominent businessman owning many companies in the food industry, including Lyon Food Products, Terry Mushroom Farms, and Romanoff Foods. He spent many years developing a method to grow morel mushrooms as Early Morning Farms. He was a member of Young President's Organization and World President's Organization. In 1992 Dean was the Commodore for the Aquatennial. He traveled the world and met many distinguished world leaders. Dean had many varied interests including collecting and appreciating impressionist art. He will be remembered by those who knew him for his love of fine food and wine and as a snappy dresser. Due to the current world situation a memorial service will be held at a later date.
Anderson, Dennis Carl Age 97 of New Hope, MN. Passed away peacefully April 13, 2020. Preceded in death by parents, Charles and Minnie Anderson; wife, Georgeen Anderson; 6 sisters, 2 brothers. Survived by son, Kurt (Bootsie) Anderson; daughter, Kris Anderson; 4 grandchildren; 7 great- grandchildren; 2 great-great-grandchildren; brother, Lyle (Audrey) Anderson; many nieces, nephews and friends. Private interment Fort Snelling National Cemetery. 
Bies, Orval James age 93 of Anoka passed away on April 17. Orv is survived by his wife and lifelong partner, Dolores; son, Jim (Susan) of Sioux Falls, SD, and daughters, Martha (Peter) Hauck from Brooklyn Park and Elizabeth (Vince) Smith of Baudette, MN; grandchildren, Ryan and Erik Bies, Andrew Hauck, Alissa and Evan Smith and their families; and sister, Glada Kermeen of Cloquet, MN. He was preceded in death by his parents, Leona (Klages) and Leo, and sisters, Mavis Phillips and Judy Gregoire. Orv was born January 22, 1927 in Salem, South Dakota and graduated from high school in Marshall, MN in 1945. He earned a bachelor's degree from South Dakota State University and his master's degree from the University of Minnesota. His distinguished career as an educator began in 1949 at Hibbing followed by St. Louis Park (1962-1970) and St. Olaf College. Orv's final professional destination landed him in an executive staff position with the Minnesota State High School League. Orv's life was guided by caring deeply, teaching gently and loving completely. The relationships he established from a lifelong commitment to young men and women afforded him with many fond memories particularly with those activities involving the sport of track and field. His high school team's won state championships and he was proud to be inducted into both the Hibbing and the St. Louis Park high school's hall of fame. His commitment to the student-athlete experience across the state of Minnesota also involved membership on numerous national committees and he was honored to receive USA Track & Field's "President's Award." An active member of Zion Lutheran Church in Anoka, the life of Orval James Bies was devoted to his faith, his family and his vocation of teaching and coaching. Due to pandemic related restrictions, a memorial Service will be held in the future at Zion Lutheran Church, Anoka, MN. 
Anderson, Steven A. May 13, 1954 - April 17, 2020 "You can call me judge, here," longtime legal assistant Linda Neske remembered, "but when you see me in the grocery store, you better call me Steve." That's the kind of guy Steve was. He sat in the back. He didn't want recognition. He wanted his actions to speak for themselves. Steve died on April 17, 2020, after a short battle with coronavirus (COVID-19) at Bethesda Medical Center. His death is a stark reminder to take precautions against this deadly virus. He was the first confirmed case and death in Mille Lacs County, Minnesota. Steven Arlen Anderson was born in Minneapolis on May 13, 1954, to Richard and Florence Anderson. Born without a right arm (depending on who asked him, the arm was lost due to a bear attack or as a punishment for stealing), he never viewed this as a disability, but as an opportunity to figure out a new way of doing something. It never stopped him from doing anything. Author's note: Steve would be frustrated that this obituary even mentions his missing arm, but it is the author's belief that mentioning the arm is the only way of recovering it from the mouth of the ghost carp. Steve graduated at the top of his class from Patrick Henry High School in 1972, where he attained the status of Eagle Scout, was a trumpet player, and was a letter winner in football and track. He was the recipient of numerous academic awards. "We pushed each other," said a long time friend about Steve. "He was extremely competitive but never wanted to show it and that showed in how well he did in school." Steve is a graduate of the University of Minnesota (B.A., 1976 and J.D, 1979, Cumme Laude). "He was hard working but also knew how to have a good time," said a classmate and longtime friend. "Despite his many accomplishments, he never bragged. He knew how to compartmentalize school and his personal life." During this time, one of his crowning achievements was never losing in a foot race to Paul Larson. After law school, Steve joined Arnold and McDowell LLP. In 1984, Steve moved with his family to Princeton, Minnesota, where he established the firm's northern office. There, he practiced estate planning and criminal law, and he acted as City Attorney for Princeton, Milaca, and a number of the surrounding communities. In his capacity as City Attorney, Steve was charged with prosecuting criminal proceedings and representing the community in their sometimes headline-making legal issues. Throughout private practice, Steve exemplified humility, professionalism, and care. He truly wanted to help. If a client did not have the money to pay his bill, he would say, "Pay me what you think is fair." In true small town form, in one instance, this led to payment in corn. In 2006, after nearly 30 years in private practice and while a managing partner of what was then known as Anderson, Dove, Fretland and Van Valkenburg LLP, Steve was appointed by Governor Tim Pawlenty to be District Court judge in the 7th Judicial District of Minnesota, which spans the entirety of northwest Minnesota. Like many judges in rural areas, Steve was responsible for a wide variety of cases. Criminal law, civil litigation, family law: he handled everything. There, Steve was considered by all to be their "favorite judge." He was known for his practical, wise, and fair approach. He presided over numerous high profile cases, including the infamous murder trial of Jeremy Hull, wherein Mr. Hull was convicted of murdering a Little Falls business owner and stealing his identity. Hull was convicted and sentenced to life in prison. "He was compassionate, but a realist about the human condition; willing to gamble on some defendants who were worthy of a break that perhaps might not be greeted with universal praise, but also wise about those for whom a gamble was a threat to the public," said former partner of Steve's firm and current Supreme Court Justice of Minnesota, Barry Anderson. "Because it was never about him, lawyers had an opportunity to argue their claims; he was confident in his knowledge, ability, and judgment, and no public demonstration of his intelligence or skill was required." While attending school, Steve met his future wife, Karen Diersen, an odd, yet fitting pairing that defined the phrase "when opposites attract." Steve will be remembered as the only one who was able to decode her true meaning. All his other accomplishments pale in comparison. They completed each other. He was the cook, and she was the cleaner. She would talk, and he would listen. When one was sick, the other was there. Together they raised their two sons, Christopher and Mark. As a family, they enjoyed fishing, spending time at the cabin on Green Lake, watching admittedly awful movies, and taking road trips. Steve did install his own dock every year and dug a well without incident. All other home improvement projects were an unstated opportunity to teach his sons about how they should use professionals to complete future home improvement projects, instead of doing it yourself. His sons ignored the lessons and followed in his path. Steve is survived by his wife, Karen; sons, Christopher of Boston, MA and Mark (Doris Shen) of New York City, NY; grandchildren, Blythe, Beckett, Esme, and Clive; father, Richard; his nieces and nephews; and his friends, whom he considered family. He is preceded in death by his mother, Florence.
Forbes, Bruce Husband of Lynda, Father of Lesley, Grandpa to Jack & Alice Bruce Forbes died April 21 with Lynda at his side. He was 71. Bruce, one of four children, was born in Grand Rapids, MN while his parents Richard and Marian had planned to attend a festival. He grew up in the Jordan neighborhood; graduated from Minneapolis North High School and the University of Minnesota (AA), and, worked in the red metals industry as a salesman. He married Lynda in 1974 following a nearly eight-year courtship. They met on a blind date to the U of M Varsity theatre to see W.C. Fields film classics. She was in high school. "Throughout his life, when adversity hit, my Dad was strong, determined and persevering," daughter Lesley of Wayzata reported. "He did what had to be done - whether it was taking care of family issues, learning how to do household repairs (he'd rather be golfing!), or caring for aging parents." He was the consummate caretaker and protector. Besides his sense of fun and his love of family, what sustained Bruce through good times and bad was his unwavering sense of responsibility. He loved having the grandchildren around. "And when times were tough, he sheltered most from the fact that he was living life at the edge with tough cancer pain. When Bruce suffered a rare cancer diagnosis, he painted it all as if it were going to be an adventure. "His attitude was amazing and kept us positive," said Lynda. In addition to Lynda and Lesley, he is survived by son-in-law Patrick, grandchildren, Jack and Alice; sisters: Susan, Kathy, and Carol; and many nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. Further details to celebrate his life will be coming. In lieu of flowers and gifts, memorials preferred to: 1) Cancer Immunotherapy Fund #2640 University of Minnesota Foundation 200 Oak Street SE, Suite 300 Minneapolis, MN 55455-2030  2) Youth On Course At Youth on Course, we provide youth ages 6-18 with access to life- changing opportunities through golf.            /
Hansen, Marjorie Janice (Norman) Age 88, of Carver. Preceded in death by her husband, Robert (1978); parents, Henry and Emma Norman; brothers, Harold and Harry Norman; brother-in-law, LeRoy Peterson. Survived by her children, Carol Hansen of Carver, Thomas Hansen of Chaska, John Hansen of Carver; sisters, Lois Peterson of Minnetonka, Beverly Norman of Chaska; sisters-in-law, Dorothy Norman of Excelsior and Lyla Norman of Waconia; many nieces and nephews. Private family graveside service will be held at East Union Lutheran Cemetery, Carver. 
Anderson, Marlowe "Chris" Age 71 of Eden Prairie passed away on April 6, 2020. It is with deep sorrow that we share the news of our beloved brother's passing. He was a spirited, adventurous, generous presences in our lives. His smile, sense of humor and laugher will be greatly missed by those who loved him. He had a loving heart for animals and enjoyed water skiing & downhill skiing, hang gliding, para sailing, snowmobiling, gardening and boating. Chris graduated from Edina High School and Mankato State University where he was president of Delta Tau Delta Fraternity. He was also a lifetime member of Mount Olivet Lutheran Church. He was preceded in death by parents, Dr. Marlowe and Betty Anderson; many aunts, uncles, cousins, grandparents and friends. Survived by sisters, Karen Flolid (Buzz), Kathie Lund (Bill); niece, Laurie Witt; nephews, John and Mike Lund, their spouses and children; also survived by Sandy Hoefs Anderson. A celebration of Chris's Life will be held at a future date.  Edina Chapel 952-920-3996
Schaefbauer, Lenore Lenore at age 91 of Waconia died peacefully on 04/21/2020. Preceded in death by husband Wilfred and son Bill. Survived by five children, many grandchildren and great grandchildren. No services at this time. Memorials may be sent to your local food shelf or Second Harvest.
Mettler (Hubbard), Viola On Sunday, April 19, 2020, Viola Mettler (Hubbard), loving wife and mother of four boys, passed away at age 91. Viola was born on February 26, 1929 in Little Falls, MN to Axel and Adina Johnson. She received a degree in Theology from St. Paul Bible Institute and a Bachelor degree in Music Education from the University of Wisconsin-Parkside. In her early years she played marimba and piano on the KTIS live broadcast of the 900 Club with Forest Boyd. She was an accomplished piano teacher with countless students over the years, both young and old. She also applied her years of experience as a church choir director to established a youth choir called "The Believers." More than a music group, it became an extended family that changed the lives of many young people for years and created bonds that continue to this day. In her later years her love and passion for others was seen as she traveled on mission trips both in the US and abroad. Although she had four sons, grand children, and great grandchildren of her own, she was called "Mom" by many. Self sacrificing, loving, gentle, with an infectious soul, she had an endearing way about her. She loved Jesus and His love shined through her. She will be greatly missed. Viola is survived by her brother Dennis, and four sons, Perry, Tim, Paul, and Daniel. Due to the current pandemic there will be no service at this time. Any memorials may be given to the Gideons International in her name.  Coon Rapids Chapel 763-767-1000
Fishbeck, Glenn Olane age 90 of NE Mpls passed on April 21, 2020, the result of an accident at home on Good Friday. Survived by wife Margaret, sons Steven and Dan (Carolyn), granddaughters Meagan (DJ) and Grace, great grandson Milo. Preceded in death by many relatives and friends. Memorial service will be held when we can all gather safely again. Sunset Funeral Home 612-789-3596 
Harlicker (Diers), Jean Virginia Age 85 of Bloomington and Edina, passed away on April 8, 2020 in her home surrounded by loved ones. Preceded in death by her husband of 65 years, Donald Harlicker. Survived by her children Scott (Angela) Harlicker and Amy (Reid) Anderson; grandchildren Kelly (Mike) Hankes, Garrett (Corinna) Anderson, Zach (Tayler) Broekemeier, and Dylan Harlicker; great grandchildren Isabel, Olivia, Tessa, Boden, and Tegan. Private family services will be held. Memorials preferred to the American Cancer Society.
Hagemann, George A. Age 101, passed in his sleep at Sunrise Senior Living, Golden Valley, MN, on Sunday April 5, 2020. He was an amazing father, a kind, supportive and generous man to his immediate and extended family and friends. Hardly a day would go by him without a smile on his face. George was born April 27, 1918 in Fort Atkinson, WI, son of John A. and Eva(Foster) Hagemann. He was preceded in death by his parents, two brothers and four sisters. He is survived by his son George P. and wife Barbara(Mehring) Hagemann. George A. graduated from Fort Atkinson Senior High School in 1936 and went on to college at UW, Whitewater. Following college he toured with Cal Calloway's Bon Aires, playing clarinet, sax and piano. George enlisted in the Army in 1942, served in the 100th Bomb Group, 8th Army Air Force, a B17 pilot, flying out of Thorpe Abbots, England, until discharged in 1946. George went on to join Employers Mutual(now Liberty Mutual) as an adjuster where he worked until his retirement as Regional Claims Manager in 1987. Memorials, in lieu of flowers, in memory of George A. Hagemann suggested to American Red Cross Minnesota, 1201 West River Park way, Minneapolis, MN 55454.S
Block, Delores Age 103 of Brooklyn Park, passed away Monday, April 20, 2020. Delores was a loving mother and grandmother. Delores and her husband Harry were hard working entrepreneurs, operating Block's Dairy. After retirement, she loved to do crafts, cook, bake, play bingo, and spend time with her family. Delores is preceded in death by her husband, Harry Block; son, Douglas Block; son, Robert Leet; daughter-in-law Jackie Block; 3 grandchildren; and 1 great-grandchild. She is survived by her children, Donald (Barbara) Block, Jerry Block, Jolene (Mark) Carpentier, the Robert Leet family; 16 grandchildren, 24 great-grandchildren, and 11 great-great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held for Delores at a later date.  763-537-4511
Mizell, Cynthia Leigh Age 62, of Cottage Grove, passed away surrounded by her loving family on Sunday, April 19th, 2020 after a courageous fight with Leukemia. Cindy is survived by husband, Clayton; mother, Melba Sampson; daughters, Leah (Brian) Sanders, Leisa (Barrett) Ruud-Morris & Larissa (Vince) Dreyer; siblings, Skip (LeAnne) Sampson, Carol (Bruce) Warndahl, Christel Billingsly & Marty (Leah) Sampson. Cindy was blessed with many grandchildren, both 2-legged and 4-legged, whom she loved very much. She is also survived by her canine protector, Eddie. Preceded in death by her father, Wright Sampson III; and sister, Cheri Thomas. Memorial services to be announced at a later date.
Ohman, Marlene J. Age 87, of Plymouth. Passed away to be with Jesus and her family April 20, 2020. Marlene loved her family and took joy in caring for them. She was a wonderful cook and seamstress. We loved her witty humor and her amazing inner strength. She called on this strength many times throughout her life. Preceded in death by her parents; husband, Joseph K.; sons, Joseph M. and Robert J.; brothers, Roger and Thomas Toombs. Survived by children, Leann (Lowell) Keifer, Jill DeRouchey, Teresa (Ken) Amerman and Jeffrey; grandchildren, Leah Keifer, Lindsey (Sam) Guanella, Laura (Kevin) Kunnari, Breanna (Jeb) Jenkins, Sydney Amerman, Lauren DeRouchey, Joseph and Jackson Ohman; unborn great-granddaughter, Myah Jenkins; sister, Renee (Russ) O'Dell and daughter-in-law, Krista Lundgren. Private Services were held. Interment at Crystal Lake Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, memorials preferred. Morris Nilsen Chapel 612-869-3226 
Anderson, James V. age 97, of Minneapolis, died peacefully in hospice care on April 22, 2020. He was born March 9, 1923 to Rev. Dr. Martin and Alice V. Ander son. He grew up in Oak Park, Illinois, active in boy scouts. He worked a year before attending St. Olaf College. His studies were interrupted by 2 years of military service, carrying a bazooka as his company followed the retreating enemy during liberation of the Philippines. College was interrupted again by two years of service with Lutheran World Federation, helping displaced persons from Eastern Europe and the Baltic countries in the British Zone of Germany. Married in 1947, that experience in Europe included his wife Elise Hoplin, and they had 68 years together. Graduating in 1951, he worked as a manager of the college radio station WCAL. Next was work with the national Lutheran church headquarters in Minneapolis, first in public relations and broadcasting, then in social services, specializing in services to the aging. With help from that employer, he earned his MSW at the U of MN. Those credentials served him well as he headed the South Dakota Office On Aging & Adult Services. He taught social work at Mississippi State U in Meridian for a few years before retirement. He was always active in church, including serving as congregation president for Christ The King Lutheran in Bloomington. Since the 1990's he has been a member of Lake Nokomis Lutheran Church. During over 20 years living at Nokomis Square Cooperative in Minneapolis, he served on the member council and as treasurer. During his years of vitality, he enjoyed managing the property around each house, including yardwork, building rock walls, planting trees, and clearing brush. He taught his boys many skills when camping and canoeing. He was very proud of a later project, his efforts to re-establish St. Olaf's teacher exchange program with Martin Luther Schule in Rimbach, Germany. He was famous, or infamous, for his frug ality -- many readers should be able to think of examples. Preceding him in death were his parents; three siblings, J. Milo, Harriet Farrar, Audrey Malone; his wife in 2015; son, Dan in 1968 at age 17. Survivors include his sister, Connie Aagesen; son, Nathan (Suzanne) of Sioux Falls and son, Rolf (Kim Ngo) of Brooklyn Park. He delighted in the four grandchildren, Sam (Marlea), Katelyn (Jason) McGee, Isak (Crickett), and Joe. Jim loved seeing and hearing about the adventures of the nine great grandchildren, Kiara, Owen, April, Ivan, Julian, Anika, Kaliyah, Azalea, and Ace. Morris Nilsen Funeral Home of Richfield is handling arrangements, and a memorial service is postponed until a later date. Burial of cremains will be at Ft. Snelling. Jim encouraged people to contribute their time, talent, and treasure to projects and policies helping immigrants and refugees, recognizing the rights of indigenous peoples, and promoting race relations. He was especially fond of Lutheran Social Services and Lutheran World Relief. Morris Nilsen Chapel 612-869-3226 
Schwartz, Ruth Marie 92, of New Hope, passed away peacefully, April 20th, 2020. She was born May 8th, 1927 in Rice Lake, WI to Irene and Harry Hands. Harry passed away when Ruth was 8 years old and her mother married John Thompson a few years later. The family moved several times in Ruth's younger years finally settling in Minneapolis. Ruth graduated from Minneapolis Central High School in 1945. She went on to college at Macalester in St. Paul, MN. There she met John Sigvertsen. They were married in 1948 and adopted 2 children, a son Jay and daughter Dee Dee. Following a divorce, she would have a second marriage to Donald Schwartz beginning in 1975 until his passing in 2015. Ruth was an incredible mother, and wife, a den mother, homework tutor, fisherman, cabin goer, sometimes a baseball pitcher, an award winning gardener, and always an unbending champion for her children. She had artistic talent that she turned into a successful ceramic business, The TLC Shop, holding classes 2 times daily for 2 days each week in her home. Dozens of women over the years attended these classes and many long term friendships were formed. She could make ceramic figurines come to life with the sparkle she put in their eye that no one could duplicate. That same sparkle was in always in Ruth's eyes, as anyone who ever met her will attest. Ruth is preceded in death by husband Donald Schwartz, survived by son Jay Sigvertsen (Becky Miller), daughter Dee Dee Sigvertsen, brother Robert Thompson, son-in-law David Haeg, grandchildren John, Kelsey, Erica, Alexis, and Emily, 4 great-grandchildren, and several nieces and nephews. A heartfelt thank you goes to special care giver and dear friend Jesse Christensen for selfless and tireless hours spent caring for Ruth. A memorial gathering will be announced later when group gatherings are again safe.
Prois, Arnold "Arnie" Jr. 53 of Champlin, died suddenly April 11, 2020. He was preceded in death by his father, Arnold. He is survived by Fannette; son, Justin (Angela); daughter, Julia; mother, Carol; brother, Todd (Kathi); and many aunts, uncles, cousins, and friends. He served in the US Navy and will be buried at Fort Snelling.
Peacock, Andrew George Age 77 of Minnetonka (formerly of St. Louis Park) passed away peacefully at his home surrounded by his family on Saturday, April 18, 2020. Preceded in death by his parents, Andy and Marie Peacock, sisters Lou and Nell, brother Ron, and daughter Heather. He will be dearly missed by his wife Lois; son Andy (Leesa) Peacock, daughter Jennifer (Theron) Weisz; four grandchildren Kirsten, Neal, Camden and Nolan; brother Mike (Cheryl) Peacock, sister Sue (Terry) Londo; and many nieces and nephews. Andy was born and raised in Windom, MN. After high school, he moved to Minneapolis where he met and married his wife of 56 years, Lois Ann. Andy worked as an auto mechanic until 1967, when he changed careers and became an insurance agent for American Family Insurance, building a successful agency over the next 34 years. Once retired, Andy and Lois split their time between their Minnetonka home and the family cabin on Gun Lake. Andy enjoyed woodworking, birding, tennis, playing the guitar, card games, crosswords, wine, making maple syrup, tootling around the lake in the pontoon and spending time with his children and grandchildren. He will be remembered for his hard work, positive outlook, dedication to his family, and thoughtfulness. A memorial service will be held at a later date. The family recommends memorial contributions be sent to the ALS Foundation.  952-926-1615
Tichy, Audrey Roselyn 81, of Bloomington, passed away on April 22, 2020 from natural causes. She was preceded in death by her parents, Thomas & Elizabeth McDunn; brothers, Michael & Thomas McDunn; sisters, Patricia (Chuck) Cousins & Mary (Ralph) Wittig; brother-in-law, Edward Cebulski. She is survived by her husband of 62 years Chuck; children, Chuck (Roberta), Laura Tichy Lawrence, Mike (Amy); 18 grandchildren; 25 great-grandchildren; brother, Paul (Mary Ann); sisters, Jean Cebulski and Lillian (Bill) Reinhart; sister-in-law, Helen McDunn. Audrey worked for many years and retired from the Bloomington School District, she was always willing to listen and encourage any student that needed adivce. She loved to cook and spend time with her family, she was a wonderful wife, mother and grandmother. Audrey was a member of Nativity of Mary for 57 years. Due to the complications of the current pandemic with COVID-19 a private family Mass will be held at Nativity of Mary Catholic Church in Bloomington. Interment at Fort Snelling National Cemetery. Please no flowers, any memorials may be made to the Salvation Army or the DAV. A celebration of life will be held at a later date. Also a heartfelt thank you for the tender loving care for many years by the staff at Presbyterian Homes of Bloomington and the Health Partners of Bloomington Hospice team.  Bloomington 952-888-7771
Hann, George Charles "Charley" 95, passed away peacefully April 16th 2020. He was preceded in death by his first wife, Marilyn Hann; his son, John Richard Hann; his grandson, Mathew Charles Hann; his sister, Mary Lou Evans; and his second, wife Margarette Lawson Hann. Charley is survived by his brother, James David Hann of Scottsdale AZ; his son, David (Anne) Hann of Eden Prairie, MN; his "Costa Rican son", Eduardo (Yammi) Granados of Fairfield CA; daughters, Barbara Bannon of Delafield WI, Martha (Terry) Engelby of Jordan MN, Mary (Michael) Raymer of McAlester OK; his step children, Marilynn (John) Tammi of Holland, MI and Kent Lawson of New York City; 13 grandchildren, 11 great grand-children; a neice and 7 nephews. There will be no formal service. A family remembrance will be held at a later date. Charley had a long and very full life. Some of his happiest memories being when he took his sons and exchange student Eduardo, and later his grandsons, fishing and canoeing in the boundary waters. In lieu of flowers if you wish to honor Charley, please donate to the Charles L. Sommers National High Adventure Base, Ely MN.
Maupin, Stephen Earle of St. Louis Park, MN passed away April 19, 2020. Steve grew up in Deephaven and graduated from Minnetonka High in 1969, where he ran Cross Country and Track. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota, and a MBA from St. Thomas University. Steve was an accomplished runner, and participated in many marathons including Grandma's, the Twin Cities, and the Boston Marathon; and many other running events. He was an active member of the Minnesota Distance Running Association. Steve was a loving husband and father, and a good friend and neighbor. He is survived by his wife Nancy Moarn Maupin; children Jennifer and Timothy Maupin; siblings Suzanne Maupin Nelsen, Harold Maupin, and Kenneth Maupin; many nieces and nephews; and the many friends he made over his lifetime. He was preceded in death by his parents, Joseph T. and Louise Taylor Maupin, and brother-in-law Lee Nelsen. Private services were held at St. Patrick's Catholic Church in Edina on April 23, 2020. Donations to: The Association for Frontotemporal Degeneration. /
Kupper, Debra Ann Age 67 of Eden Prairie passed away suddenly on April 20, 2020, at HCMC with Marty holding her hand. Debbie was born in Golden Valley on January 6, 1953 to Harold and June Williams. She was a graduate of Golden Valley High School in 1971. She met her future husband, Marty, while they were both working at Hansord Pontiac in downtown Minneapolis. Marty was immediately taken by Debbie. Marty and Debbie were married in Golden Valley on October 20, 1973. Debbie was Marty's best friend for over 47 years. Jen and Jill will also miss their best friend. Debbie is survived by Marty, loving husband of 46 years; daughters, Jennifer Kupper and Jill Kupper; siblings, Steve Williams (Priscilla), Barb Anderson (Tom), Lori Hagstrom (Bruce), Tom Williams, Mike Williams (Mary); and many nieces and nephews. She was proceeded in death by parents Harold and June Williams and son Brian. Debbie and Marty enjoyed working together at their travel agency for the last 20 years. Debbie enjoyed traveling with Marty, most recently their European River Cruise, spending time with family and friends and wintering at their home in Miromar Lakes, FL. Debbie loved flowers, especially peonies. There were always flowers on the kitchen center island all year round. Debbie was known for her infectious smile and kind and compassionate spirit. She loved her rescue dog, Henry. Debbie will be deeply missed by all family and friends. The family had a private family visitation. A celebration of life will occur when conditions permit. In lieu of flowers, donations would be preferred to the American Cancer Society.  Edina Chapel 952-920-3996
Kish, Ronald Emil Age 83, passed away on April 19, 2020 of natural causes at the Villa of Osseo. Ron graduated from Anoka High School in 1954, where he excelled in basketball and baseball. He was a union carpenter for over 40 years owning his own construction company, R K Remodeling. He was involved in the Anoka Lions Club serving as president for a term and involved in the Anoka Alumni Club up until his death. He loved his cabin which he called "The Pad" where he enjoyed hunting, four wheeling, and putzing around. Ron made The Pad a place for all his family and friends to enjoy and create many memories that will live on in his legacy including, his Double Decker Outhouse. He was preceded in death by his wife, Jo; parents, Emil & Verna; and sister, Verna Mae Renslow. Survived by his children, Kevin (Pam), Sherri (Steve), and Scott; 3 grandchildren, Tim (Alecia), Kasi (Mark), Jenna (Jesse) and 4 great grandchildren, Carter, Vaida, Liam, and Max. Brother, Gary (Cheryl); and sister, Bev (Tim) Schultze. A special thanks to his buddies from the "A Club", the staff at The Villa of Osseo, the Markville Gang, and all those that have shared a good memory with him over the years. Mass of Christian Burial was held on Friday, April 24, 2020 at St. Vincent de Paul Catholic Church with interment at Calvary Cemetery in Anoka.  763-424-4000
Cousin, Tony Paul Of Mpls., born Dec. 29, 1955, died April 18, 2020. Tony possessed striking good looks with a dry sense of humor that usually held deeper hidden meaning. He loved sports and often shared quirky analysis of a favorite team or player. In a class by himself but very grounded, he never looked down on others who weren't quite in on the joke. A unique personality with a brilliant mind and a warm sensitive heart, he will be fondly remembered by those who knew him best. Beloved brother of Dr. Michele Meaux (Branch), Celia Meaux, Benu Cousin, Ricky Shango, Robyn Cousin, and Amandilo Cuzan. Preceded in death by much loved mother, Ronnii Cuz-n, father, Warren Cousin, brothers, Jose "Toure" Cousin, and Peter Cousin. Tony died peacefully in his sleep, similarly to how he lived his life. A celebration of Tony's life will be held at a later time. Hodroff-Epstein 612-871-1234 
Hendrickson (nee Geddes), Nora Marjorie Leslie October 25, 1919-April 21, 2020 We mourn the death and celebrate the life of our beloved Nonie who was a source of inspiration to family, friends and her communities throughout her lifetime. She was a unique blend of hospitality, positivity and service that enriched the lives of all who knew her. She witnessed and experienced so much in a life bookended by pandemics. Through it all, her motto was, "This, too, shall pass." Born to Jean and Robert Geddes in Calgary, Alberta, she grew up in three small towns on the Saskatchewan prairies. Her father was a bank manager and her mother was a civic and cultural leader in each town. They imbued in her a love of history and literature. At age 16, she enrolled at the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon and graduated with a degree in English. It was there that she met and later married Luther Hendrickson. His career as a chemical engineer took them to Flin Flon, Manitoba where their first three children were born. When in 1951 U.S. Steel offered Luther a position, the young family moved to Minnesota, where their fourth child was born. In 1959, the family built a lake cabin on the Iron Range and also became U.S. citizens. Still, Nora always maintained a fierce pride in her Scottish and Canadian heritage. She was especially pleased to be honored on her 100th birthday by greetings delivered in person by the Canadian Counsel from Canada's Governor General and from Queen Elizabeth II. In 1966, Luther's work moved them to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The five moves they'd made previously were challenging, but this one was especially daunting. With her inherent optimism and initiative she made the adjustment and soon became a civic leader in her new community, just as she had in previous postings. She was a gracious and busy hostess, a fabulous cook and a lover of life and people. After Luther died in 1983, Nora remained in Pittsburgh for six more years before returning to Minnesota living first in Minnetonka and later at Sunrise of Edina. Nora was a Renaissance woman. She had a keen intellect which she maintained until the end. She loved the life of the mind. She was a voracious reader. She kept up on current events and was a competitive bridge and Scrabble player. She played golf until she was 89 having finally, at age 80, overcome her contempt for golf carts. In her nineties, she learned to love her iPad, playing "Words With Friends" with many and accessing books on line. Born before women could vote, she devoted her civic energies to the League of Women Voters, the American Association of University Women, Welcome Wagon, and the YWCA serving in leadership capacities in each. Her husband thus teasingly called her "The Queen Cat". A fastidious grammarian, she wouldn't hesitate to correct family members who misused the Queen's English. Book discussion groups were an important part of her social life wherever she lived. She was a captivating raconteur who provided grandchildren with her remembrances of key historical events she lived through. She became a world traveller as an empty nester, establishing strong connections with Scottish cousins. She had a rare knack for engagement with others. Her warm personality and genuine interest in others made for a wide circle of friends. She rarely failed to acknowledge a birthday of her progeny. Nora's favorite place was the family cabin in Northern Minnesota. There on the deck with a winkypoo in hand, in the company of friends or family, she would rhapsodize on nature's beauties as the sun went down over the water. In her pastel colored version, it rarely rained at the Lake and there were hardly any mosquitoes. She welcomed others into her sublime world and they took comfort and delight in sharing it. Nora was a nurturing mother and wife who made special connections with each of her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. She is survived by her four children, Lesley Hauser, Eric Hendrickson (Marg Walker), Pamela Saunders (Tom Lukens) and Shelley Strohmaier (Jay), twelve grandchildren, Anne, Lori, Grant, Tom, Holly, Molly, Luke, Ivy, Nell, Heidi, Kyle and Kari, and twenty-two great-grandchildren. A twenty-third great-grandchild, whose name will be Nora, will arrive in May. Nora was pre-deceased by her husband Luther, brother Jack Geddes of Edmonton, Alberta, and sons-in-law Gary Hauser and Tom Saunders. Nora will be interred next to her beloved husband Luther in a private ceremony at the Lake later this summer. The family expresses special thanks to the staff and residents of Sunrise of Edina who showed loving care and concern for Nora in her final months. In lieu of flowers, memorials can be made to Doctors Without Borders, Habitat For Humanity or Second Harvest.
Simons, Joseph P. Age 50 of Edina. Born September 24, 1969; passed away April 21, 2020. Preceded in death by mother, Susan and sister, Diane. Survived by father, Nicholas (Betsy) Simons; brother, John (Jeanne) Simons; nieces, Samantha, Kate, Maggie and Mary. A memorial mass and an interment will be scheduled at a later date. Memorials preferred to Demontreville Retreat House, Make-a-Wish Foundation, or Donor's Choice.  Bloomington, MN 612-861-6088
Herman, Charles F. Age 87, of Princeton passed away April 22, 2020. Survived by son Les (Mona) Herman, daughter Charlene Williams, 4 grandchildren, 4 great grandchildren, 2 brothers, 2 sisters. Memorial Service will be held at a later date. Carlson-Lillemoen F.H. 763-689-2244 
Tamblyn, Donna M. Age 94 of Brooklyn Center passed away on 04/22/2020. She is preceded in death by husband, William "Ken;" parents, Martin & Tena Iverson; and her brothers & sisters. Survived by many nieces and nephews. Due to Covid-19, a memorial service and burial will be at a later date. Evans-Nordby 763-533-3000
Wood, Cheryl Ann (DeRosier) On Sunday April 19, 2020, Cheryl "Chery" Wood, loving mother and grandmother, passed away at the age of 75 in Edina, MN. Chery was born on August 26, 1944. She received her teaching certificate from the U of MN Duluth. She married her sweetheart, David, on August 27, 1966. Chery spent over 30 years heading the confirmation program at St. Patrick's Church, Edina, MN. Chery was preceded in death by her parents, Marguerite & Matthew DeRosier; her husband, David; and her son, Chris. She is survived by her son, Tim (wife, Terri); her two grandsons, Alex and Aaron; her sister, Mary; daughter in law, Katie Wood; as well as nieces, nephews, cousins and countless friends. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there will not be a public service to celebrate Chery's life at this time. She will be laid to rest at Resurrection Cemetery. The family prefers memorials be sent to food banks in need, such as Second Harvest or Feed My Starving Children.  Edina Chapel 952-920-3996
Sorenson, Chad Blair Age 50, went into the arms of his Lord & Savior, Jesus Christ, on Sunday, April 19, 2020. Chad lived his entire life in Minnesota. He attended school in Eden Prairie and at Mankato State. He was a good student, an excellent gymnast, and a proud Eagle Scout. Chad loved the outdoors, family celebrations, and spending time with his children. He always put his family first. He spent his career as an IT specialist. Chad was loving, generous, hard-working, funny, and one of the most big-hearted people ever. Chad will be forever loved and missed by his loving children, Shelby and Derek Sorenson; parents, Gary & Rhonda Sorenson; brothers, Scott (Kathy) and Bjorn Sorenson; uncle and aunt, Kent and Linda Zeigler; cousins, Jody (Matt) Nechrebechi & Brianna (Dan) Darling; and great-nieces and nephew. He is preceded in death by his grandparents, Dalvin and Violet Zeigler and Doug and Eloise Sorenson. A private celebration of his life will be held at a later date.
Grantwit, Marlys A. Age 83 of Mpls passed away April 20, 2020. Preceded in death by parents, John and Dorothy Grantwit. Survived by brother, Gary (Corrine) Grantwit; nephew, Ken (Sarah) Grantwit; niece, Connie (Patrick) Dougan; great nephew and niece, Bryce and Nicolette Dougan; and many friends. The family wishes to thank Chapel View, Jones-Harrison and HealthPartners Hospice for their loving care. A private family graveside service will held.  Northeast Chapel 612-781-6828
Engstrom, George H. Age 78 of Andover, passed away on April 18, 2020. Preceded in death by his parents, Eric and Anna (Lindboe) Engstrom; be loved wife, Patricia; brothers, Ellsworth and Lawrence; sister, Ruth Nelson. Survived by his children, Michele (Steve) Mitchell, Cindy Engstrom (Tommy Clark), Greg (Cindy Nathe); brother, Roy (Jan); many grandchildren, great- grandchildren, and friends. Due to health and safety concerns regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, the Memorial Service for George is being postponed. Details will be announced later. Thurston-Lindberg Funeral Home Anoka (763) 421-0220 
Prokop, Mary Alice (Minter) Mary was born in 1925 in Richmond, Virginia to Alma Morris and Kenneth Minter. Mary had an older brother, Kenneth, and sister, Evelyn, and was followed by four sisters - Becky, Margaret, Cy, and Jane. She worked several jobs during World War II, but married in her 20's and stopped working when she had children - Mary, Kate, Drew, John, Joe, and Jane. The family moved to New York State in 1961, and made Binghamton, NY home. Once the children were older, she went back to work as a Kindergarten Teacher's Aide in 1971. She loved teaching, and touched many young lives, retiring in 1998 at the age of 72. One of Mary's greatest accomplishments was earning her Associate's and then Bachelor of Arts degree while working full time and raising her six children. She graduated Magna Cum Laude from the State University of New York at Binghamton in May 1984 at the age of 58. Mary loved the opera, reading, traveling, and her Norwegian Elkhound, "Beauty." She traveled widely in the U.S. and also visited Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, Japan, England, Ireland, Spain, Austria, Germany, Poland, and Hungary. After retiring, Mary moved to live with her daughter Kate and son-in-law Eric. She had many adventures sharing the military lifestyle over the years. Mary passed away April 16th at the age of 94 at Emerald Crest in Victoria, Minnesota following a long illness. She will be greatly missed. 
Bergstrom, Wes Age 77, died peacefully on March 21st after complications from a stroke. He was surrounded by his loving daughters, Tambre (David), Megan (Matt) and Jessy (Steve) and wife of 58 years, Georgene. He is also survived by seven granddaughters, two grandsons, a great-grandson who will arrive in August, his sisters Sharon, Joanne and Cathy and his brothers Jay and Jonnie. Wes graduated from Washburn High School in Minneapolis and the University of Minnesota with a degree in philosophy. He enjoyed playing touch football and softball with The Toads and pick-up basketball games. He loved going to Gopher basketball games with Jessy. Wes loved music of all genres, but especially Bob Dylan. He was most likely Dylan's very first fan in Minnesota. Wes was an insatiable reader and bought the books he read so he could underline favorite passages. He published several regional business magazines over the years, the current and most recent being Upsize Minnesota. Wes will be remembered for his intelligence, sharp wit, droll sense of humor and athletic abilities.
Zaun, Duane R. Age 81 of Lakeville, passed away April 14, 2020 in Winter Haven, Florida after complications from a stroke. Mr. Zaun was born November 21st 1938 in New Prague, Minnesota to Edward and Matilda Zaun (Busch). After his honorable discharge from the Army, Duane earned several Master's degrees and enjoyed long careers in education and local politics. Duane married Mary Zaun (Zelenka) 61 years ago and was blessed with 4 children. Duane's decade's long commitment to family, education and community, allowed him to touch many lives in a positive and meaningful way. Duane is survived by his wife, Mary and 4 children, Lori Norden (Steve), James (Lani), Jon (Cori), Jeff (Jodi) as well as his sister, Patricia Ambroz and 9 grandchildren. A private Mass of Christian Burial will be held at the All Saints Catholic Church in Lakeville, with a Celebration of Duane's Life at a later date. White Funeral Home 952-469-2723 Condolences: 
Demulling, Jean Marilyn Age 84, of Brainerd, MN, died Tuesday April 21, 2020 in New Hope. Memorial services will be held at a later date. Jean was born in Minneapolis on November 13, 1935, to Wesley and Edna (Meineke) Hyde. She married Ronald Demulling May 25, 1957, and the couple had four children. Jean worked as an accountant for many years, and enjoyed her time in the church and music. She will be dearly missed. Jean is survived by her children, Robert, Shari, Lori, and Patti (Les); four grandchildren. She is preceded in death by her parents and her husband. Brenny Family Funeral Chapel  218-828-5051
Hjelm, Richard G. "Dick" Age 78, of Roseville, passed away on April 22, 2020. Memorial service at Roseville Lutheran Church when permitted. Full notice to follow. MUELLER-BIES 651-487-2550 
Swanson, Paul R. of Plymouth, MN passed away at the age of 80 on Thursday, April 16. Paul was born in Chariton, Iowa on October 3, 1939. His family moved to Michigan where he grew up on the shores of Lake Michigan in Manistee, MI. Hours were spent boating, swimming and water-skiing. Paul loved cars, tinkering with them as a teenager and racing them in his twenties. In 1962 Paul enlisted in the army, serving three years in Germany. Paul enjoyed his career as a sales manager for Fisher Nut and then Gold'n Plump Poultry. He finished his career as a driver for Metro Transit. Paul is preceded in death by parents, Virgil and Mildred; brother, Richard Swanson; sister, Betty Townsend. Survivors include his wife, Darlene; daughters, Cathy (Matt) Girsch and Jenny (Ryan) Halsch. Paul loved being a wonderful Papa to his grand-children, Addy Halsch, Marshall Girsch, Will Halsch and Sam Halsch. He is also survived by sister, Marilyn Luckmann and brother, Robb Swanson. Memorials can be sent to Struthers Parkinson's Center, Golden Valley, MN for their Cub Create day program or Lord of Life Lutheran Church, Maple Grove. A celebration of Paul's life will be held at a later date at Lord of Life Church.
Grey, Shirley L. Age 90 of Plymouth, formerly Wayzata, born in Joliet, North Dakota, passed away April 22, 2020. Preceded in death by her husband, George C. Grey. Survived by daughters Diane Grey (Tim Howe), Adele Lillie (Kevin) and Sheila Grey, 8 grandchildren, 7 great grandchildren, nieces and nephews whom she loved very much. Private family interment, Summit Park Cemetery, Wayzata. Rettinger Funeral Home Long Lake-Orono 952-473-6954
Beranak, Robert E. Age 79 of Richfield. Passed away on April 14, 2020. Robert was born on June 12, 1940, and other than an enviable Naval career in Hawaii, he called Minneapolis his home. Although his health had been declining over the last few years, he never lost his charm. With a twinkle in his eye and a cheeky sense of humor, Bob could charm his way into the heart of everyone he met. Bob had a gift when it came to socializing. Within moments of meeting Bob, he could make you feel like you were old friends. And if you were lucky enough to know Bob, you knew he loved his family. He is survived by his wife and best friend of 55 years, Jan; Sons, Terry (Mari) and Todd (Shari); and the true apples of his eyes, his grandgirls, Angela, Nicole, and Amanda; also his loving brothers, Richard and Dwain. Preceded in death by his mother Mabel; and son, Brian. A celebration of his life is planned for his (would be) 80th birthday or at a future date. Donations preferred to American Diabetes Association at:  Morris Nilsen Chapel (612) 869-3226            
Hirtz, Elizabeth J. Age 92 of Eagan. Due to the COVID-19 virus, memorial services planned for a later date. Full notice to follow.  Werness Brothers 952-884-8145
Ball (nee DeMarais), Sheila B. Age 34 of Mpls. Due to the current situation with the Coronavirus, a service will be held at a later date.
Dellwo, Phyllis T. (Simmer) age 84, born and raised in Sauk Centre and long time resident of Brooklyn Park. Phyllis was a person of strong faith. She was fun-loving and enjoyed time with family. She travelled the country for many years with her husband in his semi. She also enjoyed golfing and playing cards. Preceded in death by husband of 32 years, John; parents, William & Regina Simmer: and siblings, Laura Hassler, William Simmer, Robert Simmer, John Simmer, Arlene Kahler, and Jean Litchy. Survived by siblings, Betty Heier, Mary (Ray) Prasch, and James (Lailah) Simmer; and many other relatives and friends. In light of concerns regarding the community spread of COVID-19 a private funeral will be held at St. Alphonsus Catholic Church, Brooklyn Center, with burial to follow at Gethsemane Cemetery. Evans-Nordby 763-533-3000 evansnordby.com
Peach, Jim Age 63 Richfield MN. Jim died unexpectedly on April 19, 2020. He was preceded in death by his parents Marvin Peach and Janis Stewart. Jim is survived by his son Josh Peach, Josh's girlfriend Lisa Rasmussen, Jim's former wife Joanne Baeza, Jim's siblings in IL: Jean (Bob) Wilcox, John (Peggy) Peach, and Judy (Jim) Dissinger, several nieces, nephews, grandnieces and nephews, and many friends, including Karen Mattson and Mark DiPasquale. Jim was born on October 15, 1956 in Princeton Illinois. When he was 4 months old, he survived critical burns from a house fire on Feb. 19, 1957. Every year, he celebrated that day with gratitude for his life, and those who saved him. He excelled as an athlete at Sterling High School, attended Sauk Valley College in IL, and St. Paul Technical College in MN. In 1982, he married Joanne Baeza. Although they later divorced, they remained devoted parents to their son Josh; who Jim was immensely proud of. Jim loved fishing, golfing, the Cubs and Twins, Vikings, and camping with his son Josh. He was a dedicated member of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, and Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1005. His work history included 19 years as a Northwest Airlines Mechanic, and 11 years at the Metropolitan Council as a Bus Driver, then Light Rail Train Driver. In his role as a Light Rail Train driver, his courage and knowledge of CPR saved the life of a passenger on September 19, 2018. Jim had a strong work ethic and was extraordinarily honest in his professional and personal life. He helped people often, including encouraging many people to start investing in their 401K and plan well for retirement; as he did. Jim had envisioned his golden years fishing, golfing and his favorite activity of spending time with his son Josh and Lisa. His family and friends will remember him as genuine, loyal, generous, and always able to make people smile and laugh. Memorials to Union Hardship Fund that helps with off work MN members' bills at: workingpartnerships.org Due to COVID-19, a celebration of life will be held at a later date.
Lanford (Leigh), Carol A. Went to her reward on April 18, 2020 at 88 years young. She was preceded in death by parents Albert and Ella, and brother James. She is survived by her daughter Tara Lee (Randy), sister Margaret, brother John (Kathy), sister-in-law, Dorothy and many nieces and nephews. A celebration of Carol's life will be held at a later time. Memorials are preferred to the charity of your choice. Gearty-Delmore 763-553-1411 
Kloss, Michael Victor age 72, of Roseville, died peacefully on April 16, 2020. Preceded in death by wife, Patricia Ann Kloss (O'Neil); sister in-law, Elizabeth M. O'Neil. He is survived by sister, Karen (Richard) Huff; niece, Jennifer (Michael) Popek; great nephew, Justin Popek; loving companion, Vessie Mateva; close and beloved in-laws, Mary (Michael) Hackner, John (Marsha) O'Neil, Michael (Melanie) O'Neil, Timothy (Teresa) O'Neil, Susan (Rick) Olzenak, Daniel O'Neil (Karen Loe); nieces and nephews, Tiffany (Nathan) Carlson, Tara (Jason) Tait, John (Danielle) O'Neil, Megan O'Neil, Joseph (Jessica) O'Neil, Caitlin (Andrew) Buchanan, Michelle (Adam) Hackner Woodruff, Timothy S. O'Neil, Matthew (Laura) Hackner, Nicholas Olzenak; great nieces and nephews, Adam Tait, Malakai Carlson, Keira Tait, Joshua Carlson, Annabelle Carlson, Joshua O'Neil, Jack O'Neil, Jeremia O'Neil. Mike will be missed by many, many friends and loved ones. Celebration of Life 1PM Saturday, October 24th, 2020 at Cremation Society of MN, 1979 Old Hudson Road, Saint Paul with visitation from 11am-1pm before service and reception and meal to follow. 
Hylbak, Annabel Age 97 of Mpls, went home to the loving arms of Jesus on 04/10/20. Preceded in death by beloved husband Laval. Annabel was born in Wapello, IA and graduated nurses training at Iowa Methodist Hospital. She is survived by children Kenneth Hylbak, Karen (Lance) Boole, and stepson Larry (Paula) Hylbak; grandchildren Adam (Abby) Boole, Emily Boole and fianc Brennan Gensch, Evan Hylbak, Kindra (Steve) Chen and Krista (Wes) Hylbak; and sister Helen Johnson. A memorial in honor of her beautiful life will be held at a later date.
Anderson, Edward Age 83, died on April 17, 2020.Preceded in death by parents, Edward and Mary Anderson. Survived by wife, Agnes; sons, Stephen (Karen), Paul, Edward (Linda), Thomas (Laurie), Gregory; sister, Mimi Como (Fred); 9 grandchildren and many nieces and nephews. Ed worked for many years at Honeywell and then Medtronic. He enjoyed winters in Texas and fishing in Canada. In lieu of flowers please consider donating to a charity of your choice. At a later date there will be a Memorial Mass at Immaculate Conception Church.
Haskins, Steven William 74, of Excelsior, Minnesota, passed away peacefully on April 18th, 2020 with his wife Diana by his side. Steve is preceded in death by parents William and Catherine. Steve is survived by his wife of 52 years, Diana; children Scott (Christa) Haskins, Heather (Louie) Bugenig, Alan (Katie) Haskins; grandchildren Logan, Mia, Brode, Eva, Hunter & Jasper & many siblings, nieces, nephews and cousins. Steve was born in St. Paul, MN on January 2, 1946. He was born into a military family, the oldest of six children, and travelled throughout the world while growing up. As a motivated and determined young man, he joined the military through Army ROTC while attending and graduating from St. John's University with a political science degree. Committed to service, he completed flight school and deployed to Vietnam in the fall of 1968 as a helicopter pilot. He was incredibly humble regarding his military service, including being injured after being shot during a military mission. He received numerous awards including the Bronze Star and Purple Heart. He continued to serve his country honorably as an Army Reservist completing 20+ years of military service and retired as a Lieutenant Colonel. In 1971 he started working in the insurance business for John Hancock in St. Louis, Missouri and received the prestigious 'Man of the Year' award during his first year of working for this company. He started his own Employee Benefits consulting firm, Risk Analysis and Management Corporation (RAM), known as RAM Benefits in 1978. The firm continues to operate and grow today as RAM partnered with Horizon Agency in April 2009. Steve took great pride and care servicing all of the businesses and clients he worked with throughout the years. He had high standards and values regarding company culture, work ethic, and willingness to go above and beyond to help people. Steve and Diana worked hard to create a wonderful life for their family. Steve was incredibly proud of his family including 3 children and 6 grandchildren. He was a devoted father who coached his kids' sporting events and was influential in the establishment of the Tonka United Soccer program. They lived on Lake Minnetonka for the last 40 years and you could often find Steve out on his boat, cooking up a storm or playing a round of golf. He took pleasure in traveling domestically and internationally, and attending his grandkids' events. His later years were spent between Florida and Minnesota. They enjoyed meeting new friends in Florida and enjoyed the sunshine state as a break from Minnesota winters. Funeral and interment will take place at the Fort Snelling National Cemetery and Celebration of Life to be scheduled in the future, date to be determined.  In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Park Nicollet Hospice or charity of the donor's choice. The family of Steve Haskins wishes to thank the staff at the Water's of Excelsior and Hospice for their compassion and outstanding medical care. Huber Funeral & Cremation Services Excelsior Chapel 952-474-9595            
Holzinger (White), Louella F. Age 88 of NE Mpls passed away April 22, 2020. Preceded in death by daughter, Janice Ballentine who passed away April 20, 2020; husband, Harold; several brothers and sisters. Survived by sister, Beverly White; granddaughters, Michelle, Joni (Mark); grandson, MIchael; great grandchildren, Ashley, Josh, Justin, Vanessa, Marissa. Private service with burial at Ft. Snelling.  Northeast Chapel 612-781-6828
Amundson, Vera D. Age 92, of AZ (formerly of Mpls) passed away on April 4, 2020. She was preceded in death by husband Elden; son-in-law, Jon Ruopsa and sisters, Elna and Doris. Survived by children Jean (Wayne), Roger, Diane Ruopsa and brother Arvid (Bud) Dixen. She will be interred in the Memorial Garden at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church, Chandler, AZ.
Schultz, Patricia Ann 91, of Coon Rapids, went home to celebrate Easter with Jesus on April 12, 2020. Preceded in death by loving husband of 50 years, John Schultz; son, Scott, and sister, Bonnie Lou Griffis. Survived by daughters, Debbie (Alan) Koffski and Sandi (Barry) Luppert; grandchildren, Ashley (Zac) Gerard, Alexis (Josh) Hines, Zachary Koffski and Shelby (Collin) Pitman; beloved great grandchild, Zoey Hines, brothers-in-law, Robert (Meg) Schultz and Richard (Shirley) Schultz; along with many nieces, nephews and dear friends. Patsy graduated from Hibbing High School and attended Hibbing Community College before working for the VA and then Way of the Cross Church in her later years. Special thanks to the staff at White Pine and Olive Grove Hospice for their love and compassionate care. Her family and friends will remember "Munga" for her true giving spirit and hospitality, her contagious smile, sincere love for friends & family and for her amazing faith and love for God. CELEBRATION OF LIFE, SAT., JULY 18, 11 AM at Bridgewood Community Church, 11670 Lexington Avenue NE, Blaine, 763-780-2500, with visitation one hour prior to service. Gearhart Locations: 763-755-6300
Marsh, Joel L. Age 85 of Deerwood f ormerly of Coon Rapids died on April 21, 2020 at the Cuyuna Regional Medical Center in Crosby. He was born on April 9, 1935 in Pine River to Frank and Amy (Linden) Marsh. Joel grew up in Nashwauk. He lived in the Hibbing area until moving to Coon Rapids. Joel married Judith Kochevar in 1956. Together they raised their four children. He was employed at Cottons Napa in Anoka and then opened Patrick Michael Supply until he retired to Deerwood. He was a longtime coach of Anoka Coon Rapids Golden Gloves and a Minneapolis Regional Director, then became President of Upper Midwest Golden Gloves. He was inducted into the National Golden Gloves Coaches Hall of Fame in 2016. He remained active in Golden Gloves until his retirement in 2019. Joel is survived by his wife, Judie; three sons, Joel (Lashell), Patrick (Bonnie), and Terry (Julie) and a daughter, Kathleen (Chris) Conger; grandchildren, Mason Lyons, Abby Langseth, Caitlin Marsh, CJ Conger, Luke Conger, Michael Marsh, Tim Conger, Amy (Conger) Herman and John Conger; sixteen great grandchildren and numerous nieces and nephews. Preceding Joel in death are his parents; three brothers and four sisters. A service will be held at a later date. Arrangements are with the Koop Funeral Home in Crosby.
Feese (Stevens), Sandra Marthena Age 85, Minnetonka, MN, died at home Monday, April 20th with family by her side. Born in Omaha, Nebraska on 07/22/1934 to H.F. Stevens and Marthena Stevens (Peacock). Sandie graduated from the University of Nebraska in 1956 with a degree in Education. It was at the University where she met her husband of 60 years Jim Feese. Sandra was a 65-year member of PEO, active as an early member of Edynamos at Christ Presbyterian Church where she also served on the funeral team. She is survived by her brother Keith Stevens, daughter Lisa Feese Burns, daughter Lori Feese Brustad (James) and son Mark Feese (Lisa) and 5 grandchildren Jessica, Elliott, Mitchell Brustad, Tate and Carly Feese. A memorial service will be scheduled for a future date. The family asks that gifts be made to the Alzheimer's Association or a charity of donor choice with follow up correspondence sent to Lisa Feese Burns, 3775 Kipling Ave., Mpls., MN 55416.
Grotte, Harold On Saturday, April 18, 2020, Harold Grotte, loving husband and father of four children, passed away peacefully at the age of 86. He is preceded in death by his wife, Dorothy, son, Todd, and sister-in-law, Leah Ann Grotte. Harold was born February 9, 1934 in Litchfield MN to Henry and Edna Grotte. He grew up working on the family farm and graduated from Atwater High School in 1952. He then attended Minnesota School of Business, where he met fellow classmate Dorothy Didrickson. The two were married August 27, 1955 and made their home in Minneapolis. He and partner "Red" Mulvaney founded Custom Distribution in 1972 which, thanks to many loyal customers, became a very successful enterprise. Harold had a passion for antique farm toys. He traveled around the country in search of hard-to-find pieces for his collection. Harold was a humble man who will be remembered as friendly, hard-working and generous; someone who was always willing to lend a hand to anyone in need. Harold leaves behind his children Michelle (Doug) Thayer, Jeff (Alissa) Grotte, Leslie (Todd) Barrows, granddaughters Brittany, Ashley, McKayl, Delaney, Alyssa & Carlye, great-granddaughter Brielle, siblings Phil, Marlyn (Mary) & Marge, former daughter-in-law Teresa Holmlund along with several nieces, nephews and friends. A private memorial service and burial was held for family members. Plans for a Celebration of Life ceremony to be held later are pending.
Mueller, Lloyd R. Age 94, of Plymouth, MN, formerly of Rhinelander WI, passed away peacefully at home on March 25, 2020. Born and raised in Sheboygan, WI, he married Loretta Stokke of DeKalb, IL in 1954. Lloyd proudly served on a US Navy Destroyer, the USS Bancroft, during WWII as an electrician. After his military service, he graduated from Northwestern University in Evanston, IL. Lloyd spent the majority of his career in banking and the years immediately preceding his retirement was self-employed as an accountant for many small businesses in the Rhinelander, WI area. Lloyd, who cherished his wife and family, was compassionate and giving throughout his life. He loved telling stories of how he met Loretta and reminisced about life events that touched his heart and made him laugh. He enjoyed reading, The Lawrence Welk Show, gardening and Johnsonville Brats. He and his wife Loretta enjoyed numerous years attending ship reunions with the Tin Can Sailors. He maintained a great sense of humor through his final days. He was one to be more concerned about others than himself. He was preceded in death by his wife Loretta; parents, Rudie and Marie; sister and brother-in-law, Lois (John R. "Link") Lindquist. Survived by children, Bruce (Terri) of Barron WI, Sharon (Russ) Lewellen of Minnetonka MN, Brian (Sherry) of Wildwood MO; grandchildren, Bryan (Savannah), Brett, Kourtney (Ken), Cole, Heather, Megan, Blake; brother, Ted (Beverly); sister-in-law, Norma Wiegartz; brother-in-law, Richard (Laurel) Stokke and many nieces and nephews. Memorial service and interment at Fort Snelling National Cemetery will be held at a later date. Lloyd is where he prayed to be one day with family and friends that have passed before him and to dwell in the house of his Lord forever.
Simmons, Robert Kyle 57, completed his earthly journey April 16, 2020. He is survived by his children, Bronwyn and Collan Simmons, his ex wife Wini Froelich, brother, Kelby Simmons, Mother, Viki and Step-father, Michael Hilbert; Birth father Robert Lee Simmons and four step sisters and families. Service will be planned for late summer. Guestbook: /
Gleason, Connie Lynch age 61, of Ham Lake, originally of N Mpls, went home to her Lord Jesus on Easter Sunday. She is deeply loved by her husband, Charles T. "Chopper" Gleason; sister, Diane (Spencer) Hage; brothers, Raymond Jellison and Clinton Jellison Jr., in-laws, nieces, nephews and friends. Connie made beautiful cards and woven crosses to encourage veterans, family and friends to walk with Jesus. Jesus said, "I am the Way, the Truth and the Life." (John 14:6) We'll see you in Heaven, Connie! Celebration of Life at later date.
Lehr, Tanya Maria (Kalmanov) Tanya died April 21, 2020 of the COVID-19 virus, one day after her 76th birthday. She was born in Leningrad, USSR, just after the end of the 900-day siege of the city in WWII. Both parents (Anatole and Maria Zakharov) were engineers which Tanya eventually followed as a career. She married Alex Kalmanov, and both established successful careers. In 1979 together with 11-year old daughter, Maria ("Masha"), the family immigrated to the US. Immediate employment and language were significant challenges. The marriage ended in a divorce in 1986. In time Tanya became a procurement engineer for Honeywell in Minneapolis. In 1991 she married Gary Lehr and they took up residence in Minnetonka. She was preceded in death by her parents and daughter, Maria. She is survived by her husband; grandson, Nikita and his father Greg Volynskiy; step children, Karna (Brent) Rice, Kristine Rees; step grandchildren, Emily and Ashley Haan, and Elle Kate Rees; and dear friend and guardian, Rita Brooks. She will be dearly missed by many friends and family. She will be remembered for her quick wit, wisdom, and her love of life and family. A memorial service will be held in Tanya's honor at a later date.
Peterson, Robert "Bob" Age 75 of Excelsior. Passed away Thursday, April 16 after a brief illness. He was born in Waverly, MN. on June 26, 1944. Bob was a special man who leaves behind his wife, Linda and three children, Jim (Tammy), Chris (Aimee) and Julie (Matt) Thornton; nine grandchildren: Emma, Madison, Sadie, Kylie, Owen, Conner, Henry, Harrison and Hayden. Preceded in death by parents, Millard and Lorraine. Survived by brothers-in-law, Larry (Kathy) and Doug Schroeder. Bob started Peterson Drywall 40 Years ago. Through the years, his business became much more than just a business. His focus became more about the success of the relationships he made and not just the work being performed. He loved what he did, but he loved his employees, contractors, and clients more. For Bob it was a labor of love and that is what he valued most. He will be greatly missed by all and forever remembered for his love of the Lord and his family. He enjoyed golf, his garden, fishing and vacationing in Florida Keys. Funeral Mass of Christian burial will be live streamed at tinyurl.com/sjbyoutube on Wednesday, April 29th 11:00 a.m. Private Interment at St. John the Baptist Resurrection Cemetery in Shorewood. In lieu of flowers, memorials can be made in memory of Bob to St. Johns gifts and memorial fund at 680 Mill Street, Excelsior, MN 55331. Huber Funeral & Cremation Services Excelsior Chapel 952-474-9595 
Watson, Darrell G. Age 93, of Brooklyn Park, passed away on April 22, 2020. He was preceded in death by wives, Donna Watson (d. 1984) and Betty Elliott (d. 2008), daughter, Catherine Watson (d. 1997), and brothers, Burke, Donald, and Bill. He will be missed by children Janet Knox (Jerald), Darrell Jr. (Judy), Ronald (Dawn), Gary (Barbara), and Eric (Kathy). He is loved by 17 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren. A celebration of his life will be held sometime in the future. Kapala-Glodek-Malone 763-535-4112 
Kormanik, Marian Ruth passed away peacefully on Saturday, April 18, 2020, just two days shy of her 82nd birthday. Marian was born on April 20, 1938 in State Center, IA and grew up on a farm. She graduated from State Center High School in 1955 and attended college at St. Cloud State University. Marian married William (Bill) Kormanik in 1963 and they were married for 43 years. They had two children, Kelly and Andy. She retired from Honeywell and then spent her time working and volunteering at St. Luke's Lutheran Church. She enjoyed knitting, puzzles, music and concerts, and searching for the greatest espresso machine ever made. Marian was also a super-shopper, recipe-authority, library-goer, dinner party enthusiast, and blood-orange advocate. She survived breast cancer for a remarkable 34 years. She will be remembered for her sense of humor, ability to make friends anywhere, and her fabulous handmade Halloween costumes for her grandkids. Marian was preceded in death by her parents Harley and Cordelia Smith, husband Bill, and sister Joan Clingman. She is survived by her son Andy of Apple Valley, MN, daughter Kelly and husband Bob Belin of Centennial, CO, three grandchildren Courtney, Nicole, and Jeremy Belin, sister Delores Meadows of Superior, WI, as well as other friends and relatives. Donations in her honor can be made to St. Luke's Lutheran Church, 1701 W Old Shakopee Rd, Bloomington, MN 55431. No formal services are planned at this time due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Lovsted, Jim (James) Age 78 of New Hope died on Saturday, April 18th. Jim will be deeply missed by his four daughters, Kimmarie Messer (John), Lori Peeples (Andrew), Michele Wolsmann, Nancy Lyons (Steve); grandchildren, AJ (Emily), Eric and Joelle Lyons, Alex Messer, Nate and Matthew Weaver, Maddie and Max Wolsmann; step grandchildren, Susie, Andy and Catherine Peeples, great-granddaughter, Aaliyah Peeples, sisters, Laura Olson (Gary), Mary Mick (Terry) and Linda Cooper (Doug), and brother- in-law, Tracy Karlson (Sharon), sister-in-law, Alice Kashmarek and brother-in-law, Robert Wedekind (Joyce), along with many nieces, nephews and friends. Preceded in death by wife, Ruth, parents, Loren and Rachel Lovsted, brother, John Lovsted and grandson, Kevin Messer. Jim was very devoted to his family and cherished being the father of four daughters. He enjoyed taking his family on adventures to go fishing, camping and hunting. He didn't let his Parkinson's disease and mobility challenges stop him from attending sporting events for his grandchildren and treasured spending time with them. He was an active volunteer at church, Knights of Columbus and school PTAs. He loved being around his immediate and extended family, traveling with his wife, Ruth, and "going to look at leaves" which was the code phrase for going to the casino. The family would like to thank the staff at North Ridge Health and Rehab and North Memorial Hospital for their excellent care of Jim. They also extend their appreciation to Dehn's Country Manor for making special accommodations for Jim when Steve and Nancy brought him in weekly for Prime Rib dinner. Mass of Christian Burial to be scheduled at a later date. Thurston-Lindberg Funeral Home Anoka 763-421-0220 
Gill, John 'Jack' Thomas Age 58 of Savage, passed away at his home on Sunday April 19, 2020 surrounded by the love of family and friends after a battle with an aggressive blood cancer. Jack fought with all he had until he made the choice to live out his remaining days in hospice. Jack was born August 14, 1961 to James T. and Colleen (Sir) Gill and was the oldest of five children. He is preceded in death by his father James and sister Kristine LaPanta. Jack is survived by his wife Lynn and their sons Brandon & Matthew as well as his daughter Amanda and grandson Jackson. Also surviving him are his mother Colleen, sisters Colette Torgerson and Sharleen (Kevin) Lattery, and brother Dan (Lisa) as well as numerous nieces, nephews and extended family. Jack was a devoted husband, father, brother, son, friend and co-worker and his sense of humor and strong work ethic will be missed by all who had the fortune to know him on a personal level or work with him at the Toro Company where he worked for 35+ years. Funeral services will be held at St. John the Baptist Catholic Church in Savage at a later date.
Jordan, Lois M. It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of our beloved mother, grandmother and friend, Lois M. Jordan of Excelsior, MN on April 22, 2020 at the age of 86. She is survived by her 3 children, Scott Jordan of Bay City, WI, Susan (Doug) Porter of Edina, Steve (Claudia) Jordan of Scottsdale, AZ, as well as her 7 grandchildren, David, Talana, Matt, Brandon, Kaderick, Tavek, Jaddison, plus nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by parents, Edna and Carl Granning, spouse James L. Jordan, and her brother Donald Granning. Lois was born Oct 16, 1933 in Minneapolis. She was an Elementary teacher in Richfield and Minnetonka Schools, moving into Special Education later in her career. Lois loved going for walks, gardening, biking, playing the piano, having coffee at the Cottagewood Store, and socializing with many friends. She enjoyed exploring art shows, participating in 2 small groups from church, visiting the family cabin in Wisconsin, and staying warm in the Arizona sun. Lois was a kind and generous spirit who volunteered at the Mayo Clinic, served on the Relate board, and was a long-standing member of St. Luke Presbyterian Church. Lois was deeply loved and will be missed by all. A celebration of her life will be held at a future date. In lieu of flowers, please contribute to the Relate Counseling Center: relatemn.org/donate-now
Schmidt, Paul Donald Age 54, of Brooklyn Center. Born June 11, 1965. Passed away on April 22, 2020. Private interment and a celebration of life will be held at a later date. MUELLER-BIES 651-784-3390 
Krych (Russinik), Eleanor R. Age 86 of Brooklyn Park, passed away on April 21, 2020 due to complications from COVID-19. Ellie was born in 1933 in Minneapolis, MN to John & Helen (Mikolajczyk) Russinik. She was the youngest child of 5 siblings. She graduated from Edison High School where she thrived in the Arts. She was married to her high school sweetheart Kenneth P. Krych for 53 years and together they raised a close-knit family of six. She was a loving wife, mother and grandmother. Preceded in death by her husband, Kenneth, her parents, her twin sisters, Rose Meister and Rita Svidron, and her daughter-in-law, Candi Krych. She will be deeply missed by her children, Jeanne (Brent) Helin, David, Cynthia Francis, Charles, Carole (Joseph) Roden, Kenneth; 11 grandchildren, 9 great-grandchildren; her sister Dorothy Breza, brother John 'Jack' Russinik, and many other family members and good friends. A Mass of Christian burial will be held at a future date. Private interment at Fort Snelling National Cemetery. Memorials preferred in lieu of flowers designated toward The Church of St. Gerard Majella and the American Cancer Society.
Saltness, Norma Age 83 of Blaine, passed away and joined her husband of 60 years on April 22, 2020. Preceded in death by husband, Donald & brothers & sisters. Survived by children, Connie (Michael) Roush, Brenda (Saltness) Burnette, Loren (Tammy) Saltness, Don (Alicia) Saltness; grandchildren, Janet, Jacob (Sara), Ryan (Larisa), Katrina (Timothy), Dustin, Dillon, Brandy, Josh, Tony, Christian & Kiana; 9 great-grandchildren; great-great-grandchildren, brothers & sisters, brother-in-law, many nieces, nephews & other relatives.  "A Celebration of Life" 763-783-1100
Michaletz Larimore, Kathleen "Kathy" Of San Jose, CA, daughter of Fred and Marie Michaletz of Green Isle, MN, passed away April 21, 2020 at 83 years old. Preceded in death by husband, John Lairmore; parents, Fred and Marie Michaletz; siblings, Jerry (Faye) and Marty (Marilyn) Michaletz. Survived by daughter, Debi (Dave) Gregg; siblings, Dick (Rita) Michaletz, Mary Ann (Ray) Bauer, Helen Bevan and John (Sandy) Michaletz. Memorial Service in San Jose at a later date.
Anderson, Bruce Elder 84. Passed away April 23, 2020 at Bradenton Fl, of complications from COVID 19. He was born in Chicago on April 6, 1936 to the Rev. Elder C. and Emma (Strom) Anderson. Raised in Mpls, he graduated from Minnehaha Academy, North Park College, Chicago, and the University of Minnesota. He worked in businesses in New Jersey, New York and Florida. He was a 47 year resident of Bradenton. Bruce is survived by loving sister and brother-in-law, Devona (Dee) and Nick Long of Minnetonka; niece Catherine Emma Long and nephew Nicholas K.A. Long; beloved great nieces and great nephew Claire Long, Emmeleia Gartner, and Cadence Long; cousins Joan Vest, Jean Lindell, Kathleen Landin, and Robert and Richard Jandreau. Memorials to Minnehaha Academy or the donor's choice.
Folstad, Ardis Marie 98 of Plymouth MN passed away on April 19 at Oxbow Lake Care Center. Ardis was born to Amund and Marie Bakke in Meno- monie, WI. She graduated from Menomonie High School and Luther Hospital School of Nursing. Her RN career spanned over 40 years in a variety of settings as well as teaching. Ardis was married to Nathan Webster (d.1969). She married John Folstad in 1977 who preceded her in death on Sept 24, 1999. Also preceding her in death were her parents and 4 siblings, Inez (Harold) Lemke, Marjorie (Axel) Garmen Carlson, Orville (Bev) and Gus (Gerry) Bakke. She is survived by a daughter Patricia (Jerry) Tomshine, granddaughter Ann Tomshine, grandson Christopher (Alicea) Tomshine, great grandson Kyle Tomshine, nieces and nephews Kristine Lemke, Roger Lemke, Betty Zwerg, Peggy Nicholson, Gary Bakke and Bill Bakke; many cousins, great nephews and nieces and friends. Ardis enjoyed reading, gardening, quilting, cooking, and baking. She was awarded the State Historical Society of Wisconsin Book Award of Merit in 1988 for Vi Hadde det Godt Her (We Had It Good Here) which documented the Bakke family immigration from Norway. Ardis volunteered with vision testing and in a reading program for Robbinsdale Area Schools. She was a member of Holy Nativity Lutheran Church where she participated in annual Lefse making. Special thanks to St Therese Oxbow Lake and North Memorial Hospice for their wonderful care. A Celebration of Life Service will be held at a later date. Memorials suggested to St Therese Oxbow Lake Care Center, North Memorial Hospice or Holy Nativity Church.
Johnson, David H. passed away peacefully on April 20, 2020. Preceded in death by parents Herbert and Lydia Johnson and brother Robert. Survived by brother Neal (Sally), nephews Marty (Terri) and Tony (Joanne). David graduated from Roosevelt High School in 1960. He served in the U S Army from 1964 to 1966. He lived on Marathon Island in the Florida Keys for many years and worked in the bar business. Then he moved to Ocala, Florida where he was a foreman at a horse ranch. He will be missed by his many friends especially those at lunches at the Sports Page on Thursdays and breakfasts at the VFW on Saturdays. David will also be missed at family events by grand nephew and grand nieces. Celebration of Life will be held at a later date.
Franklin (Bade), Joan Margaret Was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota on July 3, 1932, of Stuart, Florida (Plymouth, MN) passed away suddenly on Saturday April 18, 2020. Preceded in death by her parents, Edward and Juanita Bade, her sister Grace Howard and her beloved daughter Peggy. She is survived by her loving husband of 69 years, James W. Franklin, sons, Larry (Jill), Jim (Connie), grandchildren, Bryan (Laura), Nick (Amy), Jon (Erin), Katie(Casey), & great-grandchildren Maggie, Danny and Marley. The most important thing in Jo's life was her family, and she will remain in our hearts forever. She was an avid golfer, reader and sports enthusiast. She will be deeply missed by her family and her many friends. A celebration of her life will be held at a later date.
Moriarity, Timothy 'Tim' Age 82 of Maple Grove, (originally from Staples, MN). Passed away peacefully in the hospital April 17, 2020, after several months of declining health. Preceded in death by wife Patty; parents: Arthur and Hollybelle. Survived by daughter, Andrea; granddaughter, Chelsea; sisters Mary (Neil) Johnson and Patricia (Dan) Gaffaney; brother Frank (Marge) Moriarity; nieces, nephews, other relatives & friends. Graduated Staples H.S. in '56 with Machinist Training, and had a successful career in the Plastics Industry (Tooling/Engineering). Tim is a veteran and served in the Navy as a Machinist during Vietnam. Tim was kInd, thoughtful, warm and caring, and will be greatly missed by his family and friends. Private services will be held at the Kozlak-Radulovich Maple Grove Chapel with private interment at Fort Snelling National Cemetery. Memorials preferred to Strasburg Care Center, 409-3rd Street South, Strasburg, ND 58573.  "A Celebration of Life" 763-416-0016
Sinclair, Lois M. Age 91 of St. Louis Park, MN (formerly of Edina and St. Paul), passed away April 23 at the Willows Lakes Sr. Living Facility. Preceded in death by her first husband Malcolm Sinclair, son Thomas Edward, her second husband Frederick Quest and sister Judy Mullaney. Survived by son Stephen Sinclair, wife Debbie, grandchildren Bill, Amy Callie, daughter Susan Zmuda, husband Frederic, grandchildren Johnathon, Lindsey, Charles, daughter Sara O'Keefe, grandchildren Patrick, David, nephews Jeff Mullaney, Tim Mullaney, niece Lynn Lizotte and 9 great grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations can be made to St. Albans Episcopal Church in Edina. Information for a memorial service will be given at a later date. Interment is planned at Ft. Snelling National Cemetery.
Scherman, Mary Angela (Curran) age 84, of Clinton, TN passed away on Wednesday, April 22, 2020 at her home with her family by her side. She worked as a computer programmer for many years with Northwest Airlines. Mary was raised in the Catholic faith. Mary was preceded in death by her parents, John W. and Mary A. (McCoy) Curran; sister, Joanne Grudzien; son, Joseph T. Harmon; and grandson, Isaac Lucking. She is survived by her husband of 48 years, Richard A. Scherman; children, Bernard P. Harmon Jr., Susan and Larry McCarty, Patricia and Randy Lucking, James Harmon, Mary Lencowski, Denise Scherman Johnson, Cathleen and Greg Harlan, Kimberly Scherman, Daniel and Carolyn Scherman, Kenneth and Leigh Anne Scherman ; 28 grandchildren; 26 great grandchildren; and 4 great great grandchildren; brother, John W. Curran Jr., and sister, Kathlene Marrin; and several nieces, nephews, and extended family. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made in Mary's name to The Gift of Life organization or Alzheimer's foundation. Jones Mortuary in Clinton, TN is in charge of serving the family of Mary Scherman.
Bistodeau, Carolyn Marie (1965-2020) passed away on April 20, 2020. She will be dearly missed by her parents, Dale & Shirley Bistodeau, her siblings Jeff (Renee) and Stephanie (David) and her sister-in-law, Karen. She will also be missed by her nieces and nephews, with whom she was especially fond of spending time. She was a great Auntie! Carolyn was was known for her fun sense of humor, impeccable sense of style, love of animals and her very caring and loving ways. She is preceded in death by her brother, Derf Bistodeau. We miss you both!
Richardson, Donna M.(Blunt) age 60 of Minneapolis, went home to heaven on Sunday, April 19, after a long and hard-fought battle. Preceded in death by mother, Thelma St George, and brother Doug. Survived by sisters Sharon, Janice and Tina, brother Jim, and many nieces and nephews. Donna was a beloved member of the Charis family of volunteers at the Shakopee women's prison for over 30 years. A faithful servant of Christ and a dear friend, Donna will be missed by many. Private funeral. Memorial service at a later date.
Hann, Michael John Age 69 of Minneapolis. Passed away April 19, 2020. Worked for General Mills, Supply Chain Logistics, for 30 years. Avid sports fan. Preceded in death by father, John, and mother, Kathleen (Kay) Hann. Big brother to and survived by sister, Nancy Hann Smith (Stan), and brothers, Marty (Catherine) Hann, Russell (Bonnie) Hann & Douglas (Lynn) Hann. Service pending. Interment Ft. Snelling National Cemetery. Memorials preferred to The Arc Minnesota.
Emmans, Donald E. Age 94, of Crystal, MN passed away peacefully at St. Therese Nursing Home in New Hope, MN on April 22, 2020. He passed away on Earth Day, which is appropriate, due to his love of nature. He was a 1943 graduate of Robbinsdale HS. Don was an Army Veteran of World War II, and wore his WWII cap proudly. He was a driven man, and worked as a cement mason for the majority of his life. Don's hard work rewarded him with a long retirement, allowing them to travel to all 50 states. He was a talented outdoorsman, and hunted deer until he was 80 years old. "Papa Jelly" as he was known by many, loved picking wild berries, making jelly and hunting for agates. We hope he finds peace, like he did fishing on Shumway and Big Sandy Lake. Don is survived by his loving wife of 70 years, Lois (Craigie) Emmans, and three daughters, Donna (Bruce) Christensen, Sharon Smith, and Janice (John) Reiser. He is also survived by 7 grandchildren, Shawn (John), Corrie, Leslie, Jodie (Phil), Greg, Krista, and Kerrie (Paul), plus 8 great grandchildren, Paige, Rylie, Cameron, Brendan, McKenzie, Hudson, Hayven, and Eloise, and 1 great-great grandchild on the way. He was preceded in death by his parents, Winfield and Agnes Emmans, brother Dale, sisters Helen and Doris. We would like to thank the staff and health care providers for the great care they gave Don. A Private Funeral service will be held at a later date, due to the COVID-19 restrictions. Memorials may be made to St. Therese Nursing Home of New Hope for PPE, or Faith Lilac Way Lutheran Church of Robbinsdale.  Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Parker, Joan "Joanne" Arlene age 86. Preceded in death by parents, Carroll and Alfreda Parker; sister, Marilyn Johnson. Survived by sister, Beverly Moen, niece, Sharon Pickett, nephews Gregory Johnson, Bryan (Shelley) Moen, Terry Moen; great nieces, Angela, Andrea, Lindsay, Kristin, Katie, Erica; great nephew Michael; great grandniece, Stella; great grandnephew, Ian. Joan was born in Wadena, MN and lived in Minneapolis, MN, IL, IN and St. Paul, MN. Most of her life she cared for her parents. She enjoyed following her nephews and grandnieces in their school activities and sporting events, Private Memorial service will held with interment at Sunset Memorial Park, Minneapolis, MN. Memorials are preferred to the family. O'Halloran & Murphy 651-698-0796
Lalim, Lorraine On April 23, 2020 at the age of 101 God put his arms around Lorraine Lalim and lifted her peacefully to heaven to be reunited with her husband and family who preceded her in death. Lorraine was born in Hayti, SD to Isaac and Ellenor Anderson. Lorraine was educated in the Hayti public schools in Hayti SD. She attended Huron College and the University of MN where she graduated with a degree in Elementary Education. Lorraine began her teaching career in South Dakota in 1939 and later taught in the Bloomington Public Schools until her retirement in 1987. Lorraine married Andrew Lalim and they had 3 children. She is survived by her children, Scott (Karla), Susan (Perry) Kranz, and Jan (Michael) Murphy; 6 grandchildren, Andrew, Nicholas, and Matthew Lalim, Jill and Jacob Kranz and Lindsay Murphy; and sister, Jewel Lalim.  Werness Brothers 952-884-8145
Wagner, Victoria A. (Leiter) Age 50 of South Minneapolis passed away peacefully on April 19th, 2020. Victoria was born on July 7, 1969 and grew up in Tipp City, Ohio, graduated from Tippecanoe High School and Saint Catherine University. She was a devoted Wife, Mother, and Grandmother. Among other things, Victoria liked to entertain, cook, bicycle, was a voracious reader, adventure seeker, and spent time with her family. She always lit up any room with her bright and cheerful smile, a social butterfly who could befriend anyone. She impressed upon so many an everlasting legacy of love and perseverance. Survived by her loving husband, Daniel; children, Shelby (Donald), Maxwell, and Mitchell; step-daughter, LeeAnna (Chris) and grandchildren, Austin and Triston; parents, Barbara and Kenton Leiter; brother, Mark (Ann); brothers-in-law, John (Brenda), James (Linda), Joseph (Kris), and Eugene (Saundra); sisters-in-law, Susan (Allen) and Juliann Tripp. There will never be another one like her and we are so very lucky to have had her in our lives. She is now at Peace with God now and forever and we will never forget the life she gave us all. Thank you all who were friends of Victoria and truly made her life whole. There will be a celebration of her life to take place in the late Summer or early Fall (delay due to COVID-19). All those who wish the attend to celebrate her life are welcome and encouraged to do so. Another notice to follow this Summer when the COVID-19 issues have subsided.  Nokomis Park Chapel 612-721-1651
Thai Thi Thu-Ngoan passed away peacefully on April 21, 2020 at 97 years of age. Born in 1923 in Hue, Viet Nam, she moved to Minnesota, USA in 1978 where she taught English as a Second Language, French, and Spanish for 25 years at Central Senior High School and mostly at Highland Park Senior High School, in Saint Paul, Minnesota. Mrs. Thai holds language degrees from England, France and Spain. While working, she also went back to school and obtained her Master of Art degree in Education, Cum Laude, from the University of Minnesota. She is preceded in death by her husband, Dr. Tran Van Du. She is survived by her three daughters and her son and their respective spouses, eight grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Due to the current worldwide pandemic, her memorial service will be limited to her immediate family. Condolences will be graciously accepted by her son, Dan Tran, at 641 Evans Court, Shoreview, MN 55126.
Anderson, Evelyn Viktoria "Vikki" age 95, of Minneapolis, passed away quietly at home at York Gardens on April 9, 2020. Born of Swedish immigrant parents, Sigfrid and Hannah Anderson from Bckaby, Smland, she is also preceded by her brother Everett and sister-in-law Carol Anderson of Bloomington. Survived by niece Gail Hill (John) and family, nephew Joel Anderson (Becky) and family, and close cousins in Sweden and 2nd cousins in Minnesota: Kerstin Palm, Ann Palm and Marie Palm Shank (John), and many extended relatives. Evelyn Viktoria retired to Edina after her adventurous 37-year career in US Government Foreign Service, working overseas at US embassies and consulates helping Americans with passports and visas at many posts of 4 years each: Ottawa, Panama, Mexico, India, China, Germany, Norway, Fiji, and Indonesia. Private graveside family burial May 1 at Sunset Cemetery, Mpls. Memorial Service pending. Memorials to American Swedish Institute or charity of your choice. Special thanks to York Gardens' staff and residents for making Vikki feel at home and well cared for. 
Otto, John E. passed away in Norman, OK, on April 22, 2020, at 81 years of age. He was born in St. Paul, MN and graduated from St. Cloud State College where he earned his B.S. Degree. John is survived by his beloved wife Marilyn of 59 years; son, John Otto, DVM, and wife Patti; and daughter, Jody Ganzermiller and husband Chuck. He deeply loved his grandchildren, Grant Otto, Tayler Antol, Payton Otto and Joey Ganzermiller; and his great grandson, Dakohta Cockrill. John was the oldest of 5 boys and is survived by two brothers, Jim Otto and Jeff Otto. Otto enrolled in the Oakland, CA Police Department (PD) where he became valedictorian of his class. While delivering the commencement speech, an FBI Agent was in the audience and immediately told the Oakland PD he was going to take their best candidate and make him an FBI Agent. And, that he did in 1964! Otto joined the FBI, quickly advancing to inspector and supervisory positions. After serving as Special Agent in Charge (SAC) of the Minneapolis and then Chicago field offices, he became the Executive Assistant Director (EAD) of Law Enforcement Services. In 1987, Judge William H. Webster appointed Otto to serve as Acting Director of the FBI. In 1990, Otto received the first Medal of Meritorious Achievement. On his retirement the same year, Otto became the Director of Security for Delta Airlines. John E. Otto is deeply loved and will be sorely missed by everyone who knew him. Due to the pandemic, a memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Parkinson Foundation of Oklahoma, 720 W. Wilshire, Suite 109, Oklahoma City, OK 73116.
Folger, Otto Henry Jr. Age 85 of St. Paul. Otto was born in St. Paul, Minnesota on December 17, 1934, the son of Jane (Andersen) and Otto Folger Sr. He graduated from Harding High School where he met the love of his life, Carol Ann Ihrig. After graduation, he was drafted into the United States Army. He served as a Specialist Third Class from July 1955 to May 1957, and within the United States Army Reserves until July of 1963. Otto married Carol Ann Ihrig on May 10, 1958 at Hazel Park Congregational Church on Minnehaha Avenue. They first made their home at an apartment on Hazel Street and later built a home on Fremont Street where they raised their 3 children, Doug, Ronnie, and Sue. When the children were younger, he was a coach in all of their sporting events. Of all the activities, his favorite to coach his children in was baseball. Otto worked in the newspaper trade for over 44 years and retired from the Star Tribune in 1996. He was a union official for most his career and was a Vice President of M4. Outside of his work and family, Otto enjoyed golfing, bowling, and watching sports. After he retired, they began traveling a lot with Carol's sister, Lois. Their favorite destinations were Arizona and Florida. Every Sunday afternoon, Otto would take Carol's mother, Grace, out for a drive. He embraced the close knit family that he found on Carol's side. Otto could not keep still and always found something to do. Through work, there was a yearly bowling competition called the Bowler-Roo and his team was called "Otto's Angels." Otto was known for his very outgoing and social personality. He loved to know what his family and friends were up to at all times. He will be missed by all who knew him. Otto passed away peacefully at his home on Monday, April 20, 2020 with his family by his side. He is preceded in death by his parents, Jane and Otto Folger Sr.; brother, Donnie Folger; sister, Mary Folger; and his sister-in-law, Lois (Willard) Johnson. He will be dearly missed by his wife of 62 years, Carol Ann Folger of St. Paul; his children, Douglas (Audrey) Folger of Shoreview, Ronald (Julie) Folger of Oakdale, and Susan (Michael) Scheid of Maplewood; his grandchildren, Keasha (Stephen) Fahey, Brian Folger, Lindsey (Andrew) Pruden, Erik Folger, Matthew Scheid, Anthony Scheid, and Kaitlyn Folger; his great-grandchildren, Taylor and Finley "Finn"; niece, Nancy Andresen; great-nephew, Sam Andresen; "The Empress" also known as Emma; and many other family and friends. There will be a private gathering for Otto's family this summer. Oakwood Funeral Home 
Lindberg, Dorothy Marie April 16, 1932 April 23, 2020 Preceded in death by her husband, Delmar; parents, Dean and Edith Martin. Dorothy is survived by her children, William (Deborah), James (Karen), Ken (Theresa), Cheryl (Neal) Landeau; nine grandchildren; two great-grandchildren. Dorothy was born and raised in Atlanta, GA. She was a member of Elim Baptist Church. Dorothy dedicated her life to raising her beloved four children and will be deeply missed by all. Service will be announced at a later date. Gearhart Funeral Home 
Klein, Marion Goldetsky Age 87, of St. Louis Park (formerly St. Paul) passed away peacefully April 24 after a brief battle with Covid-19 and a long struggle with Alzheimer's. She will be missed by her husband of 66 years Gary; her children, Jennifer (Stuart) Shacter, Jeffrey (Morissa) Klein, Michael (Rachel) Klein, Steven (Dayna) Klein; grandchildren, Alana (Nick), Jonathan (Michele), Sarah (Scott), Mitchell (Annie), Rebecca, Joshua, Jesse, Jordan, and the great 8 - Richard, Alexander, Isaac, Olivia, Sophie, Ben, Max & Arielle. Marion grew up in St. Paul (just 2 blocks from Gary), graduated from Central High School, and fell in love with Gary at the University of Minnesota. She proudly raised her family within the Jewish community, was a dedicated friend, and was committed to celebrating milestone events. When she wasn't busy with family and friends, Marion was a tireless, and perpetual volunteer in the St. Paul Jewish community focusing her boundless energy and passion primarily with Hadassah and Sholom. Our family thanks the incredibly caring staff at the Methodist Hospital ICU and Leo & Doris Hodroff Pavilion for Memory Care, as well as personal caregivers Julie, Nelya, and Chris. Memorials preferred to Hadassah or the Sholom Foundation. A private family service will be held. Hodroff-Epstein 612-871-1234 
Meyer, John David 1958 2020 Age 61. Preceded in death by parents Moe and Marcy Meyer and sister-in-law Kathy. He is survived by his wife Kris and his beloved daughters Chelsea, Katie, and Kimberly, siblings Mike, Kate, Dan, Bob, Ann, Mary, Jane, and Joe, sisters and brothers-in-law, many nieces and nephews, and faithful companion Bad Dog Eddie. Countless friends far and wide. A self-employed, gifted carpenter his entire career. An honest and hard-working man, lover of adventure and avid fisherman. He would do anything for anyone. Irreplaceable and always in our hearts. A celebration of John's life will be held at a later date.  763-783-1100
Goodwyne, David M. On Monday, April 20, 2020, David passed away at the age of 55, nine months after being diagnosed with cancer. David was preceded in death by his father, John and survived by his mother Lucille (Dick Lundy), sister Tricia (Jeff Corey), daughter Natalie, son John, mother of his children Melanie, stepmom Lynn, girlfriend Mish Eggers, uncle Rick Gerardo (Debbie), step-siblings Amy, Megan and Jeremy, cousin Renee and many loving friends. Born in Michigan, David grew up in Minnesota graduating in 1988 with a Mechanical Engineering degree from the University of Minnesota and spent his entire career as a fire suppression engineer. David worked for JN Johnson until he became the owner in 2005. In 2016, he sold the business to LVC Companies, where he held the position of Senior Suppression Engineer until shortly before his death. He was a member of Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church serving as Elder, Treasurer, member of the building committee and general fix-it person. David was a member of The Breakfast Club of Minneapolis where he served recently as president and a member of No-Namers, a fire protection business group. David will be missed for his easy-going and loving nature, his smile, laugh, dependability and eagerness to help. Memorials can be made to Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church or Minnesota Public Radio. A memorial service will occur at a later date.
Hovden, Ruth Ruth, 98, of Robbinsdale, made her peaceful spiritual transition on March 15, 2020. She was born in Dodge Center, MN and graduated from Hayfield High School, and Winona State University. Ruth was a devoted wife, a wonderful mother, and a proud grandmother! Her intelligence, creativeness, convictions, and sense of family guided her actions and choices. She read the paper and watched the News each day. She was an active member of Valley of Peace Lutheran Church and formerly of Central Lutheran Church. She served in several capacities for the Girl Scouts, and was a volunteer Election Judge for years. Ruth facilitated family gatherings and reunions, providing connections with extended family. She & Merlin enjoyed traveling the world after he retired. She loved attending her children's and grandchildren's graduations, concerts, & performances. She was often heard saying, "We never guess, we look it up!", and a favorite quote was: "The world is a book, and those who do not travel read only a page." She combined her passions for family genealogy and travel, taking her children and grandchildren on trips to explore the countries of their ancestors and to meet extended family in Norway and Denmark. Ruth leaves a legacy of love of family, education, & travel. She is survived by her 5 children: Bernie (Alicia Sanchez), Janice (Al) McClellan, Karen (Jon) Seashore, Margaret (Dan) McDonald, Mary Hovden (John Roll); 9 grandchildren: Jill (Tim), Scott (Brandy), Kristen (Dave), Carolyn, Lauren (Mike), Joshua, Chava (Rebecka), Kari, Michael; 2 great grandchildren: Anna, Vida; her sister Barbara; sister-in-law Helen; and numerous nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by her husband of 51 years, Merlin Hovden; her parents; her brothers Monroe and Charles; & her sister Eileen. A Celebration of Life for Ruth will be held at a later date. Memorials: Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation or Valley of Peace Endowment & Memorial Trust
Rundquist, Carl age 75, of Arden Hills, died peacefully at home surrounded by family on April 22, 2020. Carl was born April 10, 1945 in Minneapolis, son of Carl and Marie Rundquist. He graduated from Washburn High School and St. Olaf College and did graduate studies at the University of Minnesota. After serving with the 101st Airborne Division of the army in Viet Nam, Carl worked in administration for Hennepin County for 34 years. Carl had a wry sense of humor and was an armchair philosopher who enjoyed reading about history and the state of the world. He loved spending time with his family traveling to Grand Marais, Santa Fe, Canada, and Texas. He was greatly loved and will be deeply missed. He is survived by his wife of 52 years Suellen (ne Olson) and his children, Annemarie (Jan) Solon of St. Paul and Nicolas (Marnie) Rundquist of Round Rock, Texas. A service of celebration of life will be held at Christ the King Lutheran Church in New Brighton at a date to be determined. Memorials to Christ the King Lutheran Church, Regions Hospital Foundation, or a charitable organization of your choice.
Henslin, Rodney Lowell Born February 4, 1925 Died April 23, 2020. Rodney passed away peacefully on April 23, 2020. He was 95 years young. Rod was born in Saint Paul to Edwin and Mary (Parker) Henslin in 1925. He grew up in the Rondo neighborhood in the shadow of the Saint Paul Cathedral and attended Mechanic Arts High School. At age 15, he met Lorraine de Louismet and at age 19, during a two week leave in his service as a Navy Pilot, they were married. For the next 74 years they were an inseparable team until Lorraine's passing in 2017. No doubt they are now dancing together in heaven. An amazing father, Rod was also a registered architect in 13 states and had an impressive career designing medical facilities. He pioneered the circular hospital design at Regions Hospital, and designed major medical centers including Mayo, Massachusetts General, Beth Israel Medical Center, Mary Hitchcock Hospital, Health Partners Clinics and numerous Shrine Burn and Disability Medical Centers. Rod also designed and personally built two residences, the second while in his 70's. He was responsible, courageous, kind and very creative making many pieces of furniture for his family and friends. His smile and twinkling blue eyes lit up every room he entered. His legacy as a dedicated and loving Christian husband and father will be remembered for generations. Rod is preceded in death by his loving wife, Lorraine, his brother Donald Henslin (Gladys) and his grandson Anthony Roame (Brenda). Rodney is survived by his three daughters Nadean Yoakum (Phil), Shaleen Korpi (Gary) and Holly Link (Brian), grandchildren Braden Yoakum (Jody), Jay Yoakum (Ashley), Joseph Korpi (Joanne), Adam Link (Hana Main), Brittany Brown (Travis) and great grandsons Joshua and Josiah Korpi. Rod was a true gentleman loved by many friends, especially his bible study group at Eagle Brook Church in White Bear, and the staff of Summit Place Senior Living in Eden Prairie. Special thanks to Methodist Hospice and Touching Hearts at Home for making his final day peaceful. Private interment at Fort Snelling. Celebration of Life to be scheduled at a later date. MuellerMemorial.com 651-429-4944
Dressel, Orville "Butch" age 81, Orono, MN passed away peacefully at home April 24, 2020. Preceded in death by parents, Martin and Ann Dressel; wife, Rosemary; brother, Jim Heitz; and sister, Jeanette Maas. Survived by daughters, Brenda (Mark) Thorson, Julie (Jeff) Goettl and Christine (Bryan) Corcoran, and Michelle (Brent) Meiners; grandchildren, Brad and Kaitlin Corcoran and Jack, Dylan and Ellie Meiners; brothers, Leroy (Barb), Rich (Karen), Robert (Judy) and Gerald (Lorraine) Dressel; sisters, Bernice (Richard) Jolicoeur and Diane Meagher. He was born in Mound, MN and grew up with a family of eight brothers and sisters providing him with his love of family life which directed his life's journey. His joys in life were dancing with his wife of 59 years; the numerous fishing trips with his brothers; camping trips; hosting family holiday celebrations and fish frys; playing cards and dice. An avid fisherman, he enjoyed spending time on the lake and sharing his catch with neighbors and friends. After serving in the Navy, he worked as a Compounding Manager at The Lamaur Corporation for 35 years. He actively served at the Church of St George and was a member of the Knights of Columbus. His love and devotion to his wife, boisterous story telling skills, passion for the outdoors and MN sports, and the smiley faces he drew when he successfully completed his word puzzles are the memories that will be cherished. A memorial service will be held at a later date at the Church of St George. Rettinger Funeral Home Long Lake-Orono 952-473-6954
Kelley, Geraldine I. age 95 of Burnsville, passed away on April 24, 2020. Preceded in death by husband, Ronald. Survived by children, Travis (Audrie) Whitlow and Sheila (Steven) Brandt, also by other relatives. Private funeral service will be held at the White Funeral Home in Burnsville. Condolences: 
Johnson, Nancy Therese age 84 of New Brighton, passed away at home on Monday, April 20, 2020. Preceded in death by her husband, Sidney Johnson; parents, Harry and Wanda Owecke; and brother, Jerome Owecke. Nancy is survived by her children, Valerie Johnson, New Brighton, Beth Huber (Tom), Boseman, MT, Christopher (Julie) Mounds View and Leah Thomas (Rick), Fridley; grandchildren, Joseph and Daniel Blumberg, Alaine Smith, Adriane Melillo, Amy, April and Emily Huber, Lauren Johnson, and Sydney Thomas, great-grandchildren, Luke and Bennet Smith, Anthony and Meadow Melillo; sister, Marie Moore, St Paul; and very special cousin David Ritter, Winona. Nancy was born on March 15, 1936 in Winona, MN. She graduated from Cotter High School. She married Sidney Johnson in 1957. She had 4 children. She dedicated her life to her husband and their children. She enjoyed visits to Winona watching the MN Twins while volunteering in the community, playing bridge and was an avid Lewis and Clark historian. She leaves many fond memories of special times with her grand- children. Private interment with the immediate family will take place at Fort Snelling National Cemetery and a memorial service will take place at a later date. Memorials preferred to the Ralph Reeder Food Shelf, Mounds View, MN.  New Brighton Chapel 651-636-9821
Haug, John David 67, of Rosemount, MN, passed away peacefully at home on April 19th, 2020 after a one year bout with cancer. He was surrounded by his loving family. Born in La Crosse, WI, he was the youngest of ten children born to his late parents Orel and Marie Haug. He is survived by his wife Elise Haug of 41 years, and sons Sean (fiance Taylor) and Colin Haug, among many other siblings, cousins, nieces, nephews, and friends. He was an avid Minnesota sports fan and enjoyed working in his yard, summer grilling, and traveling the world in retirement. His humor, love, and generosity towards his family will be deeply missed. A celebration of life and a memorial service at Fort Snelling National Cemetery will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers he had requested memorial donations to The Animal Humane Society of Golden Valley, Minnesota.
Miller, Miyoko Suematsu passed away April 17, 2020; age of 91. She was born April 25, 1928 in Tokyo, Japan, the youngest daughter of Jinkichi and Waka (Ota) Suematsu. Miyoko & Carl Raymond Miller met and fell in love while he was stationed in Japan. They married and had Carl Jr. (son) on Jan 7, 1950. Carl Sr and Jr. moved to the US in Oct 1955. Miyoko took a ship from Yokohama, Japan to Vancouver to join her little family in the US in May 1958. This was just the beginning of her new life with her "Little Family". Miyoko was preceded in death by her parents, siblings, and her husband, Carl. She is survived by her son Carl (Jeannie) Miller Jr., of Bloomington, MN, daughter Linda Forsman and Stacy Bennett, of Richfield, MN, four grandchildren Stephanie Smith, Kelly Miller, Matthew (Sara) Miller, Karla Forsman, and her five great-grandchildren Maddy Smith, Alex Smith, Austin Smith, Wesley Miller, Maddox Miller, and her sister, our sweet Mabel Schallock, of Parkers Prairie, Minnesota. She became a U.S. citizen in May 1972, while never forgetting her Japanese heritage. This was just one of a million amazing things she did! She loved and lived for her little family and many friends to the nth degree. She was humble, grateful and loved without conditions. She inspired us all, had the best advice about life, showed us all to love and love some more, be kind, to gut laugh every day, to learn something new, to continuously change, be a better person, cook, eat and share. She experienced hardships most of us will never comprehend yet was still the most thankful person in any room. She was the most wonderful gift to us all, with loving hands, a smile that instilled calmness and love! She was the brightest, happiest light of our lives and life will never be the same without her. On April 17th at 5:24 in the evening, Heaven became a more joyous place with our Mom's arrival. Hi dad! A Celebration of Miyoko's life will be held at a later date. cremationsocietyofmn.com
Ebbenga, Dianne Marie Age 70 of Savage, passed away on April 23, 2020. Condolences:  and cards mailed to Ballard-Sunder Funeral Home, 104 1st St. W, Jordan, MN 55352. Survived by daughters, Theresa Ebbenga, Tanya (Seifu) Alemu; grandchildren, Courtney, Nicholas, Zachary, Ethan, Rebecca; siblings, David (Cyndi) Dirks, Donna (Lloyd) Gardner. Preceded in death by husband, Rodney; brother, Dwayne (Patsy) Dirks; parents, Robert and Elizabeth Dirks. BallardSunderFuneral.com 952-447-2633
Hougnon, John Joseph 89 of Edina, passed away April 20, 2020 at Brookdale Edina Senior Living. Born in St. Paul, Minnesota, he was a 1948 graduate of Cretin High School, a graduate of the University of St. Thomas and a graduate of the University of Minnesota School of Journalism and Mass Communication. He served in the Army as an Analyst in an Intelligence Unit near Kadena Air Base in Okinawa, Japan. John worked at 3M in Communications and Public Relations for 25+ years retiring in 1992. Even after his retirement, John signed all correspondence (including birthday cards!) "JJH ex-3Mer". He loved writing and contributed to several newsletters including editing and writing for the Brookdale Resident Newsletter. John loved baseball and enjoyed coaching his son and assisting with his grandchildren's teams. John was a passionate MN sports fan, and he loved creating "tabs" for his favorite teams with colorful pens and graph paper. John is preceded in death by parents Thomas and Ermel Hougnon; brother Jim Hougnon; first wife Annella Hougnon, second wife Susan Hougnon and his treasured cat, Motley. He is survived by his daughters, Michele (Peter) Spiller, Scottsdale, AZ, Mary Benjamin, Edina, MN, Jane Hougnon (Lane Snider), Beaverton, OR; son, Tom (Kelly) Hougnon, St. Louis Park, MN; five grandchildren, Max, Zach (Scottsdale), Willie, Andy and Annella (Ann Arbor, MI); stepsons; Scott (Terri) Kallsen, Alameda, California, Sean (Andrea) Kallsen, Waterford, MI; stepdaughter, Tricia (Tad) Swedin, Cannon Falls; and nine step-grandchildren, Taylor, Elle, Sara, Nicole, Halle, Jack, Marissa, Samuel, and Sydney. He is also survived by his nephew Jonathan (Dianne) Hougnon, Las Vegas, NV and many other nieces and nephews. The family would like to thank Brookdale Edina Senior Center especially ET, Barb, Grace and Codi Nundahl from Brookdale Hospice. A Celebration of Life for the family will be held when it is safe to do so at a later time. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to Cretin- Derham Hall High School in memory of John Hougnon, Class of 1948, Advancement Office, 550 S. Albert St., St. Paul, MN 55116 or online at:  or call 1-651-696-3318.
Wierschem, Louise E. Age 95 of St. Therese Apartments, New Hope, passed away April 22, 2020. Preceded in death by husband Joe last May. Joe was a deacon at Holy Name of Jesus Church in Medina. Survived by children John (Diane) Wierschem; Dr. Catherine (Paul) Gatto, Joseph (Debra) Wierschem, Thomas (Mary) Wierschem, Barbara Wierschem and Mary Wierschem; 9 grandchildren and 11 great grandchildren; sister Frances Taube. Preceded in death by parents Earl and Hilda Wood and aunt Julia Christensen. Louise was a graduate of the University of Wisconsin. She married Joe Wierschem on August 30, 1947. They lived in Milwaukee and later in Minneapolis. Louise was a member of the MN Landscape Arboretum, the Minneapolis Institute of Art and the U of Wisconsin Alumni Association. She was active in Holy Name of Jesus parish and Cursillo. Private Mass of Christian Burial Friday, May 1, 2020 11 AM at the Church of The Holy Name of Jesus, 155 County Road 24, Medina. (to livestream service, go to / Louise Wierschem obit) Interment Holy Name Cemetery. Memorials preferred to Interfaith Outreach or Ascension School Gearty-Delmore 763-553-1411
Whalen, Marjorie A. (Hammer) Age 91, passed away April 21st. Preceded in death by son Tom Hammer. She was loved and will be deeply missed by children Kathy Lonsky, John (Barb) Hammer, and Cathy Hammer; grandchildren Sherri, Sheila, David, Matt, Jon, Billy, Jamie (and their spouses); great grandchildren and many dear relatives and friends.
Fox, Thomas Peter 87, went to his eternal reward on April 24th, after complications from a stroke. Born in Osage, IA, February 21st, 1933; graduated Osage High School 1952; Started the Wrestling Program at Loras College, Dubuque, IA and graduated 1956; Honorably discharged from the Army after serving in Europe in 1958; Long-time accountant in Golden Valley, MN and founder of Fox and Fox CPAs (1975), where his business goal was "Just Helping People" retiring at age 83. A lover of the outdoors, Tom took each of his children's families on fly-in fishing trips to Canada, also taking his children elk hunting in Colorado, pheasant hunting in Iowa and South Dakota and many other excursions. He was also an avid golfer and in his later years made many friends at the woodworking shop in Edina. Survived by his loving wife of 59 years, Bernadine; six children Michael (Julie), David (Maria), Paul (Kara), Maria Weber (Mike), Daniel (Christina) and Joseph (Katie); and 16 grandchildren Jake, Bill, Eric, Sam, Elizabeth, Tyler, Nathan, Chad, Matt, Nick, Tommy, Noah, Alex, Kaydence, Melodie, and Joseph Jr. Also survived by siblings Dorothy Popp, Carolyn Johnson (Duane), Joe (Kathy) and Ed (Donna). Private family funeral Mass Tuesday, April 28th 10 AM at Good Shepherd Church. Memorial Mass to be offered at a later date. Catholic education was very important to Tom, in lieu of flowers, memorials preferred to Good Shepherd Catholic School,  To livestream the Mass, go to             Fox obit. Gearty-Delmore 763-537-4511
Pitheon, Richard Joseph October 6, 1932 - April 21, 2020 Age 87 of Minneapolis, passed away while living at Walker Methodist Nursing Home. A joint Memorial Service is scheduled on Saturday, May 16th, 11 am with visitation starting 9:00 am at Cremation Society of MN, 4343 Nicollet Avenue South, Minneapolis, MN. Reception will follow the service. 
Remer, Joan Barbara (Stumpf) Age 80 of St. Louis, Park, MN passed away on April 24, 2020. Joan passed from advanced Alzheimer's and COVID-19. Preceded in death by son, John Remer and wife Colleen, and daughter, Cheryl Lechner. Survived by loving and caring husband of 60 years, Gerald, and children: Nancy (Bob) Hughes, Scott (Linda) Remer, Tammy (Jim) Myers and son-in-law Frank Lechner, 17 grandchildren, 12 great grandchil-dren and many brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. The family would like to thank our friends and family for their support and prayers over the past several years. A celebration of Joan's life will be held at a later date. Gearty-Delmore 952-926-1615 
Johnson, Mary Eleanor (Bennett) Johnson, Mary Eleanor (Bennett) Age 89 of Edina passed away peacefully with her husband at her side on April 24, 2020 at Brookdale Edina. Mary was born June 28, 1930 in Jamestown, ND to Ida and Charles Bennett. She is preceded in death by her parents, Ida and Charles; brothers, Charles, Jr., Richard, Stanley, and Jean; sister Bev; sisters-in-law, Minerva and Lucy; beloved niece, Sharon; and sweet great-grandbaby, Ira. She is survived by husband of 69 years, Winfield (Win or Jim); children, Jeannine (Johnson) Richison and Sidney Richison; James Johnson and Colleen (McCaleb) Johnson; and Judith Johnson; four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren; plus a host of other treasured in-laws, nieces and nephews. As a child, Mary moved from Jamestown to Montevideo, MN where she graduated from high school in 1948. She attended MN School of Business in Minneapolis and married Win in 1951. The Johnson family lived in several states but, ultimately, settled in Fresno, CA for 39 years. Mary worked as an administrative secretary at Fresno County Hospital, serving physicians who headed a number of departments, and, concurrently, she attended courses at Fresno State, earning both a B.A. and an M.A. In 2006 Mary and Win returned to Minnesota. She dabbled at a number of creative arts but especially loved reading, gardening, watching sports, and caring for her family. World travel was a passion of Mary's, and nothing thrilled her more than capturing a photograph of a wild animal in its natural habitat. Mary was a devout Christian and was moved deeply by her two trips to Israel. Nothing consoles her family more than knowing she "slipped the surly bonds of earth to touch the face of God." Private interment at Lakewood Cemetery.
Sunness Wilson, Jodee July 23, 1956 April 20, 2020 Jodee Wilson, 63, of Golden Valley, Minnesota, passed away suddenly on April 20, 2020, and went to her heavenly home. Born on July 23, 1956 in Minneapolis, Minnesota, she was the youngest daughter of John and Dolores Sunness. She is survived by the love of her life and devoted husband of 20 years, Patrick Wilson; brother Alan Bringle (Patricia) of Richfield, MN; sister Alana Sunness Griffith (John) of Sarasota, FL; nephews Adam Griffith, James Bringle (Emily), Kenneth Bringle (Jeanne), and Joel Bringle (Laurie); numerous grand-nieces and grand-nephews; and Patrick's sisters: Diane Scheremet (Pete) of Edina, MN and Marjorie Lee Hane (Tom) of Edina, MN. Jodee attended Pilgrim Lutheran School in south Minneapolis from kindergarten through 8th grade, and then transferred to Golden Valley High School, graduating in 1974. She continued her post-secondary education at North Hennepin Community College. After graduation, she started her business career working in the travel industry and leaving that job to become an employee of Minnesota-based Northwest Airlines. Because of her father's love of flying as a private pilot, Jodee always had an interest in aviation. She took several years of flight lessons, passed all the assigned tests, but did not take the final solo test for her license. She laughingly said she was an "almost" pilot! She had a passion for poodles, and through the years had 3 beautiful dogs she loved very much. Those who knew her, knew Jodee loved to entertain people, often demonstrating her belly dancing skills, and other performance entertainment. She and her husband, Patrick, frequently entertained at senior nursing facilities. Jodee always was working on new challenges. She taught herself to hula hoop and, with her husband as videographer, she loved to make videos to show to all her family and friends. Jodee learned to make fleece blankets and would donate them to Project Linus to help children in need. Jodee and her husband volunteered their time to help with the Alzheimer's Association. In lieu of flowers, the family suggest contributions to King of Grace Lutheran Church, 600 Duluth Street, Golden Valley, MN 55422; or Animal Humane Society, 845 Meadow Lane N., Golden Valley, MN 55422; Alzheimer's Association, 7900 West 78th Street, Suite 100, Minneapolis, MN 55439; Union Gospel Mission Twin Cities. Private funeral arrangements provided by Sunset Funeral Home. A celebration of Jodee's life will be held at a later date. Sunset Funeral Home 
Tamsett, Maryhelen age 73, of Grand Rapids MN, passed away on April 21, 2020. Preceded in death by sister Sharon Le Voir, brother Roderick Le Voir. Survived by sister Gloria Branden, nephew Jason Branden, niece Laura (Bill) Le Voir-Barry and extended family. Celebration of Life to be held at a later date.
Doyle, Patrick T. Age 86 of Minneapolis, born July 11, 1933 in Minneapolis to Harold & Alice Doyle, passed away peacefully at home April 15, 2020 surrounded by family. Patrick served in the U S Air Force and worked in the VA for 30 years. He was also very proud of his 46 years of sobriety. He will be dearly missed by his wife of 61 years, Arline; 4 daughters; 2 sons-in-law; 9 grandchildren; 2 great-grandchildren and sister, Alice Marie. His son-in-law, Kris Wittwere welcomed our father with open arms. A celebration of life will be held at a later date. Henry W. Anderson (612) 729-2331 
Stricker, Ruth (DeBeer) March 12, 1935 - April 14, 2020 Ruth Ann Stricker of Deephaven, Minnesota, passed away peacefully on April 14, 2020. Connected in love and gratitude for her immeasurable contributions over the course of a remarkable life, Ruth's family, friends and professional colleagues around the world honor this visionary of the health and wellness industry. Founder of The Marsh, A Center for Balance and Fitness in Minnetonka, Ruth was an industry icon and pioneer in mind-body work. She integrated Eastern and Western practices in her personal and professional life; her philosophy offering a "liberal arts approach to health." In Ruth's words, "The resiliency of the human spirit makes it possible for us to find a sense of wellbeing in our lives... that our challenge is to be emotionally resilient and physically healthy to handle change and stress." Ruth believed: "health and fitness are not the chief goal in life but rather the potential to be good citizens of the earth." She gave of her energy and resources to diverse local and national organizations, including her alma mater Macalester College, the International Spa Association, Abbott Northwestern Hospital, the Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation, the University of Minnesota Earl E. Bakken Center for Spirituality and Healing, the Minneapolis Institute of Art (MIA), and many other causes that spoke to her. Preceded in death by her beloved husband Bruce B. Dayton, and her parents Eleanor and Peter DeBeer, Ruth is survived by her daughter and son-in-law Kim and Bob Griffin; grandchildren Grace and Jack; son Mark Stricker; brother and sister-in-law Paul and Kathleen DeBeer; former spouse David Stricker; and her ever faithful yellow lab, Beau. A gathering to celebrate Ruth's wonderful life will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, please consider making a donation on her behalf to Interfaith Outreach (iocp.org) or the Lupus Foundation of America (lupus.org).
Posey, Ada Louise 62, succumbed to a cerebral hemorrhage on April 5, 2020 at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Maryland. A native Minnesotan, Ada matriculated at 16 and was a graduate of Carlton college. Ada became State Chairperson of the successful Clinton/Gore campaign and was appointed Director of Administration of the Clinton White House, a position she held from 1993 to 2001. Ada went on to serve as a human resource management executive for the Raytheon Corporation in Sterling, Virginia, and later held that same position for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority in Washington, D.C. A former member of the Links of Minneapolis, and the Links of Washington, D.C. Ada was a committed political activist, a human rights advocate, an entrepreneur, and a dedicated humanitarian. A virtual memorial service is planned for a future date.
Lundquist, Elizabeth "Betty" Helen Died April 22, 2020. Daughter of Harris and Zoe Smith, she was born July 24, 1920, in Laurium, Mich. Graduated from Duluth Central High School in 1938. In the Twin Cities, Betty was doing office work at an iron supply business, when a charming salesman Vernon Lundquist approached and stole her heart. They were married in 1947, and eventually settled in Minnetonka. Betty held several jobs, but especially enjoyed being office secretary at Sunset Hill School in Plymouth, where she made new friends young and old. Betty enjoyed traveling the world, fishing with Vern at Dunn's Lake and making onion pie! Through the Arthritis Foundation, she taught water aerobics at Ridgedale YMCA into her early 90s. Betty was preceded in death by husband, Vern, brothers, Harris, John (Jack) and James (Bud) and daughters, Joan Brinkworth and Susan Combe. Survived by daughter, Barbara DeGroot (Mtka.), sons-in-law, Bruce Brinkworth (Canmore, Alberta, Can.), Bob DeGroot (Mtka.) and Paul Combe (Casper, Wy.), plus fantastic grandchildren, great-grandkids, nieces and nephews. There will be a celebration of Betty's life at a future date. Memorials preferred to the Ridgedale YMCA. David Lee Funeral Home Wayzata 952-473-5577 
Note, JoAnn age 88 of Plymouth. Passed away peacefully on April 22. Preceded in death by brother, James Note and sisters, Donna Manders and Veronica Duwenhoegger. Survived by her sister, Shirley Greelis and many nieces, nephews, cousins and friends. A private Mass of Christian Burial will be held at St. Raphael Catholic Church.  Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Carlston, Marilyn "Mickey" 05/03/1934 - 04/23/20 Marilyn passed away peacefully on Thursday, April 23rd in her sleep, ending her two-year battle with Dementia. She was born in Canby, MN and grew up in Minneapolis. She grew up in "Linden Hills" of Mpls. and attended SW High School. Raised her 3 boys in Bloomington, next to Jefferson High School. Mickey was a real estate closer for 30+ years. The mother to her 3 sons, Mike (Melanie) Carlston, Jeff (Riki) Carlston and Scott (Kristine) Carlston. An amazing grandma to 10 grand kids whom she loved to spoil: Morgan, Rachael, Marissa, Brandon, Ali, Cole, Dane, Emerson, Tyler and Blake and 5 great-grand-children. Family and real estate were her life! To ALL of the compassionate, happy, amazing, and loving caregivers at the New Eden Prairie Senior Living in Eden Prairie!!! Patty, Lisa, Kelly, Brianna, Ben, Kris, Rysper, Lynette and makeup artist Sabrina! THANK YOU- THANK YOU- THANK YOU- "Mom felt your love to the end!" A private burial will be held at Dawn Valley on.......A public celebration will be held at a later date.
Benson, Keith Allen Husband, father, grand- father, son, brother, friend and mentor, Keith passed away peacefully on April 20, 2020, in hospice care at Folkestone in Wayzata. Keith was born on April 17, 1944 in Fremont, Nebraska and raised in Waterloo, Iowa. He graduated from the University of Iowa with a degree in accounting and married Janet whom he had met on a blind date. Their marriage of 53 years started with moves all over the country but Minnesota captured their hearts and here they settled to raise their three children. Keith's heart, soul, spirit, inspiration and joy was his family. Nothing was more important to him. His concept of family was expansive, stemming from his treasured childhood memories of large gatherings with cousins, aunts and uncles and grandparents. He and Janet created a home where everyone was welcome and their kids' friends often showed up specifically to see them. He was famous for his elaborately themed New Year's Eve parties and summer poolside barbecues, and family reunions with expansive food spreads and raucous card games. He loved hamburgers, Gene Kelly, Buddy Holly, Kenny Loggins, Arnie Palmers, and the comics. He loved to tell a story, and he had the best laugh. He got down on his hands and knees without hesitation to play with his grandchildren, whenever they asked. He loved his "Janito" very much and routinely ignored their no-gifts pacts. They enjoyed a special 50th anniversary celebration surrounded by their family. Keith's business career had humble beginnings visiting dairy farmers through Carnation Company in Iowa. He found his niche in retail with Dayton Hudson Corporation and May Company before joining a division of Pickwick that would become The Musicland Group. In his 21 years at Musicland Keith held key roles including Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, leading the chain's growth to 1500 stores before its acquisition by Best Buy. He led with integrity and ethics long before doing so was fashionable. In retirement he served on various boards and professional committees, including Rotary of Edina and President of the Westin board in Edina, and enjoyed travel with friends. His was a life well lived and we miss him terribly. Good work, Beefer, good work. Keith is survived by his wife, Janet; his children, Brian (Debbie), Carrie (Jeff Stageberg) and Jill (Dave Holum); his adored grandchildren, Liam, Patrick, Cooper, Lexie, Danny, Kenzie, Nora, Haven and Ries; his mother, Frances (Sechovec) Benson; his brother Jeff (Anne); and loving extended family and friends. He was preceded in death by his father Allen and his brother Kim. Memorials preferred to Humor to Fight the Tumor Foundation, 16404 Eagle Ridge Drive, Minnetonka, MN 55345 ( thetumor.org/donate/), in memory of Keith Benson. We look forward to gathering to celebrate Keith's life at a future time.
Reger, Alfred C. "Al" Age 99 of Minneapolis, passed away peacefully April 10, 2020 from natural causes. Preceded in death by wife, Mary "Billie" Reger; son, James Reger; parents, James and Kathryn Reger; sister, Rita Snell; brothers, Marvin, Gordon, Thomas, Clifford and James Reger. Survived by daughter, Kathleen Reger; sons, John, Jerry and Kevin (Jennifer) Reger; grandchildren, Kelly, Ryne, Shaylynn, Burke, Mercedes and Shea (Courtney) Reger; great-grandchild, Boom Reger; brother, Jerry Reger; and many nieces and nephews. "It's been a great show and we had a hell of a run!" That was the phrase of gratitude Al Reger told his family he wanted to be remembered by. Al grew up in the Ascension Parish of North Minneapolis during the Great Depression in a family with 8 children. With a disabled father, Al was already earning money for the family in first grade, selling homemade doughnuts door-to-door. At De La Salle High School he became Class President and captain of the basketball team. He enlisted in the U.S Navy after World II broke out, serving as a Lieutenant J.G., pilot and flight instructor in the Hawaiian Islands. He met the love of his life on Maui in what he called a Hollywood movie romance: on an island with 250,000 servicemen and 5 female Navy nurses, he met Billie as they left morning Mass during Lent. As a Registered Nurse, she outranked Al when they first met. Throughout the years Al often joked that every morning he had to stand at attention and salute his Superior Officer. They were married in 1949 and raised 5 children in Robbinsdale. Al went on to become President of C.J. Duffey Paper Company. Dedicated to Catholic education, Al was instrumental in starting the Archdiocese's fundraising program, the construction of a new wing and church in St. Austin's parish and is credited with saving what is now Benilde-St. Margaret's High School after its announced closure in 1970. Family was always priority number one. A devoted husband, father and grandfather, his favorite times were laughing and talking, surrounded by the people he loved. Al's warmth and fun-loving sense of humor brightened the day of any visitor. Modest and compassionate, he never turned away anyone who came to him for advice, for help with troubles of any kind or just needing a shoulder to cry on. Al's true love was Billie. They enjoyed 70 years of marriage, sharing their deep Catholic faith and their love of family. When she passed away 11 weeks earlier he found peace in knowing she was waiting in heaven. A great light of the Greatest Generation has gone out. But Al's legacy will forever shine in the people and institutions he loved when they needed it most. Due to Covid-19 concerns a private service has already been held. Memorials preferred to Benilde-St. Margaret's High School, De La Salle High School or Church of the Ascension. Gearty-Delmore 763-537-4511 
Kraft, John H. John Harold Kraft, a loving husband and father, passed away on April 20th at the age of 78. He was born to Harold and Lucille Kraft on Dec. 13, 1941 in Worthington, Minnesota. After graduating from Brewster High School as class president, he attended the University of Minnesota, where he studied accounting before graduating from law school. In 1966, John moved to Olivia, MN to begin his law career at a firm that eventually became Willette, Kraft, Walser, Nelson & Hettig. He was elected Fellow of the American College of Trust and Estate Counsel for his work in the field and served as the MN Bar Association 12th District president. John proudly devoted 39 years to the practice, and today the firm is known as Kraft Walser Law Office. On April 20th, 1967, he married Susan Margrethe Simonet of Little Falls. His passing marked their 53rd wedding anniversary. Yearly fly-in fishing trips to Canada with his brothers and close friends were his ultimate passion. In addition to fishing and hunting, he was a devoted Gopher basketball fan where his long-standing seat was a frequent pre-game stop for friends and family. John loved his work and community, and also enjoyed a good card game. He is survived by his wife, Susan; children Paul (Yuka) Kraft, Laura (Mark) Ballou, and Lisa (Jeff) Malay; 6 grandchildren: Paige, Olivia, Ken, Brady, Andrew, Logan, and Michael. He is also survived by his mother, Lucille Kraft, sister, Jean (Robert) Nyhammer, and brothers, Joel (Cathy) Kraft, and Jim (Jean) Kraft. He was preceded in death by his father, Harold Kraft. A funeral and celebration of his life will be announced and held at a later date. Bertas Funeral Home, Chaska 
Johnson, Fern M. age 92 of New Hope, passed away April 23. She is preceded in death by husband, Ronald; sons, Thomas Berneck and Gerald Berneck and step-son, Eugene Johnson. Survived by daughter, Pamela Jo Johnson (Chris Lind); son, Michael Berneck (Anita); step-son, Calvin Johnson (Sue); 8 grandchildren, 13 great grandchildren; 2 great great grandchildren; many nieces and nephews. A private graveside service will take place at East Union Lutheran Cemetery, Carver, MN. Gearty-Delmore 763-537-4511 
Wethington, Joseph Francis, Ph.D., M.D. passed away April 20, 2020, due to complications of the novel coronavirus at the age of 93. He was born on August 11, 1926, in Huntington, West Virginia, where he was raised on a dairy farm by his parents, Joseph and Etta Wethington, along with five sisters. Dr. Wethington is survived by his wife, Ellen, and their six children and spouses: Michael (Wendy) Wethington, Anne Wethington, Margaret (John) Arnold, Joseph (Susan) Wethington, Elizabeth (Gary) Vaughan, Patrick (Kerry) Wethington, and grandchildren: Michael Joseph Jr. and Anna Marie Wethington (Thomas Myers); Claire, Patrick, Ellen and Matthew Arnold; Glenna and Grace Wethington; Michael Francis and Hannah Vaughan; & Madeline, Audrey, Jacqueline and Adeline Wethington and many loving nieces and nephews from throughout the country. He was preceded in death by infant daughter, Anna Marie, his parents, his sisters, Mary Catherine Wethington, Esther Squire, Dorothy Black, Helen Ortman, and Sr. Marie Josetta Wethington. After graduating from St. Joseph High School in Huntington, he first attended Marshall University and graduated from Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio, where he received a Bachelor of Science degree. Following graduation, he moved to Omaha, Nebraska, where he received a master's degree in human anatomy from Creighton University. He then enrolled at the University of Minnesota for a doctoral degree in anatomy. While at the university, he taught biology at the College of St. Catherine in St. Paul, Minnesota. He met his wife of 65 years, Ellen Rosemarie Schaub of Ipswich, South Dakota, and they were married at St. Stephen's Catholic Church in Minneapolis on May 28, 1955. Following their wedding, they moved to Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, where he became a member of the University of Ottawa's Department of Anatomy. As a faculty member, he attended medical school at the university and received his degree in medicine and a doctorate degree in anatomy. After graduation from the University of Ottawa, the couple returned to Minneapolis. Upon completing his residency at St. Mary's Hospital, Minneapolis, he joined the Coon Rapids Medical Center group, and over three decades was instrumental in growing the multi-specialty group in several locations in the metro area (now Allina Health System). He was a charter member of Mercy and Unity hospitals making rounds and working in the emergency rooms for the Emergency Physicians Professional Association. He was instrumental in establishing the first hospice program at Mercy Hospital. Dr. Wethington was a lifetime member of the Minnesota Medical Association, American Academy of Family Physicians, and an Emeritus Registered Physician in the State of Minnesota. While active in his medical practice, Dr. Wethington served as the Anoka County Medical Examiner for 25 years and helped, along with his wife, establish a missionary medical clinic in San Lucas Toliman, Guatemala. They were founding members at the Church of Epiphany helping establish a parish community and campus that included a grade school, a new church, a cemetery and a senior care complex all along supporting his dear friend, Fr. Bernard Reiser. Although a recipient of numerous professional and civic awards and recognition in Anoka County and the regional medical community, our father's true love was for his beloved Ellen, his children, grandchildren and the land. Dr. Wethington loved the lakes and rivers of Minnesota ultimately raising the family on the Mississippi River. A Master Gardener and farmer at heart, his passions included working at his hobby farm in Monticello, growing and sharing flowers and vegetables with family and friends, clearing land, growing crops, building paths and a par three golf course for his wife. Dr. Wethington had a deep love of history and was an avid reader, quoting from books and the Wall Street Journal up to his last day. He loved to write, and in 2007, he penned and published his life story, "Memoirs of a Minnesota Physician". A life-long learner, he was always willing to research and start a project of any scope and see it through to completion. Although his ability to travel became limited in recent years, he reflected on many family and international trips and shared in the planning and joy of his children and grandchildren's travels. He will be greatly missed for his ability to heal his patients, serve people, and plan countless family gatherings. He will also be missed for his endless energy and engaging conversations on a wide range of topics. Our father left this world with "so many things I want to do, topping the list is to practice medicine again." The family would like to thank Dr. Shauna Morrow of Park Nicollet Medical Center and all of our father's caregivers for their dedicated care, especially Chelsie Plath, whose special care these past few months brought comfort to our father and peace to our family. Due to restrictions during the COVID-19 pandemic, a virtual Mass of the Christian Burial will be held at Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic Church at 3 p.m. on April 30, 2020, and can be viewed at . In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic Church, One Lourdes Place, Minneapolis, MN 55414, Gillette Children's Specialty Healthcare, 200 University Avenue East, Saint Paul, MN 55101, in honor of children with special needs.             Davies Chapel 612-377-2203
Marinos, Milton Age 88, of Plymouth, MN, passed away on Friday, April 17, 2020, after a brief reoccurrence of cancer. Preceded in death by his wife Lucille (Hall), sister Frances Gilbert, and brothers Harry, James and John. He is survived by his loving family: daughters Diana (Jonathan Ferguson), Annamarie Mantoles (Sophronis) and grandsons Andreas and George, and many other cherished family members. Milton attended Mason City High School, Universities of Iowa and Minnesota, served in the Army, and worked for many years with the MN State Dept. of Agriculture as a plant pathologist. A celebration will be held at a date to be determined and after a small private burial in Mason City, IA.
Mohagen, Jacqueline age 73 of New Brighton passed peacefully in her home on April 22, 2020. She taught elementary school in the Anoka Hennepin district for over 30 years. Jacque was a phenomenal baker and quilter. She is preceded in death by her parents, William and Gertrude Trebbe, and husband, David Mohagen. Survived by children, Mark Lutz and Jennifer (Brian) Manion; grandchildren, Gregory Hawks, Daniel and Jessica Manion; step children Kristi Mohagen, Kimberely (Jamie) Donaldson, Dennis Mohagen; step grandchildren Breanna Mohagen-Hille, Cyerra Donaldson, and Alura Mohagen; sister, Judith Stodola; brother, William Trebbe; also many other family and friends. A memorial service for the immediate family will be held on Thursday April 30, 11 AM at St. Philips Lutheran Church, 6180 Hwy 65 NE., Fridley. The service will be live streamed on the church website. Memorials preferred to the family. Miller Fridley 763-571-1300 
Bailey, Ralph William His guitar gently weeps. The life of its maestro has passed on. After a long illness, on April 23, 2020, Ralph left this earthly realm. He was known by most as a stellar musician, singer and songwriter. He was known by others as a CPA. He was known by some as a remarkable historian. He was known to his wife, Miriam Porter, as a gentle but adventurous, loving soul. He was known to his son, Andrew Bailey, as Andrew's greatest fan. He was known to all who knew him as the one who "wanted to take your tear drops and turn them into falling rain; Make your trouble ride on a one way plane. He wanted to make things grow. He didn't want to cause any pain". (excerpt of lyrics from the Rain Song by Ralph Bailey). He was preceded in death by his parents and one child. A Celebration of Ralph's Life will be held at a later date. Bertas Funeral Home, Chaska 
Bennett, Lewis Dean age 89 , passed away peacefully in his sleep on April 20th, 2020 in Phoenix, Arizona. Lew was a loving husband and father with a kind and gentle soul. He took great pride in all his grandchildren. He had many enduring friendships with extended family and friends alike. His passion and commitment to them will be sorely missed. He was a teacher for 33 years in the Hopkins School District in Minnesota. He was a union representative on a state as well as a national level and was fundamental in establishing equal pay for women and maternity leave. He also expanded pension benefits for all Minnesota teachers. He was happily married for 50 years to his late wife Janet. Preceded in death by parents, four brothers and one sister. Survived by a brother, Fritz; children, Kathy, Steve, Mike and Bryan; grandchildren, Dominic, Rachel, Gabrielle, Lindsay, Laina and Rayce; and great-grand-children, Audrey, Andrew, Spencer and Lorelai. Service will be determined at a later date and will be held in Minnesota.
Loch, Michael John (1971-2020) It is with great sadness that the family of Michael "Mike" Loch announce his passing, after a brief illness, on Friday, April 24, 2020 at Mercy Hospital. Mike was born on January 8, 1971 to James and Diane Loch. He married Cynthia B. Erickson on July 29, 1995. Together they started Loch's Lawn & Landscaping. Mike enjoyed spending time with his family at the cabin, working on boat motors and driving his tractor. Mike dreamed of being a farmer. He will be lovingly remembered by his wife of almost 25 years: Cindy; his children: Elizabeth (Trenton Nelson), Bryan & Emma (Spencer Schmidt); his mother: Diane. He is preceded in death by an infant son Michael Jr. and by his father James Loch. Memorials are preferred to the family. Serving the family The Peterson Chapel St. Michael-Albertville Funeral Home 763-497-5362 
Madsen, Shirley Mae Age 85, of Richfield, passed away on April 15, 2020. Survived by her loving husband, Curt; daughter, Lisa; son, Tom (Karen); grandchildren, Sarah (Josh) Parsons, Emily, Paul (Alexis); great-grandchildren, Nora, Quinn and Haddon, and many relatives and friends. Born in Atwater, MN and graduated from Roosevelt High School in 1952. She loved her family and was devoted to them and cherished her many friendships. Shirley and Curt would have celebrated their 65th wedding anniversary on April 30. Memorials preferred to Trinity Lutheran Church of Minnehaha Falls, where she was a lifelong member. Memorial service will be held at a later date. The family wishes to thank the M Health Fairview Heart Clinic for their care.
Bloomdahl, Mildred Eleanor At age 94, Milly passed away peacefully in her sleep in Golden Valley on April 20, exactly 10 days after the love of her life Merle would have turned one hundred. Just the day before she died, Milly had been happily chatting with far-off relatives and reminiscing about the great life she had lived. So it is a blessing that she passed away content and grateful, without any pain or fuss, just as she had wished. (With typical Minnesotan resignation, Milly herself would have commented, "It went about as well as it could.") Milly was preceded in death by her loving husband of 56 years Merle, her Swedish immigrant parents Elin (Sjogren) and the Rev. Carl Olson, and six of her eight siblings in their large loving family: Carl, Marie, LeRoy, Ethel, Lester, and Glenn. She is survived by children Anne, Kay, and Don, as well as nine beloved grandchildren: Sara (Nishant), Rachel (Danny), Alex, Brandon, Jared (Jaclyn), Cory, Caleb (Dawn), Erika and Jasmine, plus three darling great-grandchildren Maelyn, Callie and Weston. Also surviving Milly are her sister and brother-in-law Grace and Lyman Lundeen, brother and sister-in-law Roger and Janet Olson, as well as brother-in-law Fred Johnson and sisters-in-law Peggy Olson, Carole Mae Olson, Bea Cunha, and Eileen (Jim) Duffy, plus many other loving relatives including the devoted Johnson family and others living in the ancestral home of Sweden. Mildred Eleanor Bloomdahl (she always preferred Milly) was born December 29, 1925 in Duluth Minnesota in her parents' parsonage, where she enjoyed her early years as a "preacher's kid" and was persuaded at age 13 to become organist for two of her father's Lutheran churches. Despite the challenges of living in a large family during the Depression, Milly always had fond memories of her childhood. She graduated from Gustavus Adolphus College and the University of Minnesota with a career as a teacher, which she pursued intermittently while serving as a homemaker when her family was living in Minnesota, Oregon, and Montana. Milly was famous for her devotion to reading, her deep love of music (it may be that strains of Moonlight Sonata are now emanating from heaven), and her expert baking skills; she was generous to a fault with the products, but never gave out the recipe for Grandma Elin's Swedish rye bread beyond the family because Milly was so sure it could win the Pillsbury Bakeoff someday. Like Merle, she was a dedicated Democrat, proud Swede, winter "snowbird," and avid dancer. Most important, Milly was a loving member of a large extended family whose Christian convictions led her to see the best in everyone and feel humbly grateful for all of her many blessings. Milly enjoyed a full caring life, and her kind spirit and gentle sense of humor will be sorely missed. (Date of memorial service to be determined.)
Krieg, Raymond "Ray" J. Age 91 of Bloomington, born July 16, 1928 in Minneapolis, died April 18, 2020. Graduated Minneapolis South High in 1945 and attended Engineering School at the University of Minnesota. In 1946 he enlisted in the US Navy and was a radio operator/gunner on a SB2C Helldiver. He met his wife Maxine while flying weather balloons out of Naval Air Station Tillamook, Oregon. He spent most of his life as a salesman. Ray enjoyed writing poetry and sharing it with family and friends. Preceded in death by wife Maxine, mother Edna (Olson), father Harry, and brother Harry Jr. Survived by sister Ardele (Chelman); sons Gary (Cathy) and Larry (Martha); grandchildren Ryan (Lisa), Brendon (Sara), Lindsay Block (Joe), Kristopher (Elise), Stephen, Caitlin Osell (Reed); great-grandchildren Claire, Taylor, Colin, Simon, Will, Andrew, Finley and Oliver. He will be interred at Fort Snelling Cemetery. To honor Ray all memorials requested to be given to someone in need and Paying It Forward. Celebration of Life at a later date.
Greenwood, Tracy Lynn Passed away on April 22, 2020 at Methodist Hospital from a brain hemorrhage. Tracy was Born September 27, 1967 in Minneapolis, MN. Preceded in death by her mother Janet Stensgaard. Survived by her husband James W Greenwood (Eden Prairie), daughters Taylor Fritchley (Chaska) and Abigail Fritchley (Eden Prairie and Mankato State University), father Steven Stensgaard and spouse Rita (Eden Prairie), sister Tanya Broten and Chris (New Hope), Step Mother Pamela Greenwood (Eden Prairie) and brother in law Bill Greenwood (Eden Prairie). Tracy worked as a social worker for Carver County as an employment counselor, she graduated from St. Catherine University with a BASc Social Work and from Eden Prairie High School. Tracy loved her two daughters, her husband Jim, and all of her family and friends very much. She will be deeply missed. Private service will be held at Acacia Park Cemetery on April 30th, 1:00 PM. Service will be live streamed worldwide at:  A memorial service will take place as soon as this miserable pandemic is over! That announcement is forthcoming.
Bilbro, Willie Mae was born April 10, 1927, to Joe and Emily Bilbro in Sandhill, Mississippi, where she grew up and attended school. She joined Mount Pisgah Baptist Church of Sandhill at a very early age. Willie Mae enjoyed quilting, teaching Sunday School and serving as a faithful usher as well as a part of the kitchen committee at Sabathani/Greater Friendship Baptist Church. Her cooking skills were second to none and her creations were loved by one and all. Willie Mae, affectionately known as "T" made magic while in the kitchen, like her chicken a la king, spoonbread, cornish game hens and many other delicious taste sensations. Willie Mae was preceded in death by her parents and a host of sisters and brothers. She leaves to mourn for a moment but celebrate for a lifetime her loving son Larry, grandson Myles, god grandson Ametrio, brother Lincoln and sister Irene all of Minneapolis, Minnesota. She also leaves a host of nieces and nephews to cherish her memory. A celebration of life will be determined at a later date.
Eaton, Doran joyfully entered the gates of Heaven on April 23rd, 2020. He was the most honorable of gentlemen. Doran's life was a beautiful testament to the thing he valued most - his Christian faith. Born in Jamestown, ND on March 2, 1927, Doran lived by a code of kindness and integrity that was a blessing to all. A dedicated husband and father to eight children, Dad enjoyed the simple pleasures of family life and was a faithful member of the Catholic Church. His beloved wife, Kaye, and daughter Betsy, preceded him to Heaven. Our loss is profound but our memories of his love and his terrific wit will continue to guide us forever. He is survived by his children Jane (Bill Haight), Mary (Matt Duffy), Bob, Doug (Lori), Jim, Thomas and Jerry - ten adored grandchildren, Miss Jan (Rosman), who was a most loving and cherished friend to Dad and Mom, and Mary Everett, whom Dad regarded an angel on this earth. Private service to be held at Lakewood Cemetery. w MINNEAPOLIS, MN 612-861-6088
Machmeier, Linda Suzanne 61, of Medina, Minnesota, passed away peacefully on April 23, 2020 after a courageous battle with lung cancer. The world has been lessened by her departure, but a new angel has been born. Linda was caring, nurturing and deeply spiritual, and had an inherent optimism and enthusiasm for life that shone from within. She deeply cared about others, and she touched many with her kindness. She had the gentlest and sweetest of soulsshe couldn't abide watching movie or television violence. People were drawn to her by these qualities. She was simply a lovely human being, and special beyond words. Yet this gentle, caring woman was also a highly successful businesswoman. She started Accounting Resource Group in 1985 (as Linda Gasch), as a solo tax and accounting practice. Over the next 30+ years she hired staff and grew the business to over 500 clients. She taught herself how to be an executive, through reading and business coaching. She was the ultimate "servant leader." While she was task-list driven and detail oriented, her personal qualities always shone through and made her the leader that she became. Both staff and clients loved her, and many became life-long friends. And she excelled in business. In 2013, Linda was recognized as one of the "Top Women in Finance" by Finance & Commerce magazine. In the midst of the demands of running a growing business, Linda raised a growing family. The yearly spring tax season, with its nearly 24/7 demands, was particularly challenging. Yet, she balanced her career and family well and was a wonderful, loving mother to her three children. In her spare time, she enjoyed tennis, skiing, travel, boating, sun bathing (either by the pool or at the beach), writing and dancing. Nobody loved dancing more than Linda! In early 2015 Linda met Bruce Machmeier. They fell deeply in love, and were married in July 2016. They traveled the world and spent quiet moments together at their house in Medina. While their time together was far too short, it was still a deep blessing for both. Linda is survived by her husband Bruce; her children, James Gasch, Jr. (Nikki), Laura Vickers (Ryan) and Jonathan Gasch (Abby Tilford); her former spouse, James Gasch, Sr. (Deb Jensen); Bruce's children, Peter, Elizabeth and William; her mother, Jean Arne; and her nine living siblings, Therese Arne, Steve Arne (Bessie), Pam Horner (Brad), Jerry Arne (Karla), Mike Arne, Brian Arne (Jennifer), Kathleen Sullivan (nee Arne), Bob Arne (Joelle), and Jon Arne (Gretchen). Linda was preceded in death by her sister, Jane Quammen, and her father, Dr. Gerald ("Jerry") Arne. Because of the current limitations on social gatherings, Linda's Mass of Christian Burial will be held privately on April 29, at Holy Name of Jesus Catholic Church. A recording of the Mass will be posted at the website for Gearty-Delmore Funeral Chapels:  A Celebration of Linda's life will be held at a later date. Memorial donations in her memory may be made to A Breath of Hope Lung Foundation (abreathofhope.org). Gearty-Delmore 763-553-1411
Schermann, Kenneth J. 83, of Hamel, passed away Thursday, April 23, 2020. Preceded in death by parents, John and Veronica; siblings, Jerome, Mel, Mary and Gen. Survived by wife, Yvonne; children, Brian (Jutta), Julie (Bill) McCloskey and Amy (Rick) Poulin; grandchildren, Jackie, Sarah, Mark, Kevin, Lauren, Jennifer, Stephen, Bill Jr., Jack and Abbey.; great grandchildren, Emma, Paige, Connor and Hazel; brothers, Ralph (Kathy) Schermann and Dale (Cyndi) Schermann. Memorial Mass will be scheduled at a later date. Memorials preferred to St. Jude's. gearty-delmore.com 763-553-1411
Kelly, Ronald Cliff of Lakeville, died April 24, 2020 after a lengthy battle with multiple illnesses. He was 70 years old. He is survived by his wife of 36 years Paula and four children: Rebekah (Nate) Lichty, Ronald Kelly II, Philip (Shelley) Kelly and Hannah (Jake) Wegleitner. He is also survived by two grandchildren, Theodore and Marcella Lichty, his siblings Larry (Kathleen) Kelly and Patsy (Brian) Lundquist, many in-laws, nieces and nephews and his loving dog, Charlie. He is preceded in death by his parents, Joe and Mary, his younger brother, Jerry, father-in-law, Duane and niece, Salina. Ron was born to Joe and Mary Kelly in Grand Forks, ND on March 18th, 1950. He lived in Lakeville, MN nearly all this life. Ron was a faith-filled family man. He enjoyed time with his family more than anything, especially at the cabin on Lone Lake. He loved his wife and children so completely he would never end a phone call without reminding them of that love and how proud he was of them. Ron served 21 years as firefighter and captain of Lakeville Fire Department Station 2. He also trained volunteer firefighters at Holden Village, his family's most beloved vacation destination. He taught Sunday School and lead confirmation throughout the time his children were school-aged, often proclaiming our duty to "make a joyful noise." Ron was a friend to all and could make conversation with anyone. He told terrible jokes and sang the wrong lyrics to even well-known songs. He gave the very best hugs. A private funeral service will be held at the White Funeral Home in Lakeville, with a Celebration of Life service at a later date. Memorials given to the family will be distributed to Ron's most beloved causes. Condolences: 
Krohn, Geraldine (Spicer) Born in St. Paul, MN on April 30, 1947, passed away on April 23, 2020. Geri was predeceased by her parents, Al and Marion Spicer, and her husband, Jim. Jim and Geri lived for many years in Chetek, WI and Bloomington, MN before Geri moved to Ormond Beach, FL to be near her dear friends, Cindy and Steve Kelly. Geri is survived by her sisters, Sue (Harvey) Kaplan, Vicki (Tom) Hurwitz and Pat (Jim) Sultan and many cousins, nieces and nephews. After graduating from St. Paul Central High School, Geri traveled for several months in Europe with her sister, Vicki. Her love for travel led her to become a flight attendant for 37 years with North Central Airlines which later became Republic Airlines which, in turn, merged into Northwest Airlines. Geri's family thanks Cindy and Steve Kelly for all the kindness they showed to Geri; Cindy was holding Geri's hand when she passed away. A private funeral service will be held. In lieu of flowers, Geri's family thinks she would prefer memorial donations to a food shelf or an animal shelter (Geri loved cats). Hodroff-Epstein 651-698-8311 
Biek, Kathryn L. Age 59, of Orono, passed away suddenly April 20, 2020 of pneumonia after a courageous two-year battle against leukemia. Preceded in death by her father. Kathryn was a passionate mother of two beautiful children and friend to countless persons near and far. She also was a merchandiser at Macy's for the past decade. She made every dance competition and football and lacrosse game for her children, and threw legendary tailgates at University of Missouri football games for seven years even after her children graduated. Everyone came because they treasured time spent with Kathryn and her contagious spirit, warm friendship, and zest for life. Survived by husband of 31 years, David; daughter, Katherine ("Kayla"); son, Ryan; mother, Bonnie; and brother, Rick (Gladys). Kathryn was taken from this world too soon and will be greatly missed. Funeral and visitation arrangements will be announced at a future date. Memorials to the American Cancer Society or Leukemia Society of America preferred. David Lee Funeral Home Wayzata 952-473-5577 
Furlow, Susan Browning Susan Browning Furlow, age 66 of Edina, MN passed away peacefully with her loving family by her side on Sunday, April 19th, 2020 after a brief, unexpected illness. She was born on April 6th, 1954 in Hanover, New Hampshire, the daughter of William Loomis Furlow and the late Alison Goodman Furlow. Susan graduated in 1972 from Iron Mountain (Michigan) High School and then earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in English, Journalism, and Creative Writing from Michigan State University in 1976, graduating with Honors. After college, Susan made Minneapolis her home. She began a dynamic business career eventually achieving numerous executive positions and key leadership roles. She started her professional career as an IT technical writer and subsequently was hired as an IT business analyst at Analysts International Corporation (AIC) in 1992. Susan advanced to the senior executive team at AIC, guiding the Minneapolis branch into the company's largest and most profitable business unit. She oversaw 800 employees and was described by her peers as a visionary leader with an innate ability to energize and mentor her associates. In 2002, Susan transitioned to executive recruitment for IT and technology businesses. She soon launched her own company, Furlow & Associates, which she ran successfully for over 15 years. Susan met her husband-to-be Larry on a blind date in Duluth, MN in 1987 with the help of her college friend. Sixteen months later, they married and started a family. Susan was an incredibly dedicated daughter, wife, and mother who engaged everyone in family activities and organized family vacations. Susan was a best friend to many, a nurturer, the rock of her family, and enriched the lives of everyone she met. She had a way of connecting with everyone, bringing people together, and lighting up the room with her bright and spirited presence. Susan was a strong advocate of community education and progressive social change for women. She maintained a long-term sponsorship for African children through World Vision and other international aid organizations. Susan put her heart and wisdom into everything she did. She actively cared for her aging parents on a daily basis. She was instrumental in supporting her family's academic and professional pursuits. She loved decorating her home and entertaining, especially for the Christmas Holiday. She was a follower of Christ, a voracious reader of fictional literature, and a dedicated member a long-standing book group and a neighborhood women's cooking club. Susan will be dearly missed by all who loved her. Survivors include her father Dr. William Furlow of Rochester, MN; husband Laurence McCann of Edina, MN; sons Thomas (Jana) McCann of Chicago, IL and Peter McCann of New York, NY; siblings, Barbara Furlow, Patricia Furlow, and Michelle Peterson of Rochester, MN, Jon (Brenda) Furlow of Minneapolis, MN, and Mary (Tim) Lyman of Algonquin, IL; and many beloved sisters-in-law, cousins, nieces, and nephews. In addition to her mother, Susan was preceded in death by her dear brother, Scott Furlow. Her family smiles to think of her joy at being reunited with them. A celebration of Susan's life will be held in Edina, details to be announced at a later date.
Malecha, Mark T. Age 57 of rural Northfield, passed away April 24, 2020, at home. Survivors include his wife Zen; children, Joe and Maggie; sister, Joan (David) Hinderscheit; his brothers, Mike (Jan), Ken (Judi), Fran (Lisa), Tom (Cathy), Jon (Lisa); and his in-laws, Paul & Pam Krause. Preceded by sister Mary Anderson and brother Anthony. Private Mass at the Church of St. Dominic in Northfield. A gathering to celebrate Mark's life will be held at a future date. Memorials preferred to St. Dominic School, Northfield High School Blue Line Club, and Raider Girl's Hockey. 
Paulu, Frances Brown retired executive director of the Minnesota International Center, whose life was shaped by her passion for global good will, died April 22, 2020, at her home in Minneapolis. She was just two months shy of her 100th birthday. She is survived by three children: Sarah Paulu Boittin (Jean-Francois Boittin) and Nancy Paulu Hyde (Howard Hyde), both of Washington D.C.; Thomas Paulu (Cindy Williams) of Vancouver, Washington; seven grandchildren: Jennifer, Margaret, Nathalie and Isabelle Boittin, Emma and Benjamin Hyde, and Adrienne Paulu; and four great-grand-children: Oliver, Emilia, Gabriel and Lucas. Other survivors include brother Judson Brown of Ellisville, Missouri; two nieces and a nephew and their families. Niece Kathy Brown and caregiver Annette Udean were particularly devoted to her. Husband Burton Paulu predeceased her in 2003. Paulu was born June 22, 1920, and grew up in Hastings, Minnesota, the daughter of Thomas A. Brown and Florence Tuttle Brown. She became high school valedictorian at the age of 14. After graduating from the University of Minnesota, magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, she worked as office manager of the University radio station. At the station, which later became KUOM, she met Burton Paulu, its manager and later a professor and director of the University's Media Relations Department. They were married for 61 years. During World War II, Paulu was a graduate student in social work at the University and a case worker in welfare agencies. Following the war, she began a then-traditional career as wife and mother, which included three years of overseas residence with her young family in England and Switzerland. She also embarked upon a career of volunteer activities, serving as president of the Minneapolis League of Women Voters, chair of the Minneapolis Charter Commission and director of the Urban Coalition. She also was active in several other groups and agencies committed to global understanding. In 1970, with her three children in college, Paulu began a new career as executive director of the Minnesota International Center (now Global Minnesota), a non-profit organization committed to promoting international understanding by linking Minnesotans to the world and the world to Minnesotans. She loved her work and had a personalized license plate that read "FBP MIC." During Paulu's 18-year tenure, the Center thrived and gained a national reputation for excellence. Her work with international organizations led to trips to Morocco, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, India, Japan, Taiwan and the Philippines. When Paulu retired from MIC in 1988, one tribute praised her "combination of knowledge, rapport and quiet competence." Many students who worked for her went on to careers in international relations and remained lifelong friends. After retiring, Paulu resumed volunteering with such groups as the University of Minnesota Women's Club and the Becketwood Cooperative, where she lived. She spent three months in Moscow with her husband in 1991, after which they presented many talks about their experiences in the USSR before community groups. When she was 94, she gave a speech at an MIC fundraiser. Always a night owl, she stayed up until midnight the night before to perfect it. Well into her late 90s, she went for walks along West River Parkway, particularly enjoying those that took in Minnehaha Falls. She loved reading mystery novels and newspapers. She delighted in the steady stream of visits to Becketwood from friends and family. A memorial service will take place when possible. Memorials can be made to Global Minnesota to support international education and students, c/o 1901 University Av. SE, Mpls, MN 55414.
Elvrum, Jaelyn age 22, of Minneapolis, passed away on April 24, 2020. Preceded in death by her grandfather, Roy Kochsiek. Survived by parents, John and Kristine; sister, Joelle; grandparents, Judy Longeneker (Jan Houle), Ken and Leora Elvrum; aunts, Sharon (Steve) Schell, and Deb (Tim) Marthe; and many great- aunts and uncles, and cousins, and so many people who loved her. Family is planning a celebration of life at a later date.  Hillside Chapel 612-781-1999
Wolff, Warren A. age 84, of Crystal, passed away 04/24/20. Full notice later.  Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Erickson, Joan 88 years of natural causes. Long time resident of Bryn Mawr. Predeceased by husband Phil, daughter and son-in-law, Sharon and Ed Sutton, and son Mike. Survived by Barrett, Steve (Betsy), Sue (Gary) and Jeff. Will be dearly missed by all of us, including her 6 grandchildren, Mike and Katie, Scott and David, John and Chris; all of whom brought her great joy, as well as 7 great grandchildren. We will remember and cherish her for an irresistibly sweet nature, her interest in and ability to connect with anyone, her eternal optimism, and a fierce strength all wrapped up in a tiny body. Interment at Fort Snelling and a celebration of her life when safe to congregate.
Selvog, Loren S. Age 94, formerly of Vadnais Heights, passed away peacefully April 24, 2020. Services will be held at a later date. Complete notice to follow. Bradshaw - 651-407-8300 
Stahlberg, Pearl A. age 98, of Elk River. Preceded in death by husband, Ralph. Survived by son, Bruce; daughters, Midge Stuard, Janelle (Scott) Schwen, and Jill (Mike) Parsons. Many grandchildren, great-grandchildren, great- great-grandchildren, sisters Irene and Carole, other family and friends. Private interment Fort Snelling National Cemetery.  Glen Haven Chapel 763-533-8643
Idstrom, John BA, II Age 78, of Minneapolis, peacefully passed away on 04/23/20. Survived by his nieces, Deirdre (Chris) Hultgren, Alissa (Eric) Canfield, Amelia (Adam) Gislason, Enid (Shane) Mason, eight great nieces and nephews, and the David Ostreim Family. Preceded in death by sister, Gail Idstrom Dahlstrom and parents, Dr. LG and Gladys Idstrom. At age 15, John was smitten by great architecture during a family trip around the world and turned his love of great design into his life's work. He graduated from the University of Minnesota School of Architecture with a Bachelor of Architecture degree and earned a bachelor's degree in psychology and business administration from Gustavus Adolphus College. A founder of Partners 4, Design, John was known as the idea man. For John, the idea started with a relationship, he believed all successful projects began there. He worked to find a common language with clients to translate concepts into designs. That's where the magic happened. John's process worked so well successive generations often returned to P4D. Over a 40 year career, he received numerous National Kitchen and Bath Association and American Society of Interior Designers awards including a NKBA Lifetime Achievement Award in 2017. He leaves behind a legacy in the design community. His smile, quick wit and kindness affected many. He liked classic cars and boats, enjoyed his horses and always had a dog. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him and loved him. A heartfelt thank you to all his healthcare professionals for their extraordinary care these last few years. Private burial. Reception to be held at a later date. Memorials preferred to Courage Kenny Institute. We love you "Uncle Bee"!  Edina Chapel 952-920-3996
Daulton, Patrick James Sr. Born 02-23-43 entered into God's eternal loving kingdom on Friday April 24 2020 surrounded by his loving wife Renee of 58 years and all of his adoring family. More information about his celebration of life to follow, (when we can find a stadium large enough to handle all who want to attend).  651-482-7606
Dworsky, Judith Survived by loving husband of 55 years, Ross Dworsky; daughter, Natalie (Steven) Redelsperger; son, Jay (Nancy) Dworsky; grandchildren, Leo & Karen Dworsky and Simone Redelsperger. Also survived by brother, Steven (Faye) Krasner and niece, Joanna (Jaeson) and grandnephews, Harper and Ezra Kaplan; and many friends and extended family. Funeral services have been held. Shiva via Zoom on Monday April 27 & Tuesday April 28 from 7-8 pm. To request password information please email:  Hodroff-Epstein Memorial Chapel 612-871-1234 hodroffepstein.com
Sanders, James B. passed away 04/13/20. Born on 09/21/46 to Fred & Edna Sanders. Survived by children Stacie (Jeff) Borst & Jakob (Kim) Sanders; grandchildren Max, Jack, Weston, Sophia, Gigi; sister Kay & twin brother Jay. Jim was raised in Mpls and graduated in 1964 from Roosevelt High school. He served in the Army and attended U of MN and MN School of Business. Jim went on to have a successful career in finance. He was one of the first employees hired at Resource Bank & Trust and spent his whole career there. Jim was fiercely loyal and will be remembered for his hilarious dry wit, love of sports, interest in finance and generosity. His biggest joy in life was his family, he was the best dad, grandpa, fantasy football partner and mentor. He is forever loved. Due to the COVID-19 crisis, a memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, memorials can be made to the James B. Sanders Trust (to be sent to charities that were important to Jim) c/o Sanders Family, 4709 Aspasia Circle, Edina, MN 55435.
McNamara, David Leo age 75, of Brooklyn Park, died at home Thurs., April 23, 2020 surrounded by family. Preceded in death by parents, Leo and Sarah; 'Irish Twin' brother, Daniel; niece, Colleen. Survived by beloved wife of 52 years, Barbara; sons, Patrick (Janet) and Ryan (Aimee); best buddy grandsons, Brandon and Dillon; cherished granddaughter, Mairen; brothers, Dr. Thomas (Karen), Jerome (Loretta); sisters, Mary (Dennis) O'Malley, Jane (Charles) Psotka; sisters-in-law, Patty and Alice; adored nieces and nephews and many dear cousins. Dave was known for his work ethic and enjoyed a long and successful career in the Wine & Spirits industry. Early jobs as bartender and liquor store delivery man led to liquor and wine sales, which led to management. He traveled the globe and made lifelong friendships. In personal life, he was an avid hunter and fisherman and loved going Up North with family and friends. He was a generous, funny man and a natural storyteller. His greatest joy was spending time with his grandchildren. He touched many lives and will be missed by all. A celebration of Dave's life will be scheduled at a later date.
Koenig, Katherine age 94 of Edina passed away Tuesday April 21. 2020. Preceded in death by her parents, Harold and Elizabeth Koenig; siblings, Barbara Koenig, Emilie (Jack) Gaitley, Elizabeth Koenig, and Harold Koenig. Survived by brother Lawrence Koenig; sister-in-law, Linda Koenig; nieces, nephews, and other loved ones. There will be a private family interment
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: DEATH NOTICES & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); DEATH & DYING (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); FAMILY (78%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); COVID CORONAVIRUS (73%); COVID-19 CORONAVIRUS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (70%); STUDENT ATHLETES (70%); WINTER SPORTS (68%); MEN'S SPORTS (63%); OBITUARY (%)

Industry: HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); SNOWMOBILES (65%)

Geographic: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); MINNESOTA, USA (89%); ARIZONA, USA (73%)

Load-Date: April 28, 2020


End of Document
