



Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
April 25, 2020 Saturday
METRO EDITION


Copyright 2020 Star Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 4B
Length: 1698 words
Body


Meyers, Harriett "Sue" June 25, 1934 - April 20, 2020. Preceded in death by husband, David J. Meyers; parents, William and Claire Wolkoff. Sue is survived by her brother, Stan; 3 sons, Jon (Denise), Joe (Tina), and Bill (Beth Wischman); grandchildren James (Beth), Tamara Draeger (Jared), Shaina, Sheila Brown (Clarence), Stacy Tonniges (Dave); 10 great- grandchildren, nieces, and nephews. PRIVATE BURIAL at Temple Israel Cemetery. Memorials to David J and Sue Meyers Jewish Youth Experience Fund at Temple Israel or David J and Sue Meyers Jewish Experience Scholarship Endowment Fund at the Jewish Federation of Omaha Foundation. John A. Gentleman Mortuaries and Crematory Pacific Street Chapel, 14151 Pacific Street 402-391-1664 
Benjamin, Robert Bedell Robert "Bob" Benjamin died April 15, 2020, in sunny San Diego, under the loving care of his daughters and hospice. He escaped the Corona-virus but died from compli-cations of a broken hip. Robert was born on July 4, 1924 and grew up in Pipestone Minnesota as the eldest child of Walter G. and Mabel Benjamin. He contracted and survived Polio, weathered the great Depression, and developed a life-long love of hard work and learning. At Hamline University in St. Paul, Minnesota, he earned a BA. His years there were interrupted by World War II. He became a Navy pilot and navigator and flew in the Pacific. Bob returned from service and married Betty Mae Waidelich on June 7, 1947. Betty supported the young couple while Robert attended medical school at University of Minnesota. They moved to Oregon for his Residency. After returning to Minnesota, Robert joined a small group practice, the St. Louis Park Medical Center. Over the course of his career he contributed to its expansion into a large health care provider. He mentored many young doctors, taught surgery at the University of Minnesota, authored books on surgery, and served on the board of the clinic. He believed that family planning was a basic right and became an expert in vasectomy surgery. He offered Thursday evening procedures so men could easily recover missing only one day of work. Along with their activism, Bob and Betty shared a zest for life. Bob built a wilderness cabin on the shore of Lake Superior. Later the isolated retreat was traded for a cabin on Madeline Island. Bob served on the Wilderness Preserve board there, as well as pursuing gardening, photography, chess, tennis, hiking and boating. Their love of travel took them around the globe. Many road trips included visits to friends and family. After Betty died, Bob married Cathy Coult. She shared his love of books, music, and travel until dementia overwhelmed her. Bob is survived by four siblings (Walter [& Majorie] Benjamin, Martha [& Willis] Unke, Roger [& Nancy] Benjamin, and Mary Louise [& Dale] Bowen), three children (Scott [& Ruth] Benjamin, Diane [& Matt] Uren, Laura [& Scott] Kopperud, eight grandchildren, and 12 great grandchildren, all of whom will miss his terrible jokes, great generosity, and wise advice. Service to be determined. Donations may be made to Madeline Island Wilderness Preserve (PO Box 28, La Pointe, WI 54850) or Planned Parenthood ().
Sebek, Betsy Anna Born: July 4, 1931, Died: April 18, 2020. Memorial service and burial at a later date.
Klein, Marion Goldetsky Age 87, of St. Louis Park (formerly St. Paul) passed away peacefully April 24 after a brief battle with Covid-19 and a long struggle with Alzheimer's. She will be missed by her husband of 66 years Gary; her children, Jennifer (Stuart) Shacter, Jeffrey (Morissa) Klein, Michael (Rachel) Klein, Steven (Dayna) Klein; grandchildren, Alana (Nick), Jonathan (Michele), Sarah (Scott), Mitchell (Annie), Rebecca, Joshua, Jesse, Jordan, and the great 8 - Richard, Alexander, Isaac, Olivia, Sophie, Ben, Max & Arielle. Marion grew up in St. Paul (just 2 blocks from Gary), graduated from Central High School, and fell in love with Gary at the University of Minnesota. She proudly raised her family within the Jewish community, was a dedicated friend, and was committed to celebrating milestone events. When she wasn't busy with family and friends, Marion was a tireless, and perpetual volunteer in the St. Paul Jewish community focusing her boundless energy and passion primarily with Hadassah and Sholom. Our family thanks the incredibly caring staff at the Methodist Hospital ICU and Leo & Doris Hodroff Pavilion for Memory Care, as well as personal caregivers Julie, Nelya, and Chris. Memorials preferred to Hadassah or the Sholom Foundation. A private family service will be held. Hodroff-Epstein 612-871-1234 
Wethington, Joseph Francis, Ph.D., M.D. passed away April 20, 2020, due to complications of the novel coronavirus at the age of 93. He was born on August 11, 1926, in Huntington, West Virginia, where he was raised on a dairy farm by his parents, Joseph and Etta Wethington, along with five sisters. Dr. Wethington is survived by his wife, Ellen, and their six children and spouses: Michael (Wendy) Wethington, Anne Wethington, Margaret (John) Arnold, Joseph (Susan) Wethington, Elizabeth (Gary) Vaughan, Patrick (Kerry) Wethington, and grandchildren: Michael Joseph Jr. and Anna Marie Wethington (Thomas Myers); Claire, Patrick, Ellen and Matthew Arnold; Glenna and Grace Wethington; Michael Francis and Hannah Vaughan; & Madeline, Audrey, Jacqueline and Adeline Wethington and many loving nieces and nephews from throughout the country. He was preceded in death by infant daughter, Anna Marie, his parents, his sisters, Mary Catherine Wethington, Esther Squire, Dorothy Black, Helen Ortman, and Sr. Marie Josetta Wethington. After graduating from St. Joseph High School in Huntington, he first attended Marshall University and graduated from Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio, where he received a Bachelor of Science degree. Following graduation, he moved to Omaha, Nebraska, where he received a master's degree in human anatomy from Creighton University. He then enrolled at the University of Minnesota for a doctoral degree in anatomy. While at the university, he taught biology at the College of St. Catherine in St. Paul, Minnesota. He met his wife of 65 years, Ellen Rosemarie Schaub of Ipswich, South Dakota, and they were married at St. Stephen's Catholic Church in Minneapolis on May 28, 1955. Following their wedding, they moved to Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, where he became a member of the University of Ottawa's Department of Anatomy. As a faculty member, he attended medical school at the university and received his degree in medicine and a doctorate degree in anatomy. After graduation from the University of Ottawa, the couple returned to Minneapolis. Upon completing his residency at St. Mary's Hospital, Minneapolis, he joined the Coon Rapids Medical Center group, and over three decades was instrumental in growing the multi-specialty group in several locations in the metro area (now Allina Health System). He was a charter member of Mercy and Unity hospitals making rounds and working in the emergency rooms for the Emergency Physicians Professional Association. He was instrumental in establishing the first hospice program at Mercy Hospital. Dr. Wethington was a lifetime member of the Minnesota Medical Association, American Academy of Family Physicians, and an Emeritus Registered Physician in the State of Minnesota. While active in his medical practice, Dr. Wethington served as the Anoka County Medical Examiner for 25 years and helped, along with his wife, establish a missionary medical clinic in San Lucas Toliman, Guatemala. They were founding members at the Church of Epiphany helping establish a parish community and campus that included a grade school, a new church, a cemetery and a senior care complex all along supporting his dear friend, Fr. Bernard Reiser. Although a recipient of numerous professional and civic awards and recognition in Anoka County and the regional medical community, our father's true love was for his beloved Ellen, his children, grandchildren and the land. Dr. Wethington loved the lakes and rivers of Minnesota ultimately raising the family on the Mississippi River. A Master Gardener and farmer at heart, his passions included working at his hobby farm in Monticello, growing and sharing flowers and vegetables with family and friends, clearing land, growing crops, building paths and a par three golf course for his wife. Dr. Wethington had a deep love of history and was an avid reader, quoting from books and the Wall Street Journal up to his last day. He loved to write, and in 2007, he penned and published his life story, "Memoirs of a Minnesota Physician". A life-long learner, he was always willing to research and start a project of any scope and see it through to completion. Although his ability to travel became limited in recent years, he reflected on many family and international trips and shared in the planning and joy of his children and grandchildren's travels. He will be greatly missed for his ability to heal his patients, serve people, and plan countless family gatherings. He will also be missed for his endless energy and engaging conversations on a wide range of topics. Our father left this world with "so many things I want to do, topping the list is to practice medicine again." The family would like to thank Dr. Shauna Morrow of Park Nicollet Medical Center and all of our father's caregivers for their dedicated care, especially Chelsie Plath, whose special care these past few months brought comfort to our father and peace to our family. Due to restrictions during the COVID-19 pandemic, a virtual Mass of the Christian Burial will be held at Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic Church at 3 p.m. on April 30, 2020, and can be viewed at . In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic Church, One Lourdes Place, Minneapolis, MN 55414, Gillette Children's Specialty Healthcare, 200 University Avenue East, Saint Paul, MN 55101, in honor of children with special needs.             Davies Chapel 612-377-2203
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: DEATH NOTICES & OBITUARIES (92%); DEATH & DYING (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); HOSPICE (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); STUDENT EXPENSES & FINANCING (75%); CREMATION (73%); HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS (73%); MENTORS & ROLE MODELS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); BONE FRACTURES (67%); CORONAVIRUSES (67%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); WORLD WAR II (65%); LAKES (60%); WILDERNESS (60%); OBITUARY (%)

Company:  DRAEGERWERK AG & CO KGAA (58%)

Ticker: DRW8 (FRA) (58%)

Industry: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5047 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (58%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS (73%); HEALTH CARE (68%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (64%)

Geographic: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%); OREGON, USA (79%)

Load-Date: April 30, 2020


End of Document
