



The Philadelphia Daily News
July 23, 2013 Tuesday
FINAL Edition


Copyright 2013 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved
Section: SPORTS; P-com Spt. Sixers; Pg. 51
Length: 275 words
Byline: BY TOM MAHON

Daily News Staff Writer mahont@phillynews.com
Body


MICHAEL JORDAN thought he was fixed for life. 
Turns out his wife has other ideas. 
Jose Lambiet, of Gossip Extra, citing a source close to Jordan, reported that the former NBA star has agreed to reverse a vasectomy he allegedly got after he divorced his first wife. 
The 50-year-old Jordan already has three grown children, but the report said he made the decision because his new wife, 35-year-old ex-model Yvette Prieto, wants kids. 
And apparently, she was - you'll excuse the pun - a bit snippy about it. 
"That was part of the deal of them getting married," the source told Gossip Extra. 
Jordan and Prieto tied the knot in Palm Beach, Fla., in April. There is no word when Jordan will untie his knot. 
Of course, if you believe Jordan spokeswoman Estee Portnoy, Mike doesn't have anything to reverse because - as she told Gossip Extra - he never had a vasectomy in the first place. 
Oh well, the whole thing reminds us of an old joke: 
Having a vasectomy means never having to say you're sorry. 
  Hat's off to kid
A tip of the cap to the clever kid who duped Yankees third-base coach Rob Thomson into tossing him a foul ball during Saturday night's game against the Red Sox. 
Thomson caught the ball in the dugout, and turned to toss it into the crowd. He spied a boy wearing a Yankees hat and rolled it to him along the dugout roof. 
An MLB.com video shows the kid grabbing the ball, then taking off his Yankees cap to reveal a Red Sox hat underneath. 
Nicely played. 
  A-Rod update
The Yankees' Alex Rodriguez will miss more time due to a quad strain. 
We'd recommend something to help him heal faster, but that's what got him in trouble in the first place. 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: BASKETBALL (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION (79%); MARRIAGE (78%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (78%)

Person: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); FLORIDA, USA (56%)

Load-Date: July 23, 2013


End of Document
