



 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
February 19, 2005 Saturday
Home Edition


Copyright 2005 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Faith & Values;; Letters
Length: 651 words
Byline: KEITH WATKINS, TREY HOFFMAN, SCOTT PIEHLER, MARY MCKENZIE
Body


In the Feb. 12 edition of Faith & Values, Lorraine V. Murray wrote about the contraceptive known as Plan B. Here is
a sample of responses.
Protestant voice badly needed
It is savage discrimination against Protestants, which far outnumber Catholics in Georgia, for the AJC to continue running the vicious Catholic propaganda of virulent Catholic Lorraine Murray in the Faith & Values section of the AJC without a counterbalancing Protestant viewpoint. Murray has attacked couples for not having children, and in her most recent column she pushes the Vatican line against birth control. She has, also, delved into right-wing politics. Week after week, in the past, there was a Protestant columnist who alternated with Murray. Until there is a Protestant voice in the Faith & Values section, the AJC should be considered a Catholic newspaper and an enemy of all Protestants.
KEITH WATKINS, Atlanta
Explanation was right on target
Thank you for your wonderful, beautifully articulated column on Plan B and contraception. Rarely have I seen such a charitable, accessible explanation of the loving principles behind the church's rejection of contraception. I thought it wonderful as well that you were able to use Protestant sources to make your argument. It is heartening to hear that our "separated brethren" are rediscovering the beauty of the full Gospel truth.
I hope you are able to continue your long run at the AJC. I sense that you have become more and more orthodox in your beliefs over the years and your columns have become understandably more concise and specific in their morality and theology. I am frankly shocked the AJC lets you print some of the stuff you do! That's to their credit. I hope it lasts and take comfort, when you receive the inevitable angry e-mails, that you really are doing God's work!
God bless,
TREY HOFFMAN, Peachtree City
Column a surprise; awaiting next one
In the past, I have found your column to be wonderfully refreshing, a tonic to be taken against the neo-Pharisees who sadly dominate religious thinking today. Saturday's column caught me quite by surprise.
I suppose, in a way, I found it disturbing. My wife and I have been happily married for 17 years. We help lead the marriage ministry at our church. We have a beautiful daughter, age 9. Ten years ago, my wife endured a pregnancy rife with pre-term labor, and ultimately delivered a slightly premature (but completely healthy) baby girl.
When we began to think about adding another child to our family, our OB informed us in no uncertain terms that this time my wife would be risking not only the baby's life, but her own. So I chose to have a vasectomy.
By following the logic in your article to its logical extreme, if my wife becomes pregnant and dies, it's just "God's plan." That's an insult to him.
I suppose at some level, even natural family planning is directly against the design of the Creator.
Typically, female desire is at its peak during ovulation. So, [natural family planning] is merely substituting one set of tools (thermometers and charts) for another (barriers and surgery).
I will always struggle with the "If God had meant us to" argument. He endowed us with a problem-solving brain, and an insatiable curiosity. God did not design man to walk into burning buildings, but thanks to the Creator's gift of a brain, firefighters save lives in the middle of hell. Should we abandon Nomex, Kevlar and the self-contained breathing apparatus in the name of "God's will"?
I eagerly await your next column, and will chalk this one up to Romans 14 (specifically 14:1), where Paul reminds us that the community of faith will disagree on "disputable matters."
SCOTT PIEHLER, Suwanee
Thanks for sharing your views in paper
Thank you for your article in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution about self-control and contraception! I am so grateful that you write these things, and that they are in our paper!
MARY McKENZIE, Atlanta

Graphic

 
Packet of Levonorgestrel
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); RELIGION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); THEOLOGY (79%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (75%); WRITERS (73%)

Company: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION  (94%); ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION  (94%)

Industry: WRITERS (73%)

Geographic: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); GEORGIA, USA (58%)

Load-Date: February 19, 2005


End of Document
