



The San Diego Union-Tribune
August 12, 2001, Sunday


Copyright 2001 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: NEWS;Pg. A-1; POLL. STATISTICS.
Length: 1198 words
Byline: Blaine Harden; NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE
Body

MILWAUKEE -- Five years after Congress overhauled welfare laws, with the intention of creating more two-parent families, the proportion of poor American children living in households with two adults is on the rise, two studies say.
Nagging questions remain about the stability of these new households and the well-being of the children growing up in them.
The most significant change in family structure has occurred among low-income blacks, the studies suggest.  After a decade-long slide, the proportion of black children living with two married parents increased significantly from 1995 to 2000.
An analysis of census figures shows a 4.1 percentage point jump, to 38.9 percent from 34.8 percent.
A separate survey by the Urban Institute, a research organization based in Washington, found that single mothers were increasingly likely to live with unmarried partners.  The increase in cohabitation has been sharpest among those who have felt the prod of welfare change, the institute said.
In a rental house in central Milwaukee, Ophelia and Lamont Burks are on the front lines of the changes that Congress wanted to engineer.
After eight years on welfare and seven out-of-wedlock births, Ophelia Burks found a nursing aide job in 1997 and, in 1998, married Lamont Burks, the father of five of the children.  Wisconsin's welfare-to-work law nudged along her decisions to get a job and a husband, she said.
"I knew if I got married, my husband would be reliable for the kids while I was at work," Ophelia Burks said.  "And I would be reliable for them, while he was at work."
The Burks' marriage has had more than its share of trouble.
The low point came in 1999, when Lamont Burks, 35, became addicted to crack cocaine and quit his job as a house painter.  To get clean, he left Milwaukee for five months of drug-abuse treatment.
Without her husband's paycheck, Ophelia Burks could not pay rent and was evicted from their apartment.  Children in tow, she moved in with a cousin who had a live-in boyfriend.  He put a pistol to the temple of Ophelia Burks' oldest son, 11-year-old Kwame.  She moved out in a panic and placed her children in a homeless shelter.
A number of social workers and ministers in Milwaukee, along with several national experts in child welfare, say the Burkses' problems are an all-too-typical reality check for those inclined to get carried away, after just five years, with the family-engineering success of the welfare overhaul.
"These marriages and cohabiting households are all about survival," said Helen Gee, a supervisor at Community Advocates, the largest advocacy agency in Wisconsin for low-income families.
"They are crisis-driven.  Women need help with high rent, utilities, child care and transport.  Their struggle is so great they think that two heads are better than one.  Many women are leaving their kids at home all day with these guys they hardly know.  We are seeing a lot of stressed-out clients."
In the partisan minefield of U.S. welfare policy, a powerful consensus has emerged in recent years among social scientists, as well as state and federal policy makers.
It sees single-parent families as the dismal foundries that produced decades of child poverty, delinquency and crime.  The consensus views the rise of such families, which began in the early 1960s and continued until about five years ago, as a singularly important indicator of social pathology.
From a child's point of view, the most supportive household is one with two biological parents in a low-conflict marriage, according to a growing body of social research.
Yet, in many of the two-adult households that have been cobbled together by necessity in Milwaukee and across the country in the wake of the welfare overhaul, a primary ingredient for child development -- stability -- often goes missing.
"You just can't say that these are low-conflict families, and they are not likely to be anytime soon," said Ramona Bell, who counsels families for Community Advocates.
For poor children, growing up in a household with cohabiting but unmarried adults is probably not an improvement over growing up in a single-parent family, said Kristin Moore, a social psychologist and president of Child Trends, a nonpartisan research group based in Washington.
"Mostly they don't seem to be better off," said Moore, adding that more research needs to be done on the subject.  "There is a lot of turbulence in those families, and turbulence is really hard for kids."
Despite concern about the stability of two-parent households formed in the aftermath of welfare change, there is widespread agreement among welfare experts that something remarkable has been going on in poor urban communities, particularly in the last five years.
The confluence of positive trends includes falling rates of crime and drug abuse, the greatest decline in child poverty -- particularly black child poverty -- since the 1960s, and sharp increases in employment among mothers who head families, especially those who never have been married.
In the last decade, there also has been a steady decline in the teen-age birth rate, with the steepest decline among black teen-agers.
In 1996, there were dire predictions by advocates for children that welfare change, by ratcheting up stress in families where mothers were required to find work, would lead to an increase in child abuse and neglect.  Yet, so far, several national studies show no increase.
A Michigan study has shown that former welfare mothers with jobs are significantly less likely than mothers still on welfare to report domestic violence or homelessness.
There are exceptions to the pattern.  Early studies of families in three welfare-to-work programs, all of them precursors to the federal welfare overhaul, have found unexpected evidence that adolescents have more behavior problems and lower performance in school than children in other welfare households.
On balance, the dovetailing of positive trends has surprised and intrigued many social scientists.
"There seems to be something going on -- people are talking about a tipping point," Moore said.  "It is hard to achieve social change, but once the norms have changed, it can pick up speed."
While the sustained economic boom of the 1990s probably supported all of these trends, including the increase in two-parent families, there is considerable agreement, even among skeptical policy analysts, that welfare change deserves considerable credit.
"In many ways welfare reform is working better than I thought it would," said Wendell Primus, who in 1996 resigned as deputy assistant secretary of Health and Human Services to protest what he feared would be the severe effects of the welfare overhaul on children.
The Burkses, somehow, are working it out.  Lamont Burks is back at home and learning to be a forklift operator with the help of a state program.  After the birth of Ophelia's eighth child four months ago, Lamont Burks had a vasectomy.
His wife said the operation proved "he really loves me." She said she knew that Lamont Burks had to endure the ridicule of his friends, who accused him of throwing away his manhood.
"It was the right move to get married," Lamont Burks said.  "It forced me to grow up."

Graphic

 
1 GRAPH; SOURCE: Census Bureau | NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE; Fewer single-mother households (A-27)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PARENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); WELFARE BENEFITS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (85%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); SOCIAL WORK (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); EVICTION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ADDICTION (67%); COCAINE (67%); RESIGNATIONS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (62%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%)

Company: US CENSUS BUREAU   (59%);  US CENSUS BUREAU  (59%);  URBAN INSTITUTE   (56%);  URBAN INSTITUTE  (56%)

Organization: US CENSUS BUREAU   (59%);  US CENSUS BUREAU  (59%);  URBAN INSTITUTE   (56%);  URBAN INSTITUTE  (56%)

Industry: EVICTION (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%)

Geographic: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: August 15, 2001


End of Document
