



The Philadelphia Daily News
September 20, 2007 Thursday
4STAR Edition


Copyright 2007 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved
Section: LOCAL; DN City & Local Columnists; Pg. 09
Length: 683 words
Body


LADIES AND gentlemen, this is a thrilling time indeed for our city, as we launch a community-run TV venture that will reflect the soul and spirit of Philadelphia! 
Over the next months, you will probably be consumed with evaluating an interim board for the newly formed Philadelphia Public Access Corp. But I hope you'll also begin pondering the kind of programming our five community channels should offer.
My advice? From what I've seen of public-access TV in other cities, the only successful channels are those that deftly infuse their content with the character of their hometowns. 
If we don't hit the ground running with programs that telegraph "This is Philly!" public-access here will go the way of the VCR.
For your consideration, then, I offer the following show ideas:
*  "Yo, Survive THIS!" Aimed at
the twentysomething viewer, this show is set on a South Philly street corner, where six friends hang around day and night, talking. Each week, one of them gets sent to Pat's, for steaks. While he's gone, his friends talk trash about him and vote him off the corner. But when he comes back, they just eat the steaks, continue hanging out, and he never leaves the corner. The next week the same thing happens, only a new guy goes for steaks.
*  "Pay-to-Play-Per-View": A
step-by-step primer on how to live large on a public servant's paycheck, hosted via satellite by incarcerated pols familiar with the do's - and don'ts! - of palm-greasing. Show topics include: "Influence: If You Don't Sell It, How Are You Ever Going to Afford a New Deck On Your House?" and "Is That an FBI Wire Under Your Shirt, Or Are You Just Glad to Get Your No-Bid Contract?"
*  "This Old Extreme
Warehouse Makeover": Each week, a desperate developer of former warehouses is aided by a team of slick salesmen whose goal is to sell the developer's vacant, luxe condos before his investors realize that they're about to lose their shirts. In the first episode, tears flow when a developer learns that a granite upgrade in the kitchens will secure agreements of sale before the 10-year tax abatement runs out.
*  "How I Met My Baby-Mama":
Before a live audience of their children, deadbeat dads offer scenarios - some true, some fabricated - describing how they met their kids' moms. The audience votes on which stories they believe. Contestants who stump the audience get free vasectomies performed by board-certified urologists. Losers get vasectomies performed by their babies' mamas.
*  "Die, Eagles, Die": Created
for Birds' fans who are both fed up with the team and handy with a glue gun, "Die, Eagles, Die" will explore, in crafts, creative ways to channel postgame rage. Projects include "The Andy Reid Voodoo Doll" and "50 New Uses for Green Face Paint."
*  "Dude, Where's My F#*@ing
Car?" This caught-on-camera series will profile the hardships endured by drivers whose vehicles are towed from parking spots that were never posted as illegal, revealing a disturbing truth: The Philadelphia Parking Authority is more powerful - and ruthless - than the IRS. Follow drivers as they scour city streets for their cars, rant over unfair tickets and try to unboot their wheels so they can drive their elderly parents to the doctor.
*  "Sly and Louie": An animated
show for the pre-school set, this gentle-hearted series features blue-caped Police Commissioner Sylvester, bow-tied Nation of Islam crusader Louis and a revolving cast of 10,000 who, through a series of neighborhood gatherings, encourage children to "Play, play, play, the nice, nice way," and to remember that "there are no bad people, just bad choices."
If you like these ideas, and I hope you do, there are many more where they came from.
One that I'm particularly excited about is for a show that would explore the effects of global warming on Philly, ward by ward. Its working title is: "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia." 
I know - it's a dumb title. Let me tweak it a bit, and I'll get back to you. 
Got your own ideas? Send them to me for a future column. *
E-mail  or call 215-854-2217. For recent columns:

Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (86%); AGREEMENTS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); UROLOGY (50%)

Company:  ACCESS CORP (72%)

Industry: UROLOGY (50%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%)

Load-Date: September 20, 2007


End of Document
