



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
May 4, 2003 Sunday
FIVE STAR EDITION


Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: EDITORIAL,
Length: 884 words
Body


The senator proffered some perplexing ideas about the societal role of heterosexual, monogamous marriage
 The press has fully dissected Sen. Rick Santorum's recent comments about homosexuality, adultery, incest and polygamy. Santorum asserts that his comments were strictly in reference to the pending U.S. Supreme Court decision in Lawrence vs. Texas, and "should not be misconstrued in any way as a statement on individual lifestyles."
 Let's give the senator the benefit of the doubt in regard to his views regarding nontraditional sexual, marital and parental choices. What few noticed amid the hype is that Santorum also expressed some rather perplexing ideas about the societal role of heterosexual, monogamous marriage.
Here is what Santorum said in the April 7 interview:
 "Every society in the history of man has upheld the institution of marriage as a bond between a man and a woman. Why? Because society is based on one thing: that society is based on the future of the society. And that's what? Children. Monogamous relationships. In every society, the definition of marriage has not ever to my knowledge included homosexuality. That's not to pick on homosexuality. It's not, you know, man on child, man on dog, or whatever the case may be. It is one thing. And when you destroy that you have a dramatic impact on the quality . . . "
 Startled by the bestiality reference, the reporter interrupted Santorum, depriving the public forever of knowing where the senator's reasoning may have led. But Santorum had already said plenty.
 To begin, surely Santorum cannot believe the sole purpose of societies is procreation. What he probably meant to say is that societies, to survive, must produce some children. True enough, so far.
 But Santorum then implies that heterosexual, monogamous marriage ensures every society's future. This claim is false, as anthropological and historical counterexamples can attest. (To cite a familiar example, if polygamy were a threat to Mormon society, the United States would not have had to force Mormons to ban the practice as a condition for granting Utah statehood.)
 Clearly, sex among unmarried heterosexuals, be they monogamous or polygamous, can produce as many if not more children than a strictly monogamous society -- if the latter is even possible. Neither does homosexuality preclude procreation anymore; recent advances in artificial insemination and surrogate gestation allow gay men and women to bear biological children that carry, on average, half their genetic code -- the same ratio that occurs whenever a person procreates.
 Simply put, the idealized heterosexual, monogamous marriage is not now and never was necessary for societies to survive.
 Nor is it sufficient. Obviously, some monogamous husbands and wives of child-bearing age opt not to procreate. In other marriages, one or both partners are infertile -- either by medical or physical impairment, or by choice through hysterectomy or vasectomy. Menopausal wives and elderly husbands eventually lose either their reproductive abilities altogether.
 Does Santorum believe these heterosexual, monogamous marriages threaten "the future of society" because they fail to produce offspring? By that logic, a fertile husband with a sterile wife harms society by not pursuing adulterous sex from other women. If this sounds ridiculous, well, my point is made: Santorum's categorical claims collapse quickly, under the weight of both logic and history.
 In fairness, Santorum probably intended to argue that heterosexual, monogamous marriages are better at raising -- as opposed to merely creating -- future generations. This is an arguable point, especially given that traditional marriages are not immune to incest, child abuse, spousal abuse, neglect, infidelity and divorce.
 Oh, and speaking of divorce, notice that Santorum carefully avoided criticizing the common practice of serial, marital monogamy -- the replacement of one spouse with another. Of course, many current and former moral crusaders in Congress left their first or even second wives for new, typically younger ones. And, by sheer coincidence, not long after Santorum's remarks President George W. Bush's brother Neil asked his wife (by e-mail) for a divorce so he could join his longtime mistress. Some of these men committed adultery prior to divorce; many left single-parent families behind; and few seem inclined to impregnate their new wives. Is Santorum prepared to lecture Congress and the president's brother, in the way he has the rest of the nation, about the threats that adultery and broken marriage pose to American society?
 Santorum is either oblivious to the contradictions inherent to his remarks, or chooses to ignore them. Societies without state-sanctioned, heterosexual marriages have survived, even thrived. Indeed, despite rising out-of-wedlock birth rates among both black and white Americans in recent decades, we remain the world's most powerful and prosperous nation. Perhaps a thoughtful, informed national debate on the role of marriage in contemporary America is due. Too bad the senator did not call for one.
 Heterosexual, monogamous marriage has worked well for Sen. Santorum, his wife and their children -- and that's just swell. But it's not the only familial model that has worked, past or present.

Notes

Thomas F. Schaller is an assistant professor of political science at the University of Maryland, Baltimore (.  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: MARRIAGE (91%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (90%); POLYGAMY (90%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (75%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (74%); APPEALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (63%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (50%)

Company: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES   (58%);  SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  (58%)

Organization: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES   (58%);  SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES  (58%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (60%)

Person: RICK SANTORUM (79%)

Geographic: UTAH, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (90%)

Load-Date: May 4, 2003


End of Document
