



Daily News (New York)
September 27, 2008 Saturday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2008 Daily News, L.P.


Section: TELEVISION; Pg. 60
Length: 450 words
Byline: BY DAVID HINCKLEY
Body


CALIFORNICATION. 2 Stars. Sunday at 10pm, Showtime.
"CALIFORNICATION" IS BACK for season two and guess what, campers? It's all about the sex.
Well, it's all about the sex except for one hilarious scene where a guy who has just had a vasectomy gets clobbered in the scrotum with a nightstick.
Then it gets right back to sex.
Fans of "Californication" think this show is to sex what "Entourage" is to showbiz - such an over-the-top portrayal that it enables the characters to say what we're all really thinking under the all-protective umbrella of comedy.
Can't argue with the over-the-top part. While Hank Moody (David Duchovny), partner Karen (Natascha McElhone) and their friends nominally have jobs - Hank is a writer - they seem to talk and think about almost nothing but sex.
They talk about their sex lives and sex problems with each other. They banter with their children about sex. They conduct pillow talk with strangers. They have sex with anyone willing to take off enough clothes to make it possible, which in the "Californication" world is everyone.
So yes, the show has put sex out on the table. It has moments of wit, too, some even subtler than the nightstick to the crotch.
But its most remarkable feat is that after a while it makes sex seem boring.
The most interesting sex scenes on film have always arisen from an interesting context. Even if it's just hormone-crazed teenagers in a movie as deliberately dumb as "American Pie," the characters need stories. We have to know and preferably like them. We like to see some foreplay, however fumbling, because then when the sex rolls around it makes us feel happy for them.
"Californication" offers none of that. Sure, the characters have stories, but they're only small talk, filler to get them from one sex encounter to the next.
There's no sense of gratification or pleasure in the sex here, only a sense of wrapping up another day on the job. They could be punching time clocks.
Some of the sex jokes and situations are amusing, and Duchovny never plays one second as if he isn't telling the biggest joke of his life.
Still, the show leaves a vaguely disturbing aftertaste for viewers: that even though this is TV and even though none of the characters lead richly fulfilled lives, they still get constant sex with good-looking people. If you can't say that, you must be playing on life's B team.
But that's probably overthinking things, because the real soul of "Californication" lies in Hank telling Karen, with a big grin, "Prepare for the Hammer of Thor."
It's soft-core porn in a better suit - and in the end that means it has porn's problem, which is that sex is a whole lot sexier when you don't treat it as a product.


Graphic

 
David Duchovny and Natascha McElhone make a frisky twosome in "Californication."
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: COLUMN

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: SEXUAL BEHAVIOR (78%); EMOTIONS (74%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); WRITERS (68%); DAVID DUCHOVNY (%); TV (%); REVIEW (%)

Industry: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); WRITERS (68%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (53%)

Load-Date: September 28, 2008


End of Document
