



The Philadelphia Inquirer
October 24, 2006 Tuesday


Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved


Section: FEATURES MAGAZINE; Pg. E02
Length: 1042 words
Body


She said what?!
A little primer on who has accused whom of what in the Kampf that is the divorce between country singer Sara Evans and political operator Craig Schelske:
She said: Craig slept with her bosom bud (who was also the nanny) Alison Clinton.
He was verbally abusive, drank and smoked in front of the couple's three kids (ages 2 to 7).
He watched porn in the house. (The porch would have been better? He could have smoked there, too.)
He said: It's Sara who's had the illicit affair.
There was porn, but they watched it together when they thought the kids were asleep (the 7-year-old walked in at one point).
Sara, alas, had "a breakdown" last year and Craig's been nothing but supportive, encouraging her to go on meds.
Sara filed for divorce Oct. 12, the same day she dropped out of Dancing With the Stars. She and Craig wed in '93.
Anna Nicole sickness
TMZ.com reports that the professional girlfriend and wife confessed during her pregnancy that her ex-b.f., photog Larry Birkhead, was the father of her new baby, Dannielynn Hope. See, Anna Nicole has denied Larry's claim to be the daddy, sticking instead with her attorney-and-lover Howard K. Stern's equally obsessive desire to be counted as the father. But, TMZ.com says, Anna Nicole initially told her sometime sexual partner Gaither Ben Thompsonhe was the daddy, after having inquired with his friends about his assets.
But good old Gaither told her he'd had a vasectomy. Anna Nicole reportedly then confessed to Gait that Larry was the father.
Creepy house
In a creepy connection, Anna and Howard have been living in a Bahamas house that belongs to... Gaither.
And Mr. Thompson wants the new parents to clear out of his $1 mil digs. He tells People mag he bought the place as a favor to Anna Nicole with the understanding she'd sign a mortgage to buy it from him. But, he said, Anna Nicole insists the house was a gift.
Gaither said he'll proceed with formal eviction if Anna Nicole doesn't move it.
Creepy sis
Meanwhile, Anna Nicole's half-sister Donna Hogan is shilling her tell-all, Train Wreck: Anna Nicole Smith Unauthorized, cowritten with Stacy Brown, in which she claims Anna Nicole is responsible for the drug-overdose death of her 20-year-old son, Daniel. Hogan tells the New York Post her half-sis long knew about David's struggles with drugs but did nothing to help him - because she could not have cared less.
She's really eloquent in her assessment of Anna Nicole: "Two days after [Daniel] dies, she's selling pictures of him to the tabloids and I'm thinking, 'What a freaking waste of a human being my sister is.' "
Don't ask, don't tell?
Reichen Lehmkuhl, who helped his lover, Lance Bass, come out, is plugging a new book, Here's What We'll Say: Growing Up, Coming Out, and the U.S. Air Force Academy, in which he makes the shocking revelation that he was sexually assaulted while in the Air Force. Speaking to ABC News, Lehmkuhl, 32, famed for winning $1 mil on CBS's The Amazing Race 4 with former partner Chip Arndt, says one night some of his fellow cadets, who often speculated about his sexuality, sent him a message about their disdain for him.
"I was stripped of my clothes. I was forced to do things sexually with two other male cadets."
Lehmkuhl, who reached the rank of captain, said he did not disclose the incident for fear of retribution.
Love me, I'm famous!
Ask any self-respecting blow-dried metalhead, and he'd say he became an artist because of... the chicks.
The world looks different for Daniel "Harry Potter" Radcliffe, who claims fame has actually made dating more difficult.
Apparently many gals want to go out with the 17-year-old thesp based entirely on his celebrity (yeah, exactly dude! Rock on! Use it!), which he finds distressing. (Huh?)
"It's always a worry, yeah," Radcliffe, 17, tells Newsweek about those awful groupie chicks ready to throw themselves at his feet.
"But I've got pretty good instincts for people."
Harry, um, Daniel, is currently unattached.
Your daily Madge dose
Yesterday, the Big O said she would tangle today with the Great Cosmic Discombobulator, Madonna, about the African Adoption Mess for a smackdown to air tomorrow on The Oprah Winfrey Show. The Metaphysical Materialist will tell Oprah why 13-month-old David Banda is hers to love and cherish, cuddle and scold, even though the lad's father said Sunday he didn't know that "to adopt" means to "take away for good."
Tomorrow: Report about the taping.
Thursday: More quotes from the Oprah show.
Friday: Who knows!
Of 'Jolene' and Kierkegaard
Euro-slick isn't the first thing that comes up when you think Dolly Parton, but a Danish theater yesterday said the tremendously gifted 60-year-old country star would launch her first Euro-tour in 30 years on March 7 in Horsens, a city a couple of hours west of Copenhagen. Then she'll wind her way mostly in the northern Scandinavian climes before hitting England, Scotland and Ireland in April.
The blink of an eye
When was that heartrending moment when she knew her ill-starred marriage to Nick Lachey was, indeed, ill? Sweet blond chanteuse Jessica Simpson tells Jane mag she was about to head off to Africa to do charity work last October, "on our three-year wedding anniversary," when Nick said to her he'd rather not. There she is, on their anniversary, being all caring and doing good works in Africa, while "he stayed home."
Kate & Pete's recovery plans
Brit paper the Daily Mail: Kate Moss, 32, has returned from a romantic weekend with Pete Doherty, 27, in Italy, sporting a rock on her finger. Will they do future stints in rehab as a couple? (Well, if such an awful need arose.) Reports indicated a baby is on the way.
Lindsay: Killer driver?
TMZ.com yesterday was like, "Lindsay Lohan's driving almost caused a collision in front of our cameras last night." The meganinny cut some car off with her Mercedes as she left L.A. club Hyde. No collision, no injuries. But! There's video...!
Killer Killers show a no-go
Last night'sKillers show at the Electric Factory was postponed (no rhymes or reasons cited). Rescheduling is atop the band's to-do list. Check  or             for updates.
Contact "SideShow" at  or 215-854-5797. This column contains information from Inquirer wire services.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (90%); EVICTION (78%); NEGATIVE MISC NEWS (78%); NEGATIVE NEWS (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (76%); ABUSE & NEGLECT (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); DEATH & DYING (73%); PSYCHOLOGICAL ABUSE (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); LAWYERS (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); DRUG OVERDOSES (62%)

Industry: EVICTION (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); LAWYERS (68%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); BAHAMAS (73%)

Load-Date: October 24, 2006


End of Document
