



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
November 5, 2000, Sunday,
WASHINGTON EDITION


Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: METRO,
Length: 1094 words
Body


A man's view …  A giant, strong and brave, standing like a conqueror atop the hill, daring all challengers, craving adventure and the chance to prove his physical prowess to the world. Organized sports offer a safe outlet for this dangerous aggression and allow these young males to test themselves by smashing heads in glorious combat.
Yeah, I was like that once. But by seventh grade, I was happy to sit on the sidelines with all the other pathetic losers. After getting tossed around on the field like a Doberman's empty dog dish, most of us soon realized we were toothpicks in jockstraps, all praying the coach would not notice us.
We had no desire to win, no one expected us to and we never did. For us, it was a good game if you didn't swallow your mouth guard, even better if you never stepped onto the field.
The coach, a wood-shop teacher with a red nose and three missing fingers, would stalk the sidelines smoking like a ' 76 Gremlin, cussing and kicking imaginary field goals with the empty pop cans our "fans" had thrown at us. One time, I swear it got so bad that we lost the coin toss and went home.
Those are the facts. But 20 years later, I can't remember it that way.
Just the other day I was telling my girlfriend of winning touchdown catches, roaring fans and emotional cheerleaders. These weren't lies, just articulated memories with the dark spots brushed off. See, she had been trying for a long time to understand my so-called obsession with televised sports. She wanted to know what deep psychological desire was being satisfied by spending the best hours of my life watching little pictures of large men chasing balls across the screen.
I didn't know what to say, so I tried honesty for a change. I told her it was a normal and deep-seated longing to get in touch with my little "inner warrior." Watching sports somehow helped me recapture the superficial peaks of my disadvantaged youth … that the intricate rule structure of organized sports offered a complex spiritual satisfaction and formed a balanced reprieve to a confusing and unpredictable life (I read that in an old Sports Illustrated).
But, whoo-boy! Don't ever tell a woman this stuff -- she'll think you are bonding with her, and then she'll try to watch the game with you and make it a "together" thing. A woman with no sports experience can drain all of the fun out of a football game and turn fourth-and-goal into an Oprah-style gabfest: "Why did he throw the ball on the ground in the end zone? Isn't that a fumble? Why must they touch each other -- is that one gay? Can we talk? Why do you ignore me?"
After a while, her voice began to sound like a mosquito tapped into an adrenaline wave, and I began to sound like Howard Cosell with a migraine. She was ruining my only pastime. So in retaliation, I started watching her soap operas with her. I'd ask: "Is that one gay? Is that the transvestite twin with double amnesia? Who's that one sleeping with? Is there really such a thing as a retroactive vasectomy?"
As this conflict threatened to tear us apart, we finally hit on the perfect solution, one that could potentially save many couples the expenses of marriage counseling and divorce attorneys. It's simple, really. The secret to a happy relationship is for every man to have a detached garage with cable TV.
Let the games begin!
L. Wayne Moss can be reached by e-mail at .  
A woman's view …  It's true we have tried to understand your fascination with watching sports on TV. We've been patient when you plunk yourself down on the sofa for hours on end. We've been forced to vacuum around your feet, we've picked up your dirty glasses and generally worked around you like you're a 6-foot, 200-pound knickknack.
And, OK, guilty as charged: We've even tried to watch sports with you a few times. "What's a reverse?" we've queried. "Or an RBI? What does it mean when they say they're walking that guy? Why can't he walk by himself?"
We're just trying to understand the game. But no, excuuuuuse us for asking some simple questions.
We're all for you getting in touch with something; even if it's just your little "inner warrior." Just promise us you won't put war paint on your face or strap on a loincloth.
As for your "articulated memories with the dark spots brushed off," trust us: It doesn't take 20 years for you to delude yourselves. Apparently, this is how your minds are wired -- programmed to remember things the way you would have liked them to be.
But look, we're reasonable creatures. Maybe if we explain our position it will help you to see our point. You'll understand why we find sports in general so hard to like.
Take your basic baseball, for example. Do you know how disgusting we find it when someone has this big wad of tobacco in his cheek then spits it out all over the field? Charming. And all those scratches and gestures and gyrations they go through -- is it a simple case of jock itch or are they suffering from an allergic reaction from the goober they just stepped in? At least it's a diversion from the lack of action on the field.
How many games do they play anyway? Some 2,000 to 3,000 a season? We'd like to grand slam something. Like maybe the remote control onto the floor.
Then there's basketball. He shoots, he scores! They certainly could use some fashion advice to improve on those baggy pants they wear. Maybe some cut-off denims. And perhaps go shirtless? The guys with the tightest abs could get two extra free throws a night. They'd stand poised, stomachs tensed, muscles flexed, arms outstretched. Who'd care if they made the basket? Now, that might be a game worth watching.
Then we have to contend with a hockey game. Pucks, goalies, checks, all that fighting -- why not just watch boxing? At least the boxers have some teeth. Here's a hat trick for you: Clean the bathroom, mop the kitchen floor and load the dishwasher.
What does that leave? Oh, yeah, football. Tight ends, fullbacks, quarterbacks, wide receivers, tackles, punters, centers. It's impossible to keep track of all the positions. Though one thing we have picked up on is they seem to spend an inordinate amount of time patting each other on the butt.
Enough said. Now, if we could only find a way to channel your fascination with all things sports, imagine the energy we could harness to get things done.
So, great warrior: The next time you're hanging out in your detached garage, how about spending some time cleaning it up?
And while you're at it, throw out those old Sports Illustrated magazines.
Donna and Eve Shavatt can be reached by e-mail at .  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: MEN'S SPORTS (90%); EMOTIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%)

Load-Date: November 5, 2000


End of Document
