



The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
January 18, 2007 Thursday
Main Edition


Copyright 2007 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: CITY LIFE MIDTOWN; Pg. 1JN
Length: 1106 words
Byline: MASHAUN D. SIMON

For the Journal-Constitution
Body


Tara Unger does more before 8 a.m. than some folks do in an entire day. At 6 a.m., she's up and in her home office.
Then she wakes 4-year-old Lily. Unger and her daughter have breakfast and she makes Lily's lunch. Finally, Unger sends Lily off to school and finishes a long list of chores --- all before 7:35 a.m. Unger, a single mother, wouldn't mind having Lily's biological father around to help out --- but she's never even met the man. 
Lily was conceived through a process called intrauterine insemination, with sperm from an anonymous donor.
According to Carolyn Kaplan, the physician who serves as director of In Vitro Fertilization, Georgia Reproductive Specialists, an estimated 1,500 to 2,000 women each year have inseminations in metro Atlanta.
"About 15 or 20 percent of our patients are using donor sperm," primarily from anonymous donors, she said. "The rest are using their husband's sperm."
The inseminations almost always result in pregnancy, although multiple attempts may be required.
Unger chose the anonymous donor option.
Lily's too young to care how she was conceived.
But Kathleen Whitaker, now 22, thinks conceiving children with an anonymous donor is a bad idea. She happens to be such a child herself.
"It is not fair," said Whitaker, who now lives in Augusta. "In anonymous sperm donation, everyone involved is protected except for the offspring."
As a teen, she tracked down her biological father after learning the details of her conception. She still considers the dad who reared her as her parent.
"When [they] married, my mother wanted a child, but my father was incapable of having kids because of a vasectomy he had during his first marriage," Whitaker said.
She contacted the Florida sperm bank where her parents acquired the donor sperm years earlier.
"The guy who worked there broke the rules for me and contacted my donor," Whitaker said. Later, she met her donor father, who is married and has other children.
Whitaker said there is no doubt in her mind the man is her biological father.
"The mannerisms were alike, the academic path was similar," she said.
Whitaker's biological father and his family also live in Augusta and she baby-sits her half-brothers from time to time.
Unger said she understands how Lily might one day want to know her biological father. But she was determined to conceive.
"I searched for Mr. Right, but could never find him, and I really wanted a child," she said. "I have never been the one to do things conventionally. So, while it was frightening, it was a no-brainer. I was going to have a child, and this seemed the best way."
Tammy Miller followed a similar path.
She was 44 with no man in her life and she wanted a child.
"For most women, having a child on their own is plan B," she said.
Now the mother of 3-year-old Megan, Miller started the Atlanta chapter of Single Mothers by Choice about four years ago. The chapter is part of the national organization.
"We now have over 30 members in Atlanta and are growing every day," Miller said.
She chose donor insemination after a tennis partner mentioned it during one of their games.
"In high school I dreamed of getting married and having kids," she said. "And I have not abandoned that idea. I have the rest of my life to find a husband, but I do not have the rest of my life to have a baby."
Miller realized there might be issues for Megan down the road regarding how she was conceived.
"I had to think about how my choice would affect my child," Miller said.
Being a part of an organization with other women who conceived with donated sperm helps tremendously, she said.
Conceiving with donated sperm is expensive, and most insurance companies do not pay for the process.
Eileen Fishman, 42, who conceived Rebecca, now 3, using the procedure, said the costs have more to do with pre-pregnancy drugs and treatments than the cost of the sperm, which usually runs about $250. Still, it can be a bargain compared to other methods.
For example, in vitro fertilization, which occurs outside the woman's body, can easily cost up to $25,000, depending on how long it takes for the mother to get pregnant, Fishman said.
"For my first round of trying, which resulted in Rebecca, I probably spent about $3,000 to $4,000 but it was very low key in comparison," Fishman said. "Last spring, when I tried another two rounds, I spent about $8,000 and I was unsuccessful."
It usually takes six tries, on average, for a healthy woman to conceive the old-fashioned way.
Miller and Fishman were lucky; the procedure worked the first time for them. With Unger, it took three tries.
Sperm banks test prospective donors for the HIV/AIDS virus and donors are asked to provide their medical histories and other information their offspring might need one day.
But the banks don't verify that information or ensure it is complete.
"They make this very clear," Unger said. "They do not, to my knowledge, test for rare genetic or hereditary diseases at this point and yes, it is causing issues as some [donor inseminated] babies are being born with rare diseases and the sperm bank cannot provide further details because they simply did not test for them or ask for the info from the donor."
Kaplan said a few sperm banks have begun providing information about donor fathers to their children at age 18.
"It is often possible to take information from the donor banks and track people down --- where they went to college, what sports they were involved in, pictures provided by the sperm bank, and so on," she said. "But more than likely, if it is an anonymous donation, [fathers] do not want to be found and will not be."
California Cryobank recently began offering an open donor program through its Donor Sibling Registry, a Web-based databank where offspring of donors can search for half-siblings through the use of the donor's anonymous ID number.
Although Unger isn't looking for Lily's father, she used the registry to locate her daughter's half-siblings, she said.
At this point, she said, there's no reason for Lily to meet relatives on her father's side of the family, especially since they live in other parts of the country.
"If Lily wants to know anything about who her father is, we will cross that bridge when we get there," she said.
Kaplan said research indicates that children of anonymous donors are not at greater risk of developing emotional problems than children conceived the traditional way.
A 1998 study done by the Department of Psychology at the University of Virginia found that children of anonymous sperm donors were "developing in normal fashion, and that their adjustment was unrelated to structural variables," including the manner of their conception. 

Graphic

 
Photo: ALLEN SULLIVAN / SpecialSingle mother Eileen Fishman helps her 3-year-old daughter, Rebecca, wash her hands at home in Atlanta.
Photo: ALLEN SULLIVAN / SpecialEileen Fishman plays with her daughter, Rebecca, who was conceived through artificial insemination. Fishman is co-president of the Atlanta chapter of Single Mothers by Choice.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspapers

Subject: CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); EGG & SPERM DONATION (89%); SPERM BANKS (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); WOMEN (76%); MARRIAGE (75%); CITIES (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%)

Industry: SPERM BANKS (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%)

Geographic: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); GEORGIA, USA (73%)

Load-Date: January 18, 2007


End of Document
