





The Tampa Tribune (Florida)
July 6, 2000, Thursday,
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2000 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
Section: BUSINESS & FINANCE,
Length: 855 words
Body


It's "innovative." Or it's "stupid stuff." It's marketing a business in the bush leagues.
GENEVA, Ill. - Jake the Diamond Dog bolts out of his doghouse behind first base, runs down a foul  ground ball and retrieves it for the umpire.
Later, pigs wearing numbers will race around the bases between innings. Kids will compete in a  peanut butter sandwich-making contest. And a volunteer strapped inside the "human bowling ball" will  roll around the outfield as the crowd roars.
An Associated Press report;
The spirit of P.T. Barnum lives on in minor-league baseball, where small teams wield big shticks  to pack in the crowds - the cornier, goofier and cheaper the better for those promoting their  all-American product.
This truly is marketing at its grass roots - the kind you don't learn at Harvard Business School.
"There's nothing like it in terms of being innovative," said general manager Jeff Sedivy of the  Kane County Cougars, a member of the Midwest League in Class A, almost the lowest rung of  professional baseball.
Sedivy, a former college player turned insurance underwriting manager, gave up a job in the  corporate business world for the love of the game and the gimmick.
"It's stupid stuff, but it works," he said with a grin.
Actually, it doesn't always work, but even when gimmicks fail, they can be good for business in  the bush leagues, where baseball alone isn't usually enough to draw profitable crowds.
Badly botched promotions are at once "awful and wonderful," said Mike Veeck, the former vice  president of sales and marketing for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Veeck is co-owner of five  minor-league baseball teams, and the son of legendary baseball promoter Bill Veeck.
Fans in this town an hour west of Chicago, for example, are still talking about the day that  Jymmy the Villain bombed, the infield caught fire and the karate didn't chop. When Midwest League  executives gathered here recently for their circuit's all-star game, the Jymmy the Villain game was  cited by several as a particularly bizarre event.
"It was the worst promotion and the best promotion we ever did," said Scott Lane, now the general  manager of the West Michigan Whitecaps. He was with the Cougars when Jymmy made his ill-fated  appearance at a Kane County game seven years ago.
Claiming to be a "rock 'n' roll magician" with circus experience, Jymmy promised a memorable show  in which he'd walk a high wire from the press box to home plate. He also was going to juggle chain  saws.
"WE WERE DUMB ENOUGH to believe him," said Bill Larsen, the Cougars' boss at the time and now  general manager of the Fort Wayne Wizards.
On game day, Jymmy's assistants lugged a coffin in from center field and set it down next to a  small trampoline. The performer emerged, wearing a black cape and devil's mask.
The revised plan: Jymmy would wow the crowd by doing a flip off the trampoline over soaring  flames, landing on his feet. Then he would break a stack of boards with a karate chop.
But while Jymmy pirouetted around the field in his costume, his handlers stood uneasily holding  a flaming 2-by-4, waiting until they could wait no longer.
"These guys can't hold it any more, so they drop it and the grass catches on fire," said Larsen.  "Then he comes running in and flips over it and lands on his back. He's out cold.
"Finally, he gets up and goes over to the boards behind home plate. He winds up and hits it -  nothing gives. He hits it again and his hand breaks."
Promotions don't have to fail to be memorable.
The junior Veeck has had hits with a massage-giving nun and a sunglasses-wearing pig that  delivers balls to the home-plate umpire at St. Paul Saints games. Every night's a giveaway night  for the Whitecaps and some other teams. Clubs have pulled in huge crowds for Bald Night, Irish  Night with green bases and caps, and Lawyer Appreciation Night.
But it's the marketing misfires that live on the most fondly in fans' memories. Minor-league  executives described a few others:
 Greased Pig Night: The Charleston RiverDogs, Tampa Bay's Class A affiliate, greased up a pig  named Tommy so kids could chase him around the field. But Tommy ran down the right-field line and  out of the ballpark, right into a swamp. "Helicopters from the SPCA looked for Tommy for two days,"  Veeck said.
 Mime-O-Vision: Veeck hired five mimes in St. Paul to re-enact plays and make instant replay  obsolete. "By the fifth inning the fans were throwing everything that wasn't nailed down."
 Flying Hot Dogs: The Blues Brothers, a copycat group popular at games around the Midwest,  tried its own version of the stunt of shooting water balloons into the crowd with giant slingshots.  They fired up a hot dog loaded with the works, hitting a fan in the face and nearly provoking a  fistfight.
 Vasectomy Night: The RiverDogs planned to give away a vasectomy on Father's Day in 1997. They  canceled the promotion after receiving complaints.
 Boring Pet Tricks: "We tried to steal from Letterman and do "Stupid Pet Tricks,' but the pets  wouldn't do anything," said Sedivy. "The best we got was a dog that supposedly played soccer. Turned  out he ate the ball instead."

Graphic

 
PHOTO (3C),
 AP photo (C) Elfstorm Stadium workers roll a volunteer "human bowling ball" toward giant pins while the crowd roars its approval. Earlier in the game, pigs raced around the bases.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: PROFESSIONAL SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS OFFICIATING (78%); ANIMAL WELFARE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); KARATE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

Company: FORT WAYNE NEWSPAPERS  (50%); FORT WAYNE NEWSPAPERS  (50%)

Industry: INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (51%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: July 6, 2000


End of Document
