



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
May 14, 2005 Saturday
REGION EDITION


Copyright 2005 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT,
Length: 821 words
Byline: Toby Goldstein Tribune Media Services
Body


This column represents on air summaries for May 9-13.
 ALL MY CHILDREN: Erica considered calling off her wedding but said she would marry Jack if Kendall promises not to marry Zach. After Zach rejected an offer from Erica, she was accosted. When JR refused Ethan's offer to regain control of Chandler Enterprises, in exchange for leaving Kendall alone, Ethan threatened to destroy the company. Ryan met with a doctor to schedule a vasectomy. Ryan revealed his rage to Kendall. Lily allowed Sam to kiss her. Maria told Sam who his biological parents are. Hearing Aidan's news regarding the Jane Doe in Europe, Tad didn't want to believe that Dixie could be alive. Phoebe's will held a surprise for Jamie.
AS THE WORLD TURNS: Lily followed Keith and saw him hand over Julia's engagement ring to Vin, who had been harassing him. When Lucinda's private eye found out about Keith's gambling debts, he admitted everything -- but still played the wounded man. Craig decided to remain in Bangkok after discovering Rosanna's location. Jennifer wasn't pleased but accepted Carly as a designer at Street Jeans. Gwen made it appear to Celia that she wants to make amends with Will but she wanted to get closer to Casey.
 BOLD AND BEAUTIFUL: Taylor, who escaped after emerging from a coma, absorbed the news of Ridge's marriage and commended Brooke for handling the children. It took Steffy and Phoebe time to accept that their mother is back, but Thomas embraced Taylor immediately. When Brooke said Taylor would have to find a place to live, Ridge didn't respond. Nick kicked Jackie out when she told him that what happened at the wedding was a sign that he is meant to marry someone else.
 DAYS OF OUR LIVES: Jan emerged from her coma to accuse Mimi of trying to kill her, which Tek overheard. Hope and Billie fought after Hope caught her in bed with Bo. Bo was shocked that he was making love to Billie, not Hope. Billie was asked to donate blood to Chelsea.  Belle reunited with Marlena, while John opened up to Marlena about his drug addiction. As the guys grilled Sami/Stan, Shawn warned that he'd find out the stranger's identity and motives. Abe's problems put a strain on his marriage. Nicole sought a way to sabotage Chloe's surgery.
 GENERAL HOSPITAL: Jason and Sonny planned to save Michael and Carly, as Sonny confessed to Mac that he killed AJ, vowing to go to prison to protect Michael. Ric realized the truth about Michael. Emily got the upper hand over Helena, who was arrested. Emily decided not to let Connor destroy her life. At the rape scene, Nikolas burned down the house. Ric accused Alexis of bribing Durant to buy witnesses against Sonny.  Durant blackmailed Alexis to help him get Ric's job.
 GUIDING LIGHT: Harley told Gus about the jasmine scent she recalled from the murder. Gus noted Olivia's jasmine-scented perfume and realized she locked him up. Mallet tried to prevent Harley's transfer to the harshest prison, unaware that Alan is pulling the strings. Dinah manipulated Alonzo until he demanded to have Will by the end of the week. Reva began working at a bar and enjoyed spending time with Nate. Reva became curious when she spotted a Tammy look-alike. Marina walked out on Danny after he admitted his tryst with Michelle.
 ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Rex discovered Jen's body in the parking lot and believed she had been murdered. Daniel panicked over killing Jen and tried to make it look like a suicide. Daniel's lover began to tell Nora the truth, as Daniel tried to cover his tracks. Blair heard Kelly ask Kevin if Margaret forced Todd to have sex with him, then told Todd she knows what Margaret did. Believing Tess is Jessica, Todd followed her and Ginger to Ultraviolet and remained suspicious. David shared a kiss with Dorian.
 PASSIONS: Alistair convinced Beth that no one can know she is his daughter. Sheridan concluded that Beth must be her sister and was intent on proving that Alistair helped Beth steal Marty. Mrs. Wallace blackmailed Alistair into paying her child support. Theresa refused to drop the charges against Gwen, even as Ethan filed papers to take Jane away from her. Whitney made a connection with her baby. In Las Vegas, a spoiled rich girl named Fancy retaliated against Ned's dismissal of her by sabotaging his poker game.
 YOUNG AND RESTLESS: Daniel apologized to Cassie, who forgave him before Nick and Sharon kicked him out of the hospital room. Kevin lied to Phyllis about buying the beer as Phyllis vowed to find the guilty party. Devon noted Lily's attraction to Daniel but concealed his own feelings for her. Lily kissed Daniel, who stopped them, explaining that they can't get involved because he expects to go to jail. Noting John's interest in Gina, Gloria opted to be nice to Gina to keep an eye on her. With Phyllis often missing work, Dru asked her to get someone to replace her. J.T. was frustrated to see a bikini-clad Mac talking to the pool boy, but he didn't say anything.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); EXTORTION (76%); NEGATIVE NEWS (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (72%); ADDICTION (67%); ARRESTS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); BLOOD DONATIONS (50%)

Company: GINA GLORIA  (57%)

Organization: GINA GLORIA  (57%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%)

Geographic: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); EUROPE (57%)

Load-Date: May 14, 2005


End of Document
