



The Baltimore Sun
December 8, 2024 Sunday
First Edition


Copyright 2024 The Baltimore Sun Company All Rights Reserved
Section: LIFESTYLE; R; Pg. 1
Length: 568 words
Byline: Dr. Devon B. Smith The Baltimore Sun
Body


Surgical sterilization, through spaying females and neutering males, is a major part of pet ownership and is probably one of the most common surgical procedures that general practice veterinarians, like me, undertake on a daily basis.
But just because it's common does not mean it is without controversy.
Spaying generally refers to the removal of both ovaries and the uterus in a female and neutering refers to the removal of both testicles in the male. Either procedure results in irreversible sterilization of a pet.
In the past, pets have been spayed or neutered at a young age, typically between 6-8 months and sometimes younger, especially when animals are moving through rescue groups.
A lot of the logic behind young spay and neuter guidelines deals with health concerns. In females, there is an increased risk of mammary cancer when they are left intact and the risk increases with subsequent heat cycles. In males, juvenile neutering aims to avoid unwanted behaviors like urine marking and roaming. It also completely prevents testicular cancer and limits if not prevents all together, prostatitis or inflammation of the prostate. Neutering can also help manage unwanted behavior like aggression, however, I never guarantee that neutering will change or correct negative behaviors in any intact male dogs, or in female patients for that matter.
Over the years, spaying and neutering guidelines have evolved and it is now quite common to see discussions about delayed spaying and neutering in medium to large or giant breed dogs. It's a topic that I bring up in puppy visits with any patients that fall under the large or giant breed category. Delayed surgical sterilization usually means after the first heat cycle in females or between 18-24 months of age.
The research behind delayed spaying and neutering demonstrates that leaving these larger breeds intact for a longer period of time results in fewer orthopedic abnormalities and fewer instances of certain types of cancer.
To make it more complicated, earlier this year, the World Small Animal Veterinary Association updated its spay and neuter guidelines to oppose the blanket recommendation of spaying and neutering all dogs. Instead, the association opens the door to alternative options including hysterectomies in females (leaving the ovaries and removing the uterus) as well as vasectomies in males. In both instances the patient is no longer able to reproduce but will still have the benefit of the reproductive hormones. The association also discusses that in some instances, which entirely depend on responsible ownership as determined by the veterinarian, forgoing surgical sterilization altogether should be considered.
As a veterinarian who sees a lot of large breed dogs and who has seen the benefit of delayed spaying and neutering, I found these new guidelines to be particularly interesting. I should add that this dialogue focuses solely on dogs. It is still recommended that cats are spayed and neutered at a young age.
The new recommendations and considerations highlight the importance of the veterinary-client relationship and the need for veterinarians to have these often complex but very interesting conversations with their pet owners!
Ask The Vet is a weekly series by Dr. Devon B. Smith, a Baltimore veterinarian who is an associate at Madonna Veterinary Clinic in White Hall. Send your pet questions or photos to 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: PETS (92%); ANIMAL WELFARE (90%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (90%); PET SPAYING & NEUTERING (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); ANIMALS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DOGS (89%); CANCER (88%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (79%); ANIMAL SHELTERS & RESCUES (78%); CATS (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); REPRODUCTIVE DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); TESTICULAR CANCER (76%); ORTHOPEDICS (74%); PROSTATE DISEASE (69%)

Industry: VETERINARY SERVICES (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (79%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (74%)

Load-Date: December 8, 2024


End of Document
