



The New York Times
June 7, 2004 Monday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company
Section: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 1448 words
Byline: By MIREYA NAVARRO
Body


''What's the origin of the family?'' the speaker asked his audience.
 ''The Trinity?'' one man ventured.
 Yes, the speaker said, but what about on earth?
 ''Men and women,'' another voice answered.
 O.K., the speaker said, but what do men and women do to create a family?
 ''Marry,'' a few voices said in unison. 
 What do men and women DO? the speaker, Christopher West, insisted. 
 ''Sex!'' a chorus finally answered amid laughter. 
 A frank talk about sex is not usual, or easy, fare at Roman Catholic parish halls, but about 140 people gathered one night in May at the Church of the Holy Family in Sewell, N.J., to hear Mr. West, a theology lecturer from Pennsylvania, delve into topics like lust and sexual pleasure. 
 He lectures around the country on ''theology of the body,'' Pope John Paul II's views on sexuality, which Mr. West and other Catholics are increasingly using to present the church's prohibitions on sex in a more positive light.
 American Catholics are perhaps better known for flouting church doctrine when it comes to contraception, premarital sex, divorce and remarriage.
 But in recent years, a rising number of theology of the body conferences, retreats, study groups, seminars and lectures indicate a growing interest in trying to reconcile sexual practices with religion, organizers of the gatherings say.
 ''This is the generation that bore the brunt of the divorce rate and of out-of-wedlock births and caught most of the fallout from the sexual revolution of the 60's,'' said the Rev. Richard Hogan, a diocesan priest from St. Paul, Minn., who writes and speaks on the theology. ''They're not necessarily going to buy the entire teachings. But they're in the mode of searching for another way.''
 People like Father Hogan who are disseminating this theology say that many Catholics have strayed from the church in part because its teachings are usually presented as a list of harsh rules. They say the pope, whose writings on love and sexuality date to when he was Bishop Karol Wojtyla in Poland, steers away from a list of dos and don'ts.
 John Paul, whose views on the theology of the body emerged from his weekly general audiences in the first few years after he became pope in 1978, acknowledges the need for sexual fulfillment, not just for procreation but also for ''unification'' with the loved one, they say. He also makes a distinction between sexual desire and lust, finding nothing wrong with the former, promoters of the theology say.
 But the pope interprets the Scriptures as emphasizing such principles as the dignity of the body and fulfillment as a result of giving oneself to another person in love, rather than pleasure. And his central message, Father Hogan says, is that if the body is regarded as the expression of God, it will never be used as ''a thing'' whose functions can be altered or manipulated. In that light, Father Hogan says, the church's bans on masturbation, vasectomies or in vitro fertilization can be better understood and more easily accepted.
 Underneath it all, the new theology does not change the basic rules. But some say it presents them in a more appealing way, wrapped in a spirituality that offers a third path, as Mr. West told his audience, between sexual indulgence and repression.
 ''It's an invitation to the joy of authentic love,'' Mr. West said.
 Dissemination of the theology started only in the last decade or so but has picked up in recent years. Advocates say it has taken years to study and interpret the pope's ideas. 
 But theologians say it is seeping into marriage preparation classes, workshops for the clergy and other programs. Led by laypeople, dozens of groups have sprung up around the country to study the pope's views. This month, about 50 people will meet in Maine to train as group facilitators in a retreat sponsored by Women Affirming Life, a national anti-abortion group.
 Mr. West, who sells his books and tapes on the theology, said his speaking engagements started rising in 2000, and he made 40 appearances last year. 
 In March, the Diocese of Bridgeport, Conn., held a two-day conference on the theology that was attended by about 1,000 couples and endorsed by Bishop William E. Lori as an ''eye-opening'' meeting. In Cheyenne, Wyo., Bishop David Ricken says he plans to write a pastoral letter for his diocese this summer to explain the theology's concepts.
 Many of those who learn of the theology say the pope's message makes sense. Ben Fratto, 25, an engineer in Birmingham, N.J., and a youth church leader who attended one of Mr. West's lectures, said that treating the body more respectfully seemed a better way to achieve a fulfilling love relationship than succumbing to temptations, like having sex with his girlfriend of seven months before the two are ready to commit to marriage.
 ''It's a choice,'' he said. ''I do want to have a successful marriage and follow the truth. Otherwise I'd end up like everyone else: unhappy with their jobs, unhappy with their situation and living for Friday.''
 Another Catholic trying to apply church doctrine to her personal life, Concetta Pilsner, 43, of the Bronx, says she charts her temperature daily under ''natural family planning,'' a method that tracks a woman's fertility cycle and falls under the principles of theology of the body. Mrs. Pilsner and her husband, John, 40, have been trying for four years to have a baby, but will not consider any artificial means like in vitro fertilization, which is banned by the church.
 ''I'm not a cafeteria Catholic,'' Mrs. Pilsner said. ''If I've done everything I possibly can within the church's guidelines and I don't conceive, that's God's will for me.''
 She said that her religion made her feel ''complete and fully grounded in my identity'' and that by following ''God's ways,'' she is doing what is best for her. But other Catholics have found it more difficult to conform in their sexual practices.
 At a theology of the body seminar held for Spanish-speaking Catholics at St. Jude School in Manhattan, one participant, Hilario Torres, 56, told the speaker, Msgr. Lorenzo Albacete, that natural family planning had not worked for him and his wife. The couple have eight children.
 ''The church has to be more flexible,'' Mr. Torres said later. ''We're not in the 1920's.''
 Even Catholics who disagree with the church's stance on sexuality, however, say the more positive approach is appealing to many conservative Catholics. But the approach has its critics.
 ''It's a feel-good message, but under that is this notion of normality, which is deeply repressive and exclusive,'' said Luke Timothy Johnson, a professor of New Testament at Emory University and a former priest who has written critical articles about theology of the body.
 Frances Kissling, president of Catholics for Free Choice, an abortion rights group, says many Catholics believe that how they behave sexually is a matter of conscience more than doctrine. She says the theology remains negative at the core and excludes whole categories of people -- gays, the remarried or anyone having sex outside of marriage.
 Debra Haffner, director of the Religious Institute on Sexual Morality, Justice and Healing, a national interfaith group that supports same-sex unions, access to abortion and ordination of women, says the sex abuse scandals in the Catholic Church and the debate over gay marriages are giving some religious leaders a sense of urgency in addressing the sexual concerns of the faithful. What many people get from religion is ''the sense that sex is dirty,'' she said. 
 Among those who set out to study the pope's views closely was Peter McFadden, a consultant to nonprofit groups from New York who formed a discussion group in 2000 and spent two years delving into Pope John Paul II's early writings on love relationships. Mr. McFadden said he was surprised at the pope's directness in addressing things like sexual urges (he refers to them as natural energy) and orgasms (he says the couple should both experience it).
 Mr. McFadden, who said that for a long time all he knew about the pope was that ''he looked good in white,'' said that he had been smarting from a relationship that went sour and that he organized the study group with a friend as a way to meet women who shared his spiritual outlook. He succeeded, and he and his wife, Anna, recently celebrated their first wedding anniversary.
 ''We just wanted more,'' said Mr. McFadden, who now runs a marriage preparation program and disseminates the pope's theology through a foundation. ''We wanted a love that's really true and meaningful and deep. Reading the pope's writings helped me understand what true love is and how to recognize it and how to get it.''




Graphic

 
Photos: Christopher West, a theology lecturer. (Photo by Veronica Yankowski for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
The Rev. Richard Hogan of St. Paul, Minn., speaks on the ''theology of the body,'' Pope John Paul II's views on sex. The pope recognizes the need for sexual fulfillment, not just for procreation but also for ''unification.'' (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 A young married couple, Erika Guzman and Juan Chalco, were among those at a seminar on sexuality and faith last month in Manhattan. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4)                                                          
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CATHOLIC POPES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS VOCATIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SEXUAL BEHAVIOR (90%); THEOLOGY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (78%); DIVORCE RATES (78%); RELIGIOUS TEXTS (78%); POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (73%); Sex (%); Homosexuality (%); Abortion (%); Divorce, Separations and Annulments (%); Marriages (%); Sex (%)

Organization: Roman Catholic Church

Person: Mireya Navarro; Pope (John Paul II)

Geographic: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (53%); MINNESOTA, USA (53%); POLAND (52%)

Load-Date: June 7, 2004


End of Document
