



The Philadelphia Daily News
August 14, 2015 Friday
WEB Edition


Copyright 2015 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; P-com Living Sex, Love and Dating; Pg. 00
Length: 319 words
Byline: By Steve and Mia
Body


Q: This guy I've been dating for the last month or so got all angry at me because I told him I was moving in with a male friend of mine. He says that because I used to hook up with my friend, that's like cheating. To me, it's just a place to stay while I get myself together. It's not like my boyfriend's got a place for me to stay. I'm out of work so I don't have many options. Where else am I going to go? 
Do you think it's worth it to try to get my guy back? My male friend and I are like brother and sister. Maybe if he sees us together, my boyfriend will see that there's nothing between us. 
Mia: No! He sounds volatile and controlling. He also doesn't trust you. Keep it moving and consider yourself warned. 
Steve: It's unfortunate that the only place you could crash is with an ex. That's a dealbreaker for most men. 
Q: My ex-girlfriend is crazy. We were high school sweethearts and had a child together, but broke up after she cheated on me. 
Whenever my family has a cookout or family gathering, she's there like she's a part of my family. I talked to my mom about it, but she says that since she's my son's mother, she's always welcome. 
It makes my current girlfriend uncomfortable. It's even worse now that she's expecting and starting to show. 
How do I keep this woman away from family? 
Steve:The baggage you've acquired is your own fault. And it will never leave you. Get used to it, pal. 
Mia: You should have thought about all of this before you made a baby with her. Your best bet now is to hope your new girlfriend will accept this messy situation. Also, have you considered getting a vasectomy? 
Steve is a 50-something married man who's been around the block. Mia is a younger, recently married woman with an altogether different attitude. They may not agree, but they have plenty of answers. Contact them at  or S&M c/o Daily News, 801 Market St., Philadelphia, PA 19107.    
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: COURTSHIP & DATING (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (58%)

Load-Date: August 14, 2015


End of Document
