




The Hartford Courant
December 19, 2024 Thursday
1 Edition


Copyright 2024 The Hartford Courant Company All Rights Reserved
Section: MAIN; A; Pg. 1
Length: 1450 words
Byline: Alison Cross Hartford Courant
Body


A New York couple is suing a Connecticut-based fertility clinic chain, alleging that the practice and its medical director's "gross negligence" resulted in the destruction of the couple's last three frozen embryos, which was not disclosed to the couple for years.
According to a lawsuit filed Tuesday in Fairfield Superior Court, Illume Fertility charged Nicole Couture-Gallagher and Daniel Gallagher for five years of cryogenic storage for frozen embryos that - unbeknownst to the couple - no longer existed.
The fertility patients from Hopewell Junction, New York said they did not learn until March of 2024 that Illume had destroyed the final three embryos that they hoped to use to grow their family. According to court documents, Illume carried out the disposal in 2019 without the couple's permission or consent. The 50-page complaint states that the "accident" occurred after Illume allegedly confused Couture-Gallagher's name "with the last name of another patient who had in fact requested the destruction of their embryos."
"Part of the anguish is the fact that Illume has never given us answers about how they let this mix-up occur," Gallagher said as he sat beside his wife for a Zoom call with members of Connecticut media Tuesday.
"The trust between us and Illume is completely broken, and 
because of that, we are left to speculate and worry. How do we even know our embryos were discarded? How do we know they weren't improperly used with another family?" Gallagher added. "We hope that this lawsuit finally holds Illume Fertility and Dr. Mark Leondires accountable and gets us the answers we demand."
In a statement to the Courant Tuesday, Eric Stockman, an attorney representing Illume said "Illume Fertility stands behind our providers and is committed to providing world-class patient-centric care."
"Illume Fertility cannot comment on pending litigation, but we firmly trust that we will be vindicated in the legal system," Stockman said.
Illume operates clinics in Norwalk, where Couture-Gallagher and Gallagher were patients, Stamford, Danbury, Trumbull and Harrison, New York. It was founded by Leondires, Illume's medical director, in 2004 and was known as Reproductive Medicine Associates of Connecticut, or RMA, until the practice rebranded in 2022.
The 10-count case filed against Illume and Leondires, alleges that the defendants "lacked proper procedures and protocols to ensure that (the) plaintiffs' embryos were stored safely."
According to a spokesperson for Couture-Gallagher and Gallagher, the couple paid Illume a yearly storage fee of $900, after paying an initial fee of $1,155 in 2010.
Couture-Gallagher and Gallagher said that they continued to receive monthly bills from Illume for embryo storage until July - five months after Leondires informed them that their embryos had been destroyed.
The lawsuit further alleges that Leondires "claimed-with zero cause or support-that (the) plaintiffs were never going to use the embryos" and attempted to "downplay their loss and pain by continuously expressing that Nicole (Couture-Gallagher) and Daniel (Gallagher) should be grateful for the children they were already able to have."
"Dr. Lee and Deis dismissed our heartbreak telling us we probably wouldn't have even used our embryos anyway, a completely false statement, and most importantly, a decision that wasn't his to make," Couture-Gallagher said Tuesday.
Couture-Gallagher said her family saw "every one of those embryos as future children, precious and irreplaceable."
After mourning the loss, Couture-Gallagher said she and her husband "felt compelled to speak out."
"Our chance to grow our family was abruptly and permanently cut short completely," Couture-Gallagher said. "We placed our trust in Illume Fertility to care for our future family and that trust was betrayed. ... If we can do anything to prevent this nightmare from impacting another family like ours, we will."
Couture-Gallagher and Gallagher are parents to four children, a set of triplets conceived through in vitro fertilization in 2011 and another child through natural conception in 2012.
According to the complaint, Couture-Gallagher and Gallagher became patients of Illume and Leondires in 2010, after the couple decided to turn to assisted reproductive technology to help them conceive.
Court documents state that Couture-Gallagher "underwent an egg retrieval cycle that successfully yielded 11 healthy" embryos, a process that the lawsuit described as "physically and mentally taxing" for Couture-Gallagher.
After unsuccessful and successful embryo transfers that resulted in the birth of their triplets, the lawsuit states that the couple "decided to keep their remaining three viable embryos cryogenically stored consistent with their long-term family planning goals."
The lawsuit explains that Couture-Gallagher and Gallagher "always dreamed of having a large family" like their parents. According to the complaint, Couture-Gallagher's father and Gallagher's mother grew up in families with 14 children.
Court documents state that they "always came back to the idea that when their four young children were older and more self-sufficient, they would like to use their frozen embryos to attempt to have another child."
According to the lawsuit, Gallagher "underwent a vasectomy years ago," so the couple "could add to their family on their own, desired, schedule"  after "Leondires reassured them they would be able to choose to give their children new siblings whenever they wanted."
On March 14, 2024, the complaint states that the couple "were shocked" when they "received a call from Leondires, informing them that their embryos had been thrown out by accident several years prior."
"Given the precious life with which fertility doctors and their clinics are entrusted, extreme attention to proper labeling, storage, recording, and handling of frozen embryos are well-established industry norms. Typically, the process and paperwork by which embryos may be destroyed are extensive and full of checks to ensure client wishes are respected and protected-as they should be, given the human life at stake," the lawsuit states.
"Against this backdrop, the 'your name sounded like someone else's' excuse Leondires provided to Nicole (Couture-Gallagher) and Daniel (Gallagher) is no cover for Illume's grossly negligent processes," the complaint continues. "Further underscoring Leondires's and Illume's negligence, it took the clinic five years to even simply notice its tragic misstep and alert Nicole and Daniel of the loss."
The couple is seeking "damages in excess of $15,000 and equitable relief."
Another lawsuit pending
The lawsuit is now one of two negligence cases filed against Illume that are pending in Connecticut Superior Court.
In March two former Illume patients from Norwalk, Kyle and Karley Smith, brought a suit against Illume and its Surgical Director Dr. Spencer Richlin, alleging that the clinic "intentionally disposed of" Kyle Smith's last vials of "cryopreserved sperm and/or semen ... in March 2022 under the mistaken belief that same sperm/semen belonged to another customer, client, patron and/or beneficiary" of Illume's "cryopreservation and storage services."
According to court documents, Kyle Smith was "rendered permanently infertile as a result of the chemotherapy treatments" for testicular cancer. The lawsuit states that between 2018 and 2022 the Smiths paid Illume $50 a month to store 14 vials of healthy sperm Kyle Smith deposited before his chemotherapy.
After using a portion of the vials to conceive twins via in vitro fertilization in 2021, the Smiths kept eight vials of sperm/semen in storage. In May of 2022, just a month after the twins were born the lawsuit alleges that Kyle Smith received a voicemail from Richlin informing him that Illume "destroyed the remaining healthy, viable, pre-chemotherapy sperm/semen" in March of 2022.
The complaint states that the disposal of Kyle Smith's sperm was done without the couples' "consent or knowledge" and terminated "any chance of (the Smiths) ever conceiving, carrying, delivering, rearing, or raising any additional children which would be genetically related to (the couple), or their existing twins."
The suit also alleges that the Smiths "continued to pay (Illume) the contractual monthly storage fee," for March and April, despite the fact that the samples were already destroyed. According to the documents, Richlin allegedly sent the Smiths a $1,387 check as a "refund for all andrology services." The lawsuit states that the Smiths "never deposited the unsolicited" check and "never received an independent refund for the storage fees" the couple paid after the sperm/semen samples were unknowingly destroyed.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: SUITS & CLAIMS (93%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (91%); LITIGATION (91%); FERTILITY INDUSTRY (90%); NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); NEGLIGENCE (90%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); REPRODUCTIVE MEDICINE (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); LAW & LEGAL SYSTEM (77%); LAWYERS (75%); REBRANDING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%)

Industry: REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); REPRODUCTIVE MEDICINE (78%); LAWYERS (75%); REBRANDING (73%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%)

Load-Date: December 19, 2024


End of Document
