



The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
December 17, 2006 Sunday
Main Edition


Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: METRO NEWS; Pg. 2D
Length: 468 words
Byline: For the Journal-Constitution
Body


It's Christmas, the wonderful time of the year when we sit in front of a dead tree and eat candy out of our socks.
Why is it that the last cookie in a batch of chocolate chip cookies never has any chips in it?
Mr. 5-Foot-5: Stop looking for the tall, willowy dumb beauty and look for the intelligent, funny, charismatic and cool gal who just happens to be 5-foot-4 and not so beautiful. There are lots of us out here. 
If you cannot sing the Christmas carols the way they are written, don't sing them. That also goes for the national anthem.
We weren't honking at you doing 55 because of your doughnut tire. We just wanted you to get out of the left lane.
Those inflatable Christmas decorations have replaced pink flamingos as the tackiest yard decor ever invented.
Will Cynthia McKinney hold a news conference to accuse the Bush administration of causing Sen. Tim Johnson's (D-S.D.) medical problems?
The fact that Jeb Bush hasn't run for president is proof he is the brightest son.
Get used to it, pal. Women will forgive you for being a drunk, a cheat and a lout. They will not forgive you for being short.
Congressman Jack Kingston's words of Wednesday wisdom: "Have a nice weekend, everybody!"
We brought war and chaos to Iraq. Now, we can't leave because it would produce war and chaos. Am I missing something?
DFCS: Devastating Family and Children Screwups.
If you're 38 and still living at home with your mother, you obviously don't know what it means to cut the cord. That's closer to sick than loyal.
Is everyone as offended as I am with the bail bond bus billboard that says "free at last"? What an insult to the memory of Dr. King.
Today I had to dial 2 for English. Not 1 ... 2!
Attention all expectant parents: The last-name-as-a-first-name trend is officially over. Even the trailer parks are full of little Carters and Rileys. Please resume naming all of your children Jennifer and Jason.
Pray for Senator Johnson. However, if he is replaced, all complaining Democrats should remember the Paul Coverdell scenario.
Goodbye, Peter Boyle. I enjoyed your work. You made me laugh, cry and think. You even made me proud to be bald. Thank you!
The biggest problem facing America and the world is a lack of good parenting.
The day Hillary is elected is the day I move to Iraq, where it will be safer.
Why do Republicans call Democrats defeatists for wanting to cut and run from Iraq? After all, we Republicans cut and ran from Vietnam. Heck, we fled with tails between our legs. We also saved a lot of American soldiers' lives.
What's the definition of macho? Jogging home after your vasectomy.
I'm spending Christmas with the ex-in-laws from heaven, my ex-husband, his current wife and children, and I can't wait. We are weird by most people's standards, but it works.
Need to Vent? Call 404-222-8338; e-vent: 

Graphic

 
Graphic: Illustration by SCOTT THIGPEN / Special"FELIZ NAVIDAD! "I am going to ask Santa for a Spanish language course."</ImageData*
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspapers

Subject: CHRISTMAS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MUSIC (70%); MEDICINE & HEALTH (67%); PARENTING (66%); metroatlantastory (%)

Industry: TRAILER PARKS (50%)

Person: JEB BUSH (75%); JACK KINGSTON (51%); TIM JOHNSON (51%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%)

Load-Date: December 17, 2006


End of Document
