



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
January 5, 2007 Friday
THIRD EDITION


Copyright 2007 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. C5
Length: 1276 words
Byline: MARY JO FELDSTEIN
Body


Dr. John Hirsch and a group of physician investors want to create the first physician-owned surgical specialty hospital in Missouri or Illinois. Hirsch says it will be a hospital for healthy people.
He wants to transform the outpatient surgery center they own, St. Louis Surgical Center, into a facility that can keep patients longer. They'll need government approval and they're expecting a fight from traditional hospitals that say physician-owned outpatient centers are siphoning off the healthiest, wealthiest patients, and leaving them with the sick and uninsured. Traditional hospitals think allowing physician-owned centers to treat more-complex cases will only intensify this trend.
This isn't the first time Hirsch has tried something difficult. He used to be head of troubled Forest Park Hospital.
---
What is this facility and what do you do here?
This is an ambulatory surgery center. We perform procedures that are approved by both the state and federal government to be performed in an ambulatory surgery center, and current regulations allow us to keep patients for 23 hours. We are sort of unique in that this is not a single speciality facility. We have over 80 board-certified surgeons in practice here in specialities of general, vascular, colorectal, plastic, ear, nose and throat, gynecology, orthopedic.
What procedures do you see most?
In general surgery it would be hernias and gall bladders. We do a lot of colorectal surgery here and a lot of scopes. Urology - we do a lot of urologic procedures here, everything from vasectomies up through more-significant procedures. We recently started doing hysterectomies here, selective hysterectomies. We do a lot of breast surgery here.
Augmentation?
Augmentation, reduction, breast biopsies, mastectomies. It's all about this whole concept of cherry-picking - that is picking patients who are healthy and motivated and want to have their procedure done in a facility like this. Every patient who comes here is screened by the physician who does the procedure. They're also screened by the facility and have to be approved by the anesthesia department.
And all of your patients are "healthy," aside from the procedure they're having, and all procedures are elective?
Correct. We do not do emergencies here.
What percentage of your patients have private insurance?
About probably 75 percent. We have a lot of patients here who undergo cosmetic procedures, and they're self-pay patients. We do not turn down patients here under any conditions. And, like every other facility, we have a stated policy on how we collect money and people are understanding of that upfront.
Yet your percentage of private health insurance payments is much higher than the average hospital.
Partly that's dictated by the procedures that are approved for us to do here. We can't do every procedure here. And, once again, they're limited to healthy patients.
So 75 percent private insurance. What percentage Medicare and Medicaid?
Twenty-five percent.
So not a lot of patients that cannot pay?
Yes. It's clearly different than a full-service hospital.
Full-service hospitals argue that's one of the reasons you can afford to do this and offer some of the amenities that you do.
We also, on the insurance side, get less money than the hospitals do for the same procedures. And I can state that because I was the CEO of Forest Park Hospital, and I know exactly what hospitals get paid for outpatient procedures.
Some physicians with an ownership interest also practice here. How can patients be sure their physician isn't recommending surgery to increase profits or recommending the surgery occur here versus one of your competitors for that same reason?
First of all, every patient who comes here gets told upfront that the physician is an investor. And we have about 35 physician investors and over 80 physicians who have privileges. So there are a significant number of physicians who come here who are not investors, and who come here because it is safe and convenient for their patients. Every patient has the right to say, "No, I don't want to go there," and every physician who is associated with this facility would never tell a patient he would not do the surgery.
If you only treat healthy patients and most of your patients have insurance, then the patients left at hospitals would be sicker and poorer. If this trend continues, do payments to hospitals have to increase?
Healthy patients and sick patients should not necessarily be in the same institution. That's an issue of quality patient care. If the discussion is on whether or not we are fairly reimbursing for care, that's a totally different issue. From my point of view, no. I don't think there's any question that we should reimburse hospitals and physicians based on performance. I am totally comfortable with if you take care of sicker patients, you should be compensated fairly for doing that.
You used to be chief of surgery at Missouri Baptist Medical Center. How is St. Louis Surgical Center different in terms of patient experience?
We have primary nursing here. The only employees that take care of patients here are nurses. That's a very different experience than you would get in a hospital. My patients didn't have to walk 100 yards to the hospital, didn't have to get through the morass of the admitting office, scheduling office. The length of time that they're here is very short. We don't cancel procedures because there's an emergency that bumps you. We don't say, "I'm sorry, there's no bed available, you have to come back."
You were chief executive of Forest Park Hospital for a short time. It's now being sued by vendors for failure to pay, and it's closed many services. What's happening there?
Just a couple of overview comments. ... I still thoroughly believe there needs to be an urban, community hospital. ... There are a lot of particularly elderly patients that are sort of overwhelmed by the magnitude of university campuses and almost afraid to get help there. It also was where the high-quality African-American physicians practiced private practice health care.
I thought there was an opportunity to fix that hospital. That hospital had a wonderful group of committed, dedicated, people, from physicians down to janitors. I had a vision to make that work. ... And I truly don't understand why that mission couldn't be fulfilled, but it's not.
Have you ever had an emergency here where you felt there was something you couldn't handle and needed to send a patient to a full-service hospital?
To the best of my knowledge, we saw one patient here who came in and during the pre-op evaluation was felt by anesthesia to have significant cardiac issues. We explained that to the patient and electively transferred that patient to a hospital. We had a patient who had an elective procedure here last week. The diagnosis was not a good one. The patient required the services of a full-service hospital, and the patient elected to be transferred by ambulance to a full-service hospital. To the best of my knowledge, out of 8,000 cases those were the only incidences.
---
Dr. John Hirsch
Age: 58
Education: Case Western Reserve University, bachelor's in chemistry, 1970; Washington University School of Medicine, M.D., 1973
Career: 1984-2000, founder and president, Suburban Surgical Associates; 1995-1999, chief of surgery, Missouri Baptist Medical Center; 1995-1997, 2001-2006, founder and manager, Healthcare Strategic Initiatives; 1998-2000, chief medical officer, Bridge Medical; 2004-2005, chief executive, Forest Park Hospital; 2004-present, chief executive, St. Louis Surgical Center.
Personal: Lives in Ladue with his wife, Nancy. He has two grown children.

Notes

 5 MINUTES WITH ... Watercooler 

Graphic

 
PHOTO
 PHOTO - Dr. John Hirsch J.B. Forbes | Post-Dispatch 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: COLUMN

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); UROLOGY (89%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); BREAST CANCER (71%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (62%); LOCAL (%); PHYSICIAN (%); CAREER (%); PROFILE (%); Dr. John Hirsch (%); INTERVIEW (%); UNUSUAL (%); HOSPITAL (%); PROPOSAL (%)

Industry: OUTPATIENT SURGERY CENTERS (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); UROLOGY (89%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (76%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (59%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%)

Load-Date: January 5, 2007


End of Document
