



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
September 27, 2009 Sunday
FIVE STAR EDITION


Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: WORLD; Pg. A-7
Length: 2041 words
Byline: Barbara Demick, Los Angeles Times
Body


TIANXI, China -- The man from family planning regularly prowled around the mountaintop village, looking for diapers on clotheslines and listening for the cry of a hungry newborn. One day in spring 2004, he presented himself at Yang Shuiying's doorstep and commanded: "Bring out the baby."
Ms. Yang wept and argued, but, alone with her 4-month-old daughter, she was in no position to resist the man every parent in Tianxi feared.
"I'm going to sell the baby for foreign adoption. I can get a lot of money for her," he told the sobbing mother as he drove her with the baby to an orphanage in Zhenyuan, a nearby city in the southern province of Guizhou. In return, he promised that the family wouldn't have to pay fines for violating China's one-child policy.
Then he warned her: "Don't tell anyone about it."
For five years, she kept the terrible secret.
"I didn't understand that they didn't have the right to take our babies," she said.
Since the early 1990s, more than 80,000 Chinese children have been adopted abroad, the majority going to families in the United States.
The conventional wisdom has been that the babies, mostly girls, were abandoned by their parents because of the traditional preference for boys and China's restrictions on family size. No doubt, that was the case for tens of thousands of the girls.
But some parents are coming forward to tell harrowing stories of babies taken by coercion, fraud or kidnapping -- sometimes by government officials who covered their tracks by pretending the babies were abandoned.
Parents who say their children were taken complain that officials were motivated by the $3,000 per child that adoptive parents pay orphanages.
"Our children were exported abroad like they were factory products," said Yang Libing, a migrant worker from Hunan province whose daughter was seized in 2005. He has since learned that she is in the United States.
Doubts about how babies are procured for adoption in China have begun to ripple through the international adoption community.
"In the beginning, I think, adoption from China was a very good thing, because there were so many abandoned girls. But then it became a supply-and-demand-driven market, and a lot of people at the local level were making too much money," said Ina Hut, who last month resigned as head of the Netherlands' largest adoption agency because of concerns about baby trafficking.
The Chinese Center for Adoption Affairs, the government agency that oversees foreign and domestic adoption, rejected repeated requests for comment. Officials of the agency have told foreign diplomats that they believe abuses are limited to a small number of babies and that those responsible have been removed and punished.
For adoptive parents, the possibility that their children were forcibly taken from their birth parents is terrifying.
"When we adopted in 2006, we were fed the same stories, that there were millions of unwanted girls in China, that they would be left on the street to die if we didn't help," said Cathy Wagner, an adoptive mother from Nova Scotia. "I love my daughter, but if I had any idea my money would cause her to be taken away from another mother who loved her, I never would have adopted."
The problem is rooted in China's population controls, which limit most families to one child, two if they live in the countryside and the first is a girl. Each town has a family-planning office, usually staffed by Communist Party cadres who have broad powers to order abortions and sterilizations. People who have additional babies can be fined up to six times their annual income -- fines euphemistically called "social service expenditures."
"The family-planning people are actually more powerful than the Ministry of Public Security," said Yang Zhizhu, a legal scholar in Beijing.
Throughout the countryside, red banners exhort, "Give birth to fewer babies, plant more trees" and, more ominously, "If you give birth to extra children, your family will be ruined."
But the law does not give officials permission to take babies from their parents.
Some families said beatings and threats were used to force them into giving up their daughters. Others said they were tricked into signing away their parental rights.
"They grabbed the baby and dragged me out of the house. I was screaming -- I thought they were going to knock me over," said Liu Suzhen, a frail woman from Huangxin village in Hunan province.
She was baby-sitting her 4-month-old granddaughter one night in March 2003 when a dozen officials stormed her house. She said they took her and the baby to a family-planning office, where a man grabbed her arm and pressed her thumbprint onto a document she couldn't read.
Once a child is taken to an orphanage, parents can lose all rights.
"They wouldn't even let me in the door," said Zhou Changqi, a construction worker whose 6-month-old daughter was taken in 2002 by family-planning officials in Guiyang, in Hunan province. Mr. Zhou tried repeatedly over three years to get into the Changsha Social Welfare Institute, one of the major orphanages sending babies abroad, until one day he was told:
"It's too late. Your daughter has already gone to America."
In much of China, villagers have long lived in dread of surprise visits from family-planning officials. In Tianxi, a mist-shrouded village of 1,800 people tucked high in lush mountains near Zhenyuan, family-planning officials have made inspections as often as twice a week -- no matter that getting to the village requires a two-hour drive down a rutted dirt road and then a 30-minute hike uphill. Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, when families were too poor to pay, officials would punish them by ransacking their homes or confiscating cows and pigs, residents said.
Then, in 2003, things changed. The year after the Social Welfare Institute in Zhenyuan was approved to participate in a burgeoning foreign adoption program, family-planning officials stopped confiscating farm animals. They started taking babies instead.
"If people couldn't pay their fines, they'd take away their babies," said a retired municipal employee from Zhenyuan who used to work as a foster parent for the orphanage.
"We were always terrified of them," said Yang Shuiying, the 34-year-old mother whose daughter was taken away.
In December 2003, Ms. Yang gave birth to her fourth daughter, delivering her at home with the help of a midwife. It was an unplanned pregnancy. In fact, her husband had undergone a vasectomy just a few days before she realized they were going to have another child.
"I hadn't planned to have another baby, but once I did, I wanted to raise her," said Ms. Yang, a soft-spoken woman speaking with downcast eyes.
Her husband, Lu Xiande, felt even more strongly that the new baby belonged at home. Away at the market when their daughter was seized, he erupted in fury when he discovered what had happened.
"I'll get her back," he promised his distraught wife.
He headed off to China's east coast, hoping that as a migrant worker he could raise the money to pay the family-planning fine. But Mr. Lu became sick and had to return home. Shortly afterward, he tried to slit his throat with a butcher knife.
Almost everybody in Tianxi knows somebody whose baby was taken. An old man leaning on a hand-carved walking stick told of his granddaughter being taken. A younger man spoke of a niece.
The villagers resent the suggestion by some that they don't love their daughters and readily abandon them.
"People around here don't dump their kids. They don't sell their kids. Boy or girl, they're our flesh and blood," said Li Zeji, 32, a farmer who says his third daughter was taken in 2004.
Under Chinese law, officials are required to search for the birth parents of abandoned babies. Four months after Yang Shuiying's daughter was taken, her photograph ran in a notice in the Guizhou City Daily along with those of 14 other babies.
The ad claimed, falsely, that the baby was "found abandoned on the doorstep" of a home in Tianxi village.
"Whoever recognizes this child should contact the orphanage in 60 days; otherwise, the baby will be considered an orphan," read the Aug. 14, 2004, announcement, which the parents never saw, because the newspaper was not available in their remote village.
Many of the parents of seized children are illiterate and were told by family-planning officials that the law allows confiscation of the babies, so they saw no use in complaining.
The truth emerged because a teacher with relatives in Tianxi village reported the situation to police and a disciplinary agency. When there was no response, he posted complaints on the Internet, which made it into the Chinese news media in July. The teacher, fearing retaliation, has gone into hiding.
The U.S. Embassy said in a statement released in July that it had been advised by China's Central Adoption Authority "that seven officials implicated in this case have been arrested." It added, "The United States takes seriously any allegation that children were offered for inter-country adoption without their parents' knowledge or consent."
But in Zhenyuan, officials denied that anybody was arrested or fired. They said penalties ranged from demerits to warnings. Shi Guangying, the official who took the Yang baby, was demoted.
Zhenyuan officials defended their conduct.
"It's a lie that they took babies away without their parents' permission. That's impossible," said Peng Qiuping, a party official and propaganda chief for Zhenyuan. "These parents agreed that the children should be put up for adoption. They understood that they were greedy and had more children than they could afford."
Said Wu Benhua, director of Zhenyuan's civil-affairs bureau: "They're better off with their adoptive parents than their birth parents."
From 2003 to 2007, the orphanage in Zhenyuan sent 60 babies to the United States or Europe. Wu said the money received from adoptive parents, $180,000 in all, went toward food, clothing, bedding and medical care for the babies and to improve conditions in the Social Welfare Institute.
But, before adoption, most of the babies were housed with families paid $30 a month for their services, according to one foster parent. There were no obvious signs of renovation at the institute, a grim three-story building with barred windows. Reporters were not permitted to enter.
"We don't know what happened to the money, and we don't dare ask," said Yang Zhenping, a 50-year-old farmer from Tianxi.
Brian Stuy, an adoptive father in Salt Lake City who researches the origins of Chinese adoptees, has noticed an unusually large number of older babies reported as abandoned. He suspects these were babies who were confiscated, stolen or given up under duress.
"If you don't want a girl, you give her up as soon as she's born," Stuy said.
He believes the $3,000 adoption fee -- about six times the annual income in rural China -- has inspired abuse.
"It is international adoption that is creating the suction that causes family planning to take the kids to make money," Mr. Stuy said. "If there was no international adoption and the state had to raise the kids until they turned 18, you could be sure family planning wouldn't confiscate them."
In Philadelphia, Wendy Mailman, who adopted in 2005 from the same orphanage in Zhenyuan that took in confiscated babies, now questions everything she was told about the girl who orphanage officials said was born in September and abandoned in January.
"Why would a mother who didn't want a baby girl be so heartless as to wait until the dead of winter to abandon her?" she said.
She wonders what she would do if she discovered that her daughter was one of the stolen babies. She knows she could never return the Americanized 6-year-old. But, she said, "I would certainly want to tell the birth family that your daughter is alive and happy and maybe send a picture. It would be up to my daughter later if she wanted to build a relationship."
For many birth families, that might be enough.
"We'd never make her come back, because a girl raised in the West wouldn't want to live in a poor village like this," said Yang Shuiying's mother-in-law, Yang Jinxiu. "But we'd like to know where she is. We'd like to see a picture. And we'd like her to know that we miss her and that we didn't throw her away."
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: FAMILY (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); ADOPTION (89%); ORPHANS (89%); PARENTS (89%); NEGATIVE NEWS (88%); ADOPTION SERVICES (78%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (78%); FAMILY PLANNING (78%); PUBLIC OFFICIALS (78%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%)

Industry: DIAPERS & INCONTINENCE PRODUCTS (89%); PUBLISHING (73%)

Geographic: CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUIZHOU, CHINA (79%); HUNAN, CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

Load-Date: September 29, 2009


End of Document
