



The New York Times
November 26, 2006 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company
Section: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 30; DVD
Length: 695 words
Byline: By DAVID BROWNE
Body


ONCE upon a time in network television, hospitals were reassuring places: clean, well-lighted fortresses where one could be comforted by cheery nurses and treated by doctors either grandfatherly (Robert Young's Marcus Welby) or blandly strapping (Chad Everett in ''Medical Center''). These days the TV hospital is anything but a sanctuary. As ''ER,'' ''House'' and ''Grey's Anatomy'' attest, assaults and bombings are as common as operations, and the staff members are as likely to be dissecting one another's sex lives as tending to patients.
  The missing link between medical shows then and now was ''St. Elsewhere,'' which ran from 1982 to 1988 on NBC and whose first season will be released on DVD this week. In the series, set in the shabby St. Eligius hospital in a destitute section of Boston, everything was in hectic, chaotic motion. Doctors, nurses and sometimes patients crossed paths or nearly collided in the corridors; files always seemed to be spilling onto floors.
Comparisons to later, bustling series like ''The West Wing'' -- which inherited the ''quality television'' mantle established by ''St. Elsewhere'' and its period companion police show, ''Hill Street Blues'' -- are plain, even if ''St. Elsewhere'' now seems lower-budget and slower-paced than its successors.
  The DVD set is also a reminder of the show's underlying sense of mayhem, which even the hospital's experienced, knowing heads of staff (including William Daniels in a brilliant turn as the egomaniacal surgeon Mark Craig) couldn't stem. The incessantly flirty resident Wayne Fiscus (Howie Mandel), who in another decade would have been charged with sexual harassment, is beaten and robbed by a thug he'd just treated. A pregnant woman, furious at the doctor who supposedly gave her husband a vasectomy, barges into an operating room with a gun. Two warring gangs bring their battle into the emergency room, trashing it in the process. In such an environment, it's a wonder the doctors are able to mend anyone. 
  The show's earnest physicians in training also include David Morse (currently back in the world of hospitals on ''House'') as Jack Morrison, an idealistic, wide-eyed resident who would later become a rape victim. As Philip Chandler, Denzel Washington glides through his scenes with the self-assuredness of someone who knows he won't be on television much longer. 
  These aren't the only familiar faces to watch for. Christopher Guest, wearing a frown and a three-piece suit, shows up as a callous St. Eligius administrator who balks at shutting down a wing despite an outbreak of Legionnaires' disease. Tim Robbins plays a post-Weather Underground sociopath who fights the system by setting off a bomb in a bank and landing himself in the emergency room. (The way in which police refer to him as a ''terrorist'' is sadly quaint.) 
  Story lines like those showed that ''St. Elsewhere'' could easily be wheeled into melodrama (not to mention gratingly cute subplots). Through it all, though, the crumbling medical system of the Reagan years (as well as the country's rising aggravation with H.M.O.'s) was the real star, with St. Eligius its first casualty. 
  During the first season all the noble intentions of the residents can't stop homeless people from wandering in and attacking doctors. A respected heart surgeon is discovered to be on the take from a pacemaker company. The brother of a cancer-stricken patient puts his sibling out of his misery by blasting him in the face with a shotgun. 
  From its pastel fashions to its low-rent remakes of Police and Bruce Springsteen songs, ''St. Elsewhere'' can be as dated as an MTV rerun. But its recurring theme -- that hospitals aren't always good for one's health, and not even doctors can beat the system -- lives on. (So does the show's name, which is also the title of Gnarls Barkley's hit 2006 album.) In the final scene of the season the staff gathers to congratulate one of the doctors on his newborn baby, complete with ''a toast -- to life!'' Even as everyone raises a glass and cheers, the viewer knows that the next assault on the hospital -- and the health care system -- is right outside the room.   DAVID BROWNE




Graphic

 
Photo: Howie Mandel, left, and Stephen Furst as doctors on ''St. Elsewhere,'' a series set in a Boston hospital that was seen on NBC from 1982 to 1988. (Photo by Fox)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); SEXUAL BEHAVIOR (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (70%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (69%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (68%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%); Television (%); Recordings and Downloads (Video) (%)

Industry: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%)

Person: HOWIE MANDEL (58%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (53%); David Browne

Geographic: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%)

Load-Date: November 26, 2006


End of Document
