



The New York Times
July 15, 2015 Wednesday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
Section: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 758 words
Byline: By NEIL GENZLINGER
Body


When a nostalgia-driven outlet like TV Land sets about ''exploring riskier and more challenging content,'' as one of its executives recently put it, you might wonder what specifically that means. On Wednesday night, the picture clarifies with the premieres of two comedies. It means, apparently, new shows that feel like the vintage series TV Land loves to rebroadcast, but with gay characters and the occasional penis joke.
These offerings are ''The Jim Gaffigan Show,'' which is quite funny, and ''Impastor,'' which has an amusing premise and a likable star but burdens itself with off-putting caricatures and stereotypes. They join ''Younger,'' a solid comedy introduced in March, in expanding the vision of TV Land, whose airtime is full of recycled fare like ''Gilligan's Island'' and ''Bonanza.'' 
  Mr. Gaffigan has a sizable following from years of stand-up comedy, and his fans will certainly be well served by the new series, which depicts a fictionalized version of his domestic life. Ashley Williams plays his wife, Jeannie, and the two make a very convincing couple. They are raising five young children in a too-small New York City apartment. The regulars in their lives include Jeannie's gay former boyfriend, Daniel (Michael Ian Black), and Jim's fellow comedian and pal Dave (Adam Goldberg). Lots of amusing cameos add to the fun.
  Mr. Gaffigan's stand-up material sets him apart from the provocative comics who command attention today; he likes jokes about food and family and schlumpy fatherhood. And -- although no one wants to be compared to Bill Cosby at the moment -- ''The Jim Gaffigan Show'' certainly owes a debt to series that have starred men who bent stand-up careers into family sitcoms: Mr. Cosby, Tim Allen, Ray Romano. Mr. Gaffigan may not be the greatest actor, but he has a genial charm, which is the first prerequisite to making a show like this work.
  The lineage may include ''The Cosby Show,'' but Mr. Gaffigan's approach is different in that the children here are more adornments than characters -- they run noisily through scenes but rarely hang around long. This means that to describe the show as ''family-friendly'' is a stretch. It's about the adults in the household, and the humor is pitched to fellow adults. The premiere finds Jim deciding whether to get a vasectomy. A hilarious subsequent episode revolves around a drawing of Dad's penis that one of the kids did in school. There's a reason this show is on at 10 p.m. It's clean by most definitions, but not something you want to watch with a preschooler.
  Paired with ''Impastor'' at 10:30, it makes for a weird theme block of either ''shows about religion'' or ''shows about liars.'' Mr. Gaffigan calls his wife a ''Shiite Catholic,'' and the church figures prominently in the series, as does Jim's penchant for trying to fib his way out of predicaments. And ''Impastor'' is about a fake minister whose whole life is a fib.
  Michael Rosenbaum, who made an appealing Lex Luthor in the long-running ''Smallville,'' stars as Buddy Dobbs, a deadbeat with a large gambling debt. Buddy is thinking about jumping off a bridge when a Lutheran minister on his way to a new job falls to his death trying to talk him out of it, so Buddy assumes that man's identity.
  It's a comic version of the gritty Cinemax series ''Banshee'' (ex-con becomes fake sheriff), and, as in that series, the impostor finds that the town welcoming him to his new position is full of oddballs.
  A wrinkle here is that Buddy quickly realizes that the man whose identity he has taken was gay, and that the new parishioners know this. That leaves Buddy, a lusty heterosexual, not only pretending to know the Bible, but also fending off advances from the congregation's gay members.
  One in particular, the church secretary (Mike Kosinski), is a leering gay stereotype that feels especially out of phase at the moment, with the recent advances in gay rights. It's as if the show were trying to act as a corrective: ''Despite the Supreme Court ruling, let's not forget that gay people are shallow and sex-obsessed.''
  The other characters around Buddy are also pretty annoying, especially David Rasche's officious church president and Mircea Monroe's somewhat bimbo-ish church treasurer. In keeping with the TV Land niche, this is a throwback series, but a throwback to a lot of things that should have been left, well, back.
  It also reaches too readily for gross-out jokes. That's too bad, because Mr. Rosenbaum is talented, and the premise could have supported more sophisticated humor.



Graphic

 
PHOTO: Jim Gaffigan plays a father of five in his show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TV LAND)       
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Review

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (87%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CARTOONS & COMICS (78%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (76%); FAMILY (71%)

Industry: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CARTOONS & COMICS (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%)

Person: BILL COSBY (79%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

Load-Date: July 15, 2015


End of Document
