



The Philadelphia Inquirer
January 14, 2015 Wednesday
WEB Edition


Copyright 2015 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES MAGAZINE; P-com Living; Pg. 00
Length: 1018 words
Byline: By Anndee Hochman

For The Inquirer
Body


Dan was sure he did not want to conceive more children. Sure enough to have a vasectomy nine years ago. 
But that was before the divorce, before the joint custody arrangement that meant seeing his kids less than half the time, and before he ventured onto OkCupid and found Mary, who loved indie music, camping . . . and children. 
They e-mailed for two months - never talking on the phone, which both of them find "awkward" - before they met. Mary planned a date with an easy escape clause; she proposed that they meet for drinks at PJ Ryan's, just downstairs from her apartment. If sparks flew, she figured, they would advance to dinner. 
They talked all night. 
"After our first date, I went home and said to my roommate, 'He's perfect, but he doesn't want to have kids,' " Mary recalls. "I was 33. I wasn't willing to sacrifice my desire to have kids, but I wanted to talk about it and see if there were any options." 
Both had recently ended long relationships, and they were cautious. They waited a few months before introducing Mary to Ryan and Ashley, then 6 and 10. A trip for ice cream turned into a smackdown bout of "Little Big Planet," with the kids delightedly showing off their video game prowess for Mary. 
Six months after they had begun dating, Mary moved in. And six months after that, the couple were in bed one night when Dan said, "Hey, there's a ring over there. Do you want it?" Mary looked: an antique, hand-cut diamond in an Art Deco setting. 
"Yes," she said. 
Neither felt the need for ceremony or legal sanction; in fact, Mary shunned the idea in solidarity with gay and lesbian friends who, at the time, could not marry in Pennsylvania. But she did feel the press of biology. Adoption was expensive and time-consuming. They looked at the requirements for fostering, but only halfheartedly. In February 2012, Dan decided on a vasovasostomy - a vasectomy reversal. 
"It's not the most comfortable of processes. It's easier to cut than to reattach," he said of the several-hour procedure. The doctor cautioned that pregnancy was no guarantee. 
He was right. For nearly two years, Mary used an app called iPeriod to track her erratic menstrual cycle. She bought an ovulation predictor kit, the expensive kind that required urinating on a stick every morning. She gulped soy isoflavones. She tried acupuncture. 
Dan figured it was his fault: "I wondered if everything was connected right." Mary worried that she might be infertile. Every month brought a swell of hope, followed by a crash. Finally, in the fall of 2013, Mary decided to just relax: She stopped timing her periods and tracking her ovulation. She quit the soy isoflavones and the acupuncture sessions. 
And then, on the night of Ashley's winter chorus concert, Mary felt so queasy in the car that she had to pull over. She still has the pregnancy test stick, with the flag of pink that made her cry. 
By the time they told their parents and Dan's kids, at Christmas, Ashley, a keen-eyed adolescent, said she'd figured it out because Mary was no longer drinking or smoking cigarettes. Ryan was nonchalant: "OK, that's cool." 
Mary endured a rough first trimester - her asthma and allergies spiked, and she made two visits to urgent care because she couldn't breathe. At 12 weeks, she bled enough to lie awake one night in panic: Not a miscarriage. Not now. Not after how hard we tried. 
The next day, she and Dan went to the midwife's office and heard their baby's heartbeat for the first time. They didn't want to know whether they were having a boy or a girl. But they did cling to that sound, the percussive whoosh of life. 
Mid-pregnancy were the "golden" months, with enough energy for yoga and prenatal aquatics. And toward the end, Mary made plans for an unmedicated birth at home, just like the setup she'd seen in an episode of The L Word. 
When the baby was late - a few days, then a few weeks - Mary wanted only natural remedies to kick-start her labor. She slurped a vanilla milkshake laced with castor oil, and her midwife did a cervical sweep, moving a finger around Mary's cervix to separate the amniotic membranes. 
Once contractions began - about three to four minutes apart - Mary labored at home, sometimes in the AquaDoula, a kiddie pool-size portable spa, and sometimes in the shower. After 18 hours, she felt nauseated - even a bite of peanut butter toast turned her stomach - and exhausted. Finally she begged her midwife for a change of plan. 
The ride to Reading Hospital lasted 40 agonizing minutes. "I was in the front seat, screaming at all the red lights." Sitting in a wheelchair was too painful, so she staggered to a room. The baby's heart rate had dropped, while Mary's was racing, and her contractions had slowed. A C-section seemed like the safest option. 
She had only one request before they wheeled her into surgery: Could Dan please be the one to announce the baby's sex? 
"They pulled her out and held her up, and I said, 'It's a girl,'" he recalls. Mary heard her daughter yelp. Once again, she cried. 
They named the baby for Mary's great-grandmother, Livia, and her sister, Antoinette. Within days, Ashley sent out a Facebook photo with the caption, "Do you believe I get to be this baby's sister?" Mary's mother confided, "I thought you were never going to have a kid." Her father sometimes asks, "Can you believe you're a mother?" 
She can. "I look at her in amazement and think, 'Oh, my God, we created this,' " a baby who sleeps soundly and giggles contagiously, who hates her car seat and loves being cuddled in a sling. This baby, a reminder of life's capacity for reversal, and repair. 
  The Parent Trip
If you've become a parent - for the first, second or fifth time - within the last six months, e-mail us why we should feature your story: . 
 (Giving birth, adopting, or becoming a stepparent or guardian all count.) Unfortunately, we can't respond individually to all submissions. If your story is chosen, you will be contacted.    
The Parent Trip
http://www.philly.com/philly/living/20141231_THE_PARENT_TRIP__Crystal_Engel_and_Adam_Porter_of_Fishtown_features_lifestyle.html
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); COURTSHIP & DATING (89%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); MENSTRUATION (60%); MUSIC (57%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (58%)

Load-Date: January 14, 2015


End of Document
