



The New York Times
November 10, 2019 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2019 The New York Times Company
Section: Section SS; Column 0; SpecialSections; Pg. 11
Length: 714 words
Byline: By JYOTI MADHUSOODANAN
Body


future the birth control of Tomorrow By Jyoti Madhusoodanan A 2018 survey found that 44 percent of global pregnancies between 2010 and 2014 were unplanned. The onus of contraception continues to be placed on women, which ''affects everybody, and is frankly sexist,'' says Juno Obedin-Maliver, an OB-GYN at Stanford. ''Having more family planning options for people who produce sperm as well as people who produce eggs would be great.'' Here are five new methods at various stages of development.   1
  Press-on birth control 
  In tests with animals
  Imagine a contraceptive that offered months of protection simply by placing it on the skin for a few seconds. Mark Prausnitz, a chemical engineer at Georgia Tech, and his colleagues have developed a stick-on patch for women loaded with microneedles that carry levonorgestrel, a slow-release drug that's used in I.U.D.s like Mirena to prevent ovulation. The microneedles puncture the skin painlessly, and the drug slips into the bloodstream. The researchers have tested a one-month dose in animals and are progressing toward human trials. A long-acting solution women can use without needing a doctor to insert an implant ''has been missing in the field,'' Prausnitz says. 
  2
  Reversible sperm blockers
  In pilot studies with humans
  Men seeking long-term contraception currently rely on vasectomy, a procedure in which a doctor closes off the vas deferens tubes to block sperm from traveling out of the testes. Instead of cutting the vas deferens, Sujoy Kumar Guha of the Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi and his colleagues are working on an injectable polymer that plugs the tube shut for months or years. Injecting a solution to dissolve the plug restored sperm transport and fertility in rats, rabbits and monkeys. Clinical studies in humans have just begun, and the researchers say the technique could offer up to 10 years of contraceptive protection. 
  3
  Pre-sex Plan B Pill
  In pilot studies with humans
  The morning-after pill protects women from pregnancy after unprotected sex. But Stanford University researchers aim to do better: an on-demand pill that can be taken just before intercourse. In a pilot study with nine women, the family-planning researcher Erica Cahill and her colleagues found that a combination of two existing medications, ulipristal acetate and meloxicam, delayed or blocked the release of an egg. In future studies, the researchers will evaluate effectiveness. The on-demand pill would be ideal for those who have occasional sex and don't want implanted devices or daily pills.
  4
  Sperm suppressors
  In clinical trials
  Previous attempts to develop a ''male pill'' have largely failed, in some cases causing liver toxicity. That hasn't stopped further efforts. In a recent study, Stephanie Page of the University of Washington School of Medicine and her colleagues found that a daily oral dose of modified testosterone created hormonal changes that most likely lead to suppressed sperm production. The pill is still in early clinical trials, but a topical gel -- similarto commonly used testosterone gels -- is being tested with hundreds of couples around the world. ''Men are not as invested in contraception partly because their choices are so limited,'' Page says. ''We need to give them more options.'' 
  5
  Expanding the choices
  Entering clinical practice 
  An estimated 1.4 million adults in the United States identify as transgender, according to a 2016 survey, but little is known about their use of family-planning options. People who are assigned female at birth, Obedin-Maliver says, may avoid hormonal contraceptives that could spur breast growth, or assume -- mistakenly -- that taking testosterone is a form of birth control. Existing options like hormone-free copper I.U.D.s might meet their needs, but doctors, insurance policies and health care systems must work to offer these options. ''The big technological advance is not technological at all,'' Obedin-Maliver says. ''It's about having very individualized conversations with people about how birth control fits into their world.'' Because ultimately, the most effective contraceptive is the one a person can reach and use. â—Š
  This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.         

Graphic

 
DRAWING       
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CONTRACEPTION (94%); FAMILY PLANNING (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); WOMEN (77%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (75%); MAMMALS (75%); RODENTS (75%); TECHNOLOGY (74%); CLINICAL TRIALS (73%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%)

Industry: CONTRACEPTION (94%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); TRANSDERMAL DRUG DELIVERY (78%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (75%); CLINICAL TRIALS (73%); HORMONES, SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%)

Geographic: NEW DELHI, INDIA (54%); INDIA (73%)

Load-Date: November 10, 2019


End of Document
