



The New York Times
January 15, 2012 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company
Section: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9
Length: 1203 words
Byline: By LAURA SHAPIRO
Laura Shapiro is the author, most recently, of ''Julia Child: A Life.''
Body


IN OUR PRIME
The Invention of Middle Age
By Patricia Cohen
Illustrated. 306 pp. Scribner. $25.
An upbeat look at middle age? Patricia Cohen had her work cut out for her. Maybe there's a capitalist culture somewhere that doesn't make a blazing fetish of youthfulness and keep it stoked with huge amounts of commercial and medical hot air. If so, it's not the one we live in. Yet nothing in the sometimes pathetic struggle of Americans over, say, 50 to claim a respectable place in the public consciousness puts Cohen in the grumpy mood she could so rightly claim after absorbing some 200 years of the history of middle age. Instead, she's delivered a lively, well-researched chronicle of the social and scientific forces that brought midlife America to its current befuddled state -- better off by most measures than any previous generation, but miserably out of fashion.
Despite the fact that researchers have been studying middle age intensively for decades, the term itself seems to have no fixed definition. Nearly any span between 40 and dementia appears to qualify, depending in part on whether we're talking about ourselves (''But I feel just the same as I did when I was 20'') or all those people who show up at our college reunions (''Everyone looks so old''). But surely the elasticity of the concept is its best feature. After all, not much follows middle age except joining the ranks of the ancients -- or, as geriatric specialists now say, ''the old old.'' (Perhaps they don't intend to evoke the drumbeats of doom with that repetition, but otherwise what does it mean? A life stage so nice they named it twice?)
Not only is middle age hard to pin down, but Cohen, a reporter for The New York Times, points out that it didn't even exist as a category until about halfway through the 19th century. Before then, she writes, ''age was not an essential ingredient of one's identity.'' Life had markers like marriage, parenthood and physical incapacity; one's years per se were not the measure. This changed with industrialization and the growth of cities, when age became a useful means of segmenting the population. Children who earlier studied all together in a one-room schoolhouse, for instance, were divided into grades by age. Birthday greetings became popular. By 1900, when the census began asking Americans their exact date of birth -- instead of packing people into 10-year compartments -- we were a nation thoroughly aware of how old we were.
By that time, too, people were living longer. But Cohen argues that the increase in years wasn't significant enough to account for the emergence of middle age as a life category. More pertinent was what was happening to women. By the turn of the 20th century, Cohen writes, ''the typical mother had two or three children, less than half as many as her counterpart 100 years earlier.'' After the youngest left home, she had 20 or so years, starting around age 50, in which she was free of the primary obligations that had defined female existence for thousands of years.
But if there was something to celebrate in life after youth, scientists in the early 1900s quickly squashed it by deciding that aging was a cause for worry, probably even a disease. People proved astonishingly vulnerable to the idea that nature despises vigorous humans in their 50s. Trepidation about mortality, plus a large dose of vanity, turned out to be a powerful motivation for nutty behavior -- especially in the male. Around the time women were cautiously deciding to bob their hair, their husbands entered the startling era of testicle transplants for rejuvenation.
It began in 1918 when, Cohen reports, ''a doctor at San Quentin prison . . . transplanted the testicles of an executed man into a senile 60-year-old inmate.'' The result could not have been anybody's idea of a dream date, but never mind: soon afterward a Russian surgeon showed up in the United States, claiming that he had successfully ''transplanted monkey testicles into men who had lost their sexual drive.'' He drew enormous crowds to his vividly illustrated lectures, where he also showed off some of his happy patients. A French doctor specializing in the same operation said hundreds of men applied to him every day, longing for monkey testicles. As he explained to The New York Times, most of his clients were eager ''to complete some life work they had undertaken or see some particular enterprise through, which had not yet been crowned with success.'' Ah yes, a chance at last to complete that elusive symphony. Eugen Steinach, a Viennese endocrinologist, offered vasectomies to worried or flagging men: the idea was to concentrate the hormones and thus reinvigorate the patient. (Among the gullible were Yeats and Freud.) Steinach had help for women, too -- he X-rayed their ovaries, a treatment that was supposed to restore youthfulness.
But most women who sought medical help for aging were more interested in changing the outside than the inside. ''Signs of maturity in women must go,'' announced the doctor who began the era of cosmetic surgery in 1906 by sprucing up ''baggy eyelids.'' By the 1920s, plastic surgery was a widely accepted solution to female dissatisfaction -- so much so that a New York newspaper staged a ''Homely Girl Contest'' and offered a physical makeover to the woman who most compellingly described her need for one.
Middle age didn't catch a break until 1950 and the publication of Erik Erikson's ''Childhood and Society,'' with its strikingly different approach to the life span. In Erikson's view, people moved through what he described as a ''life cycle'' of eight stages, including midlife -- ''a phase,'' Cohen explains, ''as momentous in /character-building as adolescence.'' Erikson's work opened up a new field of study in adult development and helped inspire the kind of research that really could overturn our dreary assumptions about middle age, if we would let it. Studies of the brain, for instance, reveal that it's far more resilient than anyone imagined and that experience may help compensate for aging.
Hence Cohen's optimism. She sees a middle-aged population today that's healthier and more productive than the previous generation, putting their brains to the good use for which they were designed and getting to watch great-looking non-young movie stars like Meryl Streep and Glenn Close. She certainly doesn't ignore the appalling side of contemporary midlife, including newly invented diseases like ''female sexual dysfunction,'' which should probably be called ''cash cow dysfunction'' in honor of its real role in medicine, which is to justify the creation of a ''treatment'' that can get past the F.D.A. But on the whole Cohen believes today's midlife generation is managing to rewrite a cultural script that's been more than 150 years in the making. I'm not sure how she classifies data like hearing aids that come in colors called Creme Brulee and Pinot Noir. Or that marketers are dividing older people into categories like ''Prime Time,'' ''Healthy Outlook'' and . . . uh oh . . . ''Shutting Down.'' Progress? To me it looks a lot like 1906 with an M.B.A. On the bright side, though, we haven't heard a word about monkey testicles in a very long time.



Graphic

 
PHOTO: An 1850 print by Currier & Ives shows age 50 as the highpoint of a woman's life. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM LIBRARY OF CONGRESS)                                                            
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Review

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: GERIATRICS (71%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (68%)

Organization: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

Industry: GERIATRICS (71%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (93%)
In Our Prime: The Invention of Middle Age (Book)

Load-Date: January 15, 2012


End of Document
