



 The New York Times
March 19, 2002 Tuesday
 Late Edition - Final 


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company
Section: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1
Length: 1358 words
Byline:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 
Body


"Tony," the talk show host Maury Povich intones, his voice taut with suspense, "is not the father!" The young man leaps up and bounds across the stage like a contestant who has just won a car. His former girlfriend Latoya flees the stage in tears, crushed that the DNA test did not prove that Tony was the father of her 4-month-old girl.
     DNA paternity tests are increasingly popular with viewers, which is the main reason Mr. Povich, Jenny Jones, Ricki Lake, Montel Williams and other talk-show hosts promote them especially hard during sweeps months, the periods when advertising rates are set. Sweeps or not, on any given day, at least one talk-show host announces DNA results on the air before a studio audience that boos or cheers. DNA paternity testing has displaced wild-teen boot camp and infidelity lie-detector tests as the hottest genre on daytime television. 
 New viewers may find paternity shows arresting and odd -- a cross between a television game show and a PBS documentary on the disintegration of American families. Perhaps jaded by a steady diet of husbands who seduce their wives' sisters, daytime television habitues appear to be fascinated by DNA testing's mix of sex and science-based retribution.
"These are classic themes of betrayal, revenge, truth and the search for resolution," Mr. Povich said.
Amy Rosenblum, the show's executive producer, added: "And it has a game-show element." 
DNA paternity tests are unquestionably effective as entertainment. The ratings for "Maury," ranked third in daytime talk shows behind "Oprah" and "Regis and Kelly," rise an average of 6 percent when paternity tests are featured. One day last month, the ratings for a "Ricki Lake" show featuring paternity tests rose 15 percent over the previous day's show, about liars.
"It gives me no pause to put the issue of paternity and child support on the air," said Michael Rourke, executive producer of "Ricki Lake." "In this society, we can't talk about it enough."
Paternity testing began showing up on talk shows in the late 1990's, soon after DNA tests were marketed commercially. DNA tests have long been a staple of true crime shows, courtroom dramas and news magazines like "Dateline NBC" and ABC's "20/20."
Almost all the daytime court shows, from "Divorce Court" to "Judge Hatchett," weave DNA tests of all kinds into their scripts. This season, DNA tests provide plot twists for the sitcoms "Friends" and "Ally McBeal."
And television keeps finding new ways to put molecular biology to the service of entertainment. This summer, the producer Arnold Shapiro (CBS's reality show "Big Brother") plans to deliver to CBS a DNA testing special, a two-part reality show in which convicted murderers and rapists who say they are not guilty are given DNA tests.
"It's the most life-altering thing you can do on television," explained Ricki Lake, who has done scores of paternity tests on her talk show. "It's so final. Lie detectors are not foolproof."
Neither are vasectomies. A recent show on "Montel Williams" featured a man whose wife became pregnant after he had the surgery. Perhaps not surprisingly, given that most studies show that vasectomies are 97 to 99 percent effective, he had trouble believing his wife had remained faithful. The show's DNA test -- "99.99 percent accurate," according to Mr. Williams -- proved that he was indeed the father.
Talk shows seemed to reach a nadir in the mid-1990's, when a guest on the "Jenny Jones" show killed another guest three days after their taping (the show was never broadcast). Public concern about "trash TV" was so heated that it was even debated in Congress.
The country has moved on, but the shows are still there, with some adjustments. Fistfights are less frequent. Surprise is a critical ingredient to a successful DNA paternity show, but producers say they carefully prepare guests for the possibility of bad news, and eliminate applicants who do not seem stable enough. Guests are coached to express their feelings fully, but limit the violence to shoving. (Ever since the "Jenny Jones" shooting, Mr. Povich said, he gives guests a list of 10 possible secrets a spouse or child might reveal on the show.)
Many shows try to balance voyeuristic thrills with a public service message. "A lesson can be learned here," Jenny Jones recently told a teenage father cursing the positive results of his DNA paternity test. "It's very easy to put on a condom and not be on a show like this."
The talk shows recruit guests with on-air pitches. "Are you a young teen mother who needs a DNA test to prove he's your baby's daddy?" a "Montel Williams" ad on the show asked recently.
"If your daughter is 11-14 and you want DNA to determine who fathered her baby, call this number," a Jenny Jones ad instructed.
Oprah Winfrey, who markets herself as a class act, does not do paternity test shows. Neither does Jerry Springer, though for a different reason.
"Our show is about outrageous relationships," said Linda Shafran, spokeswoman for "The Jerry Springer Show." One recent show featured a psychic stripper who intuited a guest's secret fetish -- wearing diapers.
"Our show is more fun, more crazy," Ms. Shafran said. "Paternity tests are a little more serious than we go."
Some shows are more sensationalist than others. Mr. Williams favors a caring, therapeutic tone and a calm studio audience. Mr. Povich combines a solicitous manner with histrionic guests, raucous audiences and tabloid graphics (The words "One woman, too many men, who's the daddy?" flashed on the screen to promote another DNA show that was shown recently. "Shocking paternity results!")
But all shows seek new variations on the theme. Latoya and her 4-month-old daughter, Sade, for example, were invited back to a "Maury" show that was shown last month: "I'm Back for the Third Time to Find My Baby's Father." After Tony, two other former boyfriends tested negative.
A fourth, Jason, already the unmarried father of two sons, was less lucky. His first reaction was bleeped over, but he quickly composed himself, saying, "That's cool." Latoya, overcome, fled the stage in tears.
Viewers are informed that children backstage cannot see or hear what their parents are up to on camera. Mr. Povich said that psychologists counsel participants before and after the show. All the shows provide free testing as well as all-expenses-paid trips to their studios.
"My biggest issue with these shows is who are they really helping?" Judy Mason, the social work supervisor in the obstetrics-gynecology program at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, asked. "The glitz, the attention, the financial benefits may meet an immediate need, but these people are seeking something that cannot be solved in a half-hour TV show."
Hosts and producers point out that they provide help and comfort to people abandoned by their families, communities and the welfare system. Most shows follow up on their guests and provide offstage counseling and referrals for follow-up care.
"There are far more applicants willing to risk humiliation than talk shows can put on the air," said Mr. Rourke, Ricki Lake's producer. "We are way past the point where there is any stigma to talking about personal problems on television." Participants mostly apply because they seek child support or a father's involvement with the child and cannot afford to pay $500 to $700 for a DNA test. Men sometimes request the test to prove they are not obligated to pay child support.
Most shows keep the tone light and lively, but off camera, applicants flood the shows with the kind of calls and letters that Nathanael West in "Miss Lonelyhearts" described as "inarticulate expressions of genuine suffering."
Jenny, a 24-year-old single mother in New Jersey who has applied to three shows, said she had two children and wanted to know which of two former boyfriends was the father of the youngest. Unemployed, evicted from her apartment, Jenny said she had no place else to turn.
"I have nothing to hide," she said when asked if she had any qualms about appearing on national television. "But I wouldn't want people to look down on me as some kind of slut. I was just too trusting and too lonely."



Graphic

 
Photos: On a September 2001 broadcast of the "Ricki Lake" show, Kimmi and Corey are about to find out that he is in fact the father of their second child. Kimmi was having an affair around the time the child was conceived. (pg. C6); Latoya cries backstage on the "Maury" show after learning that an ex-boyfriend is the father of her 4-month-old daughter. (pg. C1)      
Classification


Language: ENGLISH 

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: DNA (94%); DNA TESTING (93%); LEGAL PATERNITY (91%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); FAMILY (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); FORENSICS (78%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); BIOCHEMISTRY (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (73%); MOLECULAR BIOLOGY (73%); NEGATIVE NEWS (73%); RANKINGS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); BIOLOGY (65%); TELEVISION (%);  RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS (%);  CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT (%);  TESTS AND TESTING (%);  DNA (DEOXYRIBONUCLEIC ACID) (%);  PATERNITY SUITS (%);  ADVERTISING  (%)

Industry: MEDIA & TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (58%)

Person: REGIS PHILBIN (58%); STANLEY, ALESSANDRA 

Load-Date: March 19, 2002


End of Document
