



The San Diego Union-Tribune
August 6, 2010 Friday


Copyright 2010 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: Opinion; Pg. B-7
Length: 1201 words
Body


Bye-bye democracy
The essence of Judge Vaughn Walker’s decision to tramp on California voters by throwing out Proposition 8 goes way beyond the issue of gay marriage. It’s about democracy, freedom and the will of the people. Oh, this is not the first time one judge has trashed the will of the people in California and other states, and it will surely not be the last given the current interpretation of our constitution by federal judges and the ruling class of statist representatives at all levels of government, both state and federal.
So the question for the public is why take the time and energy to vote for any amendment when the end result will come down to the opinion of one man or woman. It’s interesting to consider that for an amendment to pass, it requires a massive effort to get one on the ballot and then a favorable vote.
The answer is we must keep trying and resisting as the objective of those that want to take control is for us all to become discouraged and defeated by their unrelenting onslaught on our rights and freedoms.
Wayne Parkola
FallbrookApplying to everyone
If marriage is a fundamental right that from now on shall be nondiscriminatory, it must be available to all, including parents to their adult children, adult siblings to each other and polygamists. Every attempt to justify same-sex marriage while excluding others falls apart under scrutiny.
Why should a father and son be barred from marriage? Why should a father and daughter be barred from marriage if the father has had a vasectomy or the daughter a tubal ligation? Why should siblings be barred if a DNA test shows that they are likely to produce healthy offspring? And why should any three (or more) people be barred from marriage if they are all in love?
Steven Ward
San DiegoBattle far from over
A judge has ruled Proposition 8 to be unconstitutional, a proper decision. Unfortunately for us all, the battle seems to be far from over.
One thing strikes me as odd. Here in our area, a cross on a hilltop is wrangled over in court for years, nativity scenes are banned, and even the words “Merry Christmas” are viewed as borderline illegal. Where is the separation-of-church-and-state crowd when the only justification Proposition 8’s backers can summon is based on the Bible? Surely a law that directly impacts people’s lives is more of a threat to religious freedom than a display once a year.
Maybe they just don’t view the gay folks among us as worthy of protection. The enlightened state of California, what a joke.
T.E. Ponta
Chula VistaClaims were not proved
Judge Vaughn Walker wrote, “Proposition 8 fails to advance any rational basis in singling out gay men and lesbians for denial of a marriage license.”
As an American I stand taller today with due process of the law, the responsibility of free speech and knowing many of my fellow citizens fought long and hard for this step closer to the promise of the Constitution.
Proponents of Proposition 8 exercised their right to bring a vote to the public. However, exercising their right to free speech and due process they promoted fear, discrimination and religious superiority over a civil matter. This trial gave proponents of Proposition 8 the opportunity to prove their claims and be accountable with their right to free speech. They were unable to prove their claims upon cross-examination.
I can only hope we can put this unconstructive and costly fight aside and perhaps focus on the golden rule, respecting our neighbors’ privacy and have a lesson learned that with your exercising of free speech you better be able to back it up.
Daniel Logan
San DiegoRuling applies to state
I hope those disappointed by this decision remember that many were more disappointed a couple generations ago when a federal court came down even harder against racial discrimination. I’m certain that the Proposition 8 supporters’ next step will be to vilify the judge as being activist. Funny that these folks aren’t as upset when a judge comes down on the conservative side. The fact is it would be equally activist, under the U.S. Constitution, to order publicly funded schools to include Christian teachings in their curriculum as it would be to order hypodermic-needle exchange programs in those same schools.
The role of elections is to determine what the people, at one point in time, want. The role of the federal judiciary is to determine if they can have it. That’s the checks and balances our founding fathers wanted for us. I hope those disappointed that the “will of the people” was cast aside here remember that the Bill of Rights was not established to insure that the majority viewpoint could not be contained or outlawed by a despotic leader; it was enacted to insure that the views of all, especially the minority, could not be muted, no matter how small their numbers or the passions of their opponents.
David Gray
La Jolla Enforcing the Pledge
Every citizen in this great country recites the Pledge of Allegiance that ends “with liberty and justice for all.” The Pledge of Allegiance does not exclude anyone or any group. The ruling on Proposition 8 simply enforces the pledge every citizen of this country has taken.
George Wedemeyer
San DiegoStrengthening resolve
Shame on Judge Walker for disregarding the voices of over 7 million Californians who showed their support for Proposition 8 and let the state know that we do not want gay marriage. In one of the biggest turnouts in recent history, 52 percent of voters showed where they stand, and yet one man thinks he knows more than the majority.
While Wednesday’s ruling was a setback, it is in no way a defeat. This arrogance and complete disregard for our votes will only strengthen the resolve of those of us who want marriage to remain, as it always has been, between a man and a woman.
Wayne Moeck
San Diego An erroneous decision
Wednesday’s federal court ruling is erroneous in overturning Proposition 8.
The California Supreme Court properly upheld the absolute right of the people of California to define by constitutional amendment the word “marriage” as being only between “one man and one woman.”
Defining a word a certain way is not a constitutional right.
Whether a “civil union” should have exactly the same rights under the equal protection or due process clauses as “marriage” is a different question that the U.S. Supreme Court will ultimately have to decide.
The Walker opinion should be stayed until that issue is resolved to avoid another round of so called “gay marriages.”
Marc Sandstrom
CarlsbadMajority not always correct
An individual is entitled to his opinion. That does not mean his opinion is the truth.
Just because a majority of people support something does not make that thing moral or compassionate. The majority of Germans in World War II supported discrimination against Jews. A majority of Southerners in the U.S. supported slavery. Neither one of these positions were moral or compassionate.
A slight majority of California voters (not the entire state population) voted that marriage between two men or women should not be allowed. Conservatives seem to like things in black or white – simple. The simple truth is that taking anyone else’s human rights away is wrong.
Christopher Milligan
San Diego
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: LETTER TO ED; 

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: MARRIAGE (91%); DEMOCRACIES (90%); JUDGES (90%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); TYPES OF GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ADULTS (77%); DUE PROCESS (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (77%); POLYGAMY (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (59%); DNA (50%); DNA TESTING (50%)

Geographic: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: August 7, 2010


End of Document
