



The New York Times
May 9, 2010 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
Section: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 50
Length: 4777 words
Byline: By BROOK LARMER
Brook Larmer writes for National Geographic, among other publications, and is the author of ''Operation Yao Ming.'' He lives in Bangkok.
Body


THE NEWLYWEDS are perfectly happy, can't you see?
  In the poster-size wedding photographs that cover the walls of their home in rural Sichuan Province, the couple frolic in a field of green clover. They nuzzle against a backdrop of autumn leaves. They cuddle on a beach under an azure sky. In each soft-focus image, the bride -- a 25-year-old former clothing vendor named Xue Ying -- appears in a strapless white gown and a glittering tiara. The groom -- Yang Chun, a 37-year-old shuttle-bus driver -- wears a white tux and a bow tie; his crooked, nicotine-stained teeth appear straight and white.
  The image set against the fall foliage is captioned ''Romandic Story,'' in garbled English. On the tropical beach, Xue leans back into Yang's arms, her veil blowing in a breeze; a smile sparkles on Yang's face. The caption, again in English, a language neither understands: ''I Make a Wish With U.''
  Yang and Xue invited me into their home one afternoon last fall. They married in July and were pleased to show off the trappings of connubial bliss. The dreamscapes were an artifice, a confection of false memories manufactured by a local photo studio. Digital enhancement brightened their smiles, erased their blemishes and slathered their marriage in a gooey layer of romanticism. It hardly seemed to matter that Yang and Xue lived in the mountains of landlocked Sichuan Province in southwestern China and had never been to a beach. The photos served a more fundamental purpose: to paper over a past too painful to bear.
  For the past two years, Yang and Xue have been striving, in their own separate ways, to escape the shadow of May 12, 2008. On that day, at 2:28 p.m., a 7.9-magnitude earthquake struck Sichuan. In barely 80 seconds, their worlds were obliterated. Yang's wife, a shopkeeper, was one of more than 15,000 people entombed in the rubble of their hometown, Beichuan. Their only child, a 7-year-old boy, was crushed when the Qushan Primary School, like thousands of other school buildings across the region, collapsed like an accordion. A few hundred yards away, Xue scrambled out of her home seconds before it crumbled only to discover that her fiance had been buried by a landslide.
  So staggering was the scale of destruction unleashed by the Sichuan earthquake that, much like the Haitian quake in January, its horror was often reduced to a series of statistics: more than 87,000 dead or missing, nearly 400,000 injured, upward of five million homeless. Beichuan, nestled along a river bend deep in the mountainous folds of Sichuan, stood nearly 60 miles north of the quake's epicenter. It was a beautiful spot, but its underlying geology -- the convergence of two fault lines -- was so volatile that officials had for years considered razing the town, which was the county seat, and rebuilding it elsewhere. The quake did the job in an instant, leveling 80 percent of the town's buildings and killing an estimated two-thirds of its 22,000 inhabitants, many of them members of the Qiang ethnic minority.
  Two years later, Beichuan is a ghost town encircled by razor wire and Chinese soldiers. Most survivors still live in temporary housing, the blue-roofed aluminum cities that dot the earthquake zone. Some, like Yang and Xue, moved to Anchang, which is serving as the county seat until construction is completed on a new one, which will be known as Yongchang, or Eternal Prosperity. This replacement city, rising on the flood plain 15 miles south of Beichuan, is a small part of the $440 billion that China has reportedly spent on relief and reconstruction. Sichuan, whose armies of poor migrant workers helped fuel the economic boom in eastern China, is now receiving government largess, from housing, roads and infrastructure to the creation of a new industry: ''earthquake tourism.''
  Looming over the physical reconstruction, however, has been another question: How can society rebuild? In China, one answer has been to pair grieving men and women to create instant families that will help ensure social and economic stability. For Westerners, marriage choices tend to be based on individual notions of love or romance, or at least that is how we see it. But in Sichuan, marriage is, first and foremost, about family and community. Families shattered by the earthquake are not just personal tragedies; they are a fissure in the foundation of society.
  Coaxing earthquake survivors into remarriage has become a community obligation. Unlikely volunteers have joined in the matchmaking efforts, from former in-laws to the leaders of the local Communist ''work units'' to which every family in this part of rural Sichuan is still assigned. Behind them is the Chinese government. The state, which has long seen fit to intervene in the most private aspects of people's lives, including reproductive rights, has avidly promoted -- and in some cases even arranged -- what it dryly calls ''restructured families.''
  By the end of 2008, less than eight months after the earthquake, 614 survivors from Beichuan alone had already remarried, according to Wang Hongfa, a local civil-affairs official. (The number across Sichuan's earthquake zone, though not made public, is estimated to be well into the thousands.) That so many earthquake survivors have already remarried is not surprising in itself; but in many cases, these are widows marrying widowers, two survivors striving to get back onto solid ground.
  Yang and Xue are feeling their way forward. One evening when I visited their house, smoke billowed out of the kitchen, filling the room with an acrid blast of chili paste. Yang, in a blue chef's apron, stuck his head out of the kitchen. Tears streamed from his hangdog eyes, but he had a grin on his face. ''Huiguo rou!'' he said -- he was making the ''twice-cooked pork'' that is a Sichuanese specialty. Xue smiled up from her chair, holding a box of insoles she had embroidered to make Yang's shoes more durable and comfortable on his long days driving. Her mother and brother were visiting, and Yang relished the chance to cook for a family again. A few minutes later, he emerged from the kitchen with a parade of dishes: chicken feet, cold sesame noodles, beef and potato stew and twice-cooked pork, all to be washed down with rice liquor. Yang called his new family to the table and, with a flash of yellow teeth, declared, ''Let's eat!''
  Hey, you just sneaked off, where are you now?''
  The last text message from Luo Xuemei, Yang's first wife, sent hours before the earthquake, stared back at him from his cellphone. Yang left their home in Beichuan early that morning not wanting to disturb his sleeping wife and son. He was headed for Piankou, his home village, to buy mushrooms and honey for his trading business.
  Now, four days after the quake, the text message was all he had left. It had taken him two days to hike the 40 miles across mountains gashed by landslides to get back to Beichuan. He searched hospitals, stadiums and refugee camps, hoping to find his wife and son alive. He lifted the covers off dozens of swollen corpses pulled out of his son's collapsed school. ''It was too much to take,'' Yang told me. He threw himself down on the rubble and wailed, ''God, you are too cruel!''
  More than a thousand people were crawling across the wreckage the day Yang arrived, all sobbing and shouting out the names of loved ones. Xue was there, too. An acquaintance of  Yang's wife -- she sold clothing downtown, too, after a stint in a tile factory -- Xue was looking for her 35-year-old fiance in the rubble. Now she wondered if the dead weren't better off than the living. It was her fourth day wandering through the wasteland, clawing at the debris with bare hands. Her parents and brother were nowhere to be found (they turned up alive on the fifth day), and she knew, deep down, that her fiance could not have survived the landslide that buried his home under a hundred feet of earth and cement. Xue stopped digging. Her lover was dead, and so, too, were their dreams of starting a family together.
  Beichuan was declared a mass grave, leaving thousands of unrecovered bodies under the ruins. For the next few months, Xue lived alone in a government-issue tent outside a local stadium, eating crackers and instant noodles, unable to sleep without seeing images of corpses appearing with her fiance's face. Yang returned to his parents' home in Piankou and retreated into a suicidal stupor. He lost more than 30 pounds. He slept very little. As soon as he closed his eyes, he would see his wife and son staggering among the ruins, waiting for him to come save them. Yang spoke to nobody about the tragedy. ''I couldn't dump all this on my parents or in-laws,'' he said. ''They had suffered great losses, too. So I kept it all inside, wondering why life should be lived anymore.''
  The only way to pull Yang back from the brink, his family decided, was for him to remarry as quickly as possible. ''My parents, my older sister, my younger sister: they all pressured me to move on,'' Yang recalled. ''My wife's older brother recruited my friends to look for a new wife for me. Even my mother-in-law, one month after the earthquake, urged me to get married again.'' Yang also got a call from the Communist Party's local propaganda department. The deputy director of the department, a 33-year-old man named Feng Xiang, lost his young son in the same Qushan Primary School collapse in which Yang's son died, and subsequently committed suicide. Feng's colleagues encouraged Yang to start a new life -- and offered to do anything they could to help.
  The notion of remarrying, however, seemed obscene to Yang, he said; it would be a betrayal of his wife and son. Yang didn't want to reconnect with people; he wanted to run away. So when a favorite aunt in faraway Hebei Province sent for him, Yang left Sichuan behind. Gradually, with a combination of home cooking and herbal medicine, his aunt gave him back a life.
  TWO BULGING LEDGERS sit on the matchmaker's wooden table -- one for men, the other for women. Inside the books, row after row of names are recorded in the precise handwriting of Deng Qunhua, a 42-year-old former seamstress who started her matchmaking service after losing her home and business in the earthquake. Each name on Deng's list is followed by the client's age (ranging from 22 to 78), along with height, education, employment and desired traits in a partner. But there is another more pertinent detail -- a strangely formal two-character phrase -- that appears next to a disproportionate number of names: , sang'ou, meaning ''bereaved of one's spouse.'' ''These are the earthquake widows and widowers,'' Deng says, tracing a finger across the page. ''Most of them don't ask for much -- just a chance to get back part of what they have lost.''
  Tapping into this new market of lonely hearts came naturally to Deng. Suddenly single again herself, after divorcing her husband in the post-quake trauma, the gregarious Beichuan native began commiserating with the lovelorn -- and collecting names. Women join her list free, while men pay 200 yuan (about $30) for an unlimited number of introductions until they find a suitable match. Deng runs her business off a tabletop in Anchang, 10 miles south of Beichuan. But there are other matchmakers in town; even the local government has a service. So Deng travels into the mountains, plastering photocopied lists on the rocks, poles and village walls along the way.
  So far Deng has brokered more than a hundred matches involving earthquake widows and widowers. Those are the cases, she says, that make her feel less like a businesswoman and more like a social worker. ''The earthquake survivors often feel that it may be too soon to look for a new spouse,'' Deng says. ''But when they see other people with a warm family home, they want that for themselves.''
  Finding such a refuge, however, is no simple task. Grief and trauma still consume many earthquake survivors. New companions must also deal with the remnants of their partners' former lives: debts, disputed property, in-laws and parents and, perhaps most important, children. On Deng's list, the most desired trait in a partner, repeated on almost every entry, is not money, looks, character or education; it is simply ''no burdens.'' Those saddled with the heaviest burdens -- especially middle-aged women with children -- move slowly off the list, while the young and the elderly tend to have more luck. Even so, some of these hastily arranged ''earthquake marriages'' have already fallen apart. Deng recalls one that ended in divorce after just 12 days -- ''a record,'' she says.
  Early last year, a local doctor came to add his name to Deng's list. The man escaped death by chance; he was away from work when his hospital crumbled. His wife was not so lucky. Rescue workers found her body clutching a baby, not her own, whom she evidently tried to save. Deng began taking down the doctor's details: ''57 years old, bereaved of spouse, handsome. . . .''
  A couple of weeks later, Deng found herself accompanying her new client to the disaster site where his wife died. She comforted him as he wept and lighted incense in her memory. The doctor and the matchmaker started seeing each other, their romance followed quickly by talk of marriage. Deng knew her fiance was still in mourning, deeply wounded by the tragedy, but still it took her by surprise when he broke off the engagement. At 42, she is 15 years his junior. But he considered her to be too old. Though he has an adult son, he wants to start another family. So Deng has no choice but to fulfill her professional duty -- the doctor, after all, has already paid the $30 fee. The photocopied lists she now pastes on village walls carry the doctor's data, along with his final requirement: ''a woman under 30 who can bear children.''
  Children are not an issue for the older couple trying to make a new start in Room 22 of a temporary settlement just south of Beichuan. Liu Yinhu, a 56-year-old day laborer, dug in the rubble of a mountain construction site for two days to find his wife's body. Zhao Yonglan, a round-faced peasant, lost nearly everything in the quake: her husband, two grown children, a sister and a brother-in-law and her home. Liu and Zhao, who is 54, knew each other as small children. But when Liu's older sister reintroduced them a few months after the quake, Zhao was lost in grief. ''I called her every day for a month to convince her,'' Liu says. ''I kept telling her, 'It's good to have another person take care of you. You're too young to lose hope.' ''
  Zhao eventually relented, and in January 2009, they held their wedding celebration at a local restaurant in the settlement, inviting enough family and friends to fill eight tables. I joined the couple and Zhao's 84-year-old mother for a meal at the same restaurant almost a year later. Over plates of wild mushrooms and cumin-flavored pork ribs, Liu told stories of their courtship, while Zhao blushed and poked him playfully. Then Zhao's mother let it slip that the newlyweds are, in fact, first cousins. ''We know it's not right,'' Liu said. ''But we're too old to have children, so what does it matter?''
  Last year, during the traditional festival when Chinese mourn the dead, Zhao joined the throngs heading into Beichuan, where her family's remains still lie under the rubble. Near the razor wire at the edge of town, she crumpled to the ground, unable to go farther. ''I was too scared,'' she said, pulling on her ear to keep from crying. Liu put a hand on her shoulder and gave her a tissue to dab her eyes. Zhao said that she would try to muster the strength to go back. ''I couldn't go alone,'' she said, looking at Liu. ''But with his help, this time I will make it.''
  YANG AND XUE, the shuttle driver and the former clothing vendor, first met in early 2009, when a mutual friend persuaded them to join a group lunch during the Chinese lantern festival. It was an auspicious occasion, the 15th day of the new lunar calendar, a celebration of the spirits who bring light back into the world each year. But there was no glimmer for Yang and Xue. Neither wanted to start a new relationship, and the meeting didn't change their minds. ''My friend said he was an honest, down-to-earth man,'' Xue says. ''But I didn't want to consider it at all.'' Yang, who is in his mid-30s, dismissed the 24-year-old Xue as ''just a kid.''
  Both Xue and Yang lived alone in the same dismal refugee camp. In January 2009, a month after returning to the province from his aunt's house, Yang received $8,800 in government compensation for his son's death -- and another $1,460 for his wife. When he spent the cash on a secondhand S.U.V., the trade seemed ghastly: his wife and 7-year-old boy for a Mitsubishi Pajero. He bought the car to start a new business shuttling people across the mountains to his home village, Piankou. It would take time, however, before he mustered the courage to make the drive himself. The mountain switchbacks were treacherous -- and filled with the memories of that horrible day.
  When Yang and Xue met a second time -- at a picnic in the park arranged by their mutual friend -- there still were no romantic sparks. But the conversation was pleasant enough. Like Xue's fiance, Yang was a gentle, soft-spoken driver in his mid-30s. And though Xue was a decade younger than Yang's wife, she, too, was easygoing and mature. Still, they were reluctant. Would a new relationship dishonor the dead? Were they both too broken to build anything new?
  A couple of weeks later, Yang invited Xue to lunch and showed up in the Mitsubishi with his sister and brother-in-law in tow. This was to be a family decision. ''For me, the pressure to get remarried was huge,'' Yang says. ''That's the only reason I considered it.'' From that day on, the two survivors spent their nights together in the shelter, comforting each other through the darkest hours. They rarely talked about the hideous images that occasionally flooded their minds. It was enough that they had both gone through a similar experience. ''She suffered a lot, too,'' Yang says, ''so I think she understands me.''
  The wedding was set for summer. But Yang still had one loose end to tie up. A few weeks before the marriage, with the help of a computer-savvy cousin, he created Web sites for his wife and son. The sites were simple, each with a snapshot and a brief description that reads less like an epitaph than a yearbook entry. For his wife, he wrote: ''Luo Xuemei, female, born May 8, 1973. . . . able to do things very seriously and take charge of the family!'' For his son: ''Zhang Ruiming, male, born Sept. 20, 2000. . . . smart, lovely, and lively!''
  Yang still has boxes of family mementos, but he keeps the photos of his first wife at his parents' house in Piankou, five hours across the mountains. His son's are stored at a friend's apartment an hour away. ''I can't bear to look at them,'' he says.
  More than a hundred guests showed up for the all-day wedding celebration at a local hotel. They were mostly Xue's friends, fellow earthquake survivors from Beichuan who were still living in temporary shelters, eager to trade their instant noodles for a feast of fish, shrimp and chicken. Heavy rains prevented many of Yang's friends and family from coming across the mountains from Piankou. But at his family's table there sat four new friends from the government propaganda department. They had pushed Yang to remarry all along. Now, lifting their glasses, they toasted the newlyweds -- and urged them to start building a family.
  A YEAR AGO IN April, an odd spectacle unfolded in the earthquake zone. Twenty couples in brightly colored ethnic costumes sang love ballads on the streets of a Disneyfied village, their choreographed moves followed by a phalanx of television cameras. The event resembled the production of a Chinese soap opera, but it was actually a government-sponsored mass wedding of earthquake widows and widowers, orchestrated to show, as the master of ceremonies -- a local Communist Party chief named Chen Xingchun -- put it, ''the epitome of a beautiful new Beichuan.''
  Walking arm in arm, the newlyweds promenaded past stone bridges, fortresses and watchtowers, all rebuilt to look like an ancient village of the Qiang ethnic minority. None of the men and women lived there; the reconstructed stone village, Jina, is designed to be a tourist site. But as the cameras rolled, the couples -- some of whom met for the first time just a few weeks before -- performed ancient Qiang wedding rituals: dancing to traditional music, planting saplings to symbolize happiness and, as the celebration ended, throwing corn and millet over the crowd for good fortune.
  The group wedding made for heartwarming television. Staged less than three weeks before the quake's first anniversary, it also served as a signal for survivors to leave the tragedy behind and move on, as Chen said, ''in courageous pursuit of a happy, new start.'' Just as crucially, the event showcased the government's efforts to rebuild Sichuan at every level, from the reconstruction of towns and the creation of a new tourism industry to ''the restructuring of families.'' To pull off the mass wedding, local officials acted as matchmakers and motivational coaches. ''It's not easy for many of these people to decide to marry again,'' Jing Dazhong, the Beichuan mayor, told reporters. ''So we helped some of them find the right person and provided psychological consultation to ease their uncertainties.''
  The scale of the physical reconstruction effort is staggering. Nearly every road, bridge, school and factory in the areas surrounding Beichuan has been rebuilt. An empty field 15 miles south has been transformed, in less than a year, into the new city, Eternal Prosperity, a vast grid of multistory buildings over which more than 70 building cranes hover like a swarm of gigantic insects. As Beichuan's new county seat rises on the plains, the ghost town in the mountains is set to be turned into an ''earthquake museum.'' Chinese tourists already flock to the viewpoints above the town to gawk at the wreckage through binoculars (80 cents for five minutes) and buy gruesome photomontages -- often from vendors with family members buried in the rubble.
  Capitalizing on this voyeuristic impulse is one part of Beichuan's plan to become ''an internationally renowned travel destination.'' The other is to turn the Qiang ethnic minority into a tourist draw. Nearly 60 percent of Beichuan's residents descended from the so-called ''people of the clouds,'' whose culture dates back 3,000 years. Qiang customs and language have nearly vanished, victims of modernization and a forced policy of assimilation. But now the local authorities are reviving a version of Qiang culture, with Jina -- the site of the mass remarriage ceremony -- as its showpiece. Leveled by the earthquake, the stone village was entirely rebuilt in just seven months to become a Qiang-style theme park. The 69 families who live there wear festive Qiang costumes, dance to Qiang music and decorate every house with traditional emblems: corncobs, peppers, sheep skulls . . . and Chinese flags.
  The flags are not incidental. By holding its ''earthquake wedding'' under China's five-star banner, the government turned the act of moving on and remarrying into a patriotic duty. Remarriage can bring tangible benefits not just to the individuals but also to the state. In impoverished rural Sichuan, a family with two adults has a better chance at surviving without government aid than a single parent. The burden on reconstruction is also reduced from two homes to one.
  The government's emphasis on forging ahead is also a way of forgetting. To blunt criticism over the collapse of thousands of poorly built schools, which killed more than 5,300 students, the government silenced parents who lost their children, giving them compensation only after they signed a pledge ''to obey the law and maintain social order'' -- an implicit warning against ever raising the issue again. In February, Tan Zuoren, an activist who was compiling an exhaustive list of the dead students, was sentenced to five years in prison on unrelated charges that many suspect were politically motivated. Remarried couples, it is presumed, will have their eyes too fixed on the future to raise uncomfortable questions about the past.
  When the wedding ceremony in Jina ended, an official caravan whisked the 20 couples to the airport. The Beichuan government was sending them on an all-expense-paid honeymoon to a beach resort on Hainan Island in southern China. It was only a two-day trip, but that was enough time for Chinese television crews to frame the final shot. The newlyweds seemed tentative at first. But soon they were strolling down the beach, hand in hand, sharing on camera their dreams about the future. It was, in television terms, a perfect wrap.
  The morning sky was barely streaked with light, but Yang Chun was already up, splashing water across his face. His new wife, Xue Ying, lingered a while longer in bed under a canopy of pink gauze and a red wedding knot emblazoned with the symbol for ''double happiness.'' Heading out to warm up the Mitsubishi, Yang slipped a pair of Xue's embroidered insoles -- these with a panda motif -- into his shoes. Xue groggily brushed her teeth and grabbed the green booklet they would need for the trip to Mianyang, Sichuan's second-largest city.
  On the six-lane highway, Yang drove cautiously, never exceeding 40 miles per hour. ''He's always very careful when I'm in the car,'' Xue said. The slow pace was unusual for a shuttle driver who careers over the bone-jangling mountain passes to Piankou every day, trying to hasten his trips and increase his $700 monthly income, a decent one by local standards.
  There was another reason for Yang's caution: his wife was pregnant. Riding along in the car with them was the future of their new family, a source of hope and potential happiness -- and, as tradition dictates in rural China, insurance in their old age. The baby also represented the couple's best chance for moving beyond the horror of May 12, 2008. Only a new life could begin to fill the void.
  In the aftermath of the quake, the Chinese government issued an unusual collective exemption to its one-child policy for the estimated 8,000 families who lost their only children. A new ''re-reproduction service'' offered these families free consultations, fertility treatment and surgery to reverse vasectomies and tubal ligations. In Beichuan, 802 families registered for official permission to have another child in the first seven months. By the end of last year, some 18 months after the quake, China's family-planning commission reported that 1,662 babies were born to women eligible for these services -- and more than 1,100 women were pregnant. This year, the numbers are expected to be even higher.
  Not everybody has been so fortunate. Back in Piankou, Yang's old friend Lu Shihua struggled to move forward. Lu's first wife died in childbirth 16 years ago; his only daughter died in the collapse of the Beichuan Middle School. Lu remarried soon after the earthquake, and at 41 he was gripped by the need to have another child. At a local restaurant, he ordered beers and baijiu, the traditional rice liquor, but then declined to drink. Leaning over, he whispered, ''Drinking is supposed to hurt my potency.'' For more than a year, Lu and his new wife had been trying to conceive. ''The doctor says there's no physical problem,'' Lu told me at the time, ''so it's probably just stress.'' Despite his frustration, Lu showed no trace of envy when he talked about Yang. ''Now that Yang is forming a new family,'' Lu said, ''he sees that there's hope again.'' Months later, Lu's wife would get pregnant, too.
  When Yang and Xue reached the family-planning clinic in Mianyang, they presented the green booklet -- which guarantees free service to quake survivors -- and Xue disappeared into the obstetrician's checkup room. Tucking his wife's purse under his arm, Yang paced the hallway outside, underneath a poster that showed the proper way for workers to applaud at official functions. It wasn't long before a white-gloved doctor waved him into the room. Minutes later, Yang and Xue emerged together, smiles spreading across their faces. In her hand, Xue clutched the image from the ultrasound, its smudgy white blur confirming the reality -- and the good health -- of their child. ''Everything is O.K.,'' Yang said. ''It's good to know everything is going to be O.K.''



Graphic

 
PHOTOS: Yang Chun and Xue Ying, who is holding their son, Zhang Ruijun. (MM51)
 REBUILDING LIVES: Liu Yinhu says he spent a month persuading a grief-stricken Zhao Yonglan to marry him. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WANG GANG) (MM54)                
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (89%); EARTHQUAKES (87%); MARRIAGE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); BEACHES (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); LANDSLIDES (66%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (61%); SCHOOL FACILITIES (60%)

Industry: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%)

Geographic: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); SICHUAN, CHINA (91%); CHINA (90%)

Load-Date: May 9, 2010


End of Document
