



 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
August 8, 2004 Sunday
Home Edition


Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Metro News;
Length: 457 words
Body


Just in from Timely Tom Ridge: We're on orange alert based on credible, updated evidence that a bug in millions of computer systems could cause major disruptions at the turn of the millennium.
My friend knows all about the stinky flower. He tried to send one to his ex-wife.
For the Journal-Constitution
I worry that the astronauts on the space station will all go outside and lock themselves out.
If Gwinnett County's uncontrolled development were on skin instead of land, it would be called melanoma.
Zell has two things Democrats can't understand: integrity and character.
Why do you think you're being polite when you hold up 50 cars to let one out of a driveway?
Missouri bans gay marriage: It's now the "Don't Show Me" State.
We have plenty of money to cut trees along the expressways, but none to reduce the five-hour waits at driver's license locations?
If you're going to go as slow as the other lanes of traffic, how about getting out of the HOV lane?
I heard that Playtex has created half-size bras, including one model called Almost A. Wouldn't Band-Aids be cheaper?
If things are going so well in Iraq, why doesn't Dubya visit or even take a vacation there?
For once, living on the Southside is an advantage. I now listen to Macon's 106.3 classic rock radio station. Thanks, Dave FM.
Who's the clown who keeps calling in to the vent about the Vent-A-Day calendar? It wasn't very funny the first time.
Life Lesson No. 2,345: Never run a fully revved Weed Eater into a fresh pile of doggie do.
If John Kerry's bike costs more than your house, maybe it's time to upgrade to a double-wide.
Vasectomy reversal: $4,300. The look on your wife's face when you tell her you had one six months ago: priceless.
It appears to me that the novel "1984" was off by 20 years. It should have been titled "2004."
These Rebels still can't forget the War of Secession. This Yankee wonders what life would be like if the South had won.
If you think the Barnesville poultry auction is culture, you ought to try living here. It's truly a modern-day Mayberry.
Those Fulton County employees who watch porn all day certainly have a difficult job, don't they?
Kerry praising the Buckeyes while in Michigan in no way compares with our beloved president stating that "the enemy will never stop trying to find ways to harm our country, and neither will we."
If you have no insurance, you'd better be dying before you go to the hospital. In fact, you might be better off if you just went ahead and died.
In this country, you're innocent until proven guilty . . . except in traffic court.
They've just arrested terrorists on three continents. Somehow, I don't find that reassuring.
Human breasts are a perfect example of design redundancy.
Need to Vent? Call 404-222-8338; e-  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE LAWS (73%); COUNTIES (71%); MARRIAGE (71%); SKIN CANCER (71%); SPACE STATIONS (71%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (69%); POP & ROCK (65%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (54%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

Industry: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); SPACE STATIONS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%)

Geographic: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); IRAQ (74%)

Load-Date: August 8, 2004


End of Document
