



Daily News (New York)
October 5, 2016 Wednesday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


Section: NEWS; Pg. 3
Length: 435 words
Byline: BY JOE DZIEMIANOWICZ NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Body


OWE, BABY.
A Utah dad counted his blessings when his son Samuel was born Sept. 4, but when he got the hospital bill weeks later, he saw a charge he hadn't banked on - $40 to briefly snuggle his newborn in the delivery room.
Ryan Grassley was stunned when his bill arrived from Utah Valley Hospital in Provo weeks later, with a $39.35 charge for "skin to skin after C-section." And that was just part of the itemized $13,280 delivery bill.
"We weren't mad, but it seemed ridiculous," Grassley, 37, who works at an iron foundry, told the Daily News. "I had no idea that I'd be charged for that."
Grassley added, "Everybody was really nice. I'm not looking to throw anyone under the bus. The nurse told me, 'Don't let go. He might move his head, and that might cause him to fall.' "
A nurse even snapped a pic for the fam.
Grassley has a sense of humor about the charge, but not everyone's laughing.
On Reddit, where the dad first shared his experience and posted the hospital bill, users gasped at the "ridiculousness."
Momtastic.com Editor-in-Chief Heather Morgan Shott told The News she was horrified. "I can't imagine a world in which that makes sense. It's like charging moms for breast-feeding in the hospital," says Shott, who has two kids, both delivered by C-section at Beth Israel.
"This charge wasn't on my bill."
The News reached out to Utah Valley Hospital for an explanation of the fee, but they've yet to comment.
A nurse offered a possible explanation on Reddit.
"I didn't know that hospitals charged for it, but doing 'skin to skin' in the operating room requires an additional staff member to be present just to watch the baby. We used to take all babies to the nursery once the (neonatal intensive care unit) team made sure everything was okay. 'Skin to skin' in the OR is a relatively new thing and requires a second labor and delivery (registered nurse) to come into the OR and make sure the baby is safe," the nurse wrote.
Skin-to-skin contact with a newborn immediately after birth has been shown to have many benefits for babies, including stabilizing temperature and regulating breathing and heart rate. "It's linked with happier babies," says Shott.
Grassley and his wife, Lidia, 35, also have a 2-year-old daughter, Sofia.
He said he doesn't regret snuggling with Samuel, despite the ridiculous fee.
"I just don't want to get any more charges when I hug my son at home," Grassley joked.
Just in case, he's started a Gofundme account with a goal of $39.35.
He notes: "Any money donated over the $39.35 will be put towards a vasectomy because I never want to go though these sleepless new baby nights again."

Graphic

 
Ryan Grassley, holding son Samuel for the first time with his wife Lidia, was shocked by charge of $30.95 for "skin to skin contact" in delivery room (below). Inset, the parents with other kid Sofia. COURTESY OF GRASSLEY FAMILY
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (79%); BREASTFEEDING (78%); HOSPITAL (%); FEE (%); BABY (%); BIRTH (%); UT (%); FATHER (%)

Industry: NURSES & NURSING (89%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (79%)

Geographic: PROVO, UT, USA (58%); UTAH, USA (93%)

Load-Date: October 5, 2016


End of Document
