



The New York Times 
February 2, 2024 Friday 13:00 EST


Copyright 2024 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION
Length: 1988 words
Highlight: From overpopulation fears to careful bourgeois life scripts.
Body


This week, The Financial Times featured an  with the Finnish demographer Anna Rotkirch, discussing one of the more striking subplots in the widening drama of demographic decline: The sudden collapse of what had heretofore been seen as a pronatalist success story in the social democracies of northern Europe.
Up until recently, countries like Finland, Sweden and Norway had notably higher fertility rates than many countries in southern Europe, and the Nordic socioeconomic model, with its mixture of gender egalitarianism and strong welfare-state supports for child rearing, was often held up as proof that progressive policies could prop up birthrates, even that feminism is the new natalism. The hope was that extremely low birthrates in more conservative countries like Italy () might be part of a transition through an unworkable mixture of modern economic demands and traditional expectations for women — with Scandinavia showing that a more progressive, feminist and family-friendly destination was waiting on the other side.
That hope seems to be dissolving. As Darel Paul wrote in an  for Compact magazine last week, Europe has suffered a “stunning fertility collapse” in the last decade, much of it concentrated in countries where the feminist egalitarian model was strongest. Finland is one of them: As The Financial Times notes, “despite all the support offered to parents,” the country’s birthrate “has fallen nearly a third since 2010,” and its birthrate is now barely above the lows of Italy.
I’ve been writing about pro-family policy for basically my entire career, and I’ve always assumed that America could learn something from the European experience — not that the Nordic model in particular is necessarily ideal, but at least that policy can shape fertility decisions and work against anti-natal trends. And I still think that: I’m very happy, for instance, that the House just passed a child tax credit expansion, because in an age of declining birthrates, every little bit helps.
But it’s always been clear that pronatalist legislation  and works primarily on the margins, that the right policy might get you from 1.5 children per couple up to 1.7, or from 1.1 to 1.3, an outcome that’s both very much worth aiming for but also potentially swamped by larger trends. And watching the tide go out on European fertility, the emphasis that Rotkirch offers is essential, both for pronatalist conservatives and for progressives who have convinced themselves that any birthrate issue is just the fault of libertarians who won’t spend enough on families. Whatever is going on in countries like Finland, she says, “it’s not primarily driven by economics or family policies. It’s something cultural, psychological, biological, cognitive.”
So let’s talk for a moment about the cultural and psychological aspect, the role of people’s thinking about the world in their fertility decisions. And let’s save certain big issues (secularization, the role of the internet, the alienation of the sexes) for another time, and focus on two specific forms of anti-natalist culture.
Consider, first,  from a demography-focused account on X making the case that contemporary attitudes are more explicitly anti-natal than many people recognize, that the too-many-humans worldview of figures like Paul Ehrlich, the author of “The Population Bomb,” infuse modern society in a profound and under-indexed way. In this theory, people aren’t having kids because of the power of “an ideology that says there are too many people and they are wrecking the planet,” which has encouraged a great many young people to simply “believe having children is bad.”
I do think the shadow of Ehrlich and the 1970s attempts to brutally suppress developing-world population growth hangs over current fertility trends, especially in China, where the legacy of the one-child policy still seems powerful years after its official abandonment.
But as an overarching explanation for our situation, I’m a little doubtful of overt anti-natalism’s power. It’s notable that the evidence marshaled by the post’s author for Ehrlichism’s potency starts with the anti-natalism evident in online reader comments on articles in major newspapers. That tracks with my sense that once Ehrlich’s prophecies of doom failed to materialize, his worldview became a kind of submerged ideology, the sort you see in, well, comment threads — present below the surface of liberal society, influential with many older liberals who imbibed it in the 1970s, but a bit too embarrassingly out-of-date and  to be a full part of official progressive ideology.
It can still be a meaningful force, to be clear, and to some extent the specter of climate change has given Ehrlichism new life. But the  seems importantly different, less about overpopulation per se and reflecting instead a pessimism about one’s children’s prospects in a warming world. And before giving pride of place to that kind of pessimism in our explanations, it’s worth looking at a different ideological force: Not the anti-natalism of despair, but the anti-natalism of bourgeois propriety.
This kind of anti-natalism isn’t anti-human, it doesn’t panic about teeming masses and polluted cities, it’s fine with people who want kids having kids. But it encourages a belief in family formation as a kind of consumer preference, one option among many, that deprioritizes its pursuit in the crucial decades when having kids is possible or easy. And it sets social expectations in such a way that most people’s understandings of respectability and propriety and good sense end up delaying reproduction, shrinking family size and leaving too many people with unfulfilled fertility desires.
I’ve written before about some these issues, defined by The Atlantic’s Derek Thompson as “” — the prioritization of professional success to a degree that inevitably crowds out the space for family life, even when there’s some intention to have kids. Or a prioritization that crowds out the possibility of having more kids, if you have to help your first child thrive in a hypercompetitive workist environment. (Certain  of South Korea’s extreme population crisis give pride of place to its insanely competitive meritocracy.)
This, more than Ehrlichian anti-natalism, is what I see when l look around my own social ecosystem — though it takes different forms for different social classes. In the Financial Times interview, Finland’s Rotkirch emphasizes the professional-managerial script in which having kids is a kind of a capstone achievement, something you only do after you’re completely set, which means after you’ve spent years climbing the ladder of graduate programs and professional advancement that leaves you with a relatively narrow family-formation window. Which for some is OK because they really don’t feel like having kids at all — but for others it leads to this kind of depressing anecdote:
“People call me a lot in Finland. [They say] ‘I’m 42, my partner has had three miscarriages and she says she will not continue. And I understand I will never be a father. I’m the only child of my parents, and there’s nobody left, and help me.’”
Rotkirch is wary of an emphasis on fertility treatments. Women’s fertility drops in their late 30s and 40s: society has to adapt. “If you do everything that typical ministers of finance tell you to do, you are 45 — you have a house and a doctorate and it’s too late. The idealized life course is really at odds with female reproductive biology.”
But I also see another version of bourgeois anti-natalism, less upper-class professional and more middle-class, where people get married relatively early, have a kid or two and then just assume that a larger family would be impossibly burdensome and therefore fundamentally irresponsible. These are people whom I expect will feature in Tim Carney’s forthcoming  on the cultural impediments to raising kids in America, not just having them — people who like children, who like being parents, who inhabit the middle class of the richest country in the history of the world, but for whom current norms and expectations and even regulations (!) around parenting militate strongly against having three kids instead of two, four instead of three, two instead of one.
It’s especially worth emphasizing these bourgeois problems because they transcend ideology and partisanship. If you meet someone who’s convinced that overpopulation is about to overwhelm the Earth or that climate change will visit apocalyptic horror upon future generations, you’re probably talking to a convinced progressive. But the impulse to delay fertility until some perfect moment of being “settled,” to recoil from the mess of an unplanned pregnancy, to restrict child rearing to the narrowest possible window, to get a responsible vasectomy after your second child is born — these are often conservative impulses, woven into the fabric of the American heartland as much as the liberal coasts.
As is the policy corollary, the deep-seated instinct among some Republicans that pro-natal policy is a bad idea because everyone should be exclusively responsible for their own kids; that you shouldn’t even have children if you can’t afford to support them at a certain base line level of middle-class comfort, that needing a tax credit or family leave is itself a form of irresponsibility, that the government shouldn’t be in the business of social engineering when it comes to favoring an extra kid over an extra car or a kitchen renovation.
Whatever else we can say about the increasingly desperate demographic straits of much of the developed world, in the situation we’re facing, it’s clear a reliance on this kind of bourgeois normalcy is not going to be enough.
Breviary
Nate Silver on the people .
Jacob Savage  of the film critics.
 and  on the luxury of polyamory.
Bill Coberly on how “Star Trek” .
Can the romantic comedy 
 of February.
This Week in Decadence
— Sonny Bunch,  of “Argylle,” The Bulwark (Feb. 2)
“Argylle” is also very much a product of its time on the action movie front. What I mean is: almost nothing looks like it takes place in anything resembling a real location. It’s a common problem in so many movies these days, one that’s especially pronounced in the bigger-budget Netflix pictures. “Red Notice” is perhaps the most glaring example of this — the bullfighting sequence and the prison breakout were two of the most egregiously green-screened sequences I think I’ve ever seen — though I imagine seeing “Rebel Moon” on a big screen rather than my TV at home might have taken the cake.
“Argylle” suffers from this same disease. There’s an identifiable fakeness to the green-screen work here — rooftops that are clearly surrounded by nothing but blue walls; oceans that contain nary a drop of water; even an oil slick used in an action sequence that makes it obvious that nothing on the screen is an actual, physical item — that audiences are going to look back on in five, 10, 20 years from now and say, “Oh yeah, that’s a streaming-era picture.” It’s the inability to match light sources and shadows, the way the buildings in the background are either out of focus or in too-clear focus, the uncanny valley of a skyline that’s too brilliantly blue, a sun too perfectly flared on the horizon. It’d be one thing if, say, Vaughn had chosen to use the completely fake backgrounds solely in the book-within-the-movie, the flatness of the Hong Kong skyline complementing the shallowness of Elly’s writing. But by bringing it into the “real” world as well, you realize it’s just … well, laziness is the only word.
PHOTO:  (PHOTOGRAPH BY Alain Pilon FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Op-Ed

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMY & ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); FAMILY (89%); TRENDS (89%); DEMOCRACIES (79%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (79%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (78%); FERTILITY RATES (78%); WOMEN (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TAX CREDITS (58%); House of Representatives (%); Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions (%); Birth Rates (%); Parenting (%)

Company:  FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (93%)

Industry: NAICS513110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); FAMILY TRAVEL (70%)

Geographic: EUROPE (93%); FINLAND (91%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); NORWAY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: February 2, 2024


End of Document
