



St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
March 30, 2002, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition


Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company
Section: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 1D
Length: 2230 words
Byline: LANE DeGREGORY
Dateline: PINELLAS PARK
Body


For the first few minutes, the men sit silently, studying their laps and the soles of their shoes, crossing and uncrossing their legs. They're on metal folding chairs, around a blue table, in a yellow-walled room at the Pinellas Park Health Department. They've brought their questions and consent forms.
And their fears. They've brought their fears.
The nurse stands in back, between a white wipe-off board and a blank-faced television, wearing a wide smile and a long linen dress the color of butter. Her round cobalt eyes are rimmed with laugh lines. Gold hoop earrings glitter beneath her blond bob. She's tan and petite: barely 5 feet tall, barely 100 pounds, just over 50 years old, a recent grandmom.
LDFLO
Her name is Florence "Flo" Concklin.
"Good morning! I'm so glad to see you all," she says brightly on this warm Tuesday in March. "Now, you're all sitting in front of packets of information. . . ."
The folders are blood red, with square white stickers in the bottom right corners. In the center of each sticker, a thick blue V cradles a heart. A purple banner hugs the heart, with white letters spelling out why everyone is here.
"Now, if you all will open your packets and follow with me, it's going to take about an hour and a half to go through all this stuff the government wants me to tell you. Then you will be getting your surgery dates," she says.
"I'm a registered nurse. I've been doing this for six years."
She has helped more than 750 men get sterilized.
She has helped Pinellas County become the most popular place in Florida for publicly funded procedures.
They call her Mama V.
The Mother of Vasectomy.
Pinellas County does more to promote publicly funded vasectomies than any other place in the country.
Last year, 251 men had the procedure here - more than in Pasco, Hernando and Hillsborough counties combined. The county health department received more than $ 200,000 last year for the surgeries, five times the funding it got four years ago. The more surgeries the doctor does, the more money the county gets.
Countless men get vasectomies privately, from their own doctors, with private insurance. But if a publicly funded vasectomy is what you seek, inevitably you'll meet Mama V.
Concklin is the only public health worker in the state whose only business is vasectomies. She's a one-woman department with a part-time assistant. She oversees everything from buying ad space on billboards to taking blood pressure to holding the patient's elbow as he leaves the operating room.
It's her voice on the county Men's Health line, her face on the Vasectomy Support Web page.
"She's a one-stop, constant source for these guys. A godsend for them and for the program," says her boss, Bob Janssen. "When she took over, Pinellas County was only doing about 10 surgeries a year." This year, Janssen predicts, that number will top 300 - and they'll all come through Concklin's class.
She teaches six informational sessions a month, at five locations around the county. She also has helped health departments in Hillsborough, Pasco and Polk counties promote their vasectomy programs. She meets with marketing representatives, bar owners, urologists and men of every age.
She's usually the only woman in the room, the only one not experiencing a psychosomatic pain Down There.
And even off duty, she's on the job.
She keeps a box of advertising items in the back seat of her car: cardboard drink coasters, plastic memo clips, full-color fliers, each hawking low/no cost vasectomies, along with her phone number: 462-MALE. She pins up posters at child-support offices, passes out pamphlets while she's grocery shopping. Sometimes, when she's going out for beers with her girlfriends, she plasters a VASECTOMY temporary tattoo on her left shoulder.
"It starts a lot of conversations," she says. "And sometimes, I'll meet a guy who really wants to know. Sometimes, they'll even call me later."
In her 25 years as a nurse, she has worked in almost every aspect of the profession: home health care and hospital emergency rooms, intensive care wards and surgery assistance, doctors' offices and public clinics. She swears this is her favorite job.
So what's so much fun about convincing a bunch of guys to get clipped?
How did a shy little girl who couldn't even say the word "sex" in high school learn to love talking about sperm? How did she get over blushing when she had to hold up posters of penises and answer questions about orgasms? How did she get to be Mama V?
"I'm still not sure," she says, laughing. "I mean, it wasn't like I aspired to do this." She pauses, pulls out a white booklet called Your Sterilization Operation, opens to the diagram of testicles and points to it, Vanna White-style, grinning and batting her lashes. "Would anyone ever envision themselves doing this?"
Health departments have been helping men get vasectomies for almost as long as Flo has been a nurse. But few folks know the procedures can be publicly funded. The government underwrites male sterilization surgeries for the same reason it helps pay for female tubal ligations and birth control pills: Preventing unwanted pregnancies will reduce the need to spend public funds to support children down the road.
In Pinellas County, even men who have private insurance and high-paying jobs are eligible for sterilization at the health department. They pay what they can, from nothing to $ 290. Private vasectomies can cost up to $ 1,500.
"The most you pay here is about what it costs a woman to be on birth control pills for one year," says Flo.
In the mid-1990s, Florida applied for a grant from Engender Health to promote the surgery - and Pinellas County received $ 22,000 in advertising funds. Flo and her co-workers started brainstorming. They came up with campaigns for bus benches, public restrooms, fitness centers. They printed vasectomy mouse pads, water bottles and matchbooks. They co-sponsored a Buccaneers tailgate rally with country radio station WQYK.
"I want people to become familiar with vasectomy, so it doesn't seem like a bad word," Flo says. "When you put it up there in 2-foot-tall letters on a billboard beside Tropicana Field, it's a little harder to think of it as something you can't say out loud."
Most of the advertising money still flows from Engender Health, a nonprofit company based in New York. It's provided primarily by the Packard Foundation.
Dr. Doug Stein, a Tampa urologist who does all of the Pinellas County Health Department's vasectomies, helps pay for other printed ads. One shows a preteen boy crossing his eyes and pulling his ears. Black letters above his head ask: Had Enough? Another ad shows a middle-aged man with a furrowed forehead. Oh, just pick up the phone you wuss is his slogan. And one features a Marlboro Man in a tan cowboy hat under the headline: Still a Stud.
"Pinellas County does more vasectomy outreach than anywhere else in the country," says Maureen McKenzie of Engender.
She was in St. Petersburg last week meeting with Flo and Janssen, trying to figure out which promotional campaigns were most successful and why. She wants to help other counties copy Pinellas' program.
"We feel everyone should have the opportunity to access permanent birth control," McKenzie says. "And part of our mission is to let men know it's available to them, too."
After the first hour of class, the men start to relax a bit. They can make eye contact with Flo now, uncross their legs. They're even starting to joke.
Some of the guys showed up for today's class after seeing ads in the newspaper or carrying home a coaster. One picked up a brochure at the pediatrician's office. Tony's wife sent him.
He's a 32-year-old waiter, has a 9-year-old son, three stepchildren, plus a baby daughter due any day. "When my wife first told me about it, I was like, "No way, not me.' Then I started thinking: "Do I really want any more kids?' " he says. "Then later, when I told a buddy of mine I was going to do this, he actually went: "A vasectomy? Cool!' So that's what I'm here for," he tells Flo.
"Well, that's what I'm here for too," she says.
She calls her clients, her patients, "my boys." Most of them are between the ages of her own sons, 25 and 31. You have to be 21 to qualify for public funding. Her oldest taker was 67. "And we've had quite a few father-and-son combinations coming in together lately," she says.
 Puts a new spin on male bonding.
Some of the men don't have any children. Don't want any. Most have all they want - usually, plus stepchildren. "We had a man in here last week with eight kids," she says. "I've had 21-year-olds who already have fathered five children." Those are the guys she hopes see the billboards.
She tells her students they don't have to have their spouse's consent for the surgery. But they have to be sure. Vasectomies are permanent, she emphasizes. Sometimes, they can be reversed. But it doesn't always work.
Then she tells them how the procedure works, how this new, no-scalpel technique only requires a  1/4-inch incision, how it will block the sperm from entering the semen, how it won't affect their erections or orgasms or sex drive. She tells them it takes only 15 minutes. She tells them it hurts less than getting a tattoo.
"At least that's what they tell me," she says.
She tells them to buy a jock strap and two bags of frozen peas, to help reduce swelling after the surgery. She tells them their procedure will be on a Friday, they'll have to rest over the weekend, but they'll be able to go back to work by Monday. "You have to wait three days to play sports," she says, "but only two to have sex."
"And the only bad news is that you have to wait 30 days from now to schedule your surgery. That's so you have a chance to really think about this, and change your mind if you want to. We usually have about one guy a month who backs out after he signs the papers."
"I'm ready now. Can't I go ahead with this?" Tony asks.
"I'm sorry. No," says Flo. "You'll be April 19."
"Geez," says Tony, shaking his head. "You only have to wait three days to buy a gun in this state but you have to wait 30 to get a vasectomy!"
But enough about concealed weapons.
When strangers ask what she does, Flo usually says she's a nurse. If they ask even one followup question, she'll launch into her vasectomy spiel. Usually, after that, they either have nothing to say or can't stop asking questions.
"You'd be surprised how much people want to know once that door is open," she says. "They're often a little bit embarrassed at first. But when I get rolling, they seem to really want to know."
She never blushes anymore, she says. All her subjects are such old hat by now. Nothing shocks her.
Oh, sometimes the guys have trouble talking about certain issues in medical terms. They resort to locker room slang and bad language. But after six years and 700 surgeries, she figures she has heard it all.
She has never had a man not want to talk to her because she is a woman. Actually, being a woman in this world of anxious men seems to help, she says. Guys seem to open up more easily about sexual questions because she is a nurse, and because she seems so motherly, and because she's seldom fazed by the subject. Her comfort puts them at ease.
"I don't really have a gimmick or a way to make them feel comfortable. I just try to talk to them like I would want to be talked to. I guess it's easy for me to promote this program because I honestly believe in it, big, big time," she says.
She struggles to explain why she adores this job. It's not about her, but about the effect she's able to have on the future, on so many men's futures, on so many families.
"I know I'm only making about this much difference," she says, measuring off the tip of her tanned pinky finger. "But it's something, at least. I'm helping people prevent children they don't want to have.
"I'm helping men take responsibility for reproduction."
Her oldest son gets embarrassed when she starts sounding like an advertisement around his friends. But her youngest son, the father of her grandchild, already has told her she can make him an appointment - in a couple of years.
"He thinks it's great I can talk about this so openly now," she says. "He tells all his friends his mom is Mama V."
Near the end of class, after explaining the procedure and answering questions and showing a video she can recite from memory, Flo turns off the fluorescent lights and clicks on a slide projector. She tells the men about the risks of a vasectomy, about hematomas and infections and bruised scrotums, about soreness and sperm granuloma. She keeps smiling through the scary parts, keeps emphasizing how minimal the risks are, how great the benefits.
Then she spouts one last statistic: Only one in every 5,000 surgeries fails.
"But the good part is, you can make sure it worked," she says. She tells them they can come back for free followup visits, to make sure the surgery was a success. She tells them they can bring in samples as often as they like.
"You can put your semen under a microscope and check it for sperm," she says. She waits a second, then amends that statement. "Well, I can check it," she says, laughing.
"You better ask for me."
At a glance
For more information on publicly funded vasectomy programs, call (727) 462-6253, e-mail Flo Concklin at , or see   county_health_depts.htm. The site offers information on programs throughout Florida.

Graphic

 
PHOTO ILLUSTRATION, PATTY YABLONSKI; PHOTO ILLUSTRATION; PHOTO, DOUGLAS R. CLIFFORD; DRAWING; A temporary tattoo touting vasectomy is an eye-catcher in Flo Concklin's campaign to increase male participation in birth control.; Humorous ads help reduce anxiety about vasectomies and point out the simplicity of the procedure.; Flo Concklin, a registered nurse who is coordinator of Pinellas County's vasectomy program, educates prospective patients about the surgery, a form of permanent birth control for men.; a tatoo design features a heart and flowers and reads 'vasectomy'
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (85%); MEN (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%)

Company: MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE  (50%); MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE  (50%)

Industry: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); PUBLISHING (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%)

Geographic: FLORIDA, USA (92%)

Load-Date: March 30, 2002


End of Document
