




The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
March 19, 2001 Monday,
Home Edition


Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution
Section: Features;
Length: 1627 words
Byline: Jill Young Miller
Body


Even two years after the Duffners lost their 2-year-old son, they still carry haunted memories --- as they wage a crusade against drivers using cellphones
 
His picture is everywhere. Hanging in the kitchen. In the living room. On magnetic signs --- captioned "Hang up and Drive" --- stuck to the sides of his mother's van.
Ryan Duffner, towheaded and smiling, clutching a football, forever 2 years old.
AJC
Lisa and Rorry Duffner lost Ryan, the youngest of their three children, two years ago today. He died after a teenage driver lost control of a minivan --- while she was using a cellphone --- and plowed into Lisa, the children and the family dog, who were taking a stroll in their neighborhood near Lawrenceville.
"I don't want this to ever happen to another family," Lisa Duffner says.
Maybe talking helps. Lisa, 35, a stay-at-home mom, and Rorry Duffner, 36, a supervisor at Blue Bell Creameries, have told their story many times in the past two years, to reporters, state lawmakers, county commissioners and anyone else who will listen, ever pushing --- unsuccessfully so far in Georgia --- for laws that would crack down on drivers using cellphones.
"We don't have a problem with cellphones," says Lisa Duffner, who was badly injured in the accident. "It's the way they're being used."
Maybe time heals. But if it does, it's working slowly for the Duffners.
Lisa Duffner is learning how to quilt so she can piece together squares of Ryan's clothes. She attends three support groups to help her manage her sorrow, and she visits Ryan's grave almost every day. "What ifs" still torment her, but not as they did. "What if I would have waited five more minutes? What if I'd let them ride their bikes? They would have had their helmets on."
Rorry Duffner reminds himself to stay busy. "And I try not to be alone," he says. He has taken up softball to help keep his thoughts from wandering into caverns of grief, and he avoids long, solitary drives unless he has to fill-in for a driver at work.
Erica, 11, wasn't able to express her grief until she went to a camp for children who've lost siblings. She came home finally able to cry and speak about her baby brother. At school, after a period of tumbling grades, she has reclaimed a spot on the honor roll.
Kyle, 5, needed a punching bag, he was so angry about losing Ryan. He gave his imaginary friend a brother named Ryan who died, too. Kyle finally sleeps in his own bed again, in the room he shared with Ryan, hugging a teddy bear dressed in Ryan's choo-choo train pajamas.
"He's the one family member who constantly talks about Ryan," Rorry Duffner says. "We'll go to the store, and he'll say, 'Oh, Ryan would have loved that.' Or 'Oh, that's Ryan's size.' "
Once he told his mother, "You were dead, the doctors fixed you. Why don't they fix Ryan?"
Lisa and Rorry Duffner don't cry as often as they used to in front of each other or Erica and Kyle. And their marriage is intact, even as they're sharply aware that many crumble after a child is killed.
"We were able to learn real quickly that we would not grieve the same way," says Rorry Duffner, who with his family attends bereavement counseling monthly, with other grieving families, at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta at Scottish Rite, the hospital where Ryan died three days after the accident. "There would be days she was crying, days I'm not. Days I'm crying, she wasn't."
Days she visits Ryan's grave, days he doesn't. Days she hangs more pictures of Ryan, days he can't bear to look at them. Days they're out together and see a child who reminds them of Ryan and say something to each other, days they see a child who reminds them and stay mute.
"Often a tragedy like this will destroy people, will destroy families," says Gwinnett County District Attorney Danny Porter, who prosecuted the driver. "They've been tested by the worst."
Days. Weeks. Months. Now two years. A Japanese magnolia planted in Ryan's memory is in bloom again, on the hill in front of their home. By the tree, the Duffners have built a retaining wall with angels on top of it. Another picture of Ryan rests against the wall. Lisa Duffner tends to the front yard memorial almost as carefully as she tends to Ryan's grave.
At a cemetery less than three miles from the Duffners' home, she decorates the toddler's grave site for Halloween, Christmas, Valentine's Day, Easter, the change of seasons. She and her husband own the plots on both sides of Ryan's grave and plan their final rest with their son between them.
If you stand in the Duffners' yard by the magnolia and look down Bishops Lane, the Duffners' street, you can see where, in one terrible moment, heartbreak slammed into their lives. SS
On March 16, 1999, Lisa Duffner, Ryan, Kyle, Erica and Pepper the dog were two doors from home, wrapping up their walk. Sixteen-year-old Ashley Laing, using a cellphone to call her mother, was hurrying down their street in her family's 1994 Mercury minivan when she lost control, directly hitting Lisa, Ryan and Pepper.
The girl, six months pregnant and hurrying home from a forbidden visit to her boyfriend, got out of the van, according to court testimony, and said, "Oh, my God, is she all right?" Then she fled.
"She panicked. That's understandable," Lisa says. "But it irks me that she had that cellphone in her hand and she didn't call 911."
Erica retrieved her dying brother, who'd been thrown 30 feet, and carried him to their stricken mother's side.
Lisa Duffner had been thrown 60 feet. Her left knee was shattered, her left ankle was broken, her right leg was fractured, her spleen was injured, her forehead was gashed, and she was unconscious.
The dog was dead.
Erica and Kyle weren't seriously hurt. "They got hit by our shoes flying off," Lisa says. Erica ran home to get their father. It was a Tuesday evening. Rorry Duffner was showering, getting ready to take his family out to dinner at, of all places, a Ryan's steakhouse, one of their regular places. So happy were the Duffners with their children that the couple had decided to stop with three, and Rorry had a vasectomy after Ryan was born. Six months before the accident, he had left a higher-paying job with CVS Pharmacy to work at Blue Bell, just 1 1/2 miles from home, not an hour's drive away like before. It was a quality-of-life decision: He wanted more time with his wife and children. One pleasing perk of his new job was ice cream at a discount.
Ryan was rushed to Scottish Rite. Three days later, Lisa woke from a coma at Gwinnett Medical Center, and Rorry had to break the news.
Lisa was briefly released from the hospital, in a wheelchair, to attend her son's funeral. Though she was heavily medicated at the time, the details stay with her. "I asked God out loud, 'Why wasn't it me?' " She lingered until the last shovel of earth was dropped. "I didn't even get to hold my little boy to say goodbye."
She then remained hospitalized for the next three months, undergoing a series of painful operations and learning to walk again.
 
"I wish it could have been me instead of their little boy," Ashley Laing said at her sentencing that September in Gwinnett Juvenile Court. She had admitted to the charges of felony vehicular homicide, hit-and-run and failure to maintain a single lane. "I am just so sorry."
Ashley, who by then had given up her baby for adoption, got the maximum sentence under the juvenile system: She was ordered to spend 90 days in a boot camp, to perform 500 hours of community service --- and not to drive until age 20.
The Duffners also pursued a civil case against the Laing family. They were awarded a settlement that included $100,000 for Lisa's injuries and $100,000 for Ryan's death. But legal and financial matters continue to plague the family. The Duffners recently learned they may have to pay back $111,000 to Rorry Duffner's employee benefits plan; the matter is in court in Texas, where Blue Bell is based.
Since Ashley's trial, the Laings have moved from Lawrenceville to Madison, Ala., near Huntsville. Because Ashley was a juvenile when she killed Ryan, official information about her case is closed to the public.
Her father, Matt Laing, declined a request to interview Ashley and her parents for this article, replying in an e-mail that "this accident was a life-changing experience for Ashley" and that "the hurt and healing should remain private."
The Duffners aren't keeping their hurt to themselves, stepping up to tell their story any time it might advance the cause of cellphone restrictions. "Our efforts are put forth to get some county, or some state, or some municipality to pass an ordinance," Rorry Duffner says, shifting in a living room chair as Angel, the family's new dog, dances at his feet. "There had to be a reason for our son's death."
Last month, despite the Duffners' work, the Athens-Clarke County Commission defeated --- by a single vote --- a measure banning drivers from using hand-held cellphones. John Barrow, the commissioner who sponsored the proposal, says he regards the narrow vote as progress, and he credits the Duffners' powerful story.
"You put a little child's face on an accident that was caused by this, and it shuts people up," Barrow says. "It makes them think a little bit more. The Duffners are trying to teach other people the lesson they've learned, to spare other people.
"As far as I'm concerned, they're heroes," he says. "The question here is: Are we going to learn from their experience?"
At home on Bishops Lane, surrounded by pictures of their dead son, the Duffners vow to fight to the finish.
"However long it takes," Rorry says. "A month. Ten years. Twenty years."
"Until," Lisa says, "I die."
 
ON THE WEB: Advocates for Cell Phone Safety:  Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association:  

Graphic

 
Photo:
Lisa and Rorry Duffner have built a memorial to Ryan at their home near Lawrenceville. The wall in their front yard, including a picture and figurines, sits next to a Japanese magnolia tree planted his memory. / JEAN SHIFRIN / Staff Photo:
Lisa Duffner (right) has a picnic with children by the grave of son Ryan, who was killed by a driver using a cellphone. From left: Katelyn Bender, son Kyle Duffner and Lindsay Wulf. / JEAN SHIFRIN / Staff
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: DRIVER BEHAVIOR (92%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); DEATH & DYING (89%); GRIEF (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); DOGS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (64%); COUNTIES (52%)

Company: BLUE BELL BIOMEDICAL  (55%); BLUE BELL BIOMEDICAL  (55%)

Industry: DRIVER BEHAVIOR (92%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MOBILE DEVICE USAGE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); MINIVANS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%)

Geographic: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); GEORGIA, USA (78%)

Load-Date: March 19, 2001


End of Document
