



Tampa Bay Times
November 8, 2016 Tuesday
4 State / Suncoast Edition


Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


Section: NATIONAL; Pg. 8; YOUR LETTERS
Length: 955 words
Body


October Letter of the Month
The winning letter outlined the qualities of leadership.
Choosing leaders for large, complex organizations is a risky undertaking, with profound and far-reaching implications. As an executive recruiter who has successfully filled thousands of senior management positions, I am the first to acknowledge the weight of the decision American voters will be making on Nov. 8. While many of us already know whom we'll be voting for, to those still on the fence, I'd like to share a few tried-and-true guidelines that help me identify a winning candidate.
- "It's more than the bottom line." A successful leader places the well-being of the people in his or her organization above the numbers. This person recognizes that strength is embedded in human, and not just financial, resources.
- "We vs. Me." Survival of the fittest may drive evolution, but organizations thrive when their leaders place the good of the collective over protecting their own positions.
- Respect. How does a candidate treat the receptionist at the front desk? A successful leader honors everyone in the organization, regardless of status, gender, ethnicity, etc.
- Humility. Even the most gifted leader makes mistakes; a reliable indicator of success is his or her ability to acknowledge them with humility.
In my experience, only a leader with these essential "human" qualities can enlist the broad support it takes to guide a large, multinational corporation - or the world's greatest superpower - through complex and challenging times.
Gary Krauthamer, St. Pete Beach
* * *
Campaign 2016
The duties of the citizenry
No matter who wins the election, I wonder how many people feel they have a personal responsibility as free citizens to promote the overall welfare of the country.
Does it bother anyone that we continually spend more than we pay in taxes by a substantial amount, and do we as citizens have a responsibility to curtail it?
Does it bother anyone that we complain about illegal aliens, but the only way they can stay here is because they are employed illegally by U.S. businesses and citizens? Do we have a responsibility to stop it?
Does it bother anyone that we send volunteers to fight "terror" when our own intrusive actions into other countries inspire it? Do we have a responsibility to vigorously object to ill-advised invasions?
Do we have a responsibility to each other to base our opinions in facts that promote the general welfare of the people? And to help each other by insisting on equitable wages, benefits and justice to all people?
Do we really think one elected person will change this? Or should we be looking in the mirror and asking ourselves if we are serving the country or ourselves? And, in the end, does one person make the country great, or do we make it great?
Charles Brusovich Jr., Lutz
** *
Job retraining is the answer
Why anyone believes Donald Trump will bring jobs back to our country is beyond me. He is someone who shipped jobs out of our country, but now he will bring them back? Let him start by bringing the jobs back he shipped out.
Many jobs have been lost due to automation. A lot of the people who are out of work and who have been for years will never get these jobs back because their companies found they could produce the product with a much smaller work force due to automation. We now have to see how many of these workers can be retrained to do some other work.
Frank Marcia, Tampa
* * *
Florida panthers
Create safe passages
With 27 panthers dead because of vehicle collisions on Florida roads so far this year, our state is well on the way to breaking a dubious record for the third year in a row. The numbers are heartbreaking because the Florida panther is one of the rarest mammals on the planet; biologists estimate that only 100 to 180 exist in the wild.
Yet far too little is being done to reduce the largest cause of panther deaths: collisions with vehicles. We must do more to protect the small, fragmented habitat in which Florida's panthers live, including creating safe passages between habitats.
Wildlife-crossing structures save lives and resources. Each animal-vehicle collision costs over $6,000, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation, and results in property damage and possibly human injuries. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service must dedicate resources for habitat protection and wildlife crossings so that we can better protect panthers and ensure their recovery for generations to come.
Kate MacFall, Tallahassee
The writer is Florida state director of the Humane Society of the United States.
* * *
Court mulls abortion wait - Nov. 2
Command and control
In her submission to the state court of appeal regarding an enforced 24-hour waiting period for women who wish to terminate a pregnancy, Florida's deputy solicitor general said, "The waiting period is not because it's a medical procedure. It's a waiting period because it's an irreversible, life-altering decision on the level of other things like marriage, divorce or giving up your child for adoption."
Is there any law in Florida that requires a man to wait 24 hours before having a vasectomy? Since he may never be able to create a child again, is his decision any less monumental than that of a woman wishing to terminate an unwanted pregnancy? Has any government challenged his right to act spontaneously as he deems fit?
We already know the answer is no. Men in Florida, for some reason, have been deemed capable of making their own reproductive choices without the state's intervention and imposition of a 24-hour waiting period. Why are women being treated differently? The answer is simple - discrimination and control.
Jannine LeMere, St. Petersburg
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: LETTER

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); RACE & ETHNICITY (70%); ADMINISTRATIVE & CLERICAL WORKERS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); COMPENSATION & BENEFITS (60%); EMPLOYEE RETRAINING (60%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: November 8, 2016


End of Document
