




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
March 1, 2001, Thursday,
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: LIFESTYLE,; LIFE SUPPORT
Length: 677 words
Byline: BARBARA BROTMAN
Body


Not long ago, my husband and I received from his newly married nephew a letter, and a thrown gauntlet:
"Stephanie and I have been talking a lot about NOT having kids. I think we are asking the right question -- is life more enjoyable with or without kids? In talking to a variety of parents, they all say they love their kids and most say they are happy to have them, but very few believe their life is actually more enjoyable."
The invitation was irresistible: Would we -- could we -- defend parenthood as enjoyable? To each his or her answer, but here is mine:
Dear Scott,
It was unfortunate that your question reached us midway through our latest bout with head lice, at which point I had spent so many hours combing my daughters' hair in front of the TV that I could tell which Olsen twin on "Two of a Kind" was Ashley and which was Mary-Kate at 20 paces.
Or maybe it was fortunate. Your question presumably turns on imagined scenes of such family non-bliss. The parents you have been quizzing have no doubt filled your minds with scenes of tantrum-filled, colicky horror.
Well, I've been to that parental horror show. Frankly, with adolescence on the horizon, I may be headed for the feature presentation. Still, my lawyer-nephew, I will rise to parenthood's defense.
Not to persuade you to have children; there isn't a more personal decision. Nor to impugn anyone else's choice. But perhaps I can offer a different answer to your intriguing question.
Enjoyment with children? Let me first acknowledge enjoyment lost because of children.
Last-minute movies. Dinners out. Sleeping late. Travel. Leisurely bouts of reading. Privacy for intimacy. Peace and quiet. Eating sitting down. Spontaneity. Anything costing money.
But before you pick up the phone to make that vasectomy appointment, Scott, I tell you something else:
My life is more enjoyable with kids.
Let me clarify, counselor: It was more enjoyable when I was ready for it to be more enjoyable. At age 25, it wouldn't have been; at 34, it was.
You want fun? You would not believe how many laughs you can get making faces at a baby. Teaching a toddler to address you as "Your Magnificence," watching her do the Frankenstein baby-walk, seeing him paint his face with spaghetti sauce -- this is not sober stuff.
Do you find amazing sights enjoyable? Check this out: A tiny creature learning the basics of an entire language in a year and a half. And then growing up.
Travel? You may not always have Paris. But maybe you'll have something like the Girl Scout trip I just took with my 10-year-old to a rural dude ranch, where we all piled under sleeping bags for a horse-drawn hay ride under a brilliant sky and counted more shooting stars than I'd seen in a lifetime.
Are you hearing frightening tales of endless parental viewings of "Teletubbies"? I counter with "Harry Potter." Because of my children, I saw "Toy Story" and "Aladdin." I read "Charlotte's Web," and cried again. Because of them, I got a dog.
What about those exhausted parents, i.e. me, who complain that their lives are insanely chaotic? Well, sure. But it's a rich, full chaos that gives me pleasure even as I struggle to try to tame it a little.
Have I mentioned love?
Because this is the "joy" part of enjoyable. I would trade every movie I missed and every cheap last-minute airfare I couldn't nab for a single moment of burying my face in a sleeping daughter's hair.
Having children isn't for everyone, Scott. Just because my life is more enjoyable with children doesn't mean yours would be. And the choice is ultimately irrational. You are either drawn to having children, or you're not. But if it weren't fun, there wouldn't be so many people doing it.
Those parents who told you life is less enjoyable with children? I'm betting they have babies. Give them a few years, and ask them again. But ultimately, the only answers that matter are your own.
Your loving aunt,
Barbara
Barbara Brotman is a columnist for the Chicago Tribune. Write to her at: the Chicago Tribune, 435 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60611. Send e-mail to: .  

Graphic

 
DRAWING, DRAWING: By Cathy Tigano Gianella/Post-Gazette
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: PARENTING (90%); LAWYERS (63%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%); LAWYERS (63%)

Load-Date: March 1, 2001


End of Document
