



USA TODAY
June 18, 2009 Thursday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIFE; Pg. 10B
Length: 520 words
Byline: Bob Minzesheimer
Body


Michael Lewis (Liar's Poker, Moneyball) is more involved with his kids than his own dad was, but falls short of "perfect fathers of the future." After daughter Quinn was born 11 years ago, he began a Slate journal. (Quinn now has a sister, Dixie, 7, and brother, Walker, 2.) Lewis, 48, lives in Berkeley, Calif., with his wife, former MTV reporter Tabitha Soren. He spoke to USA TODAY'S Bob Minzesheimer about Home Game: An Accidental Guide to Fatherhood (Norton, $23.95).
Q: It sounds as if you've not read many parenting books.
A: Does it? I've skimmed dozens of them, most of which were left by my wife on my bedside table. They sort of helped but -- as you obviously picked up -- sort of didn't. They felt abstract and easily undermined by a determined and intelligent child. And in the handling of babies, I've found essentially nothing I read made it any easier.
Q: Do you think the word "accidental" in your subtitle disqualifies it from the parenting section?
A: If not that, then surely the first chapter (in which Dixie, in public, innocently repeats some "seriously bad words" she once heard her father use).
Q: You still doing "approximately 31.5% of all parenting"?
A: Funny you should ask. That was the only line in the book I changed after my wife, Tabitha, had read it. For her consumption, I had it at 29%, and she seemed to think that was about right. I cling stubbornly to the higher number.
Q: What's harder: being a father or a writer and reporter?
A: It's easier to skate through fatherhood, but harder to do it extremely well. If parenthood was graded pass/fail, then it would be the class to take. If we're handing out A's and F's and grading on a curve, I'll take writing and reporting.
Q: Did you think about what your kids would think when they were old enough to read it?
A: In the beginning I was so irritated with them for the many ways in which they were disrupting my previously placid life that the last thing I thought to do was take them into account. But after a while I thought: I wish I had some document that described the more momentous episodes of my first few years on Earth, about which no one now seems to recall a thing. When the galleys arrived, Quinn, then 9, finished it in two days, howling with laughter basically constantly. It was not my main purpose not to scar my children, but they remain, to all appearances, unscarred. They now must come to grips with not being written about.
Q: Has your father read it?
A: He's near the end. Even though he hadn't reached the part about my vasectomy or the traumatic attempts to verify its success, he was still a little shocked -- couldn't quite believe I had put the words down on paper. He thought it was very funny but also, as he put it, "off the wall." The interesting thing is that even though he was a great dad, my entire fatherhood experience was more or less alien to him. The role has changed that much.
Q: Does your wife have any plans to write her side of the story?
A: I pray not.
Q: Next book?
A: It will be about what happened on Wall Street these last few years. It's a sort of bookend to Liar's Poker. It's called The Big Short. 

Graphic

 
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W, Tabitha Soren
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: NEWSPAPER

Subject: PARENTING (90%); WRITERS (79%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); GRADES & GRADING (61%); AUTHOR (%); Q&A (%); FATHERHOOD (%)

Industry: WRITERS (79%)

Geographic: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%)

Load-Date: June 18, 2009


End of Document
