



St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
May 06, 2001, Sunday


Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company
Section: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; ROOKIE MOM; Pg. 10; COLUMN
Length: 1102 words
Byline: KATHERINE SNOW SMITH
Body


The meeting was called to order. Business was discussed. Then it was time to talk about issues.
"I'll start," said Diana Miller. "My husband is going in for a vasectomy. I told him to pick up some fliers."
The whole room applauded.
Only at a meeting of St. Petersburg Parents of Twins and Super Twins, can you expect such  appreciation for a vasectomy. These moms all cherish their children but can really respect someone who says enough is enough.
ROOKIE06
Miller has a 2-year-old son and 1-year-old twin boys. She is one of about 25 members of  this twins club. The group, mostly moms, meets regularly to play with their kids and to talk  about what's great and what's hard about having twins.
They support each other through premature babies, breast-feeding two at a time and potty training in twos.
On this recent Monday night one mother of 22-month-old twin boys asked the crowd if she should start potty training.
"I'd wait," the whole room advised strongly in unison.
But her boys were showing interest, constantly playing in the bathroom and even washing their hands in the toilet, lamented mom Ellen Burkhart.
"Toilet lock," the other moms rang out, again in unison.
When you have two infants, two toddlers, two preschoolers doing everything at the same time, mothers of twins have to know how to limit the chaos. Those of us who have two or more so-called "singletons" face many of the same challenges like sharing, getting them to go to  sleep at the same time and multiple children demanding our attention all at the same instant.  But mothers of multiples the exact same age deal with things every day that we would never think about.
I shadowed the local twins club on its play day at Sunken Gardens and then at its issues meeting when just the moms get together to talk and learn more about how they do it.
"One hard thing is when it's raining. I have to leave one out in the rain while I load the other one (in the car)," said Megan Barnitz, mother of Nathan and Spencer, who are almost 3.
Another obstacle with twins is day care. Having two infants (the most costly child care category) in day care at the same time was going to cost Barnitz $ 225 a week. It was too  expansive so she works at home around the children's naps and bedtime.
Mothers of twins must decide if they are going to dress their children alike or differently. Some say they should dress differently so they know they are individuals.
"Then you read you need to dress them alike so they can explore their "twinship.' Yeah,  right. How about whatever is clean," said Melinda Kasson, mother of 3-year-old Gabrielle and  Lauren.
One mother tells the group she read about identical twins who grew up and one killed the other, later blaming her anger on being dressed alike all her life.
"I always say save enough for college and save enough for therapy," piped in Maryann Wray, mother of boy and girl twins.
"I usually try to dress them differently," said Susan Keefer, mother of 3-year-old twin boys. "But this morning I put a striped shirt on Owen and a plain one on Drew. Then Drew  said: "Where are my stripes Mommy?' "
Like many moms of twins, Keefer tried to color-code her boys until they started picking out their own clothes. Owen always wore red and Drew wore blue. It helped people who couldn't tell them apart to remember "Drew in blue."
Do moms of twins get mad when us singleton moms can never tell their children apart?
"It doesn't really bother me, especially if they at least try," Keefer said. "Some friends just ask: "Now which one is Drew today?' I have relatives who can't tell them apart."
Other issues: putting twins to bed. Numerous moms said they think they're finally asleep, they go in to check on them and the twins are sitting on the floor in the dark playing together.
Then there's the whining or the crying. As soon as you get one to stop, the other one starts.
Going to the dentist or doctor is harder with twins. The check-ups aren't spread out like they are for children of different ages. So every time the cost is times two. However, at a recent twins club meeting someone mentioned that Sandy Worman, a dentist and fellow mother of twins, offers a 20 percent discount on each twin she sees.
Potty training is hard enough for one. It can take on a whole new dimension for two.
"Owen and Drew go at the same time, then they start talking to each other and forget about their aim," Keefer laughed. Then more problems arise when one flushes the toilet that contains their joint work. "Owen flushed my pee pee," Drew wails.
"When I go they all go with me," said Miller, the mother of 3 boys. "We go through a roll of toilet paper every day because they all have to hand it to me. "Here Mommy. Here Mommy. Here Mommy.' "
Kasson laughed at the different progress in her twins. "When Lauren goes in the potty,  Gabrielle gets all excited and says: "Great job Lauren. You pooped in the potty.' " But Gabrielle won't even think about doing it herself.
Then there are the twins that insist on wiping each other, which easily gets out of hand.
Many of these moms insist the bathroom is off limits unless they are in there with the kids. One suggested putting a baby gate on the bathroom door so the mother can help one at a time but still keep an eye on the other just outside the door.
You don't have to be at a twins club meeting to run into someone with twins these days. Births of multiples are rising due to the rapid advances in the field of fertility. In the United States, 80,000 twins, triplets and quadruplets are born each year, according to the National Organization of Twins Clubs Inc. In fact, one out of every 50 children is a multiple birth child.
Another friend with 8-year-old twins told me what she remembered being hard at first.
"When they were little all my friends who had singletons would say: "Let's go here, let's go there.' But when you have two, it's not that easy. I couldn't do Gymboree (mom and baby exercise class) with two at the same time," said Wendy Hunt.
"But now it's easy. They're best friends. They always have each other. I wouldn't trade it for anything."
For more information on this or other twins clubs, call 526-9334.
Why is it that on the day that honors us as mothers, more and more women savor Mother's Day as a time to relax away from the family? What is your ideal way to spend Mother's Day? Are you with or without your kids? Please e-mail me at  or call me at 822-7225 by Wednesday. Your thoughts may be published.  
- You can reach Katherine Snow Smith by e-mail at ; or write Rookie Mom, St. Petersburg Times, PO Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BREASTFEEDING (76%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%)

Load-Date: May 15, 2001


End of Document
