



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
July 23, 2010 Friday
THIRD EDITION


Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: VOTERS GUIDE; Pg. V1
Length: 2054 words
Dateline: 0 
Body


Democrat
FRANCIS J. VANGELI
Incumbent - No Age - 73 Home - Columbia, Mo. Occupation - Retired Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - francisvangeli.com
What is your highest level of education? Master's degree
What are your three priorities? 1. Right to life 2. Taxes 3. Health care - the real thing
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? U.S. citizen over 30 years old, veteran, government employee, teacher, amateur historian, actually read the Declaration of Independence and the U.S. Constitution, lived under rules and laws made by millionaires for millionaires and not real people and have common sense. Do what government did in recessions prior to 1922 - the government did not involve itself and the problem solved itself within two years.
ROBIN CARNAHAN
Incumbent - No Age - 48 Home - St. Louis Occupation - Secretary of state, state of Missouri Political experience - Secretary of state, 2005-present Website - 
What is your highest level of education? J.D. University of Virginia
What are your three priorities? I'm running for the U.S. Senate because it's time to start putting Missouri families first. Whether it is Big Oil or Wall Street, these corporate special interests should not be allowed to run amok, make a mess, and stick middle-class families with the bill. I am calling for: no more bailouts, cracking down on wasteful spending, and getting our economy back on track by supporting our small businesses that create jobs.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? As a small-business owner who helps oversee the family cattle farm near Rolla, I am committed to putting Missouri families first. In my role as secretary of state, I stood up to big financial institutions getting back over $10 billion for wronged investors. We also created the Senior Investor Protection Unit to protect our seniors in the future. I have fought for small business by cutting red tape and saving them nearly $12 million.
RICHARD CHARLES TOLBERT No response received.
---
Republican
R.L. PRAPROTNIK
Incumbent - No Age - 69 Home - St. Louis Occupation - Architect, R.L. Praprotnik & Associates, P.C. Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - 
What is your highest level of education? University College, Washington University, certificate in building design, architecture
What are your three priorities? 1st priority: To defeat a career politician (Mr. Blunt). Mr. Blunt is not a conservative because he was a part of the Congress that voted for every spending bill the Bush administration wanted. He brought us the Obama administration. 2nd priority: Re-establish the Constitution in government. 3rd priority: Reduce taxes, reduce spending, reduce federal debt, fix Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, fix Freddie Mac & Fannie Mae, reestablish industry in this country, repeal Obama health care.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? I believe government should be run as a business. Basically, expenditures should not exceed revenues. I have operated a professional corporation, R.L. Praprotnik & Associates, P.C./Architects, successfully, since April 1978 to this current year 2010 (32 years). I believe this experience qualifies me for the office I seek. Most politicians don't have any experience in private business.
HECTOR MALDONADO
Incumbent - No Age - 38 Home - Sullivan Occupation - Military, inactive, U.S. Army Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - 
What is your highest level of education? B.A.
What are your three priorities? 1. Economy. We need to set the conditions for U.S. companies to get Americans back to work. 2. Reform government. We need to cut government jobs. The U.S. government employs over 2 million people, making it the largest employer in America and they produce nothing. 3. Cut the EPA's budget by 50 percent. This alone will allow business the room to breathe so that they can grow and hire more Americans.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? I meet all of the qualifications as set by the Constitution. Even better, I am exactly what our founding fathers had in mind for elected representation from our communities. I am a better reflection of the average American than the politicians who make careers out of politics. Common people should seek office, then return to civilian jobs. Fifteen years in the Army has given me more executive experience than Obama had when he was elected.
KRISTI NICHOLS
Incumbent - No Age - 46 Home - Kansas City, Mo. Occupation - Sales manager Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - kristinicholsforsenate.com
What is your highest level of education? College
What are your three priorities? 1. Repeal the current federal health care. 2. Implement the fair tax. 3. Pass a federal balanced budget amendment.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? My leadership experience is outside the political realm. As an inner city pastor and businesswoman, I have experience to manage and to be an effective innovative leader with common-sense principles. Missourians are looking for qualified leaders that are not career politicians to be their voice in Washington. I am that voice.
ROY BLUNT
Incumbent - No Age - 60 Home - Springfield, Mo. Occupation - U.S. representative, U.S. House of Representatives Political experience - County clerk, Greene County, 1973-1984; secretary of state, Missouri, 1985-1993; representative, U.S. House of Representatives, 1997-present Website - 
What is your highest level of education? M.A., Missouri State University, history
What are your three priorities? Jobs: I'll bring jobs back to Missouri by stopping spending that stifles job creation, letting people keep more of their money and removing obstacles to job creation. Spending: I support the Balanced Budget Amendment, line-item veto and spending freeze. Health care: I'll work to repeal the Pelosi-Reid-Obama health care law, replacing it with solutions to lower costs and increase access without cutting Medicare, rationing care or bankrupting the country.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? I believe that problems are best solved closest to the people. That's why, as a former classroom teacher, county official, Missouri secretary of state and legislator, I have a track record of fighting and winning on the issues that matter to Missourians while finding common ground with others in both parties. I'm committed to a strong national defense, spending restraint in Washington, real health care solutions and jobs to power Missouri's future.
DEBORAH SOLOMON
Incumbent - No Age - 49 Home - Independence, Mo. Occupation - Self-employed Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - 
What is your highest level of education? Bachelor of Science
What are your three priorities? 1. Bring a balance in education and morality stability for the next generation, balance the budget, and speak about fair wages. 2. Help promote religious freedom, diplomacy and friendship as well as maintain a strong military. 3. Find cures for diseases, promote basic immunizations and provide access to birth control, vasectomies and tubal ligations to married couples throughout the world.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? I have been an avid reader for many years and seek to build consensus and resolve issues rather than spending time assessing blame. I have a B.A. in management and human relations. I have served on my local PTA board as well as different committees.
DAVIS CONWAY No response received.
MIKE VONTZ No response received.
CHUCK PURGASON No response received.
TONY LASZACS
Incumbent - No Age - 40 Home - Dixon, Mo. Occupation - Retired U.S. Army Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - ALforSenate2010.com
What is your highest level of education? M.S., Intercontinental University, education.
What are your three priorities? 1. Defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies. God, country, family, self. I am willing to sacrifice some of my liberties to protect all of your freedoms. 2. Top priority should be to focus on the economy and inspiring industry to increase employment. 3. Education - The product of education is people, not statistics or profitability. Educators must be the controlling factor at all levels of instruction not the federal government.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? > Husband of 17 years. > Father of two children. > Son of a retired U.S. Navy chief. > Sunday school teacher. > Public school teacher. > 20+ years of service in U.S. Army. > Customs investigator. > Police detective. > Antiterrorism advisor. > Senior military leader.
---
Libertarian
JONATHAN DINE
Incumbent - No Age - 30 Home - Riverside, Mo. Occupation - Personal trainer, Snap Fitness Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - 
What is your highest level of education? High school, certified personal trainer
What are your three priorities? I will fight for term limits to end the political corruption in our system. The U.S. Congress should be a revolving door of fresh ideas. I will work hard to repeal all laws creating "crimes" without victims, such as the use of marijuana for medicinal or recreational purposes. I welcome all peaceful honest activity. Each individual is unique. I want a system which respects the individual and encourages us to develop our full potential.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? I am highly qualified and meet all of the requirements of the U.S. Constitution. I am 30 years old, I live in Missouri and have been a citizen all my life. Our country is in dire need of a better representation. We need more ordinary Americans to stand up and take an active role in government. I understand the vices of our government mainly because I am not a part of it.
CISSE SPRAGINS
Incumbent - No Age - 46 Home - Kansas City, Mo. Occupation - Founder/CEO, Rockwell Labs Ltd Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - SpraginsforSenate.com
What is your highest level of education? Ph.D., Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison, physics
What are your three priorities? My principal objective is to reduce the size, scope and power of the federal government and return the federal government to operating within the constitutionally imposed limits envisioned by the founders. I would seek to abolish most federal regulatory agencies, the Federal Reserve, the IRS and the Dept. of Education. I would also seek to begin the orderly withdrawal of all U.S. troops from overseas and the closing of all overseas military bases.
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? As a business owner in a heavily regulated field, I have experienced first hand the damaging effects of regulations on the creation of jobs and economic prosperity. I know that the regulations allegedly designed to protect us actually do far more harm than good. As an activist of several years in a "third" party, I know how thoroughly our election system is rigged to protect incumbents and the status quo.
---
Constitution
JOE MARTELLARO
Incumbent - No Age - 65 Home - Cuba, Mo. Occupation - Retired Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - 
What is your highest level of education? High school, McLean, Va.
What are your three priorities? 1. To restrict the federal government to its constitutional authority. 2. To limit the terms of all elected officials. 3. To legislate a forced balanced budget (federal).
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? I am a U.S. citizen, I am a citizen of Missouri and I am at least 35 years of age. I have actually read and studied the Constitution. I will confine my activities to the enumerated powers in that document.
JERRY BECK
Incumbent - No Age - 71 Home - La Monte, Mo. Occupation - Self-employed Political experience - Never elected to public office Website - 
What is your highest level of education? Some college
What are your three priorities? Economic recovery, manufacturing, technology recovering
What are your qualifications for the office you seek? Business owner, educated, manufacturing and employment
MIKE SIMMONS No response received.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US CONGRESS (90%); FAMILY (89%); GOVERNMENT ADVISORS & MINISTERS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS & POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CERTIFICATES, DEGREES & DIPLOMAS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); MEDICARE (76%); RECESSION (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); ARCHITECTURE (60%); MISSOURI (%); POLITICS (%); CANDIDATE (%); PROFILE (%); LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS (%)

Industry: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MEDICAID (89%); MEDICARE (76%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); ARCHITECTURE (60%); CATTLE RANCHING & FARMING (50%)

Person: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

Load-Date: July 24, 2010


End of Document
