



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
August 29, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition


Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
Section: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. F1
Length: 791 words
Byline: Joe Williams Post-Dispatch Film Critic
Body


Harvey Pekar is a character. Literally. On the cold streets of Cleveland, he is an anonymous shlub, skulking from his airless apartment to his thankless job. But in the pantheon of American archetypes, he is Everyman, a working-class hero.
In the years when he was toiling as a file clerk at a veterans' hospital, Pekar learned that "ordinary life is pretty complex stuff." Eventually, he poured his woes into "American Splendor," a comic-book series about a guy named Harvey Pekar who works at a VA hospital in Cleveland.
The bitterly funny and tremendously inventive movie called "American Splendor" is not quite a film version of the comic books and not quite a documentary about the real Pekar. It is a distant cousin of "Adaptation," a brilliant box of mirrors that reflects the intersection of reality and illusion in the media age.
The film introduces us to the hand-drawn Harvey in a credit sequence that captures the comic-book aesthetic better than "The Hulk." Then we meet two other versions of Harvey: actor Paul Giamatti, in a superb impersonation, and the real Harvey, in a recording studio where he utters skeptical remarks about having his work and identity co-opted.
Distorted communication is a recurring theme in the story. As his girlfriend packs to abandon her experiment in proletarian living, Harvey is a man without a voice, in both senses of the term. As he struggles with a rusty larynx, his pleas are a hopeless squeak that bespeak his social impotence.
In a flashback, we see Harvey's fateful meeting at a garage sale with fellow outcast Robert Crumb, the underground cartoonist. ("They made a movie about him, too," says voice-over Harvey.) Both men collect old jazz records and comic books. But whereas Crumb becomes famous for translating his life into meticulous drawings, Harvey can only render his run-ins with bosses and babushkas as crude stick figures. Yet Crumb recognizes genius in Harvey's sardonic tableaux, and he offers to illustrate the stories for a comic book.
Although Harvey makes little money from it, the comic "American Splendor" becomes an underground sensation, and co-workers such as supernerd Toby (Judah Friedlander) are delighted to be transformed into caricatures.
Among Harvey's other admirers is mousy, mop-haired Joyce (the amazingly chameleonic Hope Davis), who writes him a fan letter from her comic-book store in Delaware. Based on her handwriting, Harvey decrees that they should meet. Their first encounter is the antithesis of romance, as he greets her by announcing that he's had a vasectomy and ushers her into an apartment that he has kept filthy to avoid "false impressions." Yet even though the circumstances make her queasy, she promptly proposes that they get married.
If Harvey's account of the courtship doesn't quite explain the attraction, the real Joyce provides a counterbalancing perspective in one of the documentary inserts: "He leaves out the good stuff," she says.
Ostensibly, the good stuff in their subsequent life together includes a stage version of "American Splendor," in which we see additional incarnations of the characters, by actors Donal Logue and Molly Shannon, and an invitation for Harvey to appear on David Letterman's talk show.
The scenes in the TV studio masterfully overlap the real and the artificial. Backstage, we see Giamatti, warily preparing to be commodified. On stage, we see the real Harvey, in the actual footage of the awkward interview.
Harvey's refusal to be packaged by anyone other than himself is what ultimately makes him heroic, but it also precipitates the most disturbing scene in the film, a re-enactment of a later Letterman appearance in which Harvey insists on steering the conversation to a political critique of the TV network's parent company, General Electric. When Letterman berates him for daring to deviate from the script, we share Harvey's shame and powerlessness.
Ironically, Harvey reasserts control over his life in the moment when it is most threatened. After he is diagnosed with cancer, Joyce urges him to use the crisis as material for a comic book. When he hesitates, Joyce enlists a hip illustrator who gives the project momentum until Harvey relents. He and Joyce collaborate on a graphic novel called "Our Cancer Year" that transmutes suffering into salvation - and yields an unexpected dividend in the person of the illustrator's family-deprived daughter.
However short-lived it may be, this coda to the cancer scare, like Harvey's comic books and this remarkable film by Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini, reverberates so powerfully because it is both artistically apt and undeniably true to life.
==========
"American Splendor"
* * * * (out of four)
Rating: R (for language)
Running time: 1:40
Opens: today

Notes

MOVIE REVIEW; Critic Joe Williams; E-mail: ; Phone: 314-340-8344; ; See related story on Page F1: "Unable to leap tall buildings..."  

Graphic

 
PHOTO; (1) Color Photo - Paul Giamatti plays everyman Harvey Pekar in "American Splendor" -- when Pekar isn't playing himself.; (2) Color Photo - Paul Giamatti (seated) and Judah Friedlander play a shlub and a nerd, not your usual movie leads.
Classification


Language: English

Subject: CARTOONS & COMICS (91%); FILM (89%); DRAWING & ILLUSTRATION (88%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); ADMINISTRATIVE & CLERICAL WORKERS (73%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (71%)

Industry: CARTOONS & COMICS (91%); FILM (89%); DRAWING & ILLUSTRATION (88%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); BOOKSTORES (72%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (71%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (93%)

Load-Date: August 29, 2003


End of Document
