



The San Diego Union-Tribune
February 13, 2007 Tuesday


Copyright 2007 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: SPORTS; Pg. D-4
Length: 885 words
Byline: Tod Leonard, STAFF WRITER
Body


"Some people get vasectomies. I used to give them."
Those are the words of Conrad Dobler, the giant, mustachioed man considered to be the most fearsome, dirtiest player in professional football history.
Dobler, a Pro Bowl offensive lineman in the '70s, once chomped on the fingers of Minnesota's Doug Sutherland when Sutherland had the nerve to stick his hand into the facemask of a pit bull.
"So I bite one finger in my life, and I don't even chew on it," Dobler said in a 2000 interview with Esquire. "The legend grew from there. It's almost like I'm worse than Jeffrey Dahmer."
Life, though, humbles even the meanest and the toughest, and Dobler has had his share of misery in recent years. His wife, Joy, the mother of their six children, fell awkwardly out of a hammock on the Fourth of July in 2001, and she's been a quadriplegic ever since.
Humbling, too, is when a perfect stranger offers a helping hand. To the Doblers aid has come from "an angel," and wouldn't you know that he'd float in from the most mannered of sports, golf, where the only finger biting comes in the nervous chewing of nails.
Dobler never has met San Diegan Phil Mickelson, but he got a call a few years ago from Mickelson's attorney, Glenn Cohen, with an extraordinary offer. Mickelson had learned of Dobler's situation and wanted to pay for his daughter Holli's college education at Miami of Ohio.
The tough guy melted.
In an interview with Golf World columnist Bob Verdi, who first reported the story last week, Dobler said, "When Glenn told me what was going on, I asked him, 'Why is Phil doing this for a complete stranger?' Glenn's answer was, `Because he can.'
"I've never even talked to Phil to thank him, but he's made me a better person. I've become accustomed to saying 'I'm sorry' for some of the things I've done. But if I ever hit the lottery, my first impulse would be to give a bunch of it away. That's what he's all about. I have a feeling he does a lot of this sort of thing. But he doesn't even want to talk about it."
Asked about the Dobler situation after his victory Sunday in the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am, Mickelson declined to get into specifics, other than to say, "Well, it's fun. I don't feel very comfortable talking about too much of it. But I feel very fortunate to be in that position. I want to do all I can."
Mickelson surpassed $40 million in career earnings on Sunday, and he's made tens of millions more in endorsement deals. And with that money has come a desire to do something right for others. There are the very public displays, such as Mickelson's Birdies for the Brave program that provides support for Homes for Our Troops, and the San Diego Wal-Mart school-supplies giveaway each fall.
Then there are the random acts of kindness that don't get reported because Mickelson doesn't talk about them.
Behind the 18th green at Pebble Beach on Sunday, Amy Mickelson, Phil's wife, confided, "There are many times in our relationship where people have come up and thanked me for things he's done, and there are things sometimes I don't even know about. I am really proud of that. I think there are ways you can make change, like Birdies for the Brave, and you can do things to raise awareness. That's one side of philanthropy.
"But doing things just for people is something he's done ever since I've known him, things that have blown me away."
The most Conrad Dobler, 56, earned in one NFL season was $125,000 while playing for the Buffalo Bills. He and his wife own a business in Leawood, Kan., that supplies temporary medical help to hospitals, and when the accident happened they had to cut back their work while their own medical costs soared. The NFL and its billion-dollar industry was no help.
"Judging by our disability payments, we're America's safest industry," Dobler said. "The greeters at Wal-Mart are taken better care of. Pretty ironic that a guy from another sport does more for us than the sport I played 10 years."
Mickelson made due on his promise by providing $20,000 for Holli's first year of school, and she's a sophomore now. (Holli, by the way, still works as a waitress while pulling down a 3.8 GPA.) Joy Dobler said Mickelson has since raised the ante to $22,000 for this year and $24,000 for next to account for cost-of-living increases.
"If there's anything missing in his life, it's a set of wings. He's an angel," Joy told Golf World. "And if I can when I see him for the first time, I'm going to go up and give him a big hug. I have therapy five hours a day, seven days a week. I'm getting there. Parts of me that didn't move after the accident are moving again, sensations I didn't feel, I feel. I don't plan on being in this wheelchair forever."
The Doblers are looking forward to meeting Mickelson for the first time in May, when they'll attend the Memorial in Dublin, Ohio, at the golfer's invitation.
"I'd do anything for Phil," Dobler said. "If I could get up and down a ladder, I'd paint his house."
THIS WEEK ON TOUR
PGA: Nissan OpenThursday-Sunday, The Golf Channel/CBSRiviera Country Club, Pacific Palisades
LPGA: SBS Open at Turtle BayThursday-Saturday, The Golf ChannelTurtle Bay Resort (Palmer Course), Oahu, Hawaii
Champions: Outback Steakhouse Pro-AmFriday-Sunday, The Golf Channel/NBCTPC Tampa Bay, Lutz, Fla.
Tod Leonard: (619) 

Graphic

 
1 PIC; CAPTIONS: Phil Mickelson (above) has never met former NFL lineman Conrad Dobler, but Dobler and his wife call Mickelson "an angel."; PHOTOBY: Jed Jacobsohn / Getty Images
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: BIOG; INTERVIEW; 

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: PROFESSIONAL SPORTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (79%); GOLF (79%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); WRITERS (63%); PARALYSIS (53%); GOLF (%)

Industry: WRITERS (63%)

Person: PHIL MICKELSON (89%)

Geographic: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (58%)

Load-Date: February 15, 2007


End of Document
