



Tampa Bay Times
November 7, 2014 Friday
4 State / Suncoast Edition


Copyright  2014 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


Section: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A; YOUR LETTERS
Length: 886 words
Body


Fear, geography and Ebola - Nov. 5, commentary
It was great to see an article on Ebola that doesn't strike fear in everyone's mind. Indeed, it is a mysterious disease that we are not entirely sure how to treat, but we certainly know how to prevent it. It is important to educate the masses but not inundate them with conflicting stories so that they become complacent.
Stephen Buckley also did a fine job of explaining that Africa is not just one big country but a continent of 53 countries (47 on the mainland and six island nations). If something is happening in one country, that doesn't mean it is happening on the entire continent. The same applies to North America; it's important to recognize that.
Nila Patel, Tampa
* * *
Nightlife fuels nuisance - Nov. 2
Unwelcome intrusions
Objecting to loud music is not a generational issue. No one, regardless of age, wants someone else's choice of music intruding inside their living space.
The usual downtown noises of fire trucks, buses and car horns is indeed a part of living downtown. Few object to the occasional band in the park, but downtown commercial music venues are becoming more common and louder. It seems that only the venue owner gets to decide what is too loud or too often. Living downtown should not make residents subject to the whims of the owners of entertainment venues that may not have even existed when you moved in.
Current city administration seems to favor business over residents by demonstrating a hands-off attitude that if you live downtown, you have to put up with whatever a nearby commercial operation decides to do. What was subtle acoustic music may suddenly become full-volume rock at the sole discretion of the venue operator, and the heck with the neighbors.
City officials would be more sensitive to the noise issue if a music venue opened up near where they live and the music was plainly audible inside their homes.
The solution is not difficult: Make all the noise you want, but keep it inside the walls and ceiling of your establishment. What convoluted reasoning can justify your music invading my living space?
Bruce Mattern, St. Petersburg
* * *
The new 'silent majority' - Oct. 31, letter
Stop blaming, start working
I am tired of everybody blaming everyone else for the problems in this world. First is was George W. Bush's fault and now it is Congress' fault. The House passed more than 300 bills and sent them to the Senate, only to have Harry Reid sit on them. If President Barack Obama would get off the golf course and do his job, this country just might be in a little better shape.
Alan Chadwick, New Port Richey
* * *
Things are going well - Nov. 3, letter
Florida's needs unmet
Bragging about the budget surplus in Florida is not as great as the letter writer makes it seem. It's like saying my kids need shoes and jackets, but things are great because we have thousands of dollars in the bank. When all Floridians have health care, when no children die in child protective services, when no prisoners are killed at the hands of guards, then we can say things are going great.
Mary Sheppard, Riverview
* * *
Church can't veto aquarium - Nov. 3, editorial
Troublesome location
You don't have to be a Scientologist to oppose the demolition of City Hall for a tourist attraction. I am a citizen, taxpayer and lover of wildlife. As such, I am opposed to tearing down City Hall, on a prime piece of real estate owned by the citizens of Clearwater, so a tourist attraction can be built in its place.
I believe voters approved a new home for Winter the dolphin without considering the consequences of this scheme. Giving up City Hall and parking now used for the Capitol Theater, adding traffic (like Clearwater could get any worse) - all so animals can be confined for entertainment. There is something very fishy going on in Clearwater.
Marianne Morgan, Clearwater
* * *
On the run but not yet running
Nov. 2, Perspective
Frequent flier
I am amazed at how Sen. Marco Rubio can find the time to travel to Iowa, North Dakota, New Hampshire and South Carolina in just a few weeks.
How do these trips help Floridians, the people he was elected to serve? We all know the answer to that: They don't.
Ethan Perk, Palm Harbor
* * *
Agriculture
A climate game-changer
From being the largest climate problem, agriculture can become the largest climate solution.
As the recent documentary Cowspiracy shows, animal agriculture is the leading cause of deforestation, water consumption and pollution. It's a primary driver of rainforest destruction, species extinction, topsoil erosion and ocean dead zones, while contributing to world hunger and numerous health problems.
The 2006 U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization report showed that livestock contributes more to global warming (18 percent) than the entire transportation sector (13 percent).
If we really want to lessen our impact on climate change, the quickest way to do it is to cease the consumption of animals.
Karen Orr, Gainesville
* * *
Floridian magazine - Nov. 2
Excellent writing, photos
If the Times keeps running stories like "Girl Falls for the Teacher," "This Is Bill" and "The Vasectomy King," I will consider canceling my New Yorker subscription.
This is excellent writing and photography, not like the usual third-grade-level writing so often utilized in newspapers.
Thank you.
Jitka Hyniova, Brooksville
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: LETTER

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CITY LIFE (90%); EBOLA VIRUS DISEASE (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); NOISE POLLUTION (89%); MUSIC (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC OFFICIALS (75%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (67%); BUDGETS (50%)

Person: BARACK OBAMA (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); HARRY REID (50%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

Load-Date: November 7, 2014


End of Document
