



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
July 8, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition


Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
Section: SPORTS ; Pg. C10
Length: 656 words
Byline: From News Services
Dateline: CHARLESTON, S.C.
Body


Nobody, not even the die-hard fans, will be allowed to watch the Charleston Riverdogs' game against the Columbus Redstixx tonight. And that's just what the team wants.
The Riverdogs will continue their tradition of outlandish promotions when they padlock the gates and hold a party, with discounted food and beer, outside the ballpark in an attempt to set the record for the lowest attendance at a professional baseball game. They are calling it "Nobody Night."
There's a discrepancy over what the record for smallest crowd is, but team owner and promotional guru Mike Veeck believes nobody has ever had zero attendance.
That's the number radio play-by-play announcer Jim Lucas had in mind when he dreamed up "Nobody Night" at Veeck's promotional seminar last year.
Lucas says the attendance record is 12 people, who braved a rainstorm to see Chicago defeat Troy on Sept. 17, 1881.
Tonight, fans will be permitted into Joe Riley Stadium after the game is declared official, either in the middle of the fifth inning (if the home team is ahead) or after that inning if Charleston is tied or losing.
But before that, only the players, coaches, radio broadcasters, ballpark operations people and members of the media will be permitted inside.
"We've called the Hall of Fame and they said 'If it happens, and you play in front of no one, send us all the information and verification,'" Lucas said. "They didn't promise us anything, but they said, 'We'll look into it for you.'"
The idea has been called ridiculous. Veeck says that's the point.
He has a long history of outlandish promotions, including "Vasectomy Night" - canceled at the last minute - and "Tonya Harding Bat Day."
The stunts follow in the tradition of his late father, Bill Veeck. In 1951, while owning the St. Louis Browns (now the Baltimore Orioles), Veeck signed midget Eddie Gaedel and sent him to the plate for one appearance. Gaedel, who was 3 feet 7 and weighed 65 pounds, walked on four pitches and was replaced by pinch-runner Jim Delsing. The next day, Major League Baseball implemented a rule banning midgets.
Bill Veeck owned the Chicago White Sox in 1979, when the club had its infamous "Disco Demolition Night," in which fans burned disco records in the outfield of Comisky Park and started a riot that led to the team forfeiting a game.
Mike Veeck's mother has been in Charleston recently but, of course, she's not going to attend the game tonight.
"She lived with a fairly crazy guy for a lot of years," Veeck said. "She looked at me … and said 'Bill would've loved this. You spend your whole life figuring out ways to draw 'em in and now you're keeping 'em out.'"
Veeck said without the support of the community, the Class A affiliate of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays couldn't pull off an empty-stadium stunt.
The last hurdle was cooperation from the visiting RiverDogs.
Manager Buddy Biancalana, a former Kansas City Royals shortstop, signed off.
"It's very creative and something I'm sure will bring a lot of publicity to the club," Biancalana told The Post and Courier of Charleston. "It will be a little odd for the players to play in front of nobody and then it will be an adjustment once the fans come in. But it should be interesting."
"Nobody Night" comes after the team set an attendance record of 7,885 on July 4. "Even though it's so goofy and it's so out there, I think they have a capacity along with us now, after kind of a relationship that's been built, to kind of laugh and say 'Gosh, that's stupid' - which it is," Veeck said
During the first five innings, the game will proceed as usual and include contests between innings. Concession workers and ticket takers will be waiting for customers.
Lucas predicts "Nobody Night" will rank among the top five Veeck-inspired promotions. But Veeck won't be done with his gimmicks after tonight.
"We have one set up for later this season involving our bathrooms that we haven't announced yet," Lucas told the Post and Courier.
Classification


Language: English

Subject: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); PROFESSIONAL SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); COACHES & TRAINERS (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%)

Company: CHARLESTON RIVERDOGS  (93%); CHARLESTON RIVERDOGS  (93%)

Industry: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%)

Geographic: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (59%); MISSOURI, USA (89%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

Load-Date: July 8, 2002


End of Document
