



 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
July 19, 2005 Tuesday
Metro Edition


Copyright 2005 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: News;
Length: 452 words
Byline: MIKE TONER
Body


Once verging on extinction, the elephants of South Africa's Kruger National Park, now numbering 7,000, have made such a dramatic comeback --- and pose such a threat from overgrazing --- that some of them are getting vasectomies.
A big job? No one knows it better than Colorado State University veterinarian Dean Hendrickson, who has been working with South African authorities to perfect the world's first "snip in time" for male elephants, a form of pachyderm population control more humane than hunting.
The biggest challenge? "Elephants are really big --- a mature bull can weigh up to 10,000 pounds," says Hendrickson, who has done a dozen experimental vasectomies in the last year.
They're also really different. "What really makes it difficult is that their testicles are located inside the abdominal cavity, next to the kidneys.
"There's so much fat in there, it's sometimes hard to see what you're doing." Unlike medical doctors, Hendrickson --- chosen for the job because he once did a uterine biopsy on a white rhinoceros --- has little in the way of precedent to guide his work.
"The main research paper on the bulls' reproductive system was written in the late 1800s."
On the frontiers of veterinary science, nothing is easy.
First, a helicopter has to find a herd of elephants in the African bush and cull a prospective bull to be tranquilized, preferably not far from a road. Then a truck-mounted crane hurries to its side, rigs a harness and hoists the drugged animal --- all five tons of him --- to his feet.
Only then does the team of two anesthesiologists, three veterinary surgeons and two vet technicians set up their surgical tables and go to work. An hour and a couple of two-inch sections of the vas deferens later, the elephant is a ready for recovery, a bull no more.
Post-operative recovery, of course, is always an anxious time, especially when the patient weighs 10,000 pounds.
"We're only about 100 feet away, so we're always a little wary when the elephants come to," says Hendrickson. "But so far, they all just get up and go away. I don't know what we'd do if one came after us."
Because the operation is labor-intensive --- and proof of success requires waiting for the 22-month gestation period of the herd's females --- it may be awhile before anyone can tell whether vasectomies are the answers to South Africa's elephant population boom.
The sheer number of surgeries is a potential obstacle, too. Hendrickson says that in Kruger National Park alone, it would take thousands of vasectomies to make a dent in the elephant population --- and he's not looking to make it his life's work.
"Ideally, we would like to perfect the technique and then teach the South Africans how to do it themselves."
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); MAMMALS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL WORKERS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (67%)

Company: COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY   (58%);  COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY  (58%)

Organization: COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY   (58%);  COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY  (58%)

Industry: NATIONAL PARKS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); VETERINARY SERVICES (71%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (67%)

Geographic: COLORADO, USA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%)

Load-Date: July 19, 2005


End of Document
