



Tampa Bay Times
April 8, 2024 Monday


Copyright 2024 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Opinion
Length: 2161 words
Body


Only the first step

Getting ballot space for proposed amendments on abortion rights and recreational marijuana in Florida's November election was the easy part. Seeing that they pass and are implemented is the hard part. Republican legislators, Republican-appointed court justices and Republican governors have conspired to neuter past referenda on felon voting, school class size, medical marijuana, gerrymandering of political districts and environmental land acquisition. They have essentially thumbed their noses at the public. I believe it is foolish to vote in favor of recreational marijuana and abortion rights, then vote for a Republican legislator who supported abortion bans in the past or a judge or justice who tried to keep the measure off the ballot. Voters must support and vote for candidates who also support a woman's choice and recreational marijuana, not more candidates who will gut the results of the referenda.
Stephen Phillips,St. Petersburg
Stinking up the joint
What to know about the marijuana measure| April 7
I will vote against the legalization of marijuana in Florida because, no matter what anyone tells you, people will be smoking it on the beaches, sidewalks, at ballgames, etc. We live part of the year in Colorado, where marijuana has been legal for some time. I'm not morally opposed to it; I just hate the smoke, which is pervasive wherever there are public gatherings. Any laws against smoking in public places are never enforced. We have a magnificent music venue called Red Rocks located just outside of Denver. I have had to leave the last two concerts because the marijuana smoke was so thick you cannot see the stage. There are "no smoking" signs posted everywhere, but laws are not enforced. I can't believe people bring children to these concerts, but they do. I have smelled marijuana at Denver Broncos games, on the ski lifts, at music festivals - everywhere. No one dares to challenge people who do it; it's not politically correct. Ironically, if any of these marijuana smokers were to light up a tobacco product, they would get the serious stink eye. Apparently, second-hand marijuana smoke is acceptable. Don't let anyone tell you it can be contained; it won't be. Let's keep Florida smoke-free.
Margaret Bowles, Tampa
True wealth
"Transformational gift"| April 11
With their donation of $50 million, the Pagidipati family will create a permanent, lasting impact on our Tampa Bay community. The Pagidipati family made the donation to honor their parents, a retired Harvard-trained pediatric anesthesiologist and a retired pathologist, to coincide with their 50th wedding anniversary and the 50th anniversary of their emigration to the United States. This immigrant family helps define our nation. Immigrants, given the chance, much more often than not build our diversity, build our strength and make our community better in ways that former President Donald Trump and the Republicans who demonize immigrants will never do. The Pagidipati family showed what true wealth is.
Pat Ward,St. Petersburg
Won't fix it

Marley Price's hobby is shutting down short-term rentals. She believes it is a solution to our housing crisis. While her intentions seem honorable, her approach is problematic. It begins with the assumption that short-term rentals reduce housing availability in numbers that are significant enough to influence the market. The most significant influence on housing availability and affordability is a national housing shortage. Fallout from COVID, rate increases by the Fed, outdated zoning laws, public resistance from NIMBYs (the Not In My Backyard folks) and the growing prevalence of institutional investors together represent barriers to producing housing that far exceeds the influence of short-term rentals. Her efforts are a distraction rather than a path to solutions.
Michael Lehman,St, Petersburg
She is not 'mediocre'

I read Sunday's front-page story about Barbara Lee, an angel in human form, who has dedicated her life to bringing as much joy as possible to people in a terribly hopeless situation. Starting as a housekeeper at a psychiatric hospital, she was elevated to activities director when her compassion and dedication to the patients became evident. She has been there for 42 years.
The story is heartbreaking and heartwarming at the same time. It's sad that so many people suffer with mental illness to the point that they have to be institutionalized. The fact that this woman has dedicated her life to caring for them as if they were her own family is inspiring beyond words. She refers to herself as "mediocre." No way. Staff writer Lane DeGregory wrote a beautiful article about this woman and her remarkable dedication to humanity. It is a must-read for anyone looking for hope in an increasingly dismal world.
Susan Sumnick, Riverview
To the person
Trump declines to endorse a national ban on abortion | April 9
Former President Donald Trump wants the states to decide on the legality of abortion. It would leave it "to the people." How about leaving it to the person? The pregnant person. Will the state decide on my vasectomy?
Bruce LeBaron, St. Petersburg
A balance of rights

Rep. Anna Paulina Luna's advocacy for a policy that disregards exceptions for rape, incest or even the life of the mother reveals a dangerous willingness to sacrifice the autonomy all women deserve when making health care decisions at the altar of her own ideology. Her cowardice was on full display as she praised Florida's six-week abortion ban and evaded responsibility by declaring it a state issue. This isn't about states' rights; it's about women's rights. Health care should not depend on one's ZIP code.
As a lifelong Catholic, I agree that civil and religious rights must be balanced. No one, including the church, has the right to make decisions regarding women's health care, other than the woman making the decision. Clearly, Luna believes politicians belong in the middle of personal health decisions, which endanger the lives and well-being of women across Florida and the nation. The consequences of such extreme laws are dire. Doctors will leave Florida. Women may refrain from seeking medical help for pregnancy-related issues. Women will die.
Kerry Kriseman, St. Petersburg
The cat as Dad joke
Tampa cat stays on a roof | Editorial, April 6
Thank you for your editorial including "bright spots in our roundup from the Tampa Bay area." We love good news, too! For decades, the iconic "Tampa's rooftop cat" has been a visual Dad joke for me and my eight children. When they were young, whenever we passed by there, which was often, I would declare, "Oh my, that poor cat is stuck up there on that steep roof!" After the first few shocks, my kids would correct me by saying, "Dad, that's not a real cat!" Thank God that adorable cat will continue defying the odds, living many more lives than the nine it was initially born with!
Dale Kimball, Wesley Chapel
What I see as an OB-GYN
Here's what local lawmakers are saying about 6-week abortion ban| April 9
I have been a board-certified OB-GYN in South Florida for more than 25 years. I have taken care of hundreds of patients throughout my career, every one of them unique. I never thought I would write a letter to the editor to remind my fellow Floridians of the status of women's health care in Florida and the stakes of the coming election cycle. The Florida Supreme Court upheld a dangerous six-week abortion ban that will ban abortions before many women even know they are pregnant. That is way too early to determine most fetal malformations. Under the current laws, we have no provisions for patients that are victims of rape, unless they go to court, a costly and retraumatizing experience. Doctors are being placed in difficult situations, sending patients home who have ruptured membranes at a gestational age that the fetus cannot survive. We are trained to do the best for our patients and avoid them getting life-threatening infections and/or hemorrhages. Since the passing of the new restrictions, we now must wait for our patients to get "sick enough" to justify treatment. As Floridians, we have a duty to stand up for our rights and access to health care. We have an opportunity to correct the damage from the abortion ban and restore women's rights to decide for themselves what is best for them and their families.
Cecilia Grande,South Miami
Save the trees
Residents irate after Duke Energy cuts down trees| April 7
I don't think that Duke Energy shows respect for the trees in Pinellas County yards. I lived in Harbor Bluffs, a community known for its beautiful century-old live oaks. A crew of tree trimmers would show up in my back yard, throw their ropes over the branches and fire up the chainsaws. If I was fortunate enough to be home, I would ask the foreman to trim only the branches hanging over the easement. If the homeowners were away, they would return to find a once glorious tree hacked through its middle. I am disgusted and sad to see the damage the company has done to the trees in Clearwater, but not surprised. Chopping down the shade canopy these trees provide in case we have a hurricane is like pulling all of your teeth in case you might, someday, get a cavity. There has got to be a better solution than this.
Christine Vaughn,Tampa
For all fans
Packers-Eagles to meet in Brazil| April 11
As Dana Carvey's character, the Church Lady, used to say on "Saturday Night Live": "Isn't that special?" The NFL, worth a gazillion dollars, is holding the 2024 season opener, the Philadelphia Eagles vs. the Green Bay Packers, in Sao Paulo, Brazil, on Sept. 6, but will broadcast it, freely, only to the Philadelphia and Green Bay markets. Otherwise, you have to have Peacock to watch. The NFL should care more about alloftheir fans. It's not "special"; it just sucks.
David Lubin, Tampa
Drinking in moderation
Alcohol Awareness Month
April is Alcohol Awareness Month, a time to think about your alcohol consumption to ensure you are enjoying alcohol responsibly and in moderation. According to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, this means limiting alcohol to two drinks or less a day for men and one drink or less for women.
While any alcohol abuse is too much, the good news is federal data indicates harmful drinking in the U.S. is declining. The National Survey on Drug Use and Health shows binge drinking among adults ages 21 and over decreased 11% from 2018 to 2022, and 9 out of 10 (89%) say they drink the same amount or less than they did pre-pandemic.
Adults who choose to drink should commit to mindful drinking year-round. There are some people who should not drink alcohol at all, and talking with health care providers can help determine what is best, based on individual factors and family history.
Amanda Berger,Washington, D.C.
The writer is vice president, science and health, of the Distilled Spirits Council.
Transactional agents
Real estate suits upend policies on commissions| March 16
Recently, the National Association of Realtors agreed to eliminate the policy of sellers paying commissions to both the buyer's and seller's agents, following a lawsuit brought by a group of sellers highlighting the unfairness of this practice. The association also agreed to pay $418 million in damages to plaintiffs nationwide. The lawsuit, originating in Missouri, alleged that the National Association of Realtors and several major brokerages engaged in a price-fixing scheme that inflated agents' commissions, thereby increasing closing costs for real estate transactions.
Traditionally, the roles of a buyer's agent and a seller's agent were clear-cut, with the buyer's agent advocating for the lowest price and the seller's agent aiming for the highest price, typically compensated by the seller. However, changes in real estate agency law introduced a new brokerage relationship known as the "transactional agent." In this capacity, the agent serves as a facilitator for the transaction, not as a client advocate for either party.
Today, many agents working with buyers operate as transactional agents, meaning they do not owe fiduciary duties of loyalty, confidentiality and full disclosure to the buyer. This distinction can lead to misconceptions among the public, as buyers may mistakenly believe their transactional agent provides the same level of expert advice and advocacy as a traditional agent.
The recent settlement signals a shift toward buyers and sellers each being represented by their own agents and compensated accordingly, mirroring the compensation structure of attorneys. This change could potentially phase out the role of the transactional Realtor.
Thomas E. Feaster,Tampa

Graphic

 

Gov. Ron DeSantis arrives at a news conference at The Urban Stillhouse in St. Petersburg on Wednesday. Earlier this month, he said voters would reject both Amendment 3 to legalize recreational marijuana and Amendment 4 to protect access to abortion, saying, "Once voters figure out how radical both of those are, they're going to fail. They are very, very extreme."

A 2-foot-long ceramic cat remains attached to the roof of the Guinn Center on March 29 at 6900 N. Nebraska Ave in Tampa. The building was the Adams & Jennings Funeral Home before being sold and will retain the iconic cat that's been on the roof for 70 years.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: ABORTION (99%); MARIJUANA (94%); REFERENDUMS (94%); ABORTION LAWS (92%); ABORTION RIGHTS (92%); REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS (92%); RECREATIONAL DRUGS (91%); ABORTION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CANNABIS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SMOKING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SMOKING BANS (88%); CONCERTS & MUSIC FESTIVALS (86%); BALLOTS (78%); MARIJUANA REGULATION & POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (77%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY & FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); NEGATIVE NEWS (76%); LAND USE & DEVELOPMENT (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (72%); ELECTORAL REDISTRICTING (72%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (72%); MEDICATION IN SCHOOLS (72%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (71%); FELONIES (71%); PATHOLOGY (71%); POLITICAL CORRECTNESS (70%); FESTIVALS (69%); MUSIC (69%); TRENDS & EVENTS (69%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (64%); SKIING (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); EMIGRATION (60%); IMMIGRATION, CITIZENSHIP & DISPLACEMENT (60%)

Industry: MARIJUANA (94%); ABORTION LAWS (92%); ABORTION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CANNABIS (90%); SMOKING BANS (88%); CONCERTS & MUSIC FESTIVALS (86%); MARIJUANA REGULATION & POLICY (78%); PUBLISHING (73%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (72%); PATHOLOGY (71%); FESTIVALS (69%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (64%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: April 12, 2024


End of Document
