



St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
September 21, 2000, Thursday


Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
Section: LARGO TIMES; Pg. 1
Length: 688 words
Byline: SHARON TUBBS
Body


County commissioners approve increases in a variety of fees, including those for nuptials at Heritage Village, camping in peak season at Fort De Soto Park, and permits for clairvoyants.
Come Oct. 1, the cost of camping overnight at Fort De Soto Park, applying for a fortuneteller permit or getting a chest X-ray at the county health department will go up.
Pinellas County commissioners voted this week to change county fees for a wide range of services, permits and rental facilities. Some fees rose significantly.
COMMISH21
At Heritage Village, for example, it will cost four times more to rent the bandstand and church for a wedding. The cost will rise from $ 25 to $ 100. About 50 weddings were held at Heritage Village last year, said Peggy Lighthiser, administrative support specialist for the village.
Heritage Village staffers sometimes set up chairs for the weddings and remain on-site to help organizers if need be, Lighthiser said. "It's kind of a fee to take care of maintenance and wear and tear on the building," she said.
Rental for the Rose Garden, on the grounds of the Florida Botanical Gardens, will also be $ 100, a new fee.
Four commissioners voted unanimously in favor of the changes during a meeting Tuesday. Commissioner Karen Seel did not attend the meeting. Officials said they changed the fees, increasing some and decreasing others, to keep up with the times, rather than to make money. Some of the charges had not been updated for decades.
"In this day and age, some of those fees were way out of whack," Commissioner Calvin Harris said.
The fee changes are expected to generate $ 329,760 for the county, but the increases won't be enough to cover actual expenses associated with providing services to the public, commissioners said. Commissioner Bob Stewart noted that the new revenue is a pittance in the county's $ 1.5-billion budget.
As for clairvoyants looking to get permits, there will be a $ 100 application fee and a $ 25 fee for background checks. Commissioners recently decided that fortunetellers and people of similar occupations will fall under the county's Consumer Protection Department, Stewart said. The fees will go toward investigative and administrative labor costs associated with overseeing the businesses, he said.
At Fort De Soto Park, nightly campground fees will be based on a tier system, with the highest fees during the peak January through July season. During those months, the base rental rate will be $ 30 a night. From August through December, the rate is $ 21. Currently, the county charges $ 20.90 nightly year-round.
The county surveyed private and public campgrounds across the state before discussing rate changes, Park Supervisor Bob Browning said. Across the board, campgrounds are charging higher rates during the peak season, he said. The fee pays for water, electricity and the use of a picnic table and barbecue grill. About 160,000 registered campers use Fort De Soto each year, Browning said.
The county also increased costs for various fees associated with permits in the building and the public works departments. Other fees, for $ 3 public works maps needed by contractors, for example, were eliminated. Revenue from some of the eliminated fees will be recouped through permit fees that those contractors have to pay, Harris said.
At the Pinellas County Health Department, a $ 10 fee for a hepatitis screening was created and clinical fees for chest X-rays were upped from $ 26.25 to $ 40 to offset increases in the cost of the procedure, according to a county memo. Some other fees, such as those related to a vasectomy, for instance, will decrease from $ 325 to $ 295, because the cost of the service has decreased.
Other fee changes were matters of procedure.
Although Pinellas County Animal Services has been providing free spay and neuter services to low-income pet owners for years, the service was never completely spelled out in the price schedule, said Greg Andrews, operations manager for Animal Services. Since the commissioners' vote, that free service will be made clear.
"The need is to control animal population, overpopulation, actually," Andrews said.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: CAMPING (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (89%); PARANORMAL PHENOMENA (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE & CLERICAL WORKERS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); RADIOLOGY (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (62%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (57%); CONSUMER LAW (50%)

Industry: RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); RADIOLOGY (72%); BUDGETS (69%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITIES (63%)

Geographic: FLORIDA, USA (79%)

Load-Date: September 21, 2000


End of Document
