



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
November 28, 2014 Friday
ONLINE EDITION


Copyright 2014 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: GO!; Pg. G18
Length: 979 words
Byline:  By Amanda St. Amand , ,  314-340-8201 
Body


How long has it been since Garth Brooks sang in St. Louis?
Well, let's climb into our time machine and go back to 1996 - when the country superstar sold out three shows - and see for ourselves.
It was Oct. 10, 1996, when he gave the first of three sold-out concerts at Kiel Center. That's right, the venue where he will perform four shows next month is now Scottrade Center. He missed the Savvis Center era entirely.
And in the 18 years since Brooks last visited, fans found a new way to show their love. The Post-Dispatch review of his first 1996 show included this line:
"Mixed into the high-octane stew were sentimental slow numbers like ‘Unanswered Prayers' that inspired thousands of flicked Bics throughout the adoring crowd."
For those of you who wonder, "What's a Bic?," your smartphone's flashlight can mimic one; it just can't light a cigarette.
Back in '96, the CMA entertainer of the year award went to Brooks - not Garth, but Brooks & Dunn - a duo that broke up in 2010. (Garth was a finalist, though.)
The top female singer that year was Patty Loveless, although the next two years (1997 and '98) would go to the future Mrs. Garth Brooks - Trisha Yearwood.
In the world of news, a Clinton in the White House. The average price of a gallon of gasoline was $1.23. The Yankees were the best team in baseball. Taylor Swift was 6 years old. And Tim McGraw and Faith Hill had just gotten married. Ho hum.
And five years after Brooks' sold-out St. Louis shows, he would stop touring entirely. He took a hiatus from 2001 until 2009, citing conflicts with career and family. He and his first wife, Sandy, separated in 1999 and filed for divorce the following year.
Brooks is back on tour, and he makes his return to St. Louis for four nights of shows at Scottrade Center, Dec. 4-7, with Yearwood. All four shows are sold out.
But it's not just for Garth that things have changed in his 18-year absence.
Some of Brooks' biggest fans shared their stories of then, and now.
‘I LOVE GARTH'
How badly did Hank Lamlech want to get good tickets to see Brooks back in 1996?
Bad enough that he let a barber shave "I love Garth" into the back of his head, then jumped on a pogo stick while people pelted him with water balloons, all to win tickets in a radio contest. He was 20.
And yet Lamlech, a Fox High School grad now living in Overland Park, Kan., didn't win.
He still got to see the show, but his tickets were in the nosebleed section. To make matters worse, the girlfriend with whom he had recently split had tickets - in the 10th row.
"She had gotten tickets on her own," he says. "I was jealous."
Now a father of two young children himself, Lamlech says he tried to get tickets for one of the St. Louis shows but waited too long. He still listens to Brooks' music, and his daughter, 2, likes a little Garth before she goes to sleep.
Chasing fame
Here's another blast from the past: Diane Smith spent hours waiting in line at a Schnucks for a long shot at tickets.
Smith, now an office manager who lives in Collinsville, remembered getting in line for tickets and being deep in the pack at a Schnucks store.
"I thought I didn't have a chance in heck, and then news made it that he'd opened up a second day," she says. "We got a little closer, then we hear a third day is opened."
Smith and her friends got tickets. Not great tickets, but they were inside the building.
She and her three friends went to Brooks' final show and scooted out before the last song, hopped in a Dodge Neon and followed his tour bus.
"It went down to the Landing, maneuvering in and out, and we are blowing through stop signs and stop lights to keep it in sight," she says.
They followed the bus all the way to the casino in St. Charles, where Smith went up, knocked on the door and told the driver - truthfully - a taillight was out.
"We asked if Garth was on the bus, and the driver told us it was Garth's mom's bus."
Brooks' mom liked to visit casinos on tour, and the bus was ferrying her, plus all the gifts thrown to Brooks onstage.
The driver, named Curly, wound up giving the girls autographed photos of Brooks for their trouble.
Smith is still a big Garth Brooks fan and saw him when he hit Kansas City to open a new arena.
But a St. Louis show this time is out. "I don't have a ticket budget for it now," she says.
Country alarm
Thomas Sommers got force-fed country music during his undergraduate years at Rice University in Houston.
In the room he shared, his California roommate tuned his clock radio to country music to make sure he'd get up for an 8 a.m. class.
"He slept through a lot of 8 o'clock classes, and we had an opportunity to sample the music," Sommers says.
So when Sommers came back to St. Louis to continue his education in the mid-1990s, he brought with him an affinity for Garth Brooks and other country music.
He dragged groups of people from school out to country music clubs across St. Louis.
"They were a bunch of East and West Coast students who already had a chip on their shoulder about being in fly-over country, and having them like it was a lot of fun," he says.
Even Sommers was surprised by how big of a production the 1996 Brooks concert was.
"He was running all over the stage - it was multilevels," he says. "It wasn't what I expected at all. I was surprised by how entertaining it all was."
Eighteen years later, Sommers is long-finished with that education. He's married, the father of six and a family practice physician specializing in vasectomy reversals.
Will he be back for one of Brooks' December shows?
"We're thinking about going, but we have six kids," he says, laughing.
If Sommers doesn't make it, maybe he'll get out his guitar and play a Garth song or two.
"His are some of the few songs I know," he says.
---
What Garth Brooks with Trisha Yearwood • When 7:30 p.m. Thursday; 7 p.m. Dec. 5-7 • Where Scottrade Center, 1401 Clark Avenue • How much Sold out • More info Ticketmaster.com

Graphic

 
 Garth Brooks performs at the 2014 ASCAP Centennial Awards, benefiting the ASCAP Foundation and its music education, talent development and humanitarian activities, at the Waldorf-Astoria on Monday, Nov. 17, 2014, in New York. (Photo by Stephen Chernin/Invision/AP)  Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood attend the 2014 ASCAP Centennial Awards, benefiting the ASCAP Foundation and its music education, talent development and humanitarian activities, at the Waldorf-Astoria on Monday, Nov. 17, 2014, in New York. (Photo by Stephen Chernin/Invision/AP)  Trisha Yearwood and husband Garth Brooks attend the 2014 ASCAP Centennial Awards, benefiting the ASCAP Foundation and its music education, talent development and humanitarian activities, at the Waldorf-Astoria on Monday, Nov. 17, 2014, in New York. (Photo by Stephen Chernin/Invision/AP)  Garth Brooks performs at the 2014 ASCAP Centennial Awards, benefiting the ASCAP Foundation and its music education, talent development and humanitarian activities, at the Waldorf-Astoria on Monday, Nov. 17, 2014, in New York. (Photo by Stephen Chernin/Invision/AP)  Trisha Yearwood, left, and Garth Brooks arrive at the 48th annual CMA Awards at the Bridgestone Arena on Wednesday, Nov. 5, 2014, in Nashville, Tenn. (Photo by Evan Agostini/Invision/AP)  Garth Brooks in a 1997 file photo  In this photo provided by NBC, musical guest Garth Brooks performs during Jay Leno's final episode of "The Tonight Show," Thursday, Feb. 6, 2014, in Burbank, Calif. (AP Photo/NBC, Stacie McChesney)  FILE - This April 7, 2013 file photo shows Garth Brooks performing at the 48th Annual Academy of Country Music Awards in Las Vegas, Nev. Brooks will perform a rare live broadcast concert special from the Encore Theater at the Wynn Las Vegas on Friday, Nov. 29. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP, File)  FILE - In this Nov. 7, 2001 file photo, Garth Brooks, left, and George Jones, center, perform their duet "Beer Run" at the Country Music Association Awards show in Nashville, Tenn. The fiddle player at right is unidentified. Jones, the peerless, hard-living country singer who recorded dozens of hits about good times and regrets and peaked with the heartbreaking classic "He Stopped Loving Her Today," has died. He was 81. Jones died Friday, April 26, 2013 at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville after being hospitalized with fever and irregular blood pressure, according to his publicist Kirt Webster.(AP Photo/M. Spencer Green, file) 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CELEBRITIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); CONCERTS & MUSIC FESTIVALS (77%); PRICES (72%); BASEBALL (70%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (61%); garth brooks (%); trisha yearwood (%); diane smith (%); thomas sommers (%); amanda st. amand (%); #cp (%); #ecp (%); hank lemlech (%); scottrade center (%); kiel center (%); savvis center (%)

Organization: COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (59%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (59%)

Industry: CELEBRITIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); CONCERTS & MUSIC FESTIVALS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

Person: GARTH BROOKS (93%); TIM MCGRAW (56%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (89%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); KANSAS, USA (78%)

Load-Date: November 28, 2014


End of Document
