



The New York Times
July 12, 2015 Sunday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
Section: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7
Length: 1178 words
Byline: By BRUCE FRETTS
Body


Jim Gaffigan was tired, and for good reason. ''This is a picture I took at 3:30 this morning,'' he said as he slumped across a couch during a break in filming his new TV Land show on a soundstage near Madison Square Garden. He pushed his phone forward and showed a picture of himself and his wife, Jeannie, in bed, trying to sleep, despite having three of their five young children draped all over them. The seven Gaffigans share a two-bedroom apartment on the Lower East Side. It's a scenario tailor-made for a sitcom.
So Mr. Gaffigan made it into a sitcom. 
  ''The Jim Gaffigan Show,'' which debuts Wednesday, stars Mr. Gaffigan, 49, as a lightly fictionalized version of himself -- a stand-up comedian who lives with his wife, Jeannie (Ashley Williams), and their five kids in a two-bedroom Manhattan apartment. It is the culmination of a 16-year quest to develop a TV show that could accurately represent his wry, self-deprecating voice. It's a voice that has made him a hit on the comedy circuit, wildly popular on Twitter (2.4 million followers) and the best-selling writer of two essay collections -- ''Dad Is Fat'' and ''Food: A Love Story,'' both co-written by Ms. Gaffigan. 
  Raised alongside five siblings, this Indiana-born comic moved to New York in 1990 to pursue a career in advertising before his stand-up career took off. His schlubby dad persona and fondness for gags about food -- his most celebrated routines deal with bacon and Hot Pockets (''You can have a Hot Pocket for breakfast, a Hot Pocket for lunch and be dead by dinner.'') -- quickly made him an Everyman favorite. 
  ''Jeannie and I call it 'the smart dumb guy,' '' Mr. Gaffigan said of his alter ego. ''There's nothing funnier than someone who's very wrong but confident they're right.''
  The dumbness, of course, is all an act. ''The real Jim Gaffigan is probably 20 to 30 I.Q. points higher than the TV Jim Gaffigan,'' said Michael Ian Black, a longtime friend who plays Jeannie's gay ex-boyfriend on the show. ''He likes to pretend he's the big dumb guy, but he's not. He's the big smart guy.''
  After an appearance on ''Late Show With David Letterman'' in 1999, Mr. Gaffigan was signed to a development deal by Mr. Letterman's Worldwide Pants production company. The result was ''Welcome to New York,'' a CBS sitcom about a Hoosier weatherman who becomes a fish out of water in Manhattan. The show seemed to reflect Mr. Letterman's life story more than Mr. Gaffigan's, and it was canceled in early 2001 after a single low-rated season.
  ''The big problem was that I was playing a character named Jim Gaffigan, and I was not allowed to write any of Jim Gaffigan's lines,'' he explained. ''I remember thinking, 'Why isn't this fun?' '' Ms. Gaffigan added in a telephone interview, ''Sometimes it's like a game of telephone when you're working on a show with a lot of writers translating your material.''
  He went on to play supporting roles on Ellen DeGeneres's short-lived 2001 sitcom, ''The Ellen Show'' (also on CBS, also canceled midseason), and the TBS ensemble comedy ''My Boys,'' which he left after three seasons because he felt his voice was being stifled. ''Having only one or two lines an episode made me appreciate it's not about the paycheck,'' he said. ''It's about having creative fulfillment.'' More specifically, it was about owning the voice completely, and to do that, he needed to develop his own vehicle. ''When we started the journey of this show, the objective was to retain some control,'' he said.
  To that end, he and his wife came up with an idea for a sitcom based on their lives and took it out into the world. Over the past five years, it went through multiple incarnations. ''At one point, it was going to be an animated show,'' Ms. Gaffigan said. ''Then it was almost a reality show.'' Then it was a script for an NBC pilot. Then it was a CBS pilot, with the Oscar winner Mira Sorvino as Jeannie. ''She's a great lady,'' Mr. Gaffigan said. ''But the chemistry was strange.''
  The CBS pilot was recast, with Ms. Williams, Mr. Black and Adam Goldberg (''Fargo'') as Jim's best friend and fellow stand-up comedian. Despite the success on CBS of multicamera series like ''The Big Bang Theory,'' the Gaffigans insisted on sticking with the single-camera, no-laugh-track format. CBS passed.
  The Gaffigans shopped the pilot to other outlets, including Netflix, before landing in an unlikely spot: TV Land. The cable channel, best known for reruns and nostalgia pieces like ''Hot in Cleveland,'' was looking to cultivate a hipper image. (''Hipper'' being a relative term, given that the show is about middle-aged parents and their gaggle of children.) ''The show fits perfectly into our reinvention,'' said Keith Cox, the network's head of original programming. ''We want to start telling more contemporary, sophisticated stories.''
  Mr. Gaffigan wasn't sold initially. ''I said, 'I'd rather not be a guinea pig,' '' he recalled. When Viacom, which owns TV Land, promised to give him the creative control he had long been in search of and offered to re-air episodes within a week on another of its networks, Comedy Central -- where Mr. Gaffigan's stand-up specials have scored high ratings -- he came on board. 
  One wouldn't necessarily expect a single series to please both fans of Betty White and ''South Park,'' but the fact that ''The Jim Gaffigan Show'' will appear on TV Land and Comedy Central is testament to its star's broad-ranging appeal. ''Jim bridges two worlds,'' Mr. Black said. ''He's comfort food, but at the same time he's not afraid to move into edgier territory.'' To wit, the revamped pilot revolves around whether Mr. Gaffigan will get a vasectomy. 
  The notion of a self-titled half-hour comedy starring a comic raising kids in New York City may sound similar to Louis C.K.'s ''Louie,'' but the sitcoms are as different as their respective stars' stand-up acts. ''Jim's a clean comedian,'' Ms. Williams said. ''People can watch our show as a family. I tend to watch 'Louie' in the middle of the night when I'm eating pizza and a little bit drunk.''
  Food, a theme of both his hit books, will continue to be a staple on Mr. Gaffigan's sitcom, which has filmed in such famed Manhattan restaurants as Katz's Delicatessen and Smith & Wollensky steakhouse. He is learning the hard way that there's a downside to eating constantly on camera. ''I love pastrami, but you should eat pastrami twice a year,'' he said. Downing six sandwiches in a row for a scene at Katz's, ''the pastrami turned into leather. Eating a cold pastrami sandwich is a really difficult process.''
  Oh, and another thing: ''I'm getting really fat,'' he moaned. ''It's not like I'm ever going to get a modeling career going, but I used to be in really good shape.''
  That's only one of many semi-facetious complaints Mr. Gaffigan has with his round-the-clock job as star and executive producer of his own show. ''This is way too hard,'' he said. ''It's exhausting. I have five kids. But I also think the worst sin is to have an opportunity and not take advantage of it.''



Graphic

 
PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: Jim Gaffigan with the actors who play his children on ''The Jim Gaffigan Show''
with Eartha Kitt on the sitcom ''Welcome to New York'' in 2000
and with his wife, Jeannie, on the set of his new show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TV LAND
 ERIC LIEBOWITZ/CBS)        
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (78%); SELFIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); WRITERS (70%)

Company:  WORLDWIDE PANTS INC (50%)

Industry: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (50%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SELFIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (72%); WRITERS (70%)

Person: DAVID LETTERMAN (57%)

Geographic: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (90%)

Load-Date: July 12, 2015


End of Document
