



The San Diego Union-Tribune
December 8, 2000, Friday


Copyright 2000 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: SPORTS;Pg. D-2; INTERVIEW.
Length: 677 words
Byline: Don Norcross; STAFF WRITER
Body

Her quest to battle the Ironman Triathlon World Championship a second time complete, Vickie Alexander has begun tending to those items she selfishly put on hold for the sake of training.
Those shaggy trees have been trimmed.  The temperamental dishwasher has been replaced.  She has rearranged furniture, purchased a new TV and moved the exercise equipment to a bigger room.
A fellow triathlete, Mike Leone has reacquainted himself with surfing after a 20-year absence.  An attorney, Leone is spending more hours burying his nose in those thick law books.
Said Leone, who lives in Carmel Valley: "My partners are happy to see me back in the wintertime."
For triathletes, November and December represent the offseason.  Time to rest.  Time to introduce themselves to loved ones.  Time to heal.
Roch Frey, husband of 1997 Ironman Hawaii champion Heather Fuhr and one of the sport's most respected coaches, says more triathletes are training smarter by taking a break from the sport, thereby letting their bodies recover, then gradually resuming training.
In a sport where many of the participants illustrate obsessive-compulsive characteristics, letting go can be difficult.
"Left to my own devices, I wouldn't stop," Leone said.  "That's the biggest reason I hired Roch as my coach.  I needed someone to tell me to stop and feel good about it."
There are a number of reasons why endurance athletes like runners, cyclists and triathletes find it difficult to pause and catch their breath.  Such as:
[] They're afraid they'll fall out of shape.
[] They're afraid their rivals might keep training and become faster;
[] And, perhaps most common of all, they're addicted to exercise.
"It's a drug," Frey said.  "You get that runner's high.  Take away training and people get a little grumpy.  An alcoholic has to dry out every once in a while and so does an athlete."
Some of triathlon's most successful athletes had the self-confidence to back off.  Mark Allen surfed regularly in the offseason and won Ironman Hawaii six times.  Olympic silver medalist Michellie Jones is known for emphasizing quality over quantity.  Frey's star student, Peter Reid, notched his second win in three years at Hawaii this past October.
There are signs that indicate when an athlete has overtrained.
Physiologically, their resting heart rate will be higher than normal.  Workout times will be slower for an extended period of time.  They'll be constantly fatigued, moody, lose sleep or lose their appetite.
Del Mar's Scott Tinley, a two-time Ironman Hawaii champion, admits he was the poster child for overtraining.  In one 13-month period beginning in early 1990, Tinley raced five Ironman-distance events, plus two other races lasting 6-7 hours.
"That was sort of the beginning of the end," Tinley said.
Tinley, 44, said it took three years of cutting back on his training before his body stopped feeling listless.  Cut from his high school football, basketball and baseball teams, Tinley admits triathlon fulfilled his inner hunger to be accepted as an athlete.
"I did what I did at the time for reasons that were important to me then," said Tinley, an accomplished writer.  "I'm not living with regrets or guilty in any form.  But in hindsight, it wasn't smart."
Burying himself in training, in a sense, was an escape for Tinley.
"I loved the lifestyle," said Tinley.  "Subconsciously, I knew the alternative was quitting and dealing with everything I didn't want to deal with (like a postathletic athletic career), which was going to be traumatic."
Today, Tinley says he trains about 25 percent as much as he did at his peak and that his performance has dropped just 10 percent.
Age-group athletes, it seems, are as susceptible to overtraining as professionals.
Dr. Mark Bracker, a clinical professor and the director of sports medicine at UCSD, recalls a distance runner who underwent a vasectomy on Friday.  Bracker told the gentleman to rest for two weeks before exerting himself.
Two days later, the man ran a half-marathon.
"It was not a pretty sight," said Bracker.  "We're talking a pathological runner."

Graphic

 
1 PIC; Charlie Neuman / Union-Tribune; Catching morning waves in Del Mar is part of triathlete Mike Leone's rest and relaxation in the offseason.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: RUNNING (98%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TRIATHLONS (90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (79%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (76%); OLYMPICS (74%); SPORTING GOODS (74%); CYCLING (73%)

Company: DEL MAR AVIONICS  (51%); DEL MAR AVIONICS  (51%)

Industry: SPORTING GOODS (74%)

Geographic: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (90%)

Load-Date: December 10, 2000


End of Document
