



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
November 14, 2010 Sunday
FOURTH EDITION


Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: HOME & AWAY; Pg. H6
Length: 631 words
Byline: by aisha sultan • , ,  > 314-340-8300
Dateline: 0 
Body


It was nearly 3 a.m. when Amanda Ozersky woke up her husband, Philip, and insisted they drive to the nearest Walgreens.
"Really?" he said. "Can't this wait until the morning?"
The 37-year-old mother of two had a gut feeling they needed a pregnancy test even though Philip had gotten a vasectomy a month earlier.
They went to the store, and Amanda bought two tests. She had been feeling run-down, exhausted and nauseous, but she had pushed the possibility of a third baby out of her head.
It's just not possible, she reasoned. She had been trying to persuade Philip for months to take what she considered a permanent step in birth control. When he agreed, she called the doctor and made his appointment. She drove him to the doctor's office.
They have two daughters, ages 5 and 7, whom they adore. Amanda is one of two children herself. Her parents ingrained the idea of no more than two in her. When she was a little girl and imagined her life as a grown-up, it never included more than a couple of children. In fact, after Philip's procedure, she had finally given into her daughters' long-standing wish for kittens and added two to their Ballwin home. They weren't going to be having any more children, she figured. Might as well get the children the cats they've always wanted.
The first test she tried immediately showed a plus sign.
"Is this really happening?" she wondered.
She waited a week and took the second test.
Positive again. She couldn't stay in denial anymore.
This meditative, centered yoga instructor admits: "I got really angry." Why did she have to go through this again? She was grateful for the life they had. Her husband had no problems envisioning a third child, and he soon bought a crib and baby furniture. (He was unfazed and likely secretly thrilled, she figured.) Amanda had so effectively brainwashed her daughters against wanting another sibling that they cried when she broke the news.
"I don't want a screaming baby," the youngest said.
It wasn't until Amanda sprained an ankle and found herself on bed rest, that she realized how confused, alone and sad she felt.
"I got depressed for a few weeks," she said. She needed time to wrap her mind around this new reality.
"I did some serious thinking ... I asked myself how do I give myself value and meaning in life," she said.
Like every other form of birth control, there is a failure rate with vasectomies, albeit much lower. But in the Ozerskys' case, they were already unknowingly four weeks pregnant when Philip went in for the procedure. They had chanced it a last time before the surgery.
Amanda forced herself to confront what that reckless moment meant: At some level, she figures she wanted to see what God had planned for them before they closed that door for good.
"I make it part of my practice to look at myself and be honest with myself," she said. During her weeks of healing, she told herself: "You were the one who wanted this. You knew." And, once she confronted her fears and her own culpability in her situation, Amanda made peace with it.
"I know, that as soon as this baby comes, we won't be able to imagine our lives without it," she said. "I know that whatever is happening is meant to be. This is what I was meant to do right now."
Her daughters have gotten used to the idea and are excited, she said.
It's not the first time her husband has faced life-changing odds.
On Sept. 27, 1998, he was the research analyst who retrieved Mark McGwire's 70th home run ball.
The moment changed their lives. Three months later, they auctioned the ball for $3 million.
"Catching the ball felt like it was directly out of God's hands into our hands," Amanda said.
And in May they will be new parents for the third time - intentions and medical interventions notwithstanding - much like they figure they were meant to be.

Notes

 REAL PARENTING 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: COLUMN

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); YOGA (62%)

Industry: PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (68%)

Geographic: MISSOURI, USA (89%)

Load-Date: November 17, 2010


End of Document
