



USA Today
September 7, 2022 Wednesday
1 Edition


Copyright 2022 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A4
Length: 2337 words
Body


Alabama Auburn: Girl Scouts who attend Auburn City Schools have created a petition asking the school board to update the district's dress code, saying students should feel comfortable and shouldn't be worried about "getting publicly shamed."
Alaska Juneau: State revenue commissioner Lucinda Mahoney is resigning for health and family reasons, the governor's office announced. She has been in the role since 2020.
Arizona Yuma:  The Cocopah Indian Tribe said Friday that the state of Arizona acted against its wishes by stacking shipping containers on its land to prevent illegal border crossings.  Michael Fila, of the tribe's office of emergency management, said the containers block  a "vital evacuation route" and pose other safety concerns, including if the containers fall.
Arkansas Little Rock: A national organization, Lives in the Balance, has found that Arkansas ranks second in the nation for "the harshest and most punitive school discipline practices per capita."
California Sacramento:  Months after making abortions cheaper for women, state lawmakers have now voted to make vasectomies cheaper for men. The bill passed Wednesday and now goes to Gov. Gavin Newsom.
Colorado Colorado Springs: Dozens of residents of an apartment complex have been displaced after a fire Friday night that was possibly caused by a lightning strike, fire officials said.
Connecticut Middletown: State police are investigating a man's death four days after a state trooper shot him with a stun gun after an apparent struggle, authorities said Friday.
Delaware Wilmington: St. Francis Hospital has announced plans to treat much more than medical conditions with the inception of its Healthy Village.  Through partnerships with community organizations, service providers will occupy whole floors or just an office inside the hospital to allow St. Francis' patients - many of whom do not own vehicles - to create a convenient one-stop shop of sorts for vital resources.
District of Columbia Washington: The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority announced Friday that more of its 7000-series train cars, some of which had been found last year to have defects, will be added back to service starting Sept.12, WUSA-TV reports.
Florida Fort Lauderdale: A  man has been charged with leaving dead animals on three separate occasions at a memorial for the 17 victims of the Parkland school massacre, officials said Friday.
Georgia Atlanta:  After the 2020 election, a poll worker who was falsely accused of voting fraud by ex-President Donald Trump was pressured and threatened with imprisonment during a meeting arranged with the help of an ally of the Trump campaign, a prosecutor said in a court filing Friday.
Hawaii Honolulu: Officials said a woman suffered what appeared to be a shark bite Saturday in a bay on Maui's North Shore, and they warned people to stay out of nearby waters.
Idaho Ketchum: An overnight fire destroyed 26 homes at a condominium building, authorities said Sunday. No injuries were reported, but the city put out an appeal for assistance for those displaced by the blaze.
Illinois Chicago: Officials have asked the public for volunteers and donations to help immigrants being bused to the city from Texas amid that Republican-led state's political battle over the Biden administration's immigration policies. A busload of about 50 immigrants arrived Sunday in Chicago, days after the arrival of the first busload of about 75.
Indiana Manville: A woman was killed during weekend flash flooding  that damaged numerous homes and washed away several roads, officials said. Normally small creeks were overwhelmed as perhaps 8inches of rain fell Saturday night in parts of Jefferson and Switzerland counties.
Iowa Altoona: The family of a Marion boy who drowned at Adventureland Resort last year is seeking nearly $100million from the state for allowing the ride to operate despite serious safety problems.
Kansas Fort Riley: A school district will pay a former middle school teacher $95,000 to settle a lawsuit she filed after she was disciplined for refusing to use a student's preferred pronouns and name, her attorneys announced Wednesday.
Kentucky Bowling Green: Tours of the Corvette assembly plant are set to resume by year's end for the first time since 2017, officials said.
Louisiana New Orleans:  Former Mayor Moon Landrieu - whose early, lonely stand against segregationists in the Legislature launched a political career at the forefront of sweeping changes on race - died early Monday, a family friend confirmed. He was 92.
Maine Kittery: The Kittery School District, in conjunction with the YMCA of the Seacoast in Portsmouth, has received state approval to operate a before-school child care program for students in kindergarten through fifth grade. The program, set to begin Tuesday at Horace Mitchell Primary School,  comes in response to families of Portsmouth Naval Shipyard civilian employees who recently lost child care services, though it is open to children in other Kittery families, too.
Maryland Baltimore: Officials are encouraging residents to boil water used for drinking or cooking after E. coli bacteria was detected in some samples of the water supply in parts of West Baltimore.
Massachusetts Boston: Half of the maintenance work scheduled to take place during a monthlong shutdown of one of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority's subway lines has been completed, officials said Friday.
Michigan Livonia: Fifth Third Bank is facing a federal lawsuit after a Black woman says employees refused to cash her five-figure check, claimed it was fraudulent and tried to confiscate it.
Minnesota St. Paul: A legislative audit of the Southwest light rail project released Friday shows the cost of the state's most expensive public works project has more than doubled over the past decade to $2.7billion. The report by the nonpartisan Office of the Legislative Auditor says the rail line connecting downtown Minneapolis and Eden Prairie has been delayed by nine years, and 20% of the project remains unfunded.
Mississippi Ripley:  An airport worker who knew how to take off but not land stole a small airplane early Saturday and threatened to crash it into a Walmart, circling for five hours over unnerved Mississippians before ending the flight safely in a soybean field, where police arrested him.
Missouri Hazelwood: Police said a suburban St. Louis woman was beaten, stomped and stabbed to death, and her house was soaked in gasoline while two children were inside. Officers responded to a house in Hazelwood early Sunday after a child called to say his mother was dead, and his father had fled the scene, police said.
Montana Missoula: President Joe Biden nominated has nominated a University of Montana law professor to be a judge on the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Anthony Johnstone is a former solicitor for the state of Montana.
Nebraska Lincoln: Department of Correctional Services Director Scott Frakes, who has headed the state's embattled prison system for the past seven years, has announced he is resigning effective next month.
Nevada Reno:  More and more moose from Idaho and Utah are making their way into Nevada.  State wildlife officials say it's the first time a big game species has made a comeback in the Silver State without a concentrated relocation effort.
New Hampshire Portsmouth: Construction on the long-planned, highly anticipated New Hampshire Seacoast Greenway is set to begin in the spring on former rail lines  the state Department of Transportation bought from Pan Am Railways.
New Jersey Secaucus: The Gateway transit commuter tunnel linking New Jersey to New York under the Hudson River will be further delayed and cost more to construct. The new tunnel is not expected to be completed until 2035, three years later than expected and a year after the old one is supposed to be shut down, and will cost $2billion more than estimated a year ago, the Gateway Development Commission said.
New Mexico Carlsbad: Tens of millions of dollars could be lost to wasted natural gas from the fossil-fuel sector, with most of the loss centered in the Permian Basin in the southeast corner of the state.
New York Canandaigua: A mini donkey with a deadly heart condition is on the mend after receiving a pacemaker from doctors  at the Cornell University Hospital for Animals.
North Carolina Raleigh:  North Carolina's State Board of Elections will not fight a recent decision by the state rules panel blocking its proposed restrictions on party-appointed poll watchers this fall. But the board pledged Friday to do all it can to help county elections officials maintain a safe and orderly voting environment and to deter any voter intimidation.
North Dakota Bismarck: The state Supreme Court has reversed a lower court decision that had sided with a Houston-based energy company in a dispute involving oil and natural gas royalties. The case stems from a lawsuit Newfield Exploration filed against the state after the Department of Trust Lands conducted an audit in 2016 that claimed the company was underpaying royalties to the agency that manages several state trust funds, including one that benefits  schools.
Ohio Cleveland: Twelve people arrested while peacefully protesting in 2020 following the murder of George Floyd will receive a $540,000 settlement from the city, according to an attorney for the protesters. Some of the 12 also received minor injuries including being hit with pepper spray.
Oklahoma Edmond: A rocket ship slide has entertained children who visited Stephenson Park for decades. Now, as the park prepares to close for over $6.5million in renovations, the slide  is being donated to the Edmond Historical Society & Museum, and the main structure is being repurposed as a piece of public art.
Oregon Portland: At least a dozen Oregon cities experienced their hottest months of July and August on record, according to a state climatologist.  Scientists say climate change has made the West warmer and drier over the past several decades and will keep making weather more extreme.
Pennsylvania Harrisburg: Hundreds of workers from 14 Pennsylvania nursing homes went on strike Friday after contract negotiations failed to produce a deal, frustrating state officials who recently approved an aid package meant to bolster staff recruitment and retention in the long-term care industry.
Rhode Island Providence: New touch-screen voting machines being used in this month's primary election listed candidates from 2018 when voters selected Spanish as their preferred language, according to elections officials.  Up to 55 voters in Providence, Pawtucket, Central Falls and Woonsocket may have been shown an incorrect list of candidates before the problem was identified.
South Dakota Pierre: While the governor and the GOP-led Legislature push to expand access to firearms, a majority of voters favor restrictions such as waiting periods and age limits for some gun purchases, according to a statewide poll co-sponsored by South Dakota News Watch.
Tennessee Monteagle:  A library where Rosa Parks, John Lewis and other civil rights leaders forged strategies that would change the world is mired in controversy over who gets to tell its story. Preservationists  want to turn the Highlander Folk School library into a historic site. Political organizers say Highlander never stopped pursuing social justice and should recover the building as a stolen part of its legacy. Enraged by race-mixing at the school in the 1950s, Tennessee officials confiscated the property and auctioned it off in pieces in a vain attempt at stifling the civil rights movement.
Texas Eagle Pass:  A pecan farm has become entangled in a turf war between the Biden administration and  Gov. Greg Abbott over immigration enforcement on the southern border, where the state unexpectedly locked the main gate on a chain-link fence through the property.
Utah Provo: Protesters including Brigham Young University students yelled homophobic slurs and taunted LGBTQ students and their supporters during an off-campus gathering in a public park.  The confrontation happened a week after BYU banned a fan who yelled racial slurs at a Duke University volleyball player who is Black.
Vermont Burlington: Police are asking for help from the public as they investigate a shooting in  City Hall Park early Sunday that left a 32-year-old man dead.
Virginia Virginia Beach: A proposal to charge grocery shoppers 5 cents per plastic bag is tangling opinions in the city. The Virginian-Pilot reports  local officials are torn between wanting to protect the environment and avoid a new tax on residents.
Washington Spokane: State Department of Fish and Wildlife Director Kelly Susewind has authorized the killing of one wolf because of cattle attacks in northeast Washington.
West Virginia Charleston:  Police held a memorial service Thursday for a police dog  killed in action the prior weekend. Axel was a K-9 with the Charleston Police Department.
Wisconsin Milwaukee: Summerfest has set its dates for 2023, and the divisive three-weekend format is sticking around. America's largest music festival will return to Maier Festival Park on June22-24, June29-July1 and July6-8.
Wyoming Laramie: A University of Wyoming  professor plans to study how radiation affects small organisms through a grant from NASA to help it prepare future astronauts, the Casper Star-Tribune reports.
From USA TODAY Network and wire reports
Columbia:  A pregnant Black activist serving four years in prison for her behavior at racial justice protests will have her sentence reconsidered next week as she struggles to reach her due date behind bars. Raising questions about free speech and equal justice, Brittany Martin, 34, was found guilty this spring of breaching the peace in a high and aggravated manner over comments she made to police during a demonstration May31, 2020.  "She's in jail because she talked in America," said Sybil Dione Rosado, her trial attorney. "She's a dark-skinned Black woman who is unapologetically Black and radical."

Graphic

 
Brittany Martin, second from left, confronts police before demonstrators in support of George Floyd march in Sumter, S.C., on May31, 2020.
The Item via AP
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Journal Code: usa

Subject: DEATH NOTICES & OBITUARIES (90%); SAFETY, ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (89%); PETITIONS (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); URBAN SCHOOLS (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); TRANSIT AUTHORITIES (78%); WOMEN (78%); ELECTION WORKERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (76%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (76%); SAFETY (76%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (75%); DEATH & DYING (75%); ELECTION CRIME (75%); IMMIGRATION, CITIZENSHIP & DISPLACEMENT (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (74%); CITIES (73%); MUNICIPAL FINANCE (73%); SHAMING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ELECTIONS & POLITICS (71%); MEDICINE & HEALTH (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); FIRES (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); BITES & STINGS (69%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (69%); SHOOTINGS (69%); RANKINGS (68%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%); ELECTION FRAUD (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); ELECTROSHOCK WEAPONS (65%); PUBLIC PROSECUTORS (65%); CONTESTED ELECTIONS (63%)

Company:  METROPOLITAN BANK HOLDING CORP (52%)

Ticker: MCB (NYSE) (52%)

Industry: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); EDUCATIONAL SERVICES (90%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); URBAN SCHOOLS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); TRANSIT AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC PROSECUTORS (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%)

Person: DONALD TRUMP (79%); GAVIN NEWSOM (79%)

Geographic: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); YUMA, AZ, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (52%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON DC, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (94%)

Load-Date: September 7, 2022


End of Document
