



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
April 23, 2012 Monday
THIRD EDITION


Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A9
Length: 1214 words
Dateline: 0 
Body


House's vote to cut food stamps does not reflect nation's values
Deficit reduction is an important national priority, vital to our long-term economic security. However, we cannot seek to solve this problem by disregarding our national values.
Unfortunately, the House left values on the sideline last week when it moved forward with a proposal to cut food assistance for our nation's hungry by more than $33 billion. Making this decision in the name of deficit reduction does not excuse cutting anti-hunger programs at a time when need has never been greater.
Taking care of our neighbors is at the core of American tradition, and feeding those in need is a shared responsibility. This value is reflected in Washington, D.C., through anti-hunger programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (food stamps). It also is evident in the generosity of the St. Louis Area Foodbank's volunteers and donors.
While some suggest hunger is better solved by local charity, I can say from the front lines that charity cannot do it alone. Foodbank works daily to meet an ever-increasing need. It is a continuing battle to keep up with demand as we are faced with declining federal support for the Emergency Food Assistance Program. It would be impossible for food banks to make up the difference if SNAP were cut.
Hunger is a national problem and thus needs a national solution - starting with a strong federal commitment to programs like SNAP.
Congress should put the nation's interests first and meet in the middle to craft policies that spur economic recovery and protect families when opportunity remains out of reach.
Frank Finnegan - St. Louis County CEO/President, St. Louis Area Foodbank
Unconvincing arguments
In the guest commentary "Kill at will" (April; 19), state Rep. Jamilah Nasheed, D-St. Louis, tries to frame the narrative regarding our Second Amendment rights with a simple cause and effect between gun ownership and the murder rate (an overused ploy). In the process, she ignores what appear to be more obvious causes for shooting deaths, as her two main examples demonstrate.
First, the shooting death of Decora Jenkins by her aunt Erika Wherry appears to be a lack of restraint on the part of Ms. Wherry. Second, Ms. Nasheed mentions generally the shooting deaths that have taken place since the passing of the Castle Doctrine. Why doesn't she mention any further specifics about these shootings? Could it be because most of these were the result of homeowners defending themselves during home invasions? In these cases it is unlikely that the men killed would have been killed if they were not invading someone else's home (duh).
And, of course, Ms. Nasheed never mentions the Second Amendment. Thus, her arguments will remain unconvincing to me and other supporters of the Second Amendment. So she and others want to limit or even take away our rights because some people lack restraint and because gun ownership poses a danger to people who break the law? Uh, sorry, but that doesn't convince me to forfeit my rights and then put myself and my family at the mercy of the state and law-breakers. No, it only makes me want to buy a gun.
David I. Lewis - Clayton
Uphill struggle
Bravo to two of our state legislators who have enough sense and sense of responsibility to speak out against the prolific use of guns in our community and throughout the United States! What has become of our society when almost anyone can carry a gun and use it at will? We have regressed, and I do not believe that our Constitution intended for these spontaneous, reactive shootings that are occurring everywhere.
I could not believe that the Legislature is considering allowing guns to be carried on the MetroLink and other public transportation. I agree with state Rep. Jill Schupp, D-Creve Coeur, who said in a letter to the editor (April 15), "It doesn't make me feel safer." And state Rep. Jamilah Nasheed's guest commentary, "Kill at will" (April 19), reflects my uneasiness with our country's steady increase of gun violence.
I fear these two courageous state representatives have an uphill struggle with the current state Legislature. I wish them success in their pursuit of laws that can protect the public from the current outrage of gun violence. I sincerely hope the other legislators will wake up and come to their senses.
Leanne Schneider - St. Louis County
Missing the mark
State Rep. Jamilah Nasheed, D-St. Louis, misses the mark in her guest commentary "Kill at will" (April 19). She wrote that "321 Missourians were murdered with guns," but she doesn't report how many of those were committed with guns legally purchased and used by their legal owners. I suspect there were few.
She said, "Our black homicide victimization rate of 34.7 per 100,000 resulted in the worst in the nation and more than seven times greater than the national rate overall. Staggeringly, a gun was used in 87 percent of these murders." Again, the question remains: How many of the guns were legally purchased and used by the legal owner?
Ms. Nasheed rails against the NRA, which advocates legal and responsible ownership and use of firearms. Which, if any, of her ideas suggests keeping individuals from illegally obtaining and using guns? That would correct attitudes about guns and reduce the number of murders.
Phillip Wells - Dellwood
Good people
In "Phony mommy wars" (April 19), Maureen Dowd attacks personal choice, which strikes me as funny coming from someone who is all about choice. I'm glad the Romneys chose to set up house in suburban Boston in 1971, "befriended other young Mormon couples and (keep) to their cloistered, conservative, privileged, traditional, white, heterosexual circle." While feminists were busy pushing abortion, Ann Romney and other moms were busy raising children.
What's wrong with "traditional"? Ms. Dowd may see the Romneys as "cloistered" and "privileged," but I see them as good people exercising their God-given American freedoms.
Maureen Totterer - O'Fallon, Mo.
Punishment for gluttons
Kudos to Rep. Stacey Newman for filing a bill in the Missouri Legislature regulating vasectomies ("Gender politics," April 17). Her gesture throws into brilliant perspective the Puritanical gender bias at the root of this year's witch hunt aimed at regulating women's access to contraception and abortion.
Why stop there? Why not regulate and restrict access to lung cancer treatment for smokers? Or to medications to control high cholesterol or high blood pressure for those who overindulge in fatty and salty diets? If (per Rush Limbaugh) making contraception accessible is tantamount to paying women to have sex, aren't these other medications and procedures paying people to be gluttons?
Bradley Fratello - St. Louis
Ready for compromise?
Here's a word you don't hear often in Jefferson City: Compromise.
Republicans seem to think that voter identification is one of the key issues of our time, so I propose this compromise: Democrats will agree to the voter ID initiative if Republicans will agree to require the registration of all guns. Even though there's no credible evidence of fraud committed by voters, there's plenty of evidence of crimes committed by gun owners. If we're going to ID voters, let's ID guns.
What do you say, Republicans? Compromise?
Mark Travers - St. Louis County
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: LETTER

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: FOOD CHARITIES (94%); FOOD ASSISTANCE (91%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (91%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); FOOD STAMPS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WELFARE BENEFITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); SHOOTINGS (87%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); NEGATIVE NEWS (77%); CHARITIES (76%); CRIME RATES (73%); DEATH & DYING (72%); HOME INVASIONS (67%); MURDER (67%); FIREARMS (61%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (59%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (92%)

Load-Date: April 24, 2012


End of Document
