



St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
September 16, 2012 Sunday
FOURTH EDITION


Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16
Length: 1237 words
Dateline: 0 
Body


Letter was printed to promote anti-gun agenda
The letter "Gun retailer should apologize to family" (Sept. 12) is an example of inane drivel printed by your publication merely to perpetuate your anti-gun agenda.
You allow a commentary that is a totally vacant argument to be printed in your paper. I can only assume that your editor believes he can facilitate your agenda by printing a ludicrous statement. This letter tries to attach guilt to a retailer who followed the law in a business transaction. The purchased gun was later used in an unlawful manner.
The resulting deaths were a terrible tragedy that can never be justified. But to try to attach blame to the retailer is a cheap and unwarranted action.
If this theory were to be true, car dealers should express guilt and restitution when a vehicle they sold is involved in a deadly accident and swimming pool sellers should bear some responsibility for a drowning. This is a poor and inane argument.
I am truly sorry for these deaths, but this letter is far off base and I feel the only reason for its printing was for your publication's editorial benefit without taking a true editorial stance.
Gary E. Fowler - Marion, Ill.
Retailers not responsible for gun crimes
Regarding the letter about holding retailers responsible when horrific crimes are committed with weapons they sold:
As heartbreaking as the loss of these beautiful little girls and the loss of other wonderful kids who are murdered in St. Louis and all across this country by the very people that should be loving them is, going after the retailers isn't the answer.
If you buy a gun from a thug on the street, then the law should hold that thug accountable along with the one who pulled the trigger, but if you buy a gun from a licensed gun dealer who follows the laws when selling weapons, then what you do with that weapon is between you, your conscience and the police.
As much as I would love to see a world without weapons, if you make it illegal to own a gun, the only ones with guns will be the thugs. People murdering their children is a societal issue, not an issue of a retailer selling a gun.
St. Louis and cities all over this country need to focus on the underlying reasons behind these daily horrors. As a society, we shouldn't be afraid to pick up the phone and make an anonymous call to a child protection hotline or the police. Authorities should take a look at anyone dealing with the parents of these children. Do the parents of these children never come into contact with the police, the courts, or Children and Family Services before the deaths of these children? How are the warning signs missed?
We can't go back, but we can and should look at how we can fix this before any more children pay the price for things beyond their control.
Diane Jennings - St. Ann
Coverage for birth control should be a given
On Wednesday, 135 legislators in Missouri voted to give employers the power to decide if birth control and sterilization services will be covered or excluded in employee health plans. These legislators believe that employers get to pick and choose based on their own personal beliefs.
Forget the fact that more than 700,000 women in Missouri use birth control, that the overwhelming majority of Americans believe that women should have access to affordable birth control, no matter where they work. And, despite the fact that 77 percent of Americans agree that birth control should not be a part of the political debate.
The governor's principled veto of this bill was overturned by just one vote.
Those 135 legislators showed how out of touch they are with the needs and lives of Missouri women, couples and families, and they demonstrated to the country how seriously extreme our politics have become.
Access to affordable birth control and coverage in employer-sponsored insurance is considered by the majority to be a given, a fact, something we take for granted, a promise, if you will. But not so in Missouri.
This was not a vote about abortion, nor about "religious liberty." Laws already exist in Missouri dealing with both. This was about all methods of birth control for women and men, including vasectomy, tubal ligation and Essure. Women and men may now pay much more out of pocket for these services.
Birth control is basic health care. It gives women and men control of their lives, their health and their futures.
Paula M. Gianino - St. Louis President and CEO, Planned Parenthood of the St. Louis Region and Southwest Missouri
Mexican immigrants aren't finding American dream
Gilbert Bailon ("Immigrant nostalgia misses mark," Sept. 9) calls for removing barriers to immigrants legally pursuing the American dream. However, emigration trends suggest that Mexican immigrants might be growing less eager to chase its mirage.
Between 2005 and 2010, the number of Mexicans immigrating to the United States fell by more than half. Meanwhile, the number of Mexicans and their children who left the U.S. for Mexico nearly doubled. On net, Mexicans are actually leaving America.
The Mexican immigration story is now the Mexican emigration story. Tighter borders, increased border violence, fewer births among Mexicans, and other factors explain slowing immigration. But why did the number of poor, repatriated labor migrants who do not intend to try to return to America triple from 2005 to 2010? Because they have actually seen America.
The promise of the American dream brought millions of Mexicans to America. Hispanics start businesses explicitly to pursue that dream at nearly twice the rate as the average business owner. Hope-filled immigrants tend to think the American dream is more achievable and in dramatically better condition than non-immigrants.
But studies suggest the idea and reality are floundering. Many measures indicate shrinking income mobility in a country lagging other industrialized nations. Polls show American adults think their children will be worse off than themselves, that the American dream is lost.
While immigrants come to America with hope, we see a different country. We see massive deficits, growing debt and stagnant growth. We see a lack of political will to allow markets to grow the prosperity underlying the vision of every new immigrant.
Is the Mexican exodus the canary in the cavern, the harbinger of death for the American idea?
Brett Gall - St. Louis
Romney's poor judgment
If there ever was any question regarding Mr. Romney's leadership qualities and his ability to use good judgment, even after his trips overseas, those questions were answered by his latest open display of incompetence and bad judgment.
While the attack on the embassy in Libya was ongoing, he was accusing the president of apologizing and sympathizing with the thugs without bothering to check the facts. This behavior is crass and below the dignity of a man who wants to be president of the United States.
Leadership and Mr. Romney are oxymorons. Clearly, he is trying to score political points with his base while revealing a lack of dignity, lack of discipline and a campaign being led by amateurs.
Arthur G. Robles - St. Charles
Obama fiddles; Middle East burns
As Rome burned, the Emperor Nero watched and played the fiddle. Fast forward: As the Mideast deteriorates into a conflagration that threatens the very existence of Israel and peace in the world, the president of the United States embarked upon yet another campaign trip. God help us all!
Jerome S. Buterin - Bel-Nor
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: LETTER

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (90%); FIREARMS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); MURDER (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); WEAPONS & ARMS (89%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (86%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CHILD ABUSE & NEGLECT (75%); DEATH & DYING (75%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (75%); SAFETY, ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (75%); FAMILY (73%); FAMILY SERVICES (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (70%); ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (68%)

Industry: RETAIL & WHOLESALE TRADE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (78%); ARMS TRADE (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (68%)

Geographic: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (89%); MISSOURI, USA (91%)

Load-Date: September 17, 2012


End of Document
