



Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
August 3, 2007 Friday
Metro Edition


Copyright 2007 Star Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: SCENE; Pg. 14F
Length: 3971 words
Body


MINNESOTA FRINGE FESTIVAL
What: 162 shows, 872 performances.
When:  Ends Aug. 12.
Where: 14 venues across Minneapolis. Eight other unofficial venues.
Tickets: $12 per show. Five-show card, $45. Ultrapass, $135. Buttons ($3) required.
Web: .
SHOW TITLE/ DESCRIPTION/ VENUE
1967
Tales of sex, drugs, peace, love, riots and hostility in a reflection on the unraveling of the summer of love.  Venue: Mixed Blood
4:48 Psychosis
At 4:48 a.m. astonishing clarity surfaces from a deep pool of despair; a young woman lets loose a fierce poetic howl.  Venue: Mixed Blood
62
Dance-theater celebrating thieves in the night. Different guests each show. Dance for regular folks.  Venue: Southern Theater
Adventures of Swash and Buckle
Ready? Yes! Willing? Yes! Able? Well, define able. It's Swash and Buckle to the rescue.  Venue: Jeune Lune
AfterLife
Two one-acts, one with serial killers and the other with famous victims of unsolved crimes hoping for justice.  Venue: Mixed Blood
All the Things I Never Told My Mother
Armed with a trombone and vivacious spirit, all the funny and dark truths you never told your mother!  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
Alpha Come Home: A Bawdy Puppet and Clown Show
Attempting to shed her doggy ways, Aunt Alpha, the bitch, goes on a journey of denial. She is hounded by her scrappy dog friend, Jack.  Venue: Ritz Theater
American Cake
Lovers and haters! Lefties and righties!  We want YOU!  This political satire is red, blue, and green friendly... and free cake at every show!  Venue: Interact Center
American Folksongs: The Ballad of Ferris Riley
An obsessed record collector pursues an obscure folk single through history.  Venue: Intermedia Arts
An Element of Chance
A modern dance journey through life's ordinary and unexpected events, with various bits of metal.  Venue: Southern Theater
An Immigrant's Tale
Help Ole decide what to pack for his trip to America while he shares his Norwegian traditions.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
An Intimate Evening with Fotis; The Taller Side of Ferrari McSpeedy
Mike Fotis of Ferrari McSpeedy, presents stories about, but not limited to, all of your favorite subjects.  Venue: Theatre Garage
Aria de Capo
Edna St Vincent Millay's witty debut will make you laugh, and gasp. It might even make you randy.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Around the World in Eighty Days in Under Sixty Minutes
A fast-paced adaptation of Jules Verne's classic novel, featuring elephants, acrobats, and gunfights. Venue: Mixed Blood
Audiographic Synesthesia
The visual wit of Lueben's modern-day silent films are paired with Sweet Science's accompaniment. Venue: Intermedia Arts
Bad Dad: A Comedy of Errers
Dad sells Chunky Monkey. But he lies to the bank and now he's headin' for the cooler.  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
Bards
A spy for the Queen enlists Shakespeare on his most dangerous mission yet in this Elizabethan adventure.  Venue: Southern Theater
Belly American Style
From Egypt to Edina, from Morocco to Minneapolis, bellydance comes home with a decidedly American flair.  Venue: Ritz Theater
BITCH . . . My Life as a Female Dog
It's 5 a.m. and Mom is off! Barking orders, grooming pups, and fetching life without dropping the ball.  Venue: Red Eye
Blonde on Blonde
Two blonde suburbanites growing up and facing the adversity of being the majority.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Blue Collar Diaries
Memorable characters that drifted through Michelle Myers' blue-collar neighborhood. Venue: Intermedia Arts
Book of Pops
Under a bridge, full moon, white beard, preaching to the sky. Is he mad? Myths and wonders abound.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
Bouffon Glass Menajoree
Imagine Borat performing "Glass Menagerie" directed by John Waters. Audience participation.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Brief History of Petty Crime
Jimmy Hogg returns to Minnesota to discuss his life of petty crime in a fast-paced story with a car crash.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Broken Brain Summit
Join Dr. Dendrite as he gathers a motley crue of brain experts to talk about autism, mental illness and more.  Venue: Interact Center
Buckets and Tap Shoes, Here and Now
New tap dances, percussion on found objects and musical wizardry. Experience the next level of rhythm. Venue: Jeune Lune
Burying Mom
A young man is forced to negotiate the many layers of his relationship with his dead mother.  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
But I'm Not Bitter: Confessions of a Middle-Aged Lounge Lizard
A man ruminates about his own vasectomy,  and his not-so-secret desire to be Frank Sinatra.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
Bye-Bye, Beirut
Rocket-watching parties and chain-smoking,  one-eyed German architects haunt an archaeologist in Israel.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
Cathect Adult! Full Circle Empty
Follow a mentally ill client at a dysfunctional, cult-like day treatment program.  Venue: Theatre Garage
Check, Please
Blind dating. Just when you thought it couldn't get any worse-it does. With a zany cast of characters.  Venue: Pillsbury House
Christmas in Bakersfield
Mike takes Les to meet his parents, but forgets to tell his caucasian, conservative parents that Les is black.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Chuck Mee Project
Explore the re-making of a man in search of a nearly normal life.  Venue: Theatre Garage
Circumference
Storyteller Amy Salloway pits the ghosts of Gym Teachers Past against the Craving For Weight Loss Future.  Venue: Mixed Blood
Circumference of a Squirrel
"Rodentphobia" meets inner-tube in a darkly comic one-man show about Chester.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
Cody Rivers Show: Flammable People
"Experimental theater that paddles above the surface of the sketch comedy genre." The Apiary (NYC).  Venue: Theatre Garage
Cold, Dark Matter at Hand
In 2095, a great ship founders on its voyage in space.
Venue: Theatre Garage
Comedy Jesus Show
Join Jesus and a few satirical characters in a show with video and improvisation. Bring a question for Jesus.  Venue: Theatre Garage
Conundrum
Parodic takes on ballets and musicals that you love to hate, with a few new works of choreography.  Venue: Ritz Theater
Crackhead Whoremonger Nerd Comedian
Tale of a quadruple life lived in San Francisco for many years. Absurd comedy with severe emotional punch.  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
D20: It's How We Roll
Life shown through the eyes of two RPG junkies.  Venue: Ritz Theater
Damn that River Resolute
We are what we are, but what the hell is that? Animals capable of philosophy AND wreaking havoc?  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Dance of Illusion
High-energy magic that's fun for kids but trippy enough for adults.  Venue: Ritz Theater
Deep Boy
A new play about nobody in particular, just Deep Boy. Sometimes no one sees the signs, even when they are obvious.  Venue: Jeune Lune
Descendant of Dragons
A Chinese-American tells of a quest to find his ancestors  across four continents and 4,000 years.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Diary of Self Help Boot Camp
An enlightenment road trip to a New Age Retreat, with humor, pathos, and ill-advised show tunes. Venue: Intermedia Arts
Die Hamletmaschine
Hamlet hides in his s---. Ophelia suffocates the world between her thighs. Rotting corpses stream by.  Venue: Jeune Lune
Earnest Ernest or The Sales Pitch
Can Ernest's earnest endeavors as inventor cum entrepreneur save him from his nerdy, lackluster life?  Venue: Mixed Blood
Echoes from the New World
Two sisters discover their grandmother's trunk and are transported back in Latin American history.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
Everyday Seduction
This series of one-acts explores the seduction of best friends, bosses and strangers.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
"F' Quotient: Building the Perfect Fringe Show Through the Miracle of Modern Technology
Local spoken-word, stand-up and slam artists.  Venue: Pillsbury House
Fistful of Dice
Former geek who has vowed never to game again goes to a convention to rid himself of his gaming paraphernalia.  Venue: Jeune Lune
Flawed Genius
British physical comedian and existential clown takes you deep into his gloriously flawed psyche.  Venue: Soap Factory
FLUID
Erika Kate and her characters lead us behind the bleachers and into the boiler room of sexual identity.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
FNU LNU
Scary stuff about spiders, curses and blasted hopes. Crime. Loss. Political betrayal. Defection. Cynicism.  Venue: Southern Theater
Forks!
Our families at dinner with broken dishes and tales of literotica. A potluck of dance, voices, and video.  Venue: Red Eye
Franklin's Eyes
A violin-playing secretary, Shakespearean messenger and magician converge in a look at imagination.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
From Here to Maternity
When passion and pregnancy collide, who wins in a fight-your doctor or your midwife? Venue: Carmichael Lynch ,  ,  ,  ,  , ,
FUNeral
Roxanne and Leon are the perfect couple. But they have the same mother. Can they rap their way out of this?  Venue: Pillsbury House
Funny Side - Muddles Make Memories
Life's perplexing, precarious predicaments have a funny side. Laugh your way through stories and piano music.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Hansel and Gretel: The Musical
Through music and dialogue, witness this journey of strength and love that brings a family "Home at Last".  Venue: Jeune Lune
Happy Hellidays
Creators of 2006 Fringe's "Hot Springs, Cold Sex - Good God"  bring you two new farces.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
Helen of Boyd
Saint or siren? Helen of Boyd launched not ships but music-lovers.  Venue: Jeune Lune
Honeymoon Period is Officially Over
Wilcox (London, UK) portrays 20 characters in this award-winning, comedy-drama about love and letting go.  Venue: Pillsbury House
HowDo
What's biography? How do you know me/me you? I know, a post moderny dance theatery piece.  Venue: Southern Theater
I Am for Now, Maybe Not Later
This dynamic duo slip between being rocked to sleep and rocking out in this dance-driven show.  Venue: Southern Theater
I Hate Kenny G
Allegra Lingo sets out to prove that the spaces in between mean more than the notes themselves.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
inPrint
Live voice, projected image and dance explores the disposability of the female body.  Venue: NW Casket Arts
John and Abigail
The letters of John Adams and his wife, Abigail, tell of a legendary love ripped apart by the birth of a nation.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
Kelechi Jaavaid AKA K Jay and Latenitepoet
Kelechi Jaavaid performing with Latenitepoet the spoken-word artist.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Killer Smile
Sam is late to her surprise party. Will her friends wait or kill each other first? A new dark comedy.  Venue: Theatre Garage
KIPO!
Twenty-five dancers and musicians weave narrative through the ancient song and dance of Tibet.  Venue: Ritz Theater
Knocked Up and Hairy
Primary medicine has been automated, and it's telling Julius he's pregnant. So, what's a guy to do?  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Knott TuStupid Extravaganza!
Plays and songs translated from the ESP Production of the metaphysical playwright Knott TuStupid.  Venue: Pillsbury House
KRAS News:
When the news IS the news, the whole world watches.
Venue: Intermedia Arts
Lake Lilt Zen
How the lakes flow in and around our lives. Projected photography, acoustics - nature and music.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Lay Down and Love Me Again
Kevin wants to stage a solo show but can't escape his bedroom. Doctors, religion, coming out; no one is spared.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Leakage: A Poetic Meltdown
There's a leak in my brain. Seeping, dripping, draining, as I travel the path of a memory smashed.  Venue: Mixed Blood
Legends of the East
By-gone times of ancient cultures and mythical tales with delicate movements and energetic music. Venue: Red Eye
Let's Go! See A Show!
Star Ahrens takes a coming-of-age journey through Europe.
Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
limitation of sight
A love story about two young people whose problems aren't with each other but with the world.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
Little Star: A Tale of Grace and Beauty
Little Star dances through a universe to find her place in the Great Dance. Carl Sagan meets the Muppets.  Venue: Mixed Blood
Living the Questions
A cabaret of songs, stories, and poems exploring the ways we live the Big Questions.  Venue: Red Eye
Loss of Breath
A naive, young woman stumbles through the aftermath of a major move in this original song-cycle.  Venue: Interact Center
Love, Julie
I'm so sorry for what I've done and said, and I don't know if I would take it back. Love, Julie  Venue: Mixed Blood
Macbeth's Awesome Scottish Castle Party
Foul IS foul in this unnatural parody of pandering interactive theater and pompous Shakespeare. Venue: Black Forest Inn
,  ,       ,  ,
Making Dolls
A dark look at the hopes and dreams of young girls, with six modern dancers and a video projector. Venue: Intermedia Arts
Mashed Monsters
Darkness falls upon the Carpathian mountains as Duke Draculberg  battles against his sister, Trampula.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
Medusa's Riddle - Fresh Off the Boat
Acrobats, spoken word, hip-hop dance, and  videos connect four generations of Asian American immigrant experiences.  Venue: Red Eye
Memoirs of an Allegedly Fallen Angel
A memory so haunting it escapes birth, and death. A  musical story of a love so mysterious it cannot be forgotten.  Venue: Red Eye
Methuselah Tree
A scientist attempts to build the world's first bionic soul at the cost of his family.  Venue: Theatre Garage
Mind Tripping
Your perceptions and thoughts are stretched, changed and controlled by these two sorcerers of the mind.  Venue: Ritz Theater
Miranda's Amazing Adventure
With audience help, Princess Miranda rewrites the traditional fairy tale to fight new monsters. Venue: Theatre Garage
Mixed Media
A girl relives her descent into perpetual suspicion with the help of a visitor from her past.  Venue: Mixed Blood
Moliere Than Thou
Moliere faces a crisis! His cast has come down with food poisoning and tonight's show is sold out!  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
Monster Movies with My Undead Dad
Tales of these and other family rituals from the creator of last year's hit Dancing Rats & Vampire Moms.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
Most Mysterious Day of the Year
The boxing ring's gone haywire. Kitten pitted against parakeet in the match of the century.  Venue: Circle of Discipline
Mr. Charles, Currently of Palm Beach
A late-night show host confronts hot-button topics and delves into matters of identity and flamboyance.  Venue: Southern Theater
Nor Did the Atomic Bomb Drop Itself
A medley of pieces about the sacrament of war, the absurdity of absurdity, and what wine goes with which conflict.  Venue: Interact Center
On the Road with the Stars
Who were and are the stars in your life? A list of those who made a difference in mine.  Venue: Henn. Av. United Methodist Church
Opportunity: It's not a pyramid scheme[TM]
An exciting promotional event for PurAva[TM], a "values-based" soap company. Audience participation and satire.  Venue: Ritz Theater
OurSpace
MySpace, your space, does anyone have an empty space? Thornton Wilder never imagined Our Town like this.  Venue: Interact Center
Pack Up Yer Troubles!
Irish performance poets present a multimedia theatrical poetic experience examing Life, Love and World Events.  Venue: Red Eye
Paper Flowers
A homeless man helps Eva bring her groceries up to her apartment and wants more than just a cup of tea as a tip.  Venue: Interact Center
Party of One
Mel is packed and ready to go. Her destination: somewhere between reality and imagination.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
Patriot Actors in the Most All-Americanest Sketch Comedy Show Ever
Is pro-American comedy possible? See the show critics have called "an affront to" "ignorant, poorly-done sketch-comedy"!  Venue: Red Eye
Peace Porridge-Stories from Around the Globe
Storytellers bring folktale wisdom to life through an exploration of the color, music and courage within us all.  Venue: Interact Center
Penal Colony
An adaptation of Kafka's tale "In the Penal Colony" within the context of the tortured political prisoner.  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
Perhaps They're French
Are Micky and Jed in love? A romantic comedy so universal you might just forget they're homosexuals.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Phil Jacquet-Morrison "Time for a Hero"
Phil offers his insights about parenting, sex, dogs, and whatever else happens to pop into his bizarre brain.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
Pigeon Man Apocalypse
Arthur lives on pigeons and rainwater, until a family moves in next door and demons awake.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Piggy Boys
In 1979 my parents sent me from the city to a hippie experiment in the woods.   Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Play With Your Food
One clown circus starring Chik'n Wing, The Magic Clown. Fun for kids of all ages.  Venue: Pillsbury House
Principles of Economics
A U of M Ph.D. candidate lectures on the problems of choice and behavior in a sequence of lessons.  Venue: Mixed Blood
Promiscuous Obedience
Antigone is sentenced to be buried alive when she disobeys the King and buries her rebel brother.  Venue: Interact Center
Requiem pour une ame seule
The dancer metamorphoses into a contralto, interpreting Ravel's "Kaddish" among other things.  Venue: Pillsbury House
Robert Anton Wilson's Masks of the Illuminati
Chance meeting between James Joyce and Einstein is interrupted by a terrified stranger.  Venue: Ritz Theater
Salome by Oscar Wilde
Oscar Wilde's retelling of the age-old tale of lust, power, and revenge climaxes with the dance of the seven veils.  Venue: Jeune Lune
Same Difference
Two black men. Two backgrounds. One dorm room. You think you know, but you have no idea.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
Sex Across the Curriculum
High-school sex-ed teacher throws the abstinence-only curriculum out the window.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Skeleton Crosses the Stage
Passion plays of the enduring end times brought to you by unlikely messengers, speaking about love and  joy.  Venue: Intermedia Arts
Slice of Life
The "high school experience" as a window into discovering who you are - and aren't.  Venue: Southern Theater
Snow White Ate the Apple or Peter Piper Picked a Who?
Can three actors smoosh 17 witches, 42 princesses, 21 princes, 4 1/2 dwarves and 1 big bad wolf onto one stage?  Venue: Pillsbury House
Soccerazzi
A manners play For the new millennium. Venue: Intermedia Arts
Solitaire in the Park: An Investigation into Lisa Linnaeus
A true story with many components and unreceived phone calls, with a side order of identity theft.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
Someone Else's Clothes: Michael Pearce Donley
Sings Jason Robert Brown
Triple Espresso's piano man brings the intricate characters of Broadway's newest composer to life, with a jazz band. Venue:  Jeune Lune.
Somewhere Else Mother: True Stories of the Unexpected Homeless
What do you do when your home is no longer yours?  Homeless, unexpectedly. A docu-drama event.  Venue: Intermedia Arts
Special Talents
Penelope's 23rd audition this week starts out like all the others, but turns into something unexpected.  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
Speechless
A collection of hip, poetic, irreverent, mystical, historical, magical and memorable songs.  Venue: Interact Center
Spiritual Battle
Powerful Martial Arts, Afro Modern, Lyrical, Krumping and Hip Hop movement.  Venue: Southern Theater
Spotless
Caroline is a teenaged hypochondriac; Ernie thinks he's a gigolo from Brooklyn; Angie hides in her closet.  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
Starr, Scott and Bill
Sketch comedy, tackling tough issues like Scientology, EMT's and The Vagina Monologues.  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
Stories of Cunning and Wit
Find hidden life lessons in participatory storytelling from an African perspective. Venue:  Interact Center
Storytellers Unleashed!
Professional storytellers create a rolling repertoire of adult material, hosted by Tina Rohde.  Venue: Playwrights' Center
Streaming Twin Cities UNCENSORED,
or I'm an Artist...What's Your Excuse?
What happens when Twin Cities artists are seduced by the Internet? Comedic take on surveys filled out by local artists.  Venue: Red Eye
Struggle Equals Ease
Fish, frogs and singing lizards address evolution, global warming, discrimination, elitism and have hot amphibian sex.  Venue: Red Eye
Super Glossy!
"Cosmopolitan" meets "The Stepford Wives" meets "The Venture Bros." in this sci-fi satire on women's magazines.  Venue: Red Eye
Take a Left at the Giant Cow: A Beginner's Guide to North Dakota
North Dakota natives relive their painful, embarrassing, always funny childhoods.  Venue: Pillsbury House
Tale of Higgledy-Piggledy Mumbo Jumbo
Mabel's learning fun-to-say words, but she has a higgledy-piggledy time convincing her family her first word is real. Venue: Jeune Lune
That Which Binds Us
Call it a clan, a network, a tribe or a family. Whatever you call it, whoever you are, you need one.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
They Will Be Sent Into the Dawn
A sculptor learns about the power of dreams when a prophecy threatens to destroy his hopes.  Venue: Jeune Lune
Three Days in Hell
A comical take on the biblical story, "Three Days" promises to resurrect some laughs.  Venue: Cedar Cultural Center
Through the Dark
Telling the hidden journey of everyone, it brings together dance, character, and awakenings through music.  Venue: Southern Theater
Tom Thumb, or The Tragedy of Tragedies
A solo Burlesque with Maids of Honour, Daggers, Cow, Ghosts, Thunder, and other Decoration proper to Tragedy. Adapted from Fielding's 1731 play.  Venue: Ritz Theater
Troika
An evening of distinctly different choreographic tributes to classic rock, panty lines and self-indulgence.  Venue: Theatre Garage
True Theatre Critic
This award-winning performance tells about a man suffering from exuberance of ambition.  Venue: Patrick's Cabaret
Twisted
Auntie Em, Uncle Henry, Zeke, Hunk and Hickory. A guest falls from the storm each night.  Venue: Mixed Blood
Tyranny of God's Love
A disjointed road trip along the border between individuality and everything. Get in the car.  Venue: Intermedia Arts
Uncle Al's Tales from Beneath the Sink
Al Sicherman reads some of his best (or worst) columns from the Star Tribune. Venue: Playwrights' Center
Unintentional Risky Behavior
Glass eyes, kittens, static cling, pistols, toilet paper, implants and crapitalism. One woman, 10 characters.  Venue: Bryant-Lake Bowl
Venice Gas House Trolley
Beat freak spoken word upright bass percussion mayhem hum rock and fire flowpoetry cut heads heal hearts.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Vilification Tennis
Those of you who are easily offended, will be. Those of you who are NOT easily offended, will be. No taboos. Venue: Theatre Garage
Vinyl Diary: A Modern Musical
When Bradley discovers a new vinyl record, summer changes for his dysfunctional high school classmates.  Venue: Ritz Theater
Wait...I Think My Eyes Were Closed
If you followed a path paved in someone's snapshots, who would you find? A dance circus-sized dance show.  Venue: Southern Theater
Wallace & The Dragon
Forbidding jungles. Tenacious orangutans. Meet Alfred Wallace, mystic scientist and co-discoverer of Evolution.  Venue: Intermedia Arts
Way It Is
Mix clowns, a guy in a dress, a lunatic, over-zealous Christmas decorator, a plate of shish kebab and HOT SEX.  Venue: Pillsbury House
We'll Survive If We Don't Protect Ourselves
Relinquishing control reveals the dance, the heart, the human. Choreographer Penelope Freeh. Venue: Grain Belt Bottling House
Who We Found Instead
Is that Bin Laden playing miniature golf in Tora Bora? Two privates discover that war can be quite romantic.  Venue: Pillsbury House
William Shakespeare's Hystery Queene Margaret
Demons, dukes and decapitated lovers. Shakespeare. In the Parking Lot.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre parking lot
Wizard of O.D.D. (The Office of Disinformation Dissemination)
In our Internet world of 24/7 news, perception is reality and O.D.D. spins perception. A conspiracy theory-comedy.  Venue: Interact.
World's Largest Aluminum Foil Ball
Take a twisted musical comedy roadtrip to Ruralville, where the only culture is the culture of fear.  Venue: Bedlam Theatre
Your Private Apocalypse
Questions and corpses keep piling up when a young woman comes to a crossroads in her life and meets the devil.  Venue: Theatre Garage

Graphic

 
MAP
PHOTO
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCE (89%); MAMMALS (89%); TRENDS & EVENTS (89%); CUSTOMS & CULTURAL HERITAGE (87%); DANCE COMPANIES (79%); FILM (79%); NEGATIVE NEWS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (72%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (68%); HOMICIDE (67%); MURDER (67%); UNSOLVED CRIMES (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); WRITERS (60%); theater (%); event (%); list (%); article (%)

Industry: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (79%); FILM (79%); WRITERS (60%)

Geographic: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); UNITED STATES (93%)

Load-Date: August 6, 2007


End of Document
