



Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)
October 15, 2006 Sunday
WASHINGTON EDITION


Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: METRO; Pg. W-2
Length: 734 words
Byline: Samantha Bennett
Body


The big news this week has been that Google bought YouTube. If you don't have a computer, you must be mystified. It sounds like something overheard in a playpen.
I meet many people around town who admit to either not owning a computer or not having the faintest idea how to get online. I must have discussed the terms "Web," "Internet" and "online" with my mother a dozen times before she finally gave up and left her computer in its box when she moved to the retirement palace. She is perfectly happy to order things from catalogs over the phone, and I am perfectly happy not to have to explain that she hasn't won the Belgian lottery, doesn't need to correct the people who keep offering male performance medications and that the Nigerian lady doesn't really need to borrow her bank account.
Those of us with Internet access waste a lot of time, anyway. While my mom is baking cookies or doing the lindy hop at a dance, we are absorbed in Googling one another. 
While I have been Googling for a long time now, I have only recently ventured into the world of YouTube. I didn't go there on purpose, but friends started sending me links to strange bits of video they thought I needed to see. I'm not sure what conclusions to draw except that I might need to find some less demented friends.
One video opens with a pair of turtles mating in the middle of a rocky dirt road. You hear the crunch of the filmmaker's shoes as he or she approaches the critters, and you can almost feel the glee from behind the camera.
"Holy cow!" the auteur must be thinking. "Hot turtle-on-turtle action! What luck! Thank God I have my camera!"
The turtles, who have no shame, are going at it in what can only be described as a totally dull way. Just as you, the viewer, are beginning to think, "Perhaps there's a video of drying paint I could be watching," the reptilian porn takes an ugly and violent turn.
The male turtle slides off the female and, instead of falling asleep or ordering a pizza, he backs up a few steps and, with surprising speed, lurches forward and crashes his shell into hers. And then he does it some more. CRACK! Ms. Turtle is knocked an inch or two away like a croquet ball that doesn't roll very well. CRACK! She tries to run away, but, sadly, she is a turtle. CRACK!
And then, in another surprising plot twist, Mr. Turtle climbs back on and resumes vigorously Googling her.
(What is the role of the cameraperson here? When is it time to put down the camera and intervene? What would Marlin Perkins say? Probably that we all need more insurance.)
Watching that video made me feel vaguely dirty and stupid, so I made sure to send it to some friends.
But another one made me feel downright queasy. Let me introduce it with those three magical words: "Japanese game show."
The clip is all in Japanese, so it's a little bit hard to tell exactly what's happening, but male contestants stand in a standard game-show lineup while an annoying host yammers at them. Each one, in turn, is given a Japanese tongue-twister and a time limit. If he makes a mistake or takes too long, he is penalized.
Severely penalized. A spring-loaded paddle pops up out of the floor in front of him and smacks him with great force squarely in the YouTube.
The contestants don't seem to be wearing any suitable protection, such as, perhaps, a wok. Upon being smacked, each one doubles over, grimaces, groans, topples to the floor, writhes, turns green and probably realizes that a vasectomy would have been less painful and might well not have been televised to the nation, though you never can tell in Japan.
The audience howls with laughter. What do they care? They eat eels.
Granted, the impact to the male groin region is a cross-cultural guaranteed belly laugh, as relied upon in countless commercials, movies and home videos of adorable children, but I have never quite understood the comedy value.
As a woman, I don't know what that feels like and never will. I have known more than a few men whose necks I would cheerfully wring, but hitting below the belt is ... well, hitting below the belt. Perhaps I was an inept purse-snatcher in a previous life.
Google + YouTube, or GooTube, will probably become only more and more insanely popular in the future, as more people have digital video cameras and fast Internet connections. Our ancestors could only dream of having the powerful technology and free time to watch turtles have rough sex.

Notes

Samantha Bennett can be reached at  or 412-263-3572.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CROQUET (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%)

Company:  GOOGLE INC (58%)

Ticker: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

Industry: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); PUBLISHING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%)

Load-Date: April 30, 2009


End of Document
