



St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
June 24, 2007 Sunday
North Edition


Copyright 2007 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1
Length: 769 words
Byline: CHUIN-WEI YAP; JODIE TILLMAN; MOLLY MOORHEAD, Times Staff Writers
Body


We curse them. We use them. We compare them. Like it or not, State Roads 54 and 52 are Pasco's only across-the-county east-west routes. We have all grown a little older while riding them. But just so we can share your pain, the Lane Ranger sent two of our wannabe NASCAR racers in search of truth, trucks and the travails of east-west travel. - Chuin-Wei Yap
State Road 54
Jodie Tillman
Distance traveled: 21 miles, from Pasco Times office in Land O'Lakes to U.S. 19
Time taken: 32 minutes, morning rush hour; 32 minutes, evening
Goodbyes rarely last long on State Road 54.
A moving truck passes me east of Gunn Highway. We meet at a traffic light west of Little Road. Similar reunions happen with a red convertible, a Mitsubishi Galant and a Ford pickup.
Is this an open highway or a chockablock suburban strip? SR 54 can be both, and that's part of what makes it such an inscrutable road.
One moment, you're in that classic commuting haze: You're a heavy-footed daydreamer, coasting at about (ahem) 60 mph and barely remembering the scenery. (On a side note, shouldn't we be slowing down as we approach the Little Road intersection?)
You wake from your haze only to skirt the occasional piece of sod that has fallen off some truck, to move around a light-footer clinging to the left lane or to notice the poor armadillo that never made it to safety.
Then, depending on the time of day or where you are on SR 54, you're suddenly stuck in what feels like a funeral procession for that armadillo: Everybody and his brother and his construction truck is making the trip en masse.
Turns out this trip is going to take you longer than you'd planned. (I've been late for two appointments in Wesley Chapel because I didn't take into account the traffic.)
You start to question yourself: Is there an accident? Just too many of us? Didn't I see a billboard advertising vasectomies not long before I saw this one advertising sonograms?
Confusing place, and I have to say that's part of the strange charm when it comes to the landscape. I like that you can pass a neighborhood called Heron Cove and later see an actual egret stalking the edges of a pond.
Driving the other afternoon, I was struck again by the lush greenery of one particular area just near the interstate in Wesley Chapel. That is, of course, where the Cypress Creek Town Center will go one day. I guess some goodbyes on SR 54 do last forever.
State Road 52
Molly Moorhead
Distance traveled:
22 miles, from Bellamy Brothers Boulevard to U.S. 19
Time taken: 30 minutes, morning rush hour; 34 minutes, evening
On State Road 52, we are all prisoners of the dump truck.
Take the one 16 cars ahead of me, heading west before 8 a.m. on a forgotten weekday. There is no passing this guy, nor anyone else whose pace is hindered by his wide load.
That's life on a two-lane commute.
Not that that's all bad. State Road 54 can brag about its four extra lanes, but with them come the other hassles of suburbia, like minivans.
Out here on SR 52 - the locals call it God's country - the sky is big and the clouds are pretty and the trees are green (okay, brownish-green). So aside from those infernal trucks this isn't such a bad drive.
U.S. 41 intersection: I hold my breath between curses. This corner resembles the floor of a little boy's playroom: dump trucks, tow trucks and semitrailers. Adding to the fun, there are no arrows for the turning lanes. On the green, little cars like mine ease into the middle of the intersection waiting for an opening, or a T-bone.
New Pasco meets old at the Suncoast Parkway overpass. Four roomy lanes. Thousands of traffic cones. Subdivision entrances reminiscent of Stonehenge. Maybe this will be a brisk, efficient intersection someday, if the construction west of the highway is ever done. But as long as they're pouring concrete, could they add a no-trucks flyover?
Three miles later and now there's relief. At Moon Lake Road, I'm finally free of the construction zone and the road opens up to six lanes.
The trucks still surround me, but at least now their diesel exhaust isn't aimed right at my air vents.
But whatever 52 gives you in space it immediately takes back in time. Drive a mile, hit a light. Drive 2 miles, hit a light. West Pasco makes me miss the open fields from a few miles back, where I wasn't tempted by ATMs and doughnut shops.
Then again, it's a long drive and I'm a little thirsty.
Chicago Avenue: Oh, good, a McDonald's.
Road conditions
Tillman: Smooth
Moorhead: Needs improvement
Traffic lights
Tillman: 15
Moorhead: 14
McDonald's
Tillman: 3
Moorhead: 1
Speed limits
Tillman: 45, 55 and 60
Moorhead: 45, 50 and 55
Officers passed
Tillman: 1
Moorhead: 4

Notes

Ran in all editions.

Graphic

 
PHOTO, ZACH BOYDEN-HOLMES - Times: Traveling west on State Road 54 through Land O'Lakes, drivers whip past neighborhoods and developments. Or creep past them. It depends. PHOTO, ZACH BOYDEN-HOLMES - Times: Few houses and lots of trees flank a two-lane portion of State Road 52. Traffic is light but the pace is slow if you're caught behind a dump truck. PHOTO, Photos.com: Road conditions PHOTO, Photos.com: Traffic lights PHOTO, AP: McDonald's PHOTO, Photos.com: Speed limits PHOTO, Photos.com: Officers passed
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: AUTO RACING (76%); DEATH NOTICES & OBITUARIES (76%); COMMUTING (73%); SUBURBS (72%); NASCAR RACING (71%)

Industry: PUBLISHING (73%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%)

Load-Date: June 24, 2007


End of Document
