



South China Morning Post.com
July 26, 2024 Friday


Copyright 2024 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIF
Length: 1227 words
Byline:  Suji Owen 
Body


Got a year to spare? Hear how others spent their 12 months and how to make the most of it if you do take the plunge, whatever your age
My daughter has just returned from her gap-year travels, sunburned and unkempt, and bursting with tales of adventure. A mixture of volunteering and solo travel, plus six months of physically demanding paid work to fund the year, has led to staggering personal growth. I hardly recognise the independent, financially prudent, culturally aware and helpful adult who has come back to replace the schoolgirl who left. 
Then again, it has been a year and a lot can happen in 12 months. Who can say that they knew a year ago exactly what their life would look like today? And more to the point, what could you accomplish if you dedicated this next year to something completely different? Proficiency in a new language or musical instrument perhaps or something painstakingly assembled from a million tiny laser-cut pieces of balsa wood? Whatever you might choose, the cultural significance of the year, our go-to unit for "a long time", adds weight and often a sense of completeness to projects, which makes it a useful framing device for many excellent limited-run serial podcasts. This week's selections offer a glimpse into a Martian reality show and a year in the life of a likeable cricketer, as well as exploration down clearly marked rabbit-hole territory. 
The one I will be listening to for a while yet, however, is the show inspiring me to plan my own gap year. While I have been quietly getting old, apparently a whole industry has sprung up to accommodate the growing number of those on "silver" gap years, with over-60 travellers sometimes referred to as "golden gappers". Also gaining popularity is the family gap year, which is somehow enhanced rather than encumbered by the addition of small children. That sounds like a very long year. 
Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with , our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team. 
The four-part  sees comedian and serial deep-dive podcaster Jamie Loftus joining the high IQ society after taking the test as a joke and scoring in the 98th percentile. There is definitely an element of walking into a bar intent on starting a fight and those with sensitive hearing should be warned that an airhorn features as punctuation. Often. But what ensues over the four-part series is a highly entertaining story beginning with the founding history and ethos of the group, and the discovery of and public engagement with an aggressively far-right contingent who operate in a Facebook group called Firehouse. Loftus does ask pertinent questions about intelligence, elitism and toxic masculinity. 
If you are a cricket fan, you might be well-disposed to the provocatively misleading title . It is not a true-crime pod but a chance to keep company with 39-year-old South African and Namibian pro cricketer David Wiese over 14 episodes as he jets about the world taking part in short-form competitions. In 2017, he signed a three-year contract with British county team Sussex as a local player but in the fallout of Brexit in 2020, rule changes meant he was forced into his current role, as a franchise cricketer. Sometimes glamorous, often challenging, especially with his wife and two young daughters in tow, Wiese documents the ups and downs of life on the road with detailed insight. 
This is a 12-part abridged podcast version of Dr Lucy Maddox's insightful and refreshingly unpatronising 2022 self-help book of the same name. Drawing on her experience as a clinical psychologist, in , Maddox offers practical and evidence-based tips structured around a calendar year to help us lead a more thoughtful, positive life. January is about decision-making, March tackles spring cleaning, the heat of August inspires an episode on anger management. September deals with the dreaded Sunday night feeling of going back to work after a break and in the November episode, Maddox extols the Joy of Missing Out, something that I felt I knew but was glad to be reminded of. The host's soothing manner might remind you of your wisest, calmest friend but the ideas could make this year feel very different. 
Nasa's year-long mock Mars habitat experiment came to a close on July 6, which reminded me of this seven-episode show called  by Gimlet Media about another fake Mars experiment, conducted in Hawaii by HI-SEAS (Hawaii Space Exploration Analog and Simulation) in 2016. What possesses people to volunteer for such an experiment, and is every Mars mission in our future destined to become a reality television drama? The main purpose of the experiment was to document social interactions and emotional states but the series is quite light on the science and more focused on the romantic relationships that bloomed and decayed over a fraught year spent trapped in the 1,200 sq ft habitat. Still fascinating. 
Until recently, the idea of an adult gap year sounded to me like a precursor to some kind of breakdown. But I am hearing more and more about people bang in the middle of their career taking sabbaticals to wander around the world with a backpack - with the full support of their employer. In one episode of long-running wanderlust pod , host Jason Moore interviews Brooke Thayer, who quit her six-figure job in San Francisco at the age of 34 to take in unique cultural experiences in more than 20 countries. Her initial hang-ups about "obstacles", such as not wanting to travel alone or dealing with the need to pre-plan, are very relatable. Other episodes talk about the importance of gap years at any age. 
If you are still wondering what a gap year actually is, you can do worse than take the conversational route with Josh Clark and Josh Bryant of . Launched in 2008, this venerable O.G. of trivia pods recently released its 2,000th episode, one of which outlines everything you ought to know about the traditional gap year experience between high school and university. They raise the point that it is predominantly a British practice, the value of which hangs on a number of factors. 
Unscripted and unrehearsed, the two journalists research each episode's topic individually before coming together to chat about it in a way that manages to be interesting and entertaining, but casual and relaxing as well. They tackle subjects like Spam and vasectomies - not in the same episode thank goodness - and look at the science behind break ups or if smiling makes you happy. 
True crime fans love their treatment of unsolved mysteries, like the case of the Russian hikers found dead and half naked at Dyatlov Pass. Even if you already know the general outlines of the events, Josh and Bryant's compelling presentation of what they have researched, coupled with their obvious enjoyment of what they learn from each other, makes this an easy listen, even after hundreds of episodes. 
My favourite episode for today (it changes all the time, so shoot me) is a piece of WWII trivia that I had never heard about. The subtitle tells you everything you need to know. 
Copyright (c) 2024. South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved. 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); TRENDS (76%); CUSTOMS & CULTURAL HERITAGE (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (70%); TRENDS & EVENTS (65%)

Company:  META PLATFORMS INC (50%)

Organization: AMERICAN MENSA (84%)

Ticker: META (NASDAQ) (50%)

Industry: NAICS516210 MEDIA STREAMING DIST SVCS, SOCIAL NETWORKS, AND OTHER MEDIA NETWORKS AND CONTENT PROVIDERS (50%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (50%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); PODCASTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (65%)

Geographic: MARS (72%)

Load-Date: July 26, 2024


End of Document
