



South China Morning Post
June 17, 2024 Monday


Copyright 2024 South China Morning Post Ltd.All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Pg. 11
Length: 956 words
Byline: Anthea Rowan , 
Body


The first "condom" ever used wasn't to protect a woman from pregnancy.  
In around 3000BC, King Minos of Crete's mistress died after having sex with him. He used a goat's bladder as a barrier after that - to protect himself, his wife, and future mistresses from the poison he assumed his semen must carry. The ancient Egyptians were among the first civilisations to use sheaths - again, not to prevent pregnancy. They believed they would protect everybody from diseases - including bilharzia, or schistosomiasis, a tropical infection caused by a parasitic freshwater worm. 
In Japan and China, condoms, or something like sheaths, were used before the 15th century. Some were made of tortoiseshell and later, thin leather or oiled silk.  
The first known use of condoms in Europe was around 1564, as documented by anatomist Gabriele Fallopia, who gave his name to the Fallopian tubes. 
In his book De Morbo Gallico, literally "The French Disease", Fallopia describes sheaths made of linen, lubricated with spit, and secured with a ribbon. He claimed to have tested them on over 1,000 men to prove their efficacy against syphilis. 
About 100 years later, King Charles II of England used a sheath made of lamb's intestine to avoid fathering any more illegitimate children. 
Some men at the time used something similar made of a fish bladder, as it was finer.  
Often, butchers were tasked with fashioning these and then testing them to see how strong they were; butchers understood the high tensile strength of animals' guts. 
The man who designed the sheath for the king was Colonel Quondam, an English army doctor. Many people believe this is where the word "condom" came from, although the word itself - often condum - first appeared in the diary of another doctor, Daniel Turner, who treated syphilis.  
By the 18th century, the condom had a reputation as a reliable tool against the spread of disease and fathering of illegitimate children. The fertility rate in England experienced a decline at the time, although condoms weren't available to the masses until the 19th century, and then only thanks to American inventor Charles Goodyear - of tyre fame - and the discovery of vulcanised rubber. 
Using heat and sulphur - vulcanising - renders the rubber more malleable and much stronger. At last condoms could be produced in bulk, and many more people could afford them. 
In the 1920s latex was invented, a product of the rubber tree. Lots of people are allergic to it, but today synthetic latex is available. A flexible and strong material, it can stretch 800 per cent before breaking. That elasticity is what makes condoms safe. 
Although the condom's history is colourful and varied, it has been the only contraceptive form available to men - apart from abstinence from sex, non-vaginal ejaculation, or a vasectomy, usually seen as a permanent method.  
Women have had more options, including the birth control pill or injections, a coil, diaphragm or female condom.  
Now scientists are discovering new ways to pause male fertility temporarily, without unwanted side effects. If tests are successful, new drugs could broaden shared responsibility for contraception between the sexes. 
Recent initial experiments on lab mice found the right dose of a particular drug - CDD-2807 - at the right time made male mice infertile. 
Martin Matzuk, a reproductive biologist, clinical pathologist, and director of the Centre for Drug Discovery at Baylor College of Medicine in the US state of Texas, was lead author of the study.  
He says the drug works by inhibiting the activity of an enzyme in sperm called serine/threonine kinase 33 (STK33). This makes the affected sperm move slowly and less efficiently through the female reproductive tract, preventing them from being able to fertilise eggs.  
The mice did not appear to suffer any side effects; the drug did not accumulate in the brain, and as soon as it was stopped, the male mice were able to sire litters again. 
Matzuk likes the use of CDD-2807 for several reasons, especially because it easily enters the testes and has no toxic side effects.  
"Since 1960, there has been a birth control pill for women but not one for men. If men [or mice] are infertile due to a particular gene mutation, that would suggest that chemical inhibition of that same gene would induce a contraceptive effect," he says. 
With more than 1,000 genes expressed during sperm cell production, Matzuk adds, there could be many more options for male contraception. 
Matzuk's group is just one of many working on the science to develop a male contraceptive.  
A review of research into male contraception from a team at the University of South Dakota in the US highlights some promising forms being tested on men.  
One is a gel containing the male sex hormone testosterone and segesterone acetate (Nestorone) that aids in birth control.  
After 12 weeks of applying the gel to their shoulders daily, 86 per cent of the men taking part showed a much lower sperm count, around one million sperm/ml of semen, which is deemed so low as to be effective contraception.  
A healthy sperm count is up to 200 million sperm/ml, and a man is considered to have a low sperm count if there are less than 15 million. 
The review, published in the medical journal Basic and Clinical Andrology in November 2023, noted that other clinical trials are testing the drug DMAU, for dimethandrolone undecanoate, in oral and injectable form.  
Early results suggest it is well tolerated and shows promise as a male contraceptive. 
"It is long overdue that male partners share the burden of family planning," the researchers say.  
"It is our hope that there will soon be several safe, effective, and reversible contraceptive options available to male patients."
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: CONTRACEPTION (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HISTORY (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); DEATH & DYING (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); MEN (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH (77%); ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY (68%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (65%); MILITARY MEDICAL PERSONNEL (63%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (60%)

Industry: CONTRACEPTION (90%); RUBBER & SILICONE (86%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); MILITARY MEDICAL PERSONNEL (63%); SYNTHETIC RUBBER (60%)

Geographic: ENGLAND (93%); CHINA (74%); JAPAN (72%); EUROPE (56%)

Load-Date: June 16, 2024


End of Document
