



South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)
February 27, 2000


Copyright 2000 South China Morning Post Ltd.
Section: AGENDA; Pg. 1
Length: 2273 words
Byline: Helen Luk
Body


 IDA HUI WAI-HA watches her nine-month-old son, Ethan, fidgeting on the hotel sofa. A smile lights up her face. She radiates happiness. A year ago, with only dim hopes of conceiving, she and her husband began the process to adopt a child.
 But then their breakthrough came with intracytoplasmic sperm injection treatment (ICSI), and Ethan was conceived.
 Ms Hui's joy is contrasted by another woman's despair. Lisa, 36, has had two failed attempts at assisted reproduction. She says she will try twice more.
One in 15 couples in Hong Kong has infertility problems and with more marrying later in life, and more women pursuing careers, gynaecologists say the number of people seeking technical help to reproduce is rising.
 Even so, there is no legislation governing the industry. That is about to change. There has been a move to regulate since the early 1990s, and lawmakers have finished initial scrutiny of the Human Reproductive Technology Bill. It is due for its second reading in the Legislative Council before July. A Provisional Council on Reproductive Technology, to be followed by a permanent monitoring body, has also drafted a code of practice.
 Two years into their marriage, Ms Hui and her American husband discovered that he had a low sperm count. They were already struggling; she had had one of her fallopian tubes removed after it became infected.
 "When the doctor told me that we were infertile, I felt that the sky had fallen," Ms Hui says. "Given my Chinese background, it was very important for me to have my own son."
 A gynaecologist referred them to the Prince of Wales Hospital's in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) centre. IVF is the medical term for producing a test-tube baby: removing an egg from the woman and mixing it with a prepared sperm sample outside the womb, and producing an embryo that can then be implanted.
 In 1993 and 1995, Ms Hui underwent two IVF treatments, but to no avail. "It was quite painful to have your egg extracted under no anaesthesia. I overreacted to the ovulation-inducing drugs and was hospitalised for two days . . . but you convince yourself that it is worth it," she says.
 When she was about to lose hope, help came in the form of ICSI, in which one sperm is injected directly into the egg.
 Four embryos were replaced into her womb. Ethan was the only successful conception. "We felt like he was the best gift in the world. Even though it was during the financial crisis and my business plunged, we've got something better than money," she says.
 Infertility can result from a problem with either the female partner - a failure to release eggs regularly, blocked fallopian tubes, or endometriosis, a condition in which deposits of gland-like material lie outside the uterus - or the male. He may have a low sperm count or be impotent.
 With 30 per cent of infertile couples, the problem is with the man. With a further 30 per cent, it is the woman's condition, while it is a joint problem with another 30 per cent. The rest have unknown conditions.
 Ms Hui counts herself as lucky: "I am already quite fortunate in the sense that my husband has been understanding. I was very upset and blamed him for a while, but a couple should indeed face this together.
 "Some ladies I met at the centre had their husbands threaten to find a second wife or another woman over the border (if) they failed to deliver a child.
 "Apart from the physical rigour, these wives were also under a tremendous psychological burden," she says.
 IVF programmes are run by three public hospitals - the Prince of Wales, Queen Mary and Kwong Wah - and two private practices, the Sanatorium Hospital and Victory ART Laboratory. The pregnancy rates of individual centres differ but they claim figures of 20 to 25 per cent.
 Lisa, however, is one of the less fortunate. She has been married for five years and underwent an IVF treatment last May and October, without success.
 "I've had a miscarriage and tried OI (ovulation induction) and IUI (intra -uterine insemination) three times before but it didn't work. The diagnosis is uncertain, but I have hormonal imbalance and my husband's sperm count is low," she says.
 Lisa says she had been "sort of excited about the treatment".
 "But I was also stressed. I was quite disappointed when it didn't work the first time, but I had a little cry and got on with my life. The second time was very disappointing. But I've been through many disappointments, so it's only another one," she says. But her voice is strained, and it is clear that she has not recovered emotionally.
 She plans to have another two attempts before calling it quits. "It tends to dominate your thoughts. It's always at the back of your mind and you keep noticing people around you who already have two or three children," she says.
 She still feels that IVF is her best chance of conceiving but adds: "I still think the success rate of IVF is pretty low, considering the amount of effort, money and time you invest in it."
 Her friends have told her of difficulties they encountered obtaining information such as the success rates of the clinics. But under the ordinance that will change: clients will be entitled to information about treatment procedures, possible side effects and complications, limitations and potential outcomes, other available options and service charges.
 Principal Medical and Health Officer at the Health and Welfare Bureau, Dr Thomas Chung Wai-hung, says: "A legislative framework is to be set up to exercise systematic monitoring, including licensing of clinics and doctors, and the administration of the practice."
 The legislation will also oblige practitioners to counsel potential clients, those undergoing treatments and would-be donors.
 It should also cover ethical issues arising from the use of such technologies, such as the number of embryos that can be implanted for each four-week, IVF cycle, what information should be available to clients and donors, the storage and disposal of embryos, surrogacy and gender selection.
 The list of issues is huge. Professor Chris Haines, of the Chinese University of Hong Kong's department of obstetrics and gynaecology at the Prince of Wales Hospital, says: "The natural fertility of women tends to decline from age 35, and the quality of eggs deteriorates as you get older."
 The hospital performed 352 IVF cycles last year, up from about 300 in 1998. The pregnancy rate was 25 per cent, he says.
 "Because couples tend to have babies later, they do not have much time on their hands and thus females get pushed into opting for more invasive methods that ensure a higher success rate," he says.
 At the Prince of Wales, where the average waiting time to join an IVF programme in the public sector stream of the service is up to two years, the waiting list is growing.
 At Queen Mary Hospital, it takes about 15 months, the department of obstetrics and gynaecology's Professor Ho Pak-chung says.
 "There are many more patients visiting the clinic than when it was first set up," Professor Ho says. "In 1989, there were 200 people, but it surged to 690 in 1997 and 731 in 1998." There were a few more last year, though he does not yet have figures, he says.
 Although the number of IVF and ICSI cycles dropped to 435 last year, from 483 in 1998, the number of cycles in which frozen embryos were transferred increased from 272 to 392. Queen Mary achieved about a 22 per cent pregnancy rate last year.
 Kwong Wah Hospital opened its infertility clinic in July 1998. The only non -university-based public IVF centre, it has treated 59 couples with a total of 89 IVF cycles. But there are 121 patients on its waiting list, says department of obstetrics and gynaecology chief of service Dr Lawrence Tang Chang-hung.
 In contrast, the waiting time on the Prince of Wales' private sector list is one to three months.
 Age is a critical factor in the success or failure of IVF and the public hospitals enforce a cut-off age, given their limited resources, ranging between 36 and 40 years old.
 But the two private practices take in couples in their 40s and those who cannot wait for public service.
 "The success rate of IVF slides down dramatically by 50 per cent after 40 and the possibility of miscarriage is also much higher," Professor Haines says.
 "As it is such a stressful and time-consuming process, and if the case is hopeless, it would be unfair to give them a false expectation of success."
 Yet 27 per cent of Victory ART Laboratory's clients are over 40 years old. Its chief embryologist, Tracy Ong Sze-hwa, says: "I can foresee a trend of getting older patients. Comparatively, Hong Kong people don't come forward until late. There is a general lack of knowledge as to where to seek help."
 THE cost of an IVF cycle varies greatly. At Queen Mary, it is $ 1,000 for the public service and $ 60,000 for the private; Kwong Wah charges $ 8,500; Sanatorium asks $ 50,000; and Victory charges $ 50,000 to $ 60,000.
 Lately, the issue of how many embryos should be allowed to be implanted has aroused heated debate in Britain, prompted by an increase in the number of twins and triplets born to women undergoing IVF. Almost half of the 5,061 babies born in Britain as a result of IVF in 1996-97 were from multiple pregnancies, which carry a higher risk of complications and impose heavy emotional and financial burdens on parents. New guidelines to be issued by the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists call for the number of embryos implanted to be reduced from three to two.
 Under Hong Kong's new code of practice, no more than three embryos may be implanted for each cycle. However, for special circumstances with medical justification, this may be relaxed for women above the age of 35 to a maximum of four or five embryos in the first and subsequent cycles respectively.
 It is suggested that the longest period for storing embryos should be 10 years. Once passed, the Human Reproductive Technology Ordinance will ban commercial dealings in embryos and commercial surrogacy, while it recommends not offering gender selection other than to avoid a severe sex-linked genetic disease.
 Foetal reduction - when in a multiple pregnancy, some foetuses are aborted to give the remaining ones a higher chance of survival - should not be carried out unless it is authorised by the court and with the parents' consent, it says. They should be informed of the reasons and possible risks involved, such as miscarriage of remaining foetuses. Parents will be prohibited from the procedure if their only reason is to have fewer children. All clinics said they had not performed it.
 In the past two years in Hong Kong, there has been an increase in twins and triplets births (see table), prompting Prince of Wales Hospital doctors to re -implant two to three instead of three to four embryos, Professor Haines says.
 "It is a difficult decision to make: the more embryos you put back, the higher the chance of pregnancy, but also the higher the chance of multiple pregnancy. It's a trade-off."
 The Sixth World Congress on IVF reported in 1989 that pregnancy rates increase from about nine per cent for one embryo transfer to nearly 25 per cent for three. But this contrasts with a Queen Mary study examining figures for treatments between 1981 and 1995. It shows that the after-birth mortality was 11.3 per cent in triplets and quadruplets and 2.6 per cent in twins, but only 0.8 per cent in singletons.
 All doctors the Sunday Morning Post spoke to agree on the potential dangers of carrying triplets - pre-term labour, prematurity, lower birth weights and gestational hypertension. Triplets face more problems: Professor Nicholas Fisk of the department of foetal medicine at Queen Charlotte's Hospital, London, says: "Twins are a problem but triplets are a disaster. Triplets have nine times the death rate per baby and 47 times the risk of cerebral palsy compared with a singleton pregnancy. Twins have eight times the risk of cerebral palsy."
 However, Ms Ong of Victory says multiple pregnancies are less of a concern than boosting the pregnancy rate. "In patients over 40 years of age, they are so old that it is difficult to get them pregnant. The chance of getting multiple pregnancy is very rare even if you put four embryos in," she says.
 Both Ms Hui and Lisa say they were not prepared for twins or triplets. Lisa says: "The final decision was up to me. It was a very difficult one to make. Each doctor has a different opinion. But the thought of putting four embryos in scares me," she says.
 FERTILITY PROBLEMS AND TREATMENT
 When to seek medical help
 When no pregnancy occurs after a year of trying
 Periods at intervals of three weeks or less
 No periods for longer than three months
 History of pelvic infection
 Two or more miscarriages
 Female over the age of 30
 Male who has had prostate infection
 Male who has had vasectomy reversal
 Monthly routine of a woman undergoing IVF
 First two weeks
 1. Ovarian stimulation - gonadotrophin injection to encourage egg production
 2. Monitor response of ovary with blood tests and ultrasound tests
 Day 14
 1. Once follicles mature, proceed to egg collection. Patient is tranquillised and eggs "sucked" from ovary
 2. Sperm and egg placed together on day eggs are collected
 Day 16
 1. Eggs should be fertilised
 2. Embryos (2-4) put in uterus
 Next two weeks
 1. Further gonadotrophin injection to improve uterus lining and chance of pregnancy
 2. Wait for embryos to be implanted

Graphic

 
(Photo: Garrige Ho); BUNDLE OF SMILES: Ethan is 'better than money', says his beaming mother Ida Hui, who had her son with the help of IVF.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); REPRODUCTIVE DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); NEGATIVE NEWS (75%); ADOPTION (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

Industry: REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%)

Geographic: HONG KONG, CHINA (90%)

Load-Date: February 29, 2000


End of Document
