



China Daily
April 16, 2014 Wednesday


Copyright 2014 China Daily Information. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company All Rights Reserved


Length: 1264 words
Body


Beijing 100 violations issued for air pollution in March
Law enforcement authorities fined 100 violators of Beijing's Air Pollution Prevention Regulation, which took effect on March 1, last month, People's Daily reported on Tuesday. According to law enforcement officers from the capital's environmental protection bureau, fines totaled more than 3 million yuan ($482,100). Another 64 cases are still being processed, the report said.
Top procuratorate opens account on WeChat
The Supreme People's Procuratorate launched an official account on WeChat, the mobile messaging application, on Tuesday in an effort to boost transparency. It launched its mobile news portal run by sohu.com, after opening official micro blog accounts on three platforms - sina.com, qq.com and jcrb.com in March. The procuratorate said its WeChat account will disclose information about proceedings in major cases, important judicial interpretations and its work.
Captain America II tops at box office
Marvel Entertainment's Captain America: The Winter Soldier topped China's box office in the week ending April 13 with a weekly take of 260 million yuan ($42 million), according to a film industry publication.
Starring Chris Evans as the shield-bearing superhero and Scarlett Johansson as the Black Widow, the film has earned about 495 million yuan ($80 million) since its debut on April 4, figures released by China Film News showed on Tuesday.
Guangdong
Cancer now most deadly disease in Guangzhou
Cancer has become the most lethal disease in Guangzhou, according to Guangzhou Daily. Of every 100,000 residents, 248 had some form of cancer in 2013, and it killed 144 of every 100,000 residents. In urban areas, 313 of every 100,000 residents have cancer, according to statistics from the Guangzhou Center of Disease Control quoted by the newspaper on Monday.
Man with large tumor released from hospital
A man who had a large tumor on his esophagus was released from the hospital on Monday after a month of treatment in Guangzhou, Southern Metropolis Daily reported. The 53-year-old man surnamed Luo, who was a heavy drinker of alcohol and coffee for 25 years, had a tumor that measured 18.3 centimeters long when it was discovered in early March.
Divorce rejected after husband's regrets
A woman in Guangzhou sued for divorce after her husband found she was taking contraceptive pills and thought she had a relationship with another man, Guangzhou Daily reported. The woman said she took the pills to cure menstruation problems, but the husband, who had received a vasectomy, thought she was cheating. The court ruled that the marriage still existed because the husband showed regret and said they still have feelings for each other.
Jiangsu
GPS navigator guides taxi driver into river
A taxi driver in Haimen drove his cab into a river amid foggy conditions on Monday because his GPS navigator gave him the wrong directions, Modern Express reported. The driver, surnamed Xu, managed to open a rear door while the back of the taxi was still above water and escaped with his female passenger. Xu had recently bought the navigator for 200 yuan ($32.13) from an online store.
Boy, 9, asks parents to stop cancer treatments
A 9-year-old boy recently diagnosed with T-lymphoblastic lymphoma, a form of blood cancer, tried to persuade his parents to stop his medical care after he researched his illness online and discovered the cost of the treatments, Yangtze Evening News reported on Tuesday. Liang Liang's parents tried to convince him that he had a respiratory disease, but he learned of his condition after an online search. The parents said they would not stop the treatments. They earn only 1,000 yuan ($160) a month and have already spent more than 150,000 yuan on the boy's medical bills.
Debtors identified on public LED display
The court of Liuhe district in Nanjing used a large LED display in the city's downtown area to show the pictures of debtors who wouldn't pay. The display included names, ID numbers and amounts of money owed, China News Service reported on Tuesday.
The announcements began on Monday, with 27 people displayed.
Authorities confirm new bird flu case
A human case of H7N9 has been confirmed, the provincial health department said on Monday.
The infection of a 52-year-old man, surnamed Chuan, was confirmed on Sunday. He is in critical condition, according to the department.
China has reported more than 120 human H7N9 cases this year, including at least 39 deaths.Zhejiang
Security guard fired for love letter to resident
A security guard named Ruan at a residential community in Hangzhou was fired after writing a love letter to a resident of the community, Qianjiang Evening News reported. The woman called Ruan's boss and complained she was being harassed. After being fired, Ruan complained to the local labor supervision department, saying he had a right to pursue his love interest. The department intervened, asking for Ruan's employer to compensate him.
Five alleged drug traffickers arrested
Police in Xiaoshan say they have arrested five armed drug trafficking suspects and seized more than 3,000 grams of drugs, Zhejiang Daily reported on Tuesday. The authorities received a report about the case on April 13 and rounded up the five suspects by the next morning. The case is under investigation.
Anhui
Wrongly convicted men trying to adapt to life
Zhang Hui and his uncle Zhang Gaoping, who were acquitted in March 2013 after serving 10 years in prison on a wrongful rape and murder conviction, said they are trying to lead normal lives. Zhang Hui said he sometimes has nightmares and cravings for meat, which was seldom served in prison. Both men have bought BMW sedans and Zhang Gaoping bought a 130-square-meter apartment. He said he goes on blind dates to find a wife.
Sichuan
Pilot, maker of plane fined after landing
Authorities fined a pilot 100,000 yuan ($16,100) and the manufacturer of the pilot's plane 500,000 yuan after the pilot landed the small aircraft on a road in Beichuan county to refuel at a gas station, China News Service reported on Tuesday. The southwest regional administration of the Civil Aviation Administration of China said the pilot did not have a civil aviation pilot license and the plane manufacturer did not have a production license.
Henan
Elderly man tracks down good Samaritan
Dengfeng resident Chen Huaijun, 74, traveled more than 10,000 kilometers to find and thank a kindhearted woman who helped him 52 years ago, Zhengzhou Evening News reported on Tuesday. Chen said he was given three bowls of soybeans by Xia Shumei in Dangshan county, Anhui province, one day in 1962 when his hometown was experiencing a severe famine. He never forgot her help, he said.
Yunnan
More than 4,500 still battling forest fire
More than 4,500 people, including firefighters and soldiers, are battling a forest fire that broke out four days ago in the province, authorities said on Tuesday. As of 2 pm on Tuesday, the fire had ripped through an area of 1,350 mu (90 hectares), said a spokesman with the Longyang District Committee of the Communist Party of China.
Qinghai
World's longest plateau rail tunnel completed
The 32.645-km Xinguanjiao Tunnel, the world's longest plateau rail tunnel on the Qinghai-Tibet Railway, was completed on Tuesday, local authorities said. The tunnel is also the longest rail tunnel in China, according to Zhi Changying, an official with the China Railway Tunnel Co Ltd. It is part of the Qinghai-Tibet Railway's second trunk that links Golmud in northwestern Qinghai with Xining, the provincial capital.
Xinhua - China Daily
(China Daily 04/16/2014 page2)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Journal Code: 1493

Subject: AIR POLLUTION (90%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION & POLICY (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLLUTION (90%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (90%); CANCER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); NEGATIVE MISC NEWS (89%); NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); POLLUTION MONITORING, PREVENTION & REMEDIATION (89%); TUMORS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); EMOTIONS (64%); MARRIAGE (64%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (63%); CONTRACEPTION (60%); MENSTRUATION (60%)

Industry: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); WEBSITES & PORTALS (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (70%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (55%)

Person: CHRIS EVANS (79%); SCARLETT JOHANSSON (50%)

Geographic: GUANGZHOU, GUANGDONG, CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (74%); CHINA (94%)

Load-Date: April 15, 2014


End of Document
