



Global Times (China)
July 23, 2014 Wednesday


Copyright 2014 Global Times. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company All Rights Reserved


Length: 653 words
Byline: Lin Kan Hsuan
Body


Birth-control shots are one of the most effective forms of contraception, but long-term use poses health risks. Photo: IC
Other contraceptive methods include vaginal rings and the morning-after pill. Photo: IC
Thirty years ago, propaganda slogans painted on roadside buildings in rural areas declaring "Carry out birth planning for the revolution" and "Complying with the family planning policy is a glorious obligation of every citizen" were the most visible elements of China's birth-control campaign. Couples nowadays have far more options for contraception, with many allowing women to take greater initiative in practicing safe sex. Liu Xiaoping, 25, takes a contraceptive pill each night before she goes to bed except when she is menstruating. She said she and her boyfriend don't like condoms because they "decrease the pleasure" of sex. 
Liu started taking the pill six months ago at the urging of her boyfriend, who said it would lighten her skin and spice up their sex life. But instead of appearing fairer, Liu discovered her skin became increasingly yellow. Her neck also developed unsightly dark spots."At the beginning, we both thought [taking the pill] was a fantastic idea. However, I gradually discovered my boyfriend only cares about himself," Liu said. "After consulting a gynecologist, I feel sure that [my boyfriend] lied to me."Zhang Aiqun, a gynecologist at Mary's Hospital for Women and Infants in Chaoyang district, said women should always be wary of the risks and possible side effects of different contraceptive methods. "Women have to choose the most suitable method based on their age and physicality," Zhang said."The most common side effects [of taking the pill] are weight gain and the development of facial spots. The risk of developing breast cancer can also increase because of changes to hormones. Couples must know how to correctly use their contraceptive method properly and safely no matter what it is." Zhang recalled once performing an abortion on a 44-year-old woman who became pregnant despite using a vaginal ring, a contraceptive device that releases hormones to stop ovulation. "Such situations are more common than you might think. These women usually aren't aware of their vaginal ring being displaced during sex, which means they can get pregnant unexpectedly and possibly endure a painful, expensive abortion," said Zhang.Qiao Jie, a gynecologist at Peking University Third Hospital, said one of the surest ways women can avoid becoming pregnant is by taking birth-control shots. The injections, administered in the upper arm or buttocks, are given once every three months to prevent ovulation. Qiao estimated the effectiveness of birth-control shots is "over 90 percent," but noted some medications can interfere with its use."If a woman taking birth-control shots wants to become pregnant, she must stop taking injections for at least a year," Qiao added.Despite being one of the most effective contraceptive methods, birth-control shots have a range of side effects. "Quite a few women say their periods stop after taking injections. A good doctor will suggest women not to have birth-control injections for more than two years because they can cause bone loss," said Qiao, adding that women can minimize this risk by taking calcium and vitamin D supplements.Qiao warned the side effects of birth-control shots can be "overwhelming for some women," saying it is best to consult with a doctor before deciding on the best form of contraception. "A woman can suffer from menstrual disorders [from taking birth-control shots]. If she already has either abnormal liver function or an endocrine disorder, birth-control shots are not an option," said Qiao.For older women still able to conceive, Qiao recommends tubal ligation, or having one's "tubes tied." "But it's much easier for men to have a vasectomy surgery because they won't suffer as much pain as women," she added.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Journal Code: 1448

Subject: CONTRACEPTION (98%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); SEXUAL BEHAVIOR (90%); MEDICINE & HEALTH (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); FAMILY PLANNING (79%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (79%); ABORTION (78%); MENSTRUATION (78%); WOMEN (78%); BREAST CANCER (51%)

Industry: OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (87%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (79%)

Geographic: BEIJING, CHINA (58%)

Load-Date: July 23, 2014


End of Document
