



South China Morning Post
April 5, 2009 Sunday


Copyright 2009 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: MAGAZINE; Channel hop; Pg. 58
Length: 521 words
Byline: with Yvonne Lai
Body


"Snip, snip" is the sound of the future for  Hank Moody  (David Duchovny, X-Files), the talented but froward New York writer stranded out west in Californication (FX; Mondays at 11pm). Apparently, open-ended vasectomies are  all the rage in Hollywood and Moody has just signed himself up for one.
Fans of the drama need no introduction to Moody's sexcapades, writer's block and bitter-sweet pursuit  of  Karen van der Beek  (Natascha McElhone, The Truman Show) - ex-girlfriend and mother of his tween daughter,  Becca  (Madeleine Martin). The first season finale saw a triumphant Moody and Becca making a fast getaway with Karen, on the night of  her wedding to someone else.
We all know that happily-ever-after does not an exciting sequel make, so to start things off with(out)  a bang in the second season, Moody puts his over-worked equipment under the knife as part of a reconciliatory deal with Karen. The other part of the deal is not using it with any other woman. Moody's atrophied willpower is put to the test as he tries to dodge hurtling curveballs from his feckless past. 
Californication hits the sweet spot between  cynical, exhibitionist and heartbroken. If the first  few episodes are any indication, the writers are  finally giving the talented supporting cast some  space to play instead of making Duchovny carry the load by himself.
Loyal followers of Australia's popular Kath & Kim have been making noises over the fledgling US adaption, calling it a watered-down version. Having never (oh, the shame) seen the original, we're going to give the US Kath & Kim (Star World; Mondays at 8.50pm) our vote of confidence. How can you argue with the casting of  Molly Shannon, skit comedy goddess of Saturday Night Live, and the comical but underrated Selma Blair  (Hell Boy, The Sweetest Thing)? 
Shannon plays Kath Day, a leopard-print wearing, fortysomething divorcee who finally has time for herself - or so she thinks. When her daughter Kim (Blair), who favours hot pants and tight, fluore-scent tank tops, decides to move back home after separating from her husband, Kath's romance with sandwich-maker  Phil Knight  (John Michael Higgins) gains a surly third wheel. The premise of the show may not be "unique", to borrow Kim's favourite word for hot outfits, but the comedy is. 
Finally, Alan Ball's (creator of Six Feet Under) vampire romance series True Blood (premiering  with four back-to-back episodes on Thursday, at  9pm) shows its fangs on the newly rebranded Max Channel (formerly Cinemax). 
In the fictional town of Bon Temps, Louisiana, vampires are living among people in an uneasy  truce, thanks to the invention of synthetic blood. A "gifted" diner waitress,  Sookie Stackhouse  (a blond Anna Paquin, The Piano, X-Men), is fascinated by the bloodsucking  Bill Compton  (British actor  Stephen Moyer; above with Paquin), much to the dismay of her employer and friends. Twilight this ain't - the delightful raunchiness of the colourful  cast of characters (including Rutina Wesley as Stackhouse's best friend Tara and Nelsan Ellis as a gay drug-dealing short-order cook) will definitely quicken your pulse.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: WRITERS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); REBRANDING (73%)

Industry: WRITERS (90%); REBRANDING (73%)

Person: MOLLY SHANNON (79%)

Geographic: UNITED STATES (78%); AUSTRALIA (69%)

Load-Date: April 6, 2009


End of Document
