



Xinhua General News Service
July 11, 2010 Sunday 1:15 AM EST


Copyright 2010 Xinhua News Agency
Section: WORLD NEWS; Science & Technology
Length: 814 words
Dateline: By Jamil Bhatti ISLAMABAD July 11
Body


   The majority of Pakistani  people, following religious and social taboos, are not ready to  support the government's campaign to have fewer children despite  of insufficient food, water, energy, education, healthcare, social  welfare and job opportunities for the 180 million people in the  country. 
    The Pakistani government started a special campaign of "Two  children, happy family" almost two decades ago when the concept of  "Big family, easy life" advocated by some religious and social  circles was very popular in the country. 
    Pakistani religious scholars believe that big population does  not cause poverty but authorities' mismanagement failing to  utilize all the resources given by God leads to the financial  problems. 
    "God has promised to provide food to every one who gets birth  in this universe then how can we disobey our God," said Hafiz  Idrees, a religious scholar in Islamabad, adding that "government  should focus on its productive policies and search for new  resources instead of advising people to have two children." 
    Most of the Pakistanis believing in a verse from Holy Quran  "  Don't kill your children to avoid falling into poverty" resist to  the different medical methods for family planning to avoid child's  birth. 
    Pakistan whose population was less then 50 million in 1960s now  has become the world's sixth biggest populated country with 180  million people. 
    Pakistani people are shy to ask any question related to family  planning. 
    Two decades ago, the government of Pakistan launched a family  planning project by appointing lady health visitors in every  village to advise women how to avoid unplanned pregnancy and  promote the benefits of small families of two children. 
    Since then the ministry of population has been carrying out  different campaigns through electronic and print media, teaching  people door to door how to avoid unplanned child birth. 
    The ministry has also offered men and women safe minor surgical  operations such as vasectomy and tubal ligation with some  lucrative rewards to encourage people to permanently give up the  pregnancy ability. But two decades have passed, it seems that all  the efforts done by the government have failed as 70.3 million  more people have been added to country's total population. 
    Agha Ali, a 57-year-old businessman, is surprised to have his  wife pregnant after 20 years they had stopped wishing any child  after giving birth to five children. 
    "We neither wished nor planned this, we just ignored  precautions,thinking we are now too old to give birth to any baby,  " Ali said. 
    According to the data provided by RAHNUMA, Family Planning  Association of Pakistan, unplanned pregnancies are on the rise in  the country with abortions standing as high as about 900,000 cases  every year, with one-third of the pregnancies unplanned. 
    Experts say an extra funding of 136 million U.S. dollars by the  government is in urgent need to satisfy the need for family  planning in the country. 
    On Sunday the Population Ministry of Pakistan commemorated the  World Population Day by publicizing a quote of the former  Pakistani prime minister Benazir Bhutto "I dream of a Pakistan, of  an Asia, of a world, where every pregnancy is planned, and every  child conceived is nurtured, loved, educated and supported." 
    This year's World Population Day is observed with the theme of  "Everyone Counts" with special focus laid upon women and children. 
    Addressing a national population convention held on Sunday, the  Pakistani Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gillani called for  support from religious scholars and leaders to tackle the rapidly  rising population in the country. 
    "It is the biggest challenge before us, in future it may be the  worst than water, gas, and food problems for us, we all together  can deal with it," said Gillani who also declared 2011 a "  Population Year" for the country at the convention. 
    During the first week of this month, the Population Ministry  also held a national seminar on "Involvement of Religious Leaders  in Population Welfare Program". 
    Experts warned if the current rising rate is not slowed down,  the country's population will be doubled after 34 years, which  will be far more than the country's resources can bear. 
    "Poverty, limited economic opportunities and less social  welfare means could be the main causes  behind the rising  terrorism in the country," said Saghir Aslam, a social welfare  worker. 
    It is learned that the government is going to launch a policy  entitled "National Population Policy, 2010" very soon. 
    Upon hearing this, Sania Nishtar, a doctor in Islamabad, feels  very encouraged. However, she pointed out more concrete measures  are needed for implementing the policy. She remained upbeat about  the future of the family planning in the country.  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newswire

Subject: RELIGION (92%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (90%); FAMILY PLANNING (90%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (90%); SOCIAL ASSISTANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (88%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS & AUTHORITIES (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); NEGATIVE NEWS (75%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (73%); ABORTION (63%); Pakistan (%); Family Planning (%)

Industry: PRESS AGENCY RELEASES (90%); NEWS SYNDICATION (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%)

Geographic: ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (74%); PAKISTAN (95%)

Load-Date: July 13, 2010


End of Document
