



South China Morning Post
March 18, 2008 Tuesday


Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 9
Length: 478 words
Byline: Shaikh Azizur Rahman in New Delhi
Body


 Government officials in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh have begun offering fast-tracked gun licences to men who agree to undergo sterilisation, so they will not feel less manly.
 The region is plagued by problems with robbers and bandits, and many villagers desperately want to possess firearms.
 Vasectomy camps - regularly set up in many parts of the country as part of a solution to India's population explosion - often fail to meet their targets. Most men refuse to be sterilised, believing that the process strips them of their manliness.
 But Madhya Pradesh government's unique "guns for sterilisation" scheme has been popular in the region where gangs of bandits often attack villages, loot them and kidnap people for huge ransoms, officials said.
 "In our past family planning programmes we routinely failed to attract villagers to our camps," said Maneesh Srivastava, chief administrator of the district of Shivpuri.
 "In fact, we never managed to meet even a quarter of the annual sterilisation target. But following a recent survey in which we found that most men did not want to undergo a vasectomy because they did not want to 'lose their manliness', we adopted this new strategy. We decided to match it with a bigger symbol of manliness - a gun licence - and it has worked wonders."
 He said that last year only eight men came for sterilisation in the district. But since the scheme was announced, more than 200 men have undergone vasectomy in the first  21/2 months of this year, and many others were waiting.
 One  official said: "We explained that sterilisation did not affect  male virility and many men were living happily after vasectomy, but nothing worked. But as soon as the offer of a gun licence was announced, people  ... began responding enthusiastically.
 "It seems this year  we shall get more men for vasectomy than in the past 20 years."
 Madhya Pradesh's family planning scheme has also worked well because of the local culture in which the gun is  the ultimate status symbol. Many villagers in worn-out sandals and riding old bicycles proudly show off their guns slung over their shoulders or revolvers hung from their waist.
 "Many peasants are even selling off their last piece of land try to buy guns because of necessity and also to flaunt the prized status symbol," Mr Srivastava said. "Our scheme has struck such an appeal that even a good number of Muslims - who are traditionally against sterilisation - have come forward to undergo a vasectomy."
 The scheme follows a similar programme launched four years ago in Uttar Pradesh to the north.  However, critics of the  scheme in Madhya Pradesh say it encourages gun culture in a region where firearm violence is already alarmingly high.
 "Where there are guns, even minor feuds often escalate into events that claim lives," said former senior police officer Shiv Shankar Shukla.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: FAMILY PLANNING (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); PUBLIC OFFICIALS (90%); HUMAN REPRODUCTIVE STERILIZATION (89%); WEAPONS & ARMS (89%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (79%); FIREARMS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); NEGATIVE MISC NEWS (69%); RELIGION (50%)

Geographic: MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA (94%); UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (79%); INDIA (93%)

Load-Date: March 18, 2008


End of Document
