



Asia Times-English
September 9, 2023 Saturday 3:54 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 Asia Times (Hong Kong) Limited All Rights Reserved


Length: 1606 words
Byline: John P Ruehl
Highlight: Early this year, India surpassed China as the most populous country in the world, with the latter having 850,000 fewer people by the end of 2022, marking its first population decline since famine struck from 1959 to 1961. While this reduction may seem modest considering China’s 1.4 billion population currently, an ongoing decline is anticipated, with […]
Body


, India surpassed China as the most populous country in the world, with the latter having 850,000 fewer people by the end of 2022, marking its first population decline since . 
While this reduction may seem modest considering China’s 1.4 billion population currently, an ongoing decline is anticipated, with UN projections suggesting that China’s population could dwindle to .
Populations fluctuate through immigration, emigration, deaths and births. China’s previous one-child policy, enforced from 1980 to 2015, and the  slowed its birth rate. The Chinese government is now trying , including by discouraging abortion.
The , proposed in the 18th century, suggested that populations grow exponentially and outpace resource availability until inevitable checks, such as famine, disease, conflict, or other issues, cause it to drop. 
During the high global population growth rates of , these concerns abounded. Yet around the world, population growth has slowed dramatically, and in China and many other countries, natural decline is already under way.
A 2020 study published in  found that based on current population trends, more than 20 countries are on track to halve their populations by 2100. The Pew Research think-tank, meanwhile, declared that  will see their populations decline by 2100, while the Center of Expertise on Population and Migration (CEPAM) predicts the global population will peak at 9.8 billion around .
The fear of a shrinking and aging population looms over governments and  alike. Increased payments toward pension and social welfare systems will strain a reduced labor force, while younger populations also  to economic growth and innovation. Countries may also experience a reduction in their global influence, not least because of a .
 fertility and birth rates, but the total fertility rate (TFR), which measures the number of children a woman will have in her lifetime, is the most common. Yet achieving replacement-level fertility rates, typically  per woman, has proved challenging.
The decline in global fertility rates can be attributed to societal and cultural shifts, family-planning initiatives, wider access to contraception, improved infant mortality rates, increased cost of child-rearing, urbanization, delayed marriages and childbirth due to educational and career pursuits, and social welfare systems reducing reliance on familial support.
       Latest stories      
                  

          
                  

          
                  

          
Northeast Asia
A case in point is Japan, whose population peaked at  and has since shrunk to below 123 million. It is poised to decrease to  by century’s end, its decline sustained by a low fertility rate, an aging population (almost  of the population is 65 or older), and limited immigration. Initiatives to slow this decline include  and government-sponsored .
Remarkably, despite hitting a record low , Japan’s TFR is  than China’s and South Korea’s. Since 2006, South Korea has invested  in establishing public daycare centers, free nurseries, subsidized childcare, and other initiatives to boost its TFR. , South Korea’s TFR remains the world’s lowest. 
South Korea’s government also introduced immigration reforms in the , all while leading the world in automation with , more than double the rate of second-ranked Japan.
Europe
In Europe, efforts to boost populations have occurred for decades. For instance,  criminalized abortion and banned contraception except for certain medical conditions in 1966. Consequently, illegal abortions increased, and Romania had the highest maternal mortality rate in Europe in the 1980s. 
While Romania’s TFR stabilized at 2.3 by the late 1980s, it , alongside a  that has been sustained  the European Union in 2007.
 have experienced similar TFR declines and emigration. In contrast, Western European countries have managed to grow slightly since 2000, but . Even so, such countries as Italy have seen population declines, spurring initiatives by the government to offer houses to foreigners for as little as €1 in an effort to .
United States
The US has a  than most European countries and saw a rebound in TFR rates . But  after the recession in 2008 and it has never recovered. 
And unlike European countries, life expectancy continued to .  has mitigated these issues, but as in Europe this has become increasingly political, and the US population growth rate has slowed considerably. 
While there is no official policy to boost birth rates, the US  abroad. 
Republican and Democrat administrations have  since 1984 between enforcing and rescinding the Mexico City Policy, requiring foreign non-governmental organizations (NGOs) not to “perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning” in order to receive US government funding for family-planning initiatives.
Russia
Russia’s TFR faced a rapid decline after the collapse of the Soviet Union, reaching a low of , and causing a population decline. However, government initiatives saw it rebound to  before falling again. 
The Kremlin announced a , and  payments for parents of at least two children. To stabilize its population further, Russia has also relied on .
Iran
Iran’s birth-rate policies have fluctuated over the last few decades. During the 1950s, Iran  but abolished them after the 1979 Islamic Revolution. However, they were reintroduced in the  to release pressure on the economy. 
Once seen as a “,” Iran’s TFR fell faster than anticipated to 1.6 in 2012. That year, the government began attempts to boost the birth rate by  to birth control, abortion and vasectomies.
South Asia
Although India now holds the mantle of the world’s most populous country, its TFR is now . Nonetheless, its population will continue to grow, fueled by a large, youthful population, a demographic feature increasingly common across the Global South. 
While India’s population is eventually projected to begin declining , India is currently managing its youthful population  such as promoting employment opportunities abroad.
The perils of not utilizing a large working population  unrealized economic potential. Without economic prospects, large youthful populations can generate significant social and political upheaval. Pakistan is  to avoid exacerbating strains on resources, infrastructure, education, and health-care systems.
Family planning
Pakistan’s concerns are similar to much of Africa. Aside from Afghanistan, the top 20 countries with the highest TFR . Nigeria’s population is projected to grow from 213 million currently to 550 million , while some projections see  in Africa between 2020 and 2100. Even so, family-planning programs have helped  across the continent.
In contrast, the experience of countries where campaigns supporting fertility have seen some success (including , the  and ) suggests direct financial incentives, tax breaks, cheap/free childcare centers, generous maternity/paternity leave, housing assistance, and more flexible approaches to work-life balance are successful at interrupting decline.
While gender equality has often been cited as a barrier to higher birth rates in the past, this no longer seems to be the case. Highly educated women had the lowest fertility rate in the US , for example, but this was not true in 2019. 
Additionally, Mongolia’s TFR declined from 7.3 kids per woman in 1974 to under two by 2005.  to around three children per woman by 2019, despite Mongolian women becoming , increasingly represented in , and having access to improved .
Nonetheless, Mongolia’s recent population boom  school crowding, pollution, housing problems, and other issues, and points to the need for flexible approaches to population growth, decline, and stabilization.
With a median age in Europe of  and a median age of , different parts of the world will require different measures to deal with fluctuating population numbers this century. 
China is not alone in the perception that it will , and such countries will develop their own methods to deal with aging societies. Seeking the creation of long-term sustainable approaches to population management, which avoid coercion but also provide help for those raising children, should be prioritized.
This article was produced by , which provided it to Asia Times.
Related
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: POPULATION DECLINE (96%); POPULATION GROWTH (94%); POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (91%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); FAMINE (90%); NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); AGING (89%); AGING TRENDS (89%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); FAMILY PLANNING (89%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (89%); FERTILITY RATES (89%); SOCIETY, SOCIAL ASSISTANCE & LIFESTYLE (89%); WELFARE BENEFITS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); DEATH RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); PARENTING (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEATH & DYING (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); EMIGRATION (72%); ECONOMICS (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); INFANT MORTALITY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); ABORTION (69%); ECONOMY & ECONOMIC INDICATORS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); URBANIZATION (50%); Opinion (%); China population (%); Family planning (%); Globetrotter (%); India population (%); Iran's population (%); Japan Population (%)

Industry: FAMINE (90%)

Geographic: HONG KONG, CHINA (79%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (93%); CAMBODIA (79%); VIETNAM (79%)

Load-Date: September 9, 2023


End of Document
