



South China Morning Post
August 24, 2008 Sunday


Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 10
Length: 1191 words
Body


 Board always tries to find new incentives to tempt tourists
 I should like to respond to Sally Wong Wing-yu's comments on the Hong Kong Tourism Board's promotions ("Tourism Board needs to be more creative", August 17).
 As Ms Wong rightly pointed out, Hong Kong faces increasing competition from various destinations, which is why the board, in marketing Hong Kong to visitors, has continuously  tried to highlight fresh perspectives of the city and identify new promotional channels.
 Through our global publicity and promotional programmes, we not only publicise Hong Kong's established appeal, but also bring out the city's lesser-known qualities, including our distinctive living culture.
 For example, our Cultural Kaleidoscope programme features activities that range from Chinese tea appreciation and tai chi classes to a walking tour of heritage buildings guided by architects, offering visitors an insight into our city's culture and heritage, as well as a taste of the local lifestyle.
 Another programme that showcases Hong Kong's hidden treasures is the Nature Kaleidoscope programme. Featuring a series of eco-oriented tours, the programme reveals to visitors Hong Kong's rich natural diversity.
 One of these is the Northeast New Territories Island Hopping Tour, which brings visitors to the secluded villages in Tap Mun, Lai Chi Wo and Kat O and gives them a different experience of Hong Kong that expands beyond shopping and dining.
 On top of developing new products, the Tourism Board continues to package Hong Kong's appeal under different themes.
 For example, we recently packaged the city's shopping, dining and sightseeing locations as "best-kept secrets" of celebrities in Hong Kong. The information was included in a guidebook, and was rolled out in Southeast Asia this summer to arouse visitors' interest in rediscovering the city.
 Leveraging the latest trends and popularity of the Web, we are also making use of various online sharing platforms to promote Hong Kong through the word-of-mouth  recommendations of netizens. As well as posting Tourism Board videos on YouTube, we invite residents and visitors to share their snapshots of Hong Kong through Facebook and Flickr,  expanding our promotional channels from conventional platforms to the virtual social network.
 I should like to thank Ms Wong for her valuable feedback, and assure her that we at the Tourism Board will continue our endeavour to make Hong Kong the "top-of-mind" destination among global travellers.
 Cynthia Leung, general manager, corporate communications and public relations, Hong Kong Tourism Board
 Signs on buildings impede firemen
 Any compensation received by the families of the two firemen who died in the Cornwall Court fire in Mong Kok, will not take away the pain of losing a loved one.
 We learned since the fire that some of the equipment used was  up to 11 years old ("Radio system old, fire chief admits", August 17).  Why was this radio system not upgraded.
 There was a karaoke bar in the building and we have to look at the whole issue of the granting of light refreshment licences to such premises.
 I am also concerned that signboards and neon signs on buildings can hamper fire-fighting efforts.
 You see lots of signs for nightclubs and saunas on buildings on Nathan Road.
 There do not appear to be any size or weight restrictions. There are always new signs being added.
 I urge the relevant government department to do something about this and set  rules regulating the size and shape of these signs.
 The other disturbing piece of news that came from this tragedy was that firemen are on low pay compared to the other disciplined services.
 Tang Woon-yue, Fo Tan
 Church is not to blame for nation's poor
 I read with much sadness the article on my country ("Church resists birth control as poor struggle to feed themselves", August 19).
 It is wrong to blame the Catholic Church for the poverty that exists in the Philippines.
 There is apathy and corruption and we have been travelling along this economic path for too long now.
 There is little desire to open up the economy and bring in real development, which is the real reason so many people suffer.
 No, condoms,  ligations, vasectomies and other forms of birth control,  will not fix the problem but will bring a moral decay for those who already have so little in life. Work, jobs and an opportunity to earn a living are what the nation needs.
 Please don't blame the church.
 Juan J. B. Testa, Manila
 Simple way to deal with manhole explosions
 With the high density of utilities buried underground, there has been increasing  discussion over the need to have better management and maintenance.
 This is important to ensure the safety of people working underground, and to reduce any accidents and inconvenience to the public. There have been incidents of explosions or of manhole covers coming away from the road and causing accidents.  Some people have sustained injuries and to try and allay the public's fears we have to tackle the problems.
 There are more than  400,000 manholes  in Hong Kong.  They provide access to sewers, telecoms cables, water pipes, power cables, gas or other underground utilities, vaults and installations. Obviously, if there is any gas leak in this congested environment, there may eventually be an explosion and the cover is dislodged.
 Major elements like flammable gas, ducts with cracks and holes,  and sources of ignition  have to be present for a typical manhole explosion to occur.
 There are various ways to reduce the possibility of  such an explosion, such as venting via the cover and restraining the cover.
 In considering a solution so we can reduce the risk of a manhole explosion, we have to think about costs and practicability.
 It would therefore seem that the most feasible solution, given the situation in Hong Kong, is the  practice of duct sealing.
 In addition, it is also vitally important that  a competent person performs regular CCTV inspections so that any cracks, fractures and holes can be spotted as early as possible.
 Amy Choi, research officer, Hong Kong Utility Research Centre
 Return trip to Australia a real eye-opener
 Forty years away and I returned recently to see how the greening of my native Australia is progressing, to the Northern Territory in a small car carrying a two-man tent.
 When it comes to care for the environment it seems we remain as laconic and laid-back as Crocodile Dundee, with potential climate disasters no topic for enlightened conversation. Everywhere, thousands of very large people driving mammoth 4x4s, which are pulling an assortment of trailers and caravans the size of  air-conditioned apartments,  with 900 satellite TV channels, and  vehicles the size of a Greyhound bus (indeed, I saw a couple of these fitted out like a penthouse suite in Trump Tower). They tow sizeable jeeps beneath speedboats that could do a Darwin to Bali drug run in 20 minutes.
 This vast mechanised armada roams the desolate landscape to "camp" and, I assume, commune with nature, an experience the aborigines managed successfully for 70,000 years - naked and carrying a pointed stick.
 Peter Sherwood, Discovery Bay
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (91%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (85%); COMPANY ACTIVITIES & MANAGEMENT (79%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (76%); VIRTUAL EVENTS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); MARTIAL ARTS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); CUSTOMS & CULTURAL HERITAGE (69%); SPORTS INSTRUCTION (68%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (66%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); TAI CHI (54%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%); TRENDS & EVENTS (50%)

Company:  FACEBOOK INC (52%)

Ticker: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

Industry: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (91%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (85%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (66%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); INTERNET VIDEO (61%)

Geographic: HONG KONG (99%); ASIA (78%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (69%)

Load-Date: August 25, 2008


End of Document
