



South China Morning Post.com
June 15, 2024 Saturday


Copyright 2024 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIF
Length: 1179 words
Byline:  Anthea Rowan 
Body


Scientists have created a compound that causes reversible contraception in male mice and may work in men, and birth control drugs for men are in trials, too
The first 'condom' ever used wasn't to protect a woman from pregnancy. In around 3000BC, King Minos of Crete's mistress died after having sex with him. He used a goat's bladder as a barrier after that - to protect himself, his wife, and future mistresses from the poison he assumed his semen must carry. 
The ancient Egyptians were among the first civilisations to use sheaths - again, not to prevent pregnancy. They believed they would protect everybody from diseases, including bilharzia - or schistosomiasis, a tropical infection caused by a parasitic freshwater worm. 
In Japan, and China, condoms, or something like sheaths, were used before the 15th century. Some were made of tortoiseshell and later, thin leather or oiled silk. 
Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with , our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team. 
The first known use of condoms in Europe was around 1564, as documented by anatomist Gabriele Fallopia, who gave his name to the Fallopian tubes. 
In his book De Morbo Gallico, literally "The French Disease," Fallopia describes sheaths made of linen, lubricated with spit, and secured with a ribbon. He claimed to have tested them on over 1,000 men to prove their efficacy against syphilis. 
About 100 years later, King Charles II of England used a sheath made of lamb's intestine to prevent any more illegitimate children. 
Some men at the time used something similar made of a fish bladder, as it was finer. Often, butchers were tasked with fashioning these and then testing them to see how strong they were; butchers understood the high tensile strength of animals' guts. 
The man who designed the sheath for the king was Colonel Quondam, an English army doctor. Many people believe this is where the word 'condom' came from, although the word itself - often condum - first appeared in the diary of another doctor, Daniel Turner, who treated syphilis. 
By the 18th century, the condom had a reputation as a reliable tool against the spread of disease and illegitimate children. The fertility rate in England experienced a decline at the time, though it wasn't available to the masses until the 19th century, and then only thanks to American inventor Charles Goodyear - of the tyre - and the discovery of vulcanised rubber. 
Using heat and sulphur - vulcanising - renders the rubber more malleable and much stronger. At last, condoms could be produced in bulk, and many more people could afford them. 
In Wales, entrepreneurial greengrocer Tommy Horton began to make condoms from tyre rubber, Dunlop this time. The condoms were reusable and came in small, medium, and large sizes. They were sold through a network that included barber shops where customers would be asked, "Anything for the weekend, sir?" Nobody ever bought a small. 
In the 1920s, latex was invented, a product of the rubber tree. Lots of people are allergic to it, but today synthetic latex is available. A flexible and strong material, it can stretch 800 per cent before breaking. That elasticity is what makes condoms safe. 
Although the condom's history is colourful and varied, it has been the only contraceptive form available to men - apart from abstinence from sex, non-vaginal ejaculation, or a vasectomy - usually seen as a permanent method. 
Women have had a , including the birth control pill or injections, a coil, diaphragm or female condom. 
Now scientists are discovering new ways to  temporarily, without unwanted side effects. If tests are successful,  could broaden shared responsibility for contraception between the sexes. 
Recent initial experiments on lab mice found the right dose of a particular drug - CDD-2807 - at the right time, made male mice infertile. 
Researchers injected the male mice, who were housed with female mice, every day for three weeks; during that time, no litters were born. As soon as the injections were stopped, the mice began to breed again. 
Martin Matzuk, a reproductive biologist, clinical pathologist, and director of the Centre for Drug Discovery at the Baylor College of Medicine in the US state of Texas, was lead author of the study. 
He says the drug works by inhibiting the activity of an enzyme in sperm called serine/threonine kinase 33 (STK33). This makes the affected sperm move slowly and less efficiently through the female reproductive tract, preventing them from being able to fertilise eggs. 
"Because we are only inhibiting STK33,  and male hormonal status are unaffected, and testis size is normal, making our approach a non-hormonal method of contraception for males," he said. 
The mice did not appear to suffer any side effects; the drug did not accumulate in the brain, and as soon as it was stopped, the male mice were able to sire litters again. 
Matzuk likes the use of CDD-2807 for a number of reasons, particularly because it easily enters the testes, and has no toxic side effects. 
"Since 1960, there has been a birth control pill for women but not one for men. If men (or mice) are infertile due to a particular gene mutation, that would suggest that chemical inhibition of that same gene would induce a contraceptive effect," he said. 
With more than 1,000 genes expressed during sperm cell production, Matzuk adds, there could be many more options for male contraception. 
Matzuk's group is just one of many working on the science to develop a male contraception. 
A review of ongoing research into male contraception from a team at the University of South Dakota in the US highlights some promising forms that are being tested on men. 
One is a gel containing the male sex hormone testosterone and segesterone acetate (Nestorone), that aids in birth control. 
After 12 weeks of applying the gel to their shoulders daily, 86 per cent of the men taking part showed a much lower sperm count, around one million sperm/ml of semen, which is deemed so low as to be effective contraception. 
 is up to 200 million sperm/ml, and a man is considered to have a low sperm count if there's less than 15 million. 
The review, published in Basic and Clinical Andrology in November, 2023, noted other clinical trials are testing the drug DMAU, for dimethandrolone undecanoate, in oral and injectable form. 
Early results suggest it is well tolerated and shows promise as a male contraceptive. 
"It is long overdue that male partners share the burden of family planning," the researchers concluded. 
"It is our hope that there will soon be several safe, effective, and reversible contraceptive options available to male patients." 
Like what you read? Follow SCMP Lifestyle on,and. You can also sign up for our eNewsletter.
Copyright (c) 2024. South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved. 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: CONTRACEPTION (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); RODENTS (89%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (77%); FERTILITY RATES (73%); DEATH & DYING (72%); TRENDS (72%); ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY (65%); MILITARY MEDICAL PERSONNEL (60%)

Industry: CONTRACEPTION (94%); BRITISH MONARCHS (77%); RUBBER & SILICONE (66%); MILITARY MEDICAL PERSONNEL (60%)

Geographic: ENGLAND (92%); CHINA (74%); JAPAN (71%); WALES (68%); EUROPE (55%)

Load-Date: June 15, 2024


End of Document
