



South China Morning Post
February 16, 2017 Thursday


Copyright 2017 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/NEWS/CHINA; nws china 02.pgl; Pg.6
Length: 1045 words
Body


Principal suspended for stabbing pupil, 7, in face
Shaanxi - The principal of a school in Jia county, Yulin, has been sacked and suspended from teaching after stabbing a pupil in the face with a pen, mainland media report.
Thepaper.cn quoted a n official with the county's publicity department as saying Yunjia Primary School principal Zheng Chengjun had reached a financial settlement with the seven-year-old boy's family. Zheng was sacked and banned from teaching.
The incident came to light after a Weibo user said Zheng stabbed the boy in the face 17 times with a fountain pen on December 15. The boy was hospitalised for almost two months and the principal paid 150,000 yuan (HK$170,000) to settle the case, the user said.
The report included a photo of the boy with many small wounds on his face.
Investigation into dad's 'forced' vasectomy
Yunnan - A health authority is investigating claims a man was forced to have a vasectomy when he returned to his home town for the Lunar New Year holiday.
The man, who has three children from his first marriage and one more from his second, was taken away by about a dozen people when he visited friends in Zhenxiong county on February 8, Beijing Youth Daily reported.
He said he was taken to a government clinic and forced to undergo a vasectomy.
His family called the police after he was taken away, but officers then detained his wife and son, according to the report.
The family quoted police as saying the man was told he would be placed in detention for 15 days for disturbing public order if he did not have the surgery.
The man showed an invoice for the procedure issued by a family planning clinic in Luokan, Zhenxiong.
The Yunnan Health and Family Planning Commission requested that its Zhaotong (   ) division, which covers the county, investigate the case.
The man comes from Zhenxiong county, but now lives in Sichuan (   ) province.
Fear of heights brings driver to highway halt
Zhejiang - Police issued a verbal warning to a driver who stopped on an elevated highway because he was afraid of heights.
A surveillance video on Tuesday showed a car with a Jiangsu (   ) province licence plate had stopped on the road shoulder, the Qianjiang Evening News reported.
A traffic police command centre then received a call for help from the driver, who said he felt "very uncomfortable" after driving onto the highway. "I can't drive. Please come and help me," he was quoted as saying.
The motorist later told police he suffered from acrophobia - a fear of heights. He was driving from Jiangsu to Hangzhou (   ) and became dizzy when he reached the elevated section of the road, he said.
"Something similar happened before when I was in Maanshan (    ), Anhui (   ). I called police and an officer helped me drive the car off the elevated road," he was quoted as saying.
Boy stages robbery after not doing his homework
Jiangsu - A father in Taizhou ­(   ) called police after finding his 11-year-old son apparently unconscious, only to learn the boy staged a robbery to cover up his failure to do his homework.
The father returned home on Friday to find his living room a mess and a kitchen cleaver on the floor, and his son apparently passed out, Modern Express reported.
When the boy woke, he said he had been doing his homework when he heard a noise in the living room. He went to the kitchen to get a cleaver to use as a weapon, but passed out after being punched, he said.
His homework was torn and the pieces scattered on the floor.
Police officers attended the scene but did not find any fingerprints or footprints other than those of family members, and the boy's account of the incident became inconsistent.
He later confessed he had not been able to finish his homework before the winter break was over so he tore it up and blamed a fictional thief.
The boy was counselled but given no other punishment.
Vans' suggestive ads ordered off the road
Sichuan - An internet start-up has been ordered to cease advertisements suggesting people have sex in its vehicles.
The firm's two vans had been driven around downtown Chengdu (   ) with sexually suggestive slogans on their sides, news portal Newssc.org reported.
The writing included the lines "Valentine's Day mobile PaPa vehicle", "Wave and we'll stop for you" and "PaPaPa", which is popular online slang on the mainland for sex.
The advertisements also encouraged people to scan a QR code to follow the company on social media in exchange for gifts.
A reporter said he was invited to board the van after following the account, and was presented with gifts such as roses and chocolate.
A staff member said the advertisements were part of a Valentine's Day campaign and the company would not allow participants to have sex in its vehicles.
The Chengdu Bureau for Industry and Commerce said it had received complaints from residents regarding the advertisements and had ordered the firm to remove them.
By Tuesday afternoon, the firm had covered up the controversial elements of the advertisements with cardboard, the report said.
Orchard owner nets warning over bird deaths
Shanxi - More than 100 birds, including woodpeckers, larks and sparrows, have been killed after the owner of an apple orchard in Taiyuan (   ) set up nets to prevent them eating his apples.
Members of a local wildlife protection group discovered the nets near the orchard on Monday and informed forestry police and local media, the Shanxi Evening News reported.
Two forestry police officers and a reporter from the newspaper visited the site with members of the group on Tuesday.
They found around 10 birds caught in a 10-metre-long and three-metre-high net outside the orchard and more trapped in a larger net within the orchard.
The bodies of some of the birds appeared to have been in the nets for days. Many more dead birds were found on the ground, according to the report.
The officers said the net in the orchard was at least 100 metres long.
The 72-year-old orchard owner, who was not identified by name, said he set up the net in July.
He said the orchard was his only source of income and birds would often peck at his apples or eat them, making it difficult for him to harvest the fruit for sale.
The man was given a verbal warning.
The wildlife protection group was asked to help the man remove the nets, the report said.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (92%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); FAMILY PLANNING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); CHILDREN, ADOLESCENTS & TEENS (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (74%); FACIAL INJURIES (73%); SURVEILLANCE (73%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); PHOBIAS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (58%)

Industry: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (72%)

Geographic: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (92%); YUNNAN, CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); ANHUI, CHINA (79%); SHAANXI, CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (79%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); CHINA (79%)

Load-Date: February 15, 2017


End of Document
