



South China Morning Post
January 13, 2011 Thursday


Copyright 2011 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 08
Length: 514 words
Byline: Shaikh Azizur Rahman in New Delhi
Body


Indian men who agreed to have vasectomies in exchange for gun licences in a controversial family-planning scheme are complaining they were duped.
They say they have yet to receive their licences, years after having the "snip".
Health authorities in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh continue to offer the unusual deal in rural areas. The "guns for vasectomies" campaign was launched to great popularity in 2008. 
But many sterilised men say they are still waiting for their licences and complain the government appeared to be reneging on the deal. Roving "vasectomy camps" have been held across the country for several years as part of efforts to stabilise then reduce India's 1.15 billion population.
But there is a widespread perception among rural men that sterilisation strips them of their "manliness" - leading to the gun offer. Wheat farmer Babu Lal Gupta, from Shivpuri district, said: "To get a gun licence you have to spend thousands of rupees in bribes. 
"My application for a licence did not meet with success, even after ten years. So, when I was assured I would get one within a few months I jumped at the offer and underwent a vasectomy in 2008. 
"But I have not got the licence as yet. It's extremely disappointing. Now I feel that the government  officials tricked me into the family planning camp." 
A police official in the Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal said that  delays in issuing gun licences were caused by police verification.
"I guess that during inquiries police found that those who are still waiting for the gun licences were not facing grievous threats to their life at all, or had criminal records. So they have been found ineligible for the licence," said the officer. "It must be noted that the vasectomy cannot guarantee getting a permit."
Critics say that wasn't made clear to the men of Madhya Pradesh, who lined up for the chance to receive gun licences, particularly in the Chambal Valley, where villages suffer regular attacks by gangs of bandits.
 The initial popularity of the scheme can be attributed to the local culture in which a gun is seen as a  status symbol. 
It is common to see a villager proudly showing off a gun slung over his shoulder or a revolver hung from his waist. But the scheme's ability to attract men is waning amid reports that guns are not forthcoming.
Health authorities in Madhya  Pradesh have warned of stern action against its family planning employees if they fail to meet their annual  vasectomy targets in 2010-2011 fiscal year, which has been denoted the state's Family Planning Year. 
The state announced it would get at least 700,000 men and women - roughly 1 per cent of its population - sterilised, before the year ended. 
Last week Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said 372,000 people were sterilised in the first three quarters of the year. 
In an effort to speed up the process, staff are offered cash bonuses that depend on the number of  patients sterilised. 
The "guns for vasectomies" offer was also widened to include single men who manage to convince five married men to have the "snip".
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: FAMILY PLANNING (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEGATIVE NEWS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PUBLIC OFFICIALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); GOVERNMENT & PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (75%); GOVERNMENT ADVISORS & MINISTERS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%)

Industry: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); WHEAT FARMING (53%)

Geographic: MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA (94%); INDIA (92%)

Load-Date: January 13, 2011


End of Document
