



South China Morning Post.com
July 29, 2024 Monday


Copyright 2024 South China Morning Post Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Section: LIF
Length: 338 words
Byline:  Suji Owen 
Body


Each week we highlight a contender for best podcast episode of all time - this week, Nazi-related trivia on a pod with an archive of 2,000 episodes
If you are still wondering what a gap year actually is, you can do worse than take the conversational route with Josh Clark and Chuck Bryant of . 
Launched in 2008, this venerable OG of trivia pods recently released its 2,000th episode, one of which outlines everything you ought to know about the traditional gap-year experience between high school and university. They raise the point that it is predominantly a British practice, the value of which hangs on a number of factors. 
Unscripted and unrehearsed, the two journalists research each episode's topic individually before coming together to chat about it in a way that manages to be interesting and entertaining but casual and relaxing as well. They tackle subjects such as Spam and vasectomies - not in the same episode, thank goodness - and look at the science behind break-ups or if smiling makes you happy. 
Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with , our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team. 
True-crime fans love their treatment of unsolved mysteries, such as the case of the nine Russian hikers found dead and half naked at Dyatlov Pass. Even if you already know the general outlines of the events, Clark and Bryant's compelling presentation of what they have researched, coupled with their obvious enjoyment of what they learn from each other, makes this an easy listen, even after hundreds of episodes. 
My favourite episode for today (it changes all the time, so shoot me) is a piece of World War II trivia that I had never heard about. The subtitle tells you everything you need to know. 
Recommended Episode:
Copyright (c) 2024. South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved. 
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: TRIVIA (90%); FASCISM (78%); TRENDS & EVENTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); TRENDS (71%); WRITERS (69%); DEATH & DYING (51%)

Industry: PODCASTING (90%); WRITERS (69%)

Load-Date: July 29, 2024


End of Document
