



South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)
November 19, 2002


Copyright 2002 South China Morning Post Ltd.
Section: Guangdong Briefing; Pg. 3
Length: 797 words
Byline: Tom Mitchell
Body


 THIS IS MY 102nd Guangdong Briefing column, my favourite librarian informs me. It is also my last Guangdong Briefing column - at least in its weekly format and for this particular section of the paper.
 For 2.5 years, I have pestered many people with questions to fill these column inches. For this parting shot, however, I would like to turn to a question that was once put to me by a friend. What, he asked, has most surprised you about Guangdong?
Four things, I replied, two bad and two good.
 Rural poverty. Everyone talks about the coastal-inland divide on the mainland, and there is no doubting such a divide exists. Yet it masks a much bigger and more fundamental one: that between town and country.
 Guangdong is the perfect place to appreciate this divide. It is, as everyone knows, China's richest province. But almost all of its foreign direct investment, exports and the wealth these create are concentrated in the eight cities that form the Pearl River Delta's inner core.
 Travel beyond the city limits of Guangzhou, the provincial capital, and you will soon find yourself in a hardscrabble landscape. Like that of Zhenlong, a township just 40 minutes from Guangzhou's city centre.
 Most of its younger residents have left to labour in cities as far afield as Shanghai.
 Even within the delta there are about a dozen leper villages, their residents no longer infected but too disfigured to be reintegrated into society. Many live in primitive conditions without even, in one case, toilets.
 Corruption. I lived in Hong Kong for eight years before moving to Guangzhou, four of them working for a company that provided economic analysis and business reporting to Western multinationals. My impression and attitude towards corruption in China was that of our clients: lots of it and do not ever get sucked into it, but at the end of the day, little more than a grease of sorts.
 However, not only is there a lot more corruption than even cynics suspect, in rural areas, it is particularly virulent and sucks the blood of the poor.
 Last year in Zhenlong, for example, the elderly relatives of migrants who had not returned home for scheduled family planning checks, IUD implants and vasectomies, were being thrown into prison - and charged a daily fee for the privilege. They would not be released, officials told them, until their far -flung sons, daughters, nieces and nephews made the long trek home.
 Guangzhou's media. The city's newspaper industry is hyper-competitive and its journalists daring. Their output is such that anyone who even just skims the city's four main morning papers will soon have a remarkably complete view of what is happening in the area.
 It should also be noted that if a foreign correspondent stumbles on a sensitive story, he gets praise from his editors and protection from his embassy if the situation gets dicey. But if local reporters misjudge a certain situation, such as whether a corrupt official can or cannot be exposed, at the very least they put their livelihoods on the line, and possibly their own physical well-being.
 The risks they run are not appreciated frequently enough.
 What they write is also far more important to the average Chinese citizen than the reports filed by foreign correspondents, who might as well be writing for another planet.
 While covering a school explosion in Jiangxi province, I remember bragging to one villager that the South China Morning Post was Hong Kong's largest English-language newspaper. But all he cared about was whether China Central Television would run the story if we did, because only then would Premier Zhu Rongji know what had happened and how local officials were covering it up.
 Regional integration. When in Hong Kong I lived and worked on the island. Rarely did I make it to Tsim Sha Tsui, let alone across the border into the Pearl River Delta. So it was a shock to realise, upon moving to Guangzhou, how rapidly faster rail services and new expressways were shrinking Hong Kong's own backyard.
 The four-hour rail journey between Hong Kong and Guangzhou that I remembered from my first visit to China in 1990 is now just 90 minutes.
 Guangzhou to Zhuhai was a hellish six-hour ride in the mid-1990s; today it takes only two.
 But Hong Kong should be warned that much of this progress is occurring in spite of it, not because of it.
 In 1990, the through train crept along at an even speed from Kowloon to Guangzhou. Today, the train still trundles through Hong Kong but picks up speed as soon as it has crossed into Shenzhen.
 It now takes about the same amount of time to travel from Shenzhen to Guangzhou as it does from Hunghom to Lowu, even though the distance covered north of the border is much greater.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Subject: NEGATIVE NEWS (89%); CORRUPTION (86%); JOURNALISM (79%); WRITERS (79%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); LIVING CONDITIONS (75%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); ECONOMICS (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (61%)

Industry: DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (79%); WRITERS (79%)

Geographic: GUANGZHOU, GUANGDONG, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (94%); HONG KONG, CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); CHINA (92%)

Load-Date: November 19, 2002


End of Document
