



The Deal Pipeline
March 13, 2024 Wednesday


Copyright 2024 The Deal, L.L.C. All Rights Reserved
Length: 1131 words
Byline: by Alex Eichenstein
Body


Founder-owned ChristiMD Medical Group, a Houston-based urology and aesthetic care provider, is open to taking on a funding partner once it executes a growth plan that includes expansion, partnerships and a rebrand.â(EURO)oeIf we feel like we're really hitting our objectives, and someone came in and offered to buy us out, we just have to look at what those stipulations would be," said Scott Dawe, the companyâ's COO and founder Christi Pramudjiâ's husband. "We're not shutting the door on [those opportunities] a year or two from now.â(EURO)Among those objectives, the 10-year-old business wants to expand its geographic presence and launch partnerships to increase revenue in its medspa practice to more than $10 million over the next five years, Dawe said.Pramudji founded ChristiMD in 2014 after 12 years at a urology group in Houston to focus primarily on female urology. The practice's most popular urological offerings have grown to include robotic bladder lifts, urinary leakage and incontinence surgeries, laser kidney stone removal and vasectomies. It opened a medspa in 2022 to leverage their expertise and expand into related, non-invasive areas."About two years ago, [Pramudji] realized that a lot of the non-surgical challenges [in the female urology space] could be solved through a lot of new technologies in the medical spa space, so she invested in some technologies, primarily around vaginal rejuvenation [and] better orgasms, and leaned heavily into intimate wellness, hormone optimization, weight loss and skin rejuvenation," Dawe said.The medspa has since outpaced the urological side of the practice in revenue. 
It's "steadily increasing" month-over-month, while the urological side is "relatively flat," Dawe wrote in an email. The medspa, which doubled its sales from 2022 to 2023, is on track to hit $3 million in revenue in the next year, Dawe said, adding he'd like to see the business hit the $10 million mark in five years. ChristiMD will look to add one or two locations in affluent areas in the Houston region on its path to growth, Dawe said. The storefronts would provide pared-down service offerings that donâ't involve high-dollar technology investments.Business at a GlanceFounded in 2014 as a urology care practice, with a medspa practice opening in 2022 to offer Botox, microneedling, dermal filler and other servicesMedSpa doubled sales from 2022 to 2023, on track for $3 million in revenue in the next year, outpacing the urological practice17 employees and a database of over 14,000 past and current patientsCompany open to investors of all types following re-brandThe practice's urological side sees about 500 patients per month, including around 125 new patients, while the medspa sees about 250 per month, including around 25 new patients. The medspa's most popular offerings are hormone balancing, semaglutide (blood sugar testing), intimate wellness and facial aesthetics services, said Dawe. The company is looking to build out its weight loss and weight management offerings through partnerships with a local dietician and fitness consultants. Itâ's also moving away from insurance towards a cash-pay model.The practice also plans to launch a rebranding effort this spring to reach a more affluent client base and to â(EURO)oeseparate [Pramudji as] being part and parcel of the practice so that it is positioned to be sold at some point,â(EURO) Dawe said.Currently, Pramudji is the brandâ's face and namesake. The ChristiMD Medical Group YouTube page has over 30,000 followers, and Pramudji hosts The ChristiMD Podcast.ChristiMD has 17 employees and maintains a database of over 14,000 past and current patients. Over 96% of its clientele are women aged 45 and over.The number of medspas in the U.S. grew from 5,431 in 2018 to 8,841 in 2022, according to a 2022 industry report by the American Med Spa Association.ChristiMD initially differentiated itself from competitors with a focus on intimate wellness, investing in technologies related to vaginal rejuvenation and improved orgasms. Dawe has also emphasized its status as a â(EURO)oeluxury brand.â(EURO)â(EURO)oeThat's what we're further developing ourselves around, andâ(EURO)¦ it returns the type of clientele who see [our] value. It needs to be easy for clients to understand how our protocols deliver results and the value that they are receiving,â(EURO) he said.Along with consumer interest in medspa services, investors have also been drawn to the space.In November, Lead Capital Partners LLC invested in Austin, Texas-based Viva Day Spa LLC in partnership with the companyâ's founders and management team. Founded in 2005, the company has three spas in Austin and a new facility in Round Rock, Texas.Also in November, Aesthetic Partners, a Miami-based manager of medical aesthetics, cosmetic dermatology and plastic surgery clinics announced a strategic partnership with Norwest Venture Partners. The company has added more than 20 practices since 2019, expanding throughout California, Florida, North Carolina and Virginia. Aesthetic Partners bought Columbus Aesthetic & Plastic Surgery in June.In the urology sector â(EURO)" where just 7% of practices are owned by a private equity group, according to a 2022 report from the American Urological Association â(EURO)" there's also been growing investor interest.In December, Lee Equity Partners LLC platform Solaris Health Holdings added Grand Rapids, Mich.-based urological services provider Urologic Consultants PC as an affiliate. In July, Solaris reportedly reached nearly $1 billion in revenue and aimed to remain acquisitive. The four-year-old platform seeks to add practices with 10 and 15 providers to upwards of 100 with enterprise values between $10 million and large as $140 million, per the report. Nolensville, Tenn.-based urology management services organization U.S. Urology Partners, meanwhile, in December partnered with Greater Boston Urology LLC, bringing its network to more than 150 providers in 60 locations. In 2018, just ahead of an investment from New York-based private investment firm New MainStream Capital, the company had just 18 locations.Audax Group-backed management services organization United Urology Group in January 2021 added Arizona Institute of Urology and Urological Associates of Southern Arizona as affiliates.As for ChristiMD, the company hasnâ't considered what type of investor itâ's seeking, but Dawe and Pramudji are open to various possibilities."If an investor wanted [Pramudji] or us to stay on board for a period of time to fulfill some commitment to help in the transition, weâ'd be all for that,â(EURO) Dawe said. â(EURO)oeIf they wanted us gone and the money was right, as long as the employees are being taken care ofâ(EURO)¦ then we would be okay with that, too.â(EURO)
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Article

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: UROLOGY (94%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (90%); REBRANDING (90%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (89%); TECHNOLOGY (87%); INCONTINENCE (78%); MEDICAL LASERS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); KIDNEY DISEASE (73%); Middle Market (%); Private Equity (%)

Industry: UROLOGY (94%); REBRANDING (90%); MEDICAL LASERS (78%); RETAILERS (61%); Healthcare Services (%)

Geographic: HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (79%); Texas

Load-Date: March 19, 2024


End of Document
