



adweek.com
September 28, 2022


Copyright 2022 Adweek LLC. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; TAG
Length: 1510 words
Byline: Jason Notte
Body


"You just missed Timber Joey sawing the sign!"
Yes, I had just missed Joey Webber. That's the extremely human mascot of Major League Soccer's Portland Timbers, who saws a round of Douglas fir off a log after each goal.
Webber had just taken a chainsaw to the middle of the wooden sign outside the main entrance of Aviation American Gin's new Portland distillery, located somewhere between Route 30 and the Willamette River, amid a cluster of self-storage facilities, motorcycle fabricators and an Amazon distribution site.
It's a nameless corner of the city--just above Slabtown, separated from Northwest and Forest Park, just south of the Northwest Industrial District. That's the spot on which Aviation saw a 30,000-square-foot blank space where it could stake a claim. From the stylized prop-plane logo on the distillery's facade to the merchandise and bottles stacked in cubic shelves in the front window, there was ample space for Aviation to leave its mark.
My host was a marketing account supervisor from New York. The executive handed me two drink tickets. I was directed past Webber's orange-and-white Stihl saw with its Timbers-branded Oregon bar and chain, and through the distillery's large glass doors. 
That's where I first saw Ryan Reynolds.
As a life-size cutout and on screens behind a bar that emulates a midcentury airport check-in desk, sitting beneath arrival and departure signs and time-zone clocks. 
Ryan Reynolds purchased Aviation Gin in 2018. He ultimately sold it to Diageo for $610 million two years later. 
What does any of this have to do with Portland? It reflects Diageo's penchant for turning sites into "brand home" destinations. There's the Guinness Storehouse and Roe & Co. Distillery in Dublin. Then there's the Smithwick's Experience in Kilkenny. Guinness also has facilities in Maryland, and one is coming soon to Chicago. 
Portland, the birthplace of Aviation Gin, has a hangar--and Ryan Reynolds.
The first drink ticket went to a Saturn: gin, lemon juice, and locally produced falernum and passion fruit, poured by a waistcoat-clad bartender embracing the Portland aesthetic. 
My first sip was enlivened by a look around the room. The crowd was wearing what appeared to be every stitch of business apparel within a 20-mile radius. Sport coats, heels, loafers and long, monochromatic dresses. 
Though it's grown significantly in recent years, Portland is still a city where such a wardrobe choice might get you questions about legal advice, banking or your platform for the next four years. The sartorial stylings enhanced the airport theme. But they also gave me the sense that the distillery's first visitors may not be locals.
When a Diageo representative corralled a few of us for a tour, the late-to-the-gate wear seemed more justified. 
Our tour leader had come in from Los Angeles. In my group, there were representatives from Utah's Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services, Pennsylvania's Liquor Control Board and Montgomery County Alcohol Beverage Services in Maryland. The only Oregonian among my contingent, other than myself, was a member of the Oregon Liquor and Cannabis Commission.
In 17 U.S. states and Montgomery County--known as "control states"--liquor distribution and sales are directly handled by government agencies within those jurisdictions. Combined, they accounted for $12.9 billion in sales last year alone. 
Their representatives followed our SoCal tour guide and his pink fauxhawk past pallets of packaged cases and towering, wall-sized graphics of Reynolds, his negroni recipe and the pre-Prohibition Aviation cocktail that gave the gin its name. They listened to Aviation employees make arguments for putting more of their Art Deco-style etched bottles onto those distant shelves.
Aviation staff had their guests sift through cardamom, coriander, anise, dried orange peel, lavender and sarsaparilla. They demonstrated how distillers placed juniper berries into cloth sacks and bashed them with cricket bats to release oils. 
They showed off mechanized bottling lines and copper still pots familiar to well-traveled liquor industry vets. It all indicated an eye toward future growth. After Reynolds and his partners at Davos Brands sold Aviation to Diageo in 2020, its sales rose 18% in 2021 to more than 100,000 cases. The new facility is built to produce twice that amount--perhaps doubling the amount those "control state" reps could bring home.
I was warned there'd be an escape room. Aviation staff shuffled all of us into it at the tour's end.
An animatronic portrait of Reynolds--think: the oldest ride at Disneyland--gives visitors to his "office" a quick introduction before they're locked in. To escape, everyone has to work through a series of Reynolds in-jokes about his checkered movie career (Just Friends, Buried and Green Lantern take a beating) and public life (did Blake Lively or IMDB approve this?) and find a way out. 
Liquor reps, however, had no patience for any of it. So the doors were left unlocked and everyone immediately streamed toward the bar. (Guests to the distillery, which is officially open to the public, can take the tour and try their hand at escaping from Thursday to Sunday for $28.)
I burned a second ticket on a Bee's Knees--a simple blend of gin, lemon juice and honey syrup that got me through lockdown--and struck up a conversation with a member of Diageo's communications team. She asked about the tour. I mentioned that my Ryan Reynolds cameo count was at six. That began a conversation about Welcome to Wrexham, Reynolds' documentary series with It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia creator Rob McElhenney.
It got me thinking about Aviation. When I first encountered it in Portland more than a decade ago, it was just the prettiest bottle on the shelf at Portland distiller House Spirits' tiny tasting room. It was wedged into a brand lineup with a rum, whiskey, vodka and two versions of the Scandinavian spirit Aquavit. In Portland's once-compact Distillery Row, it was a face in the crowd.
But it always drew the right crowd. House Spirits counted football Hall of Famer Joe Montana among its investors and, even after selling Aviaton to Davos Brands in 2016, continued producing the gin brand at its own facilities. But Reynolds buying a huge stake in 2018 gave it a voice. It avenged Peloton wives. It toasted 84-year-olds on their 21st birthday. It won March Adness.
Even as Reynolds went into other ventures like Mint Mobile, his Maximum Effort Marketing agency and his Creative Ladder nonprofit, he's made time to pitch Aviation through McRib cocktails and Nick Cannon vasectomies. Reynolds helped will Aviation Gin from a bottle that a Portlandia-loving tourist might put in their luggage as they leave Oregon to a coveted multinational brand that Diageo's found homes for on American Airlines, British Airways and Alaska Airlines flights, and Virgin Voyages ships. 
With the National Football League adding Diageo as a spirits sponsor last year, there have already been whispers about Aviation becoming the NFL's official gin. Those whispers weren't confirmed at the distillery's opening, but there was plenty to keep Aviation and its handlers occupied.
As the evening came to a close, I got to speak with distillery director Hollie Stephenson. She has the background of someone who could've already moved to Portland in another life: a brewer for Stone Brewing in Escondido, Calif.; a brewmaster at Highland Brewing in Asheville, N.C., and eventually head brewer at Guinness' Maryland facility. 
Stephenson started her career as a lobbyist and government affairs assistant in D.C. before switching to brewing. She seemed earnestly excited to be in Portland, to see the distillery full and alive--and to have the Timbers so closely associated with the event's launch. She pointed out that Timber Joey had stuck around, and was standing behind me.
Between Stephenson and Webber--both heavily tattooed, both holding prototypically Oregonian jobs--the distillery began to feel like Portland again. I introduced myself to Webber, but admitted that I'd missed him and his saw in action. When asked if he was going to have to clean up the remaining sawdust before he left, Webber laughed a bit.
Apparently, Aviation was going to sweep up the remaining wood chips and use them to infuse a special edition of its gin. Webber did have to fetch his saw, but would leave the bar and chain behind for Aviation to mount on the wall.
"They think of everything, don't they?" he said.
I shoved past the glass doors, stepped over a black velvet rope stretched across the sidewalk entrance and waited for my ride along the newly planted curb strip.
Once in the car, my driver took one look at the building and its Aviation logo. He wondered aloud if they made airplane parts inside. I told him about the distillery, the tour and the celebrity owner's escape room. We talked about Wrexham, Sunny and Deadpool (but this was before that Deadpool news) all the way to my light rail stop.
I still don't know what neighborhood the distillery is in. But it's Aviation and Reynolds' turf now.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Online

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: PROFESSIONAL SPORTS (78%); SOCCER (78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (68%)

Company:  DIAGEO PLC (82%)

Ticker: DGE (PAR) (82%); DGE (LSE) (82%); DEO (NYSE) (82%)

Industry: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (82%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (82%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (82%); AIRLINES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); DISTILLERIES (90%); OUTERWEAR (76%); BUSINESS & INDUSTRIAL PARKS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); SELF STORAGE (70%); BUSINESSWEAR (60%)

Geographic: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (67%)

Load-Date: September 28, 2022


End of Document
