



The Philadelphia Inquirer
June 28, 2022 Tuesday


Copyright 2022 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. A10
Length: 1111 words
Body


Send letters to . Limit length to 150 words and include home address and day and evening phone number. Letters run in the Inquirer six days a week on the editorial pages. Letters are not published online.
Following religious beliefs
Many pro-life advocates claim the only question to consider about abortion is whether to take the life of a "pre-born" child.
Actually, the question is whether 100% of Americans must follow the religious beliefs of the 38% who find abortion morally wrong. Our Constitution states that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion." Therefore, the government cannot make all Americans follow the moral beliefs of a group of religious people.
I won't debate the wide-ranging belief systems of different groups of Americans. There is great variety in who believes what, and why, in our pluralistic country. Jews may believe life begins at the first breath. Some Muslim scholars say abortions up to 120 days of fetal development are permitted. Though many Catholic and Protestant churches say life begins at conception, their congregants have differing opinions, with a majority in both saying abortions should be allowed in at least most cases. And three in 10 adults have no religious affiliation. But 52% of all Americans in a recent, post-Supreme Court leak Gallup poll find abortion morally acceptable, the highest ever recorded.
We are a secular, pluralistic country with people who believe a lot of different things. For those who believe abortion is morally wrong, please, don't have one. But please don't require me to follow your religious beliefs in our (currently) free America.
Kathleen O'Connell, LaMount, Pa.
'Roe v. Wade' overturned
The Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade is a direct contradiction to everything our country and the Constitution stand for. To wit: One of the leading themes in the preamble of the Constitution, its sole philosophical premise, is "We the People." One would think that Supreme Court decisions would therefore reflect the desires of the majority of citizens; polls show that maintaining Roe v. Wade is the preference of a wide majority of Americans.
The philosophy of "originalism" with regard to the Constitution requires mental gymnastics to support a position holding that "if it isn't in the Constitution it isn't a guaranteed right of citizens." While the document that itself was the most enlightened governing treatise of all time in - the late 1700s - and had many noble premises, it does not and could not possibly have addressed so many important topics present in our 21st century lives. Further, while our Founding Fathers were the colonies' leading thinkers behind the birth of our great democracy, they explicitly stated that "all men are created equal," entirely omitting women as members of our fledgling country. Of note, many of them were enslavers.
Women have been fighting for equal rights for more than a century; overturning Roe v. Wade nullifies a critical element of their hard-earned progress. It is imperative that we restore the full rights our mothers, wives, and daughters have over the self-determination they absolutely deserve.
M. Cohen, Washington Crossing
The hypocrisy of Clarence Thomas
It is quite notable that Justice Thomas has not included overturning the Loving decision in his list of Supreme Court decisions that he thinks should be reconsidered. All his suggestions relate to rights that have been protected by the assumption of privacy and have protected many groups of people against discrimination and interference with their private lives. The Loving decision, which protected interracial marriage, has made it possible for Thomas to be married to a white woman, so overturning it would be against his personal interest. This omission is yet another example of the hypocrisy of the current court in its decisions to expand gun rights on the federal level beyond what many states allow while overturning the rights of women and giving more power to the states to regulate the bodies of women. These decisions also call into question whether the justices who signed the opinions have a consistent judicial philosophy regarding states' rights. I think that we should believe Justice Thomas and expect future challenges to these established rights.
Barbara Schick, Merion Station
Guilty of perjury?
Does anyone care that at least two Supreme Court justices, Brett Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett, committed perjury? Both testified to the Senate under oath that Roe v. Wade was protected under the concept of stare decisis. Who judges the judges?
Rosemary McDonough, Narberth, 
No mention of men in antiabortion laws
Why aren't men being held accountable and responsible? Shouldn't these laws command that the father is found and made to provide prenatal and postnatal care and child support?
They should threaten the fathers with vasectomies since the legislators are criminalizing women for seeking health care that may include birth control or abortion. Then establish paternity and court-ordered support long before birth.
And why aren't these pro-lifers concerned about the mother's health? Why are they only concerned about the zygote? Since legislators evidently don't care about people, they should be made to attend a class about sexual health care showing that an abortion might be necessary to save a person's life. Like if someone has an ectopic pregnancy. Just like they're making people seeking abortions view ultrasounds. That's one of many reasons abortion should only be between a pregnant person and their doctor. Politicians should never be involved as we are a democracy where individual freedoms are sacrosanct.
We have to stop Republicans from pushing their antiabortion beliefs down our throats. If they don't agree, then don't have one. But why can't others have them, since they believe otherwise?
Why are Republicans the only ones that have freedom of religion? How is that constitutional? Why don't we have freedom of choice? Where are our individual freedoms?
Michael Miller Jr., Philadelphia, 
I do not recognize my country
In 2022, women now have fewer rights than their mothers did.
Three Supreme Court justices misled Congress on their views related to Roe v. Wade.
Another justice wrote the recent majority opinion advocating for the carrying of firearms and is married to a woman who was working at the highest levels to overturn the results of a legitimate presidential election.
A former president believed Italian satellites interfered with voting machines.
It is all stunning and regrettable reality in today's America.
Mary Kay Owen, Downingtown
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Journal Code: PHQP

Subject: RELIGION (94%); ABORTION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REPORTS, REVIEWS & SECTIONS (90%); APPEALS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (79%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (78%); DEMOCRACIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%)

Geographic: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (95%)

Load-Date: June 28, 2022


End of Document
