



Billboard
May 18, 2022


Copyright 2022 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved


Length: 384 words
Body


's baby-making saga may be coming to an end. After making headlines several times in the past few years for fathering eight children - four of whom were born in the span of two years - with five different women, the 41-year-old Masked Singer host has revealed that he is thinking about getting a vasectomy.
"I already went and got my vasectomy consultation," he told  Tuesday (May 17). "I ain't looking to populate the Earth completely, but I'm definitely looking forward to taking care and loving all the children that I currently have."
The Drumline star first welcomed twins Monroe and Moroccan with his ex-wife Mariah Carey. He then went on to father Golden and Powerful Queen with Brittany Bell in 2017 and 2020, another set of twins named Zion and Zillion with Abby De La Rosa in 2021, son Zen - who  - with Alyssa Scott also in 2021, and finally, he's expecting a baby boy with Bre Tiesi this year.
"I don't know if I would've designed it this way, but it's one of those things when you're blessed with the gifts of children," he continued. "I've been through so much, I find solace, I find peace in my children and I find purpose. So, I'm not out here looking."
Circling back to the first of his childrens' mothers, Cannon also spoke about his recent eyebrow-raising track titled "," which referenced his past marriage and sampled "Love Takes Time," one of the vocal powerhouse's hit songs.
"It wasn't that I wanted her back," he explained. "It was me acknowledging that I did wrong and that I lost one of the greatest gifts that I had ever had in my life. The song was about, you know, 'I'm a bad guy this and bad things that ended up leaving me alone and she left me alone.'"
"And obviously, it was a Mariah sample and all that," he continued. "So if you pay attention, I'm really giving it all in my music and my art because I know people have so many questions about my lifestyle and how I move. So, I was like, 'I might as well just put it all in the art.'"
More from Billboard
  
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Journal Code: BillboardBillboard

Subject: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); MUSIC (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%)

Person: NICK CANNON (93%); DARREN CRISS (79%); KANYE WEST (79%); MARIAH CAREY (79%); KIM KARDASHIAN (54%)

Load-Date: May 18, 2022


End of Document
