



adweek.com
May 6, 2022


Copyright 2022 Adweek LLC. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; TAG
Length: 290 words
Byline: Shannon Miller
Body


Ryan Reynolds rarely celebrates an occasion (and we do mean just about every occasion) without sharing a customized Aviation Gin cocktail to toast the day. So, with Mother's Day quickly approaching, it's no surprise that the star had a special sip ready to share just in time for the holiday.
But in a recently released tutorial for the latest drink, he did manage to include one unexpected gift: his mother, Tammy Reynolds.
In the minute-long video by Maximum Effort, Ryan shares his latest Aviation-based recipe, Mother's Ruin Punch. Filmed from his now-recognizable posh bar set, the actor swiftly goes through each ingredient with Tammy eagerly by his side.
Made with sugar, club soda, sweet vermouth, champagne and lemon and grapefruit juices, the only things sweeter than this recipe are Tammy's various attempts to assist--or just parent--Ryan throughout the tutorial. Whether she's advising him to stir counter-clockwise, picking lint off of his shirt, or assuring him that production can "fix [his] performance in post," Tammy steals the scene from her lovingly embarrassed son.
By the end of the video, Ryan suggests that viewers either chill the punch for an hour while "reflecting on everything your mom has done for you over the years," or just top it off with champagne while warm and "drink the ever-loving sh** out of it"--an option befitting Ryan's visibly waning patience.
For those hoping for a taste of Mother's Ruin, here's the recipe:
This holiday beverage is the first Aviation cocktail dedicated to mom. Last year, the actor crafted a drink for Father's Day called The Vasectomy, which he ironically called "the mother of all cocktails."Between the two parental aperitifs, which one is your favorite?
Aviation Gin/Maximum Effort
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Document-Type: Online

Publication-Type: Web Publication

Subject: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%)

Industry: COCKTAILS (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%)

Person: RYAN REYNOLDS (74%)

Load-Date: May 6, 2022


End of Document
