



Advertising Age
August 1, 2022
Print Version


Copyright 2022 Crain Communications All Rights Reserved


Section: Pg. 12; Vol. 93
Length: 1590 words
Body


Small Agency of the Year, By size
1-10 EMPLOYEES
Gold: Fred & Farid, Los Angeles
Fred & Farid's West Coast outpost has carved a niche for itself with a strong focus on work for good.
French Co-Founder Fred Raillard moved to Los Angeles three years ago to open the 10-person agency, which dedicates a quarter of its time to nonprofit organizations, including advocacy for LGBT+ inclusion groups. It has already worked on 11 campaigns addressing sustainability and conservation for the likes of Sea Shepherd and Greta Thunberg's Fridays for Future organization. For the latter, in 2021 Fred & Farid created a powerful spot that illustrates society's denial about the climate crisis with a metaphor that's literally hard-hitting: a man running into a wall.
The ad garnered more than 1.5 million views and raised awareness as Fridays for Future called for its Global Climate Strike last September.
The agency is not just about pro bono work. It grew its revenue from $4.5 million to $4.8 million from 2020 to 2021, as it notched wins from Heineken, NBCU's Peacock and Ladder Insurance.
To launch Heineken's Edelweiss wheat beer, Fred & Farid created "Feel the Alps," a sensorial campaign shot entirely in the real conditions of the European Alps that resulted in a 96% awareness boost for the brand. And for Ladder, it employed dark humor to raise awareness with its first campaign "Life Insurance So Good, They're Gonna Want You Dead." One film featured a dad arriving home from work to find that the house has been booby-trapped by his wife, son, daughter-and even his dog.
Partners get real shares, rather than stock options-and the indie shop says it has refused to sell several times.
-Alexandra Jardine
Silver: Quality Meats
Lots of agencies say they are providing clients nimble alternatives to the traditional agency approach. But few small shops are delivering on that promise as well as Quality Meats. The Chicago-based shop's project-based model uses what it calls a "what-you-see-is-what-you-get mentality," with an emphasis on telling clients hard truths about what they need while simultaneously putting production needs first, so that what is pitched can actually be made.
The agency, founded by longtime creative partners Brian Siedband and Gordy Sang along with production vet Kacey Hart, launched in 2020 and quickly landed work for Marquee Sports Network, the then-new cable TV network dedicated to the Chicago Cubs. The agency's "We Get All Of It" campaign embraced the highs and lows of being a Cubs fan and boosted Marquee's favorability 361% with core Cubs fans, according to data shared by the agency.
Quality Meats also knocked it out of the park for Vancouver-based men's underwear brand SAXX with a campaign that helped the brand enter the U.S. by positioning it, in the agency's words, as "a form of self-care. But for your balls." Ads promoted the underwear's patented "Ballpark Pouch" with an irreverent but sophisticated ad pitching the pouch as keeping balls from "flubbing around all willy-nilly." It also seized on March Madness, known as a popular time for vasectomies, by launching a "VaSAXXtomy" registry that allowed men getting the procedure to sign up for products and gifts.
-E.J. Schultz
11-75 EMPLOYEES
Gold: Lerma/
In 2020, Motel 6 fired The Richards Group, now TRG, over a racist remark made by the agency's founder. Within the next 48 hours, the agency lost 40% of its business. But those weren't the only departures. Lerma/, which was previously TRG's multicultural marketing arm for 12 years under the name Richards/Lerma, separated from the agency under a new name in 2021.
Within its first year of independence, the Dallas-based agency was named Hispanic agency of record for Home Depot and agency of record for the Salvation Army, two companies that had cut ties with The Richards Group the year prior. Last year the cross- cultural agency picked up 11 new clients and grew its revenue to $45 million (from $10 million in 2020).
Lerma/ also took on a huge, if controversial, assignment: "Rebranding" Jesus. The shop created one of the more provocative faith-based campaigns in recent memory with its "He Gets Us" work that focused on modernizing how Christ is viewed in today's world. The work compares the story of Jesus to contemporary themes of teen pregnancy, anxiety and politics.
In 12 weeks, the campaign's videos garnered more than 110 million views on YouTube. The website the campaign promoted, backed by a group called The Servant Foundation, also receives as many as 90,000 visitors a day, yielding tens of thousands of chat conversations and reading-plan downloads each month.
In a more secular vein, using Avocados From Mexico's Twitter feed, the agency drove attention to the brand during the Super Bowl by tweeting at 30 different brands-for example, swiftly producing a video of a bouncing avocado following Coinbase's QR code spot. The social strategy achieved 4.8 billion media impressions and overwhelmingly positive brand sentiment, according to the agency.
Lerma/ also showed its cultural prowess with its "Cafecito" Labor Day campaign for Home Depot, which showed a Hispanic family opening up a coffee shop using materials from the home improvement retailer. Following the spot, 75% of bilingual viewers expressed purchase intent and average household spending among Hispanic families increased during the promotion.
-Brian Bonilla
Silver: Preacher
Like other agencies during the COVID-19 pandemic, Preacher experienced client and revenue losses. But the Austin, Texas-based shop came back strong with new campaigns for brands including Coca-Cola and The Container Store, increasing revenue by almost $2 million in 2021.
Preacher unleashed a plethora of campaigns while also putting on more than 50 art exhibitions at its agency-owned Preacher Gallery and expanding its DE&I efforts. The shop became part of Black Leaders and Creators (BLAC), an internship program meant to bring more diversity into the agency space, from which it has hired two interns full-time so far.
Preacher also undertook an immersive research project to get real responses from Black consumers that couldn't be found in focus groups by spending two days at the Smash Barbershop in Houston. The project, which started with one simple question, "What's the dopest thing about Black culture?" yielded Clipper Confessions, a deep-dive research site shared with marketers including ESPN and Coca-Cola.
Preacher evangelized for the latter's flavored sparkling water, Aha, with its first major campaign, "Can I Get an Aha?" The push leveraged the comedic abilities of actors Lauren Lapkus and Colton Dunn; Ben Schwartz and Jenny Slate from "Parks & Rec"; and Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle from "Pen15" to boost sales by 40% and move Aha into the No. 3 position in the sparkling water wars.
Preacher also created a game for the New York City rental app StreetEasy to take it from renter's go-to to a one-stop shop for buying and selling homes, too. Preacher's "Win the Game of Real Estate" campaign looked like a board game that had three players: renters, buyers and sellers. They each follow their own path to find their dream home.
-Keira Wingate
76-150 EMPLOYEES
Gold: Fitzco
Fitzco founder Dave Fitzgerald bought back the agency from Interpublic Group of Cos. in 2020-some 22 years after selling it. Since then, the shop says it has been reborn in more ways than one.
Since going indie, Fitzco has retained all its client relationships, increased revenue 70%, grown its head count 60% and acquired 11 new clients.
One impressive feat was its agency-of- record win for McCormick & Co.'s hot sauce brand Cholula. The agency won the brand after a competitive review last year in which it also successfully defended the French's Mustard account it held since 2018.
Fitzco has created popular campaigns for French's, for which it dreamed up mustard ice cream, mustard beer and mustard-based hot dog buns. It declared 2021 "the year of the sandwich" and launched French's "MustSwitch" campaign, meant to have consumers switch from mayo to mustard on their sandwiches. It partnered with chef Tom Colicchio to encourage healthier eating behaviors, touting the fact that French's Mustard has 0 fat and 0 calories.
-Keira Wingate
Silver: Rosewood Creative
A campaign doesn't have to target the entirety of Gen Z to go viral. Sometimes it just takes one person.
Rosewood Creative, a social-first creative and production agency, is proof of that. The agency, founded in 2013 by Managing Partners Amir Mohamadzadeh and Matt Bauer, turned small budgets into big ideas in 2021.
The agency was tasked with helping eco-friendly laundry brand Ecos launch its liquidless laundry sheets, but without the budget of a major laundry competitor. So, instead of a broad campaign to reach all young clothes washers, Rosewood embarked on a social media campaign to convert just one Gen Zer.
A social campaign was created around TikTok user Max Okazaki. The agency posted a billboard and fliers in his hometown, recruited social influencers that Max followed and revamped the brand's website all tailored specifically to this one person.
In the end, the campaign was victorious-Max bought Ecos' laundry sheets and the brand scored a lot of social media attention with influencers. The resourceful and creative idea is emblematic of Rosewood's other work, such as partnering with influencers from the deaf community to create a curated playlist for the release of Apple's film "CODA," leading to more than $3 million in revenue growth for the agency in 2021.
-Parker Herren
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Magazine

Journal Code: AA

Subject: ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SUSTAINABILITY (75%); BASEBALL (73%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL NEWS (70%); CLIMATE CHANGE (69%); STOCK OPTIONS (62%)

Company:  SEA LTD (57%)

Ticker: SE (NYSE) (57%)

Industry: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (79%); BEER & ALE (66%); STOCK OPTIONS (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%)

Person: GRETA THUNBERG (57%)

Geographic: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); ALPS (69%)

Load-Date: August 4, 2022


End of Document
