



Tampa Bay Times
July 22, 2024 Monday


Copyright 2024 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Opinion
Length: 1590 words
Body


Free from what, exactly?
| July 18
Signs welcoming visitors to the "Free State of Florida" are puzzling. What is Florida free of? President Franklin Roosevelt's four fundamental freedoms were freedom of speech and expression; freedom of worship; freedom from want; and freedom from fear. It doesn't feel like any of these is really guaranteed in Florida.
We know that freedom of speech has been curtailed by law for teachers at all levels. Christianity is being pushed by many of our elected officials. Millions of Floridians lack food, shelter and health care because of refusal to accept federal funds and cruelty.
What about freedom from fear? OB/GYNs fear they will be sued or jailed for practicing responsible medicine. Women fear they will die from complicated pregnancies. Educators fear they will lose their jobs teaching history or anything outside the Western canon. Trans people fear using the names, pronouns and public bathrooms they are comfortable with. Agricultural and construction workers fear dying from the heat or losing their jobs for taking water breaks. Public officials fear "SWATters," stalkers and threats against their families. Bicyclists and pedestrians fear lawless drivers. People who are Black, Indigenous or people of color fear they will be targeted by law enforcement, not to mention by racists. Undocumented workers fear deportation, and citizens fear their undocumented relatives will be deported.
People fear gun violence. People worry about their kids being shot at school. People worry about going to parks, stores, concerts, nightclubs, public celebrations, movie theaters and just about everywhere else because of gun violence. Am I afraid? No, I'm not. I no longer live in Florida.
Gabriel Chohaney,Broomfield, Colorado
April Fools'?
| July 18
This is beyond belief. There are new signs being erected as you enter the state of Florida that say "Welcome to the Free State of Florida." I had to look at the calendar. Was it April Fools' Day? Who are we trying to deceive? We have one of most vindictive governors in the country along with a Legislature that wants to control everything from books, to women, to teachers, to religion, to gay people, to school boards, to climate doctrine and more. Seriously, it feels like we are the most un-free state in America. This new slogan might fool the snowbirds and incoming retirees but it won't fool those of us who live in this restrictive one-party society.
John Bonano, Gulfport
Here's a personal freedom
| July 18
Floridians are proud of our reputation for prioritizing the protection of people's personal freedoms. And this November we will once again have a chance to show our commitment to protecting those personal freedoms by voting yes on Florida Amendment 4. This amendment would return decisions regarding reproductive rights to Floridians and their doctors. The last thing the people of this state want, or need, is government interference over medical procedures.
We all know that the topic of abortion can be a difficult and divisive one. There is no doubt that people across our state have many different opinions on the practice. But at the end of the day, the people of Florida can make decisions on reproductive issues on their own without the government's "help." This November let's do what we do best in Florida - vote against government overreach and vote for the protection of personal liberties.
Marcus Afzali,Safety Harbor
A woman's experience
Why Florida's abortion amendment is a bad idea | Column, July 14
I am a recently retired osteopathic physician of more than 30 years. I started medical school at age 31. As a female I have spent years both as a patient and as a physician. I have seen both sides of this issue - personally. No physician I have talked to would agree to abort a functionally normal fetus at a very late term just because the woman did not want a baby. And no woman would carry an unwanted baby that long without a significant reason.
Politicians who have no medical training, unless also a physician, are writing rules and laws about abortions and women's care that are impossible to follow because they do not contain understandable rules to approve or deny an abortion. This shows an absolute lack of medical knowledge and language.
How dare any man, let alone a Legislature full of them, determine what a woman can or cannot do with her health and her body. Try sitting in our seat and see how you would feel. I know - make a rule that all men, once puberty hits, must have vasectomies. That way, no rape or incest pregnancies.
Why do so many men feel that men should decide what is best for women? Abortion will not go away. It will only silently go again to back alleys. I drove several friends (during our high school years) to one of these back-alley procedures. They are dangerous, as I can attest. Shall I tell you how they were done and the results - usually? No, I did not have one. Instead, I had a "shotgun marriage."
I graduated high school in 1968. Birth control was only available then to married women with their husband's approval. The same for tubal ligations. When I decided I had enough children I had to have my husband sign his approval for the tubal ligation. I had a miscarriage in the mountains of West Virginia in 1976. Thank God it was not a current occurrence, or I would be called up before a board of men to determine my punishment.
Gail Dudley,Sun City Center
Don't make a fist
Pumped up | Perspective, July 21
Sunday's Perspective section gave an analysis of the raised clenched fist that some people are so fond of demonstrating when gesturing to a crowd. However, I don't believe that the most recently raised clenched fist - accompanied by the shouting of "fight! fight!" - was appropriate for the occasion. I didn't like the reluctance to leave the raised stage after gunfire endangered everyone on that stage. The ones most in danger first and foremost were the Secret Service agents, who were fully exposed. The killing of one and injuring of others did not warrant a raised clenched fist. Lives were forever changed. Clenched fists depict anger and shouldn't be displayed in dangerous situations or in volatile circumstances. I wish people would save it for the winners of the ball game.
Carol Hess,Hudson
Not such a deal
St. Pete approves new Rays stadium | July 19
Numerous economic studies have shown that these sports stadium deals - corporate welfare, pure and simple - are no-wins for cities shelling out hundreds of millions of dollars in response to sports owners' vague promises, overly rosy projections and threats to relocate. As attendance figures bear out, the stadium is poorly located to serve the Tampa Bay area, but the wealthy team owners refused to cough up their own money to nail down a more easily accessible location for fans coming from around the region. I believe that this should have been opened up to a public referendum, as the more residents learned about the deal, the fewer seemed to support it.
Barbara Pierce,St. Petersburg
Yeah, but ...
St. Pete approves new Rays stadium | July 19
So living in St. Pete is cool. How wonderful that we get to keep our Tampa Bay Rays here in our beautiful, historic city. However, if St. Petersburg is that trendy and marketable, why don't we have a Costco or Cheesecake Factory?
Brett Hayman, St. Petersburg
Nasty is as nasty does
Want a way to calm political rhetoric? I might just have the answer. | Column, July 21
Columnist Frank Knapp Jr. makes some good points about policy regarding political violence. He states that "the ranked choice voting system encourages listening to all interests, being respectful and offering a policy that addresses the common interests of voters." Unfortunately, this will not stop the violent political rhetoric that comes out of some candidates' mouths. And I am sick of hearing that it is from both sides. It is not. There is one candidate (whose party has now joined him) who started and continues to speak in a violent and vulgar manner. I have lived through many presidential elections but I have never heard such crude, boorish, uncivil and violent words until Donald Trump came on the scene. The only way I can see an end to this nastiness is to get him out of politics.
Ann Jamieson, St. Petersburg
To serve man
| Letters, July 21
The letter author writes that he finds it difficult to see what the problem is with Project 2025 s stated "four main policy aims: restore the family as the centerpiece of American life; dismantle the administrative state; defend the nation's sovereignty and borders; and 'secure God-given individual rights to live freely.'" The answer lies in the classic "Twilight Zone" episode "To Serve Man." Seemingly benevolent space aliens are welcomed by earthlings after cryptologists translate the title of the only known alien book. (It's the same as the episode title.) Translating more of the book takes much time and only comes after unwitting humans board the alien ships. The friendly seeming title is actually a cookbook of how to prepare humans for alien consumption. Having read Project 2025 in some detail, I know that the seemingly harmless policy aims summary is the political equivalent of "To Serve Man." It's worth reading beyond the capsule description before boarding the Project 2025 ship.
Jim Smith,St. Petersburg

Graphic

 

Signs welcoming visitors to "The Free State of Florida" now stand at 24 locations along highways and at two welcome centers, said Michael Williams, a spokesperson for the Florida Department of Transportation.
Classification


Language: ENGLISH

Publication-Type: Newspaper

Subject: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEGATIVE NEWS (90%); PUBLIC OFFICIALS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); GOVERNMENT BODIES & OFFICES (89%); NEGATIVE MISC NEWS (88%); VIOLENT CRIME (88%); WEAPONS & ARMS (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LGBTQ+ PERSONS (78%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS & CIVIL LIBERTIES LAW (77%); RELIGION (76%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (74%); BLUE COLLAR WORKERS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CRIME, LAW ENFORCEMENT & CORRECTIONS (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); LAYOFFS & DISMISSALS (73%); RACE & ETHNICITY (73%); STALKING (73%); ELECTIONS & POLITICS (72%); NEGATIVE SOCIETAL NEWS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); PUBLIC RESTROOMS (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); CRAFT & TRADE WORKERS (67%); PEDESTRIAN SAFETY (66%); DEPORTATION (65%)

Industry: OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); NIGHTCLUBS (50%)

Geographic: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); COLORADO, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

Load-Date: July 28, 2024


End of Document
