




Newsweek.com
July 29, 2022 Friday 4:29 AM EST


Copyright © 2022 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 639 words
Byline: Jack Beresford
Highlight: One of the most shocking admissions came from a woman who wrote: "I talked my ex-husband into a vasectomy before I left him."
Body


A thread inviting Mumsnet users to share "secret confessions" has been flooded with messages from people apparently eager to spill their deepest, darkest secrets.
While the veracity of the claims being posted in the thread created by the user colourpink are difficult to ascertain, the secrets being shared have nevertheless proven enthralling to read for those following along online.
According to Diana Raab, a writer and lecturer specializing in writing for healing and transformation, admissions of this kind occupy a unique psychological space.
"Confessional writing isn't always healing, but it's a way of expressing your sentiments via the written word," she told Psychology Today.
"In general, writing can help make sense of certain events and circumstances in your life. When it comes to confessional writing, it can provide a respite from hiding behind a veil of secrets."
For some posting to the , which received 1,000 responses, their confessions were undoubtedly an attempt to make sense of events in their lives. But for others it was also a chance to lift the veil of secrecy, with the resulting posts proving eye-catching to say the least.
"I can't wait for my mother to fall off her perch," one user, posting as Garysparrowsthirdwife, wrote. "She's an evil narcissist who has turned so many people against me for no reason at all. The day she goes, is the day I throw the biggest party ever. Ditto my brothers and enabling father."
Another user, posting as Demilei, admitted: "I'm married and I send and receive dirty texts and pictures from strange men. It gives me a boost." That was only the tip of the iceberg when it came to family secrets. "I loathe my niece," a user posting as Lesina wrote. "But she is the only granddaughter so we all have to pretend she is an angel. I want to punch her."
Elsewhere, Chatterbait's confession was eye-opening to say the least. "Sometimes I stand looking out of my window with my a** hanging out," they wrote. "For some reason I enjoy the knowledge that anyone going past would just see someone looking out of their window and never know about my naked a**."
However, one of the most shocking admissions came from forlornlorna1 who wrote: "I talked my ex-husband into a vasectomy before I left him."
Mostly, however, the thread was dominated with  drama. Stichintime said: "I have no feelings for my mom, it's just a blank," while alpisnkoay confessed: "I was disappointed my SIL didn't die of her heart attack."
Coffeeenema said: "....She had it in for me before she even met me, has tried to tear our relationship apart by outright lying about me after I'd welcomed her in to my home and cooked her  and done my best to make her welcome." They added: "I am beyond forgiveness. I have made a voodoo doll of her before."
The most extreme came from a user posting as Goatling who wrote: " and my sister, haven't spoken to them in years, they are nasty pieces of work."
There were plenty of work-based truths too.
Purplelion said: "I have an insane crush on someone at work. He's only just started and I have one shift a week with him but I do my  and make up before every shift just in case he's doing overtime."
ThatsWhatItsAllAbout, meanwhile, wrote: "I sneak a few days extra off each year at  by 'forgetting' to put them in the system. I also go to the hairdressers during work hours. Oh and also I book meeting rooms and go and play Candy Crush."
The rest of the confessions ran from the extreme to the disgusting.
PlanetNormal said: "I don't give a f*** about the , I'm a frequent flyer and I have no plans to get rid of my lovely three liter, six cylinder 330hp BMW," while WellEdinburghIsMightyFine admitted: "I haven't  for months."


Graphic

 
A man at a computer screen.
amenic181/Getty
Stock image of a man staring at a computer screen - a forum thread detailing dark confessions has caught fire online.

Load-Date: July 29, 2022


End of Document
