




Newstex Blogs 
The Cheat Sheet
July 9, 2022 Saturday 4:05 AM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1050 words
Byline: Andrea Francese
Body


Jul 09, 2022( The Cheat Sheet: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 ManyGilmor[1]e[1] Girls[1]fans despise Christopher Hayden. Lorelai's on-again-off-again romantic interest was immature and extremely needy. While he and Lorelai had great chemistry, they were never on the same page. Still, much of the Chris hate can be linked to fans' preference for Luke and Lorelai together. He isn't the worst love interest to ever grace the screen when you think about it. In our opinion, the worst love interest ever featured onGilmore Girlswas actually Jackson Belleville,Sookie St. James' husband.[2] 
Jackson refused to stand up for Sooke St. James, Christopher could and did put Lorelai first, occasionally  
Jackson Belleville[2] was pretty awful from the very beginning of their relationship. Not only did he let Sookie take the lead and ask him out, but he brought his cousin, Rune, on their first date. He let Rune disrespect both Sookie and Lorelai before he finally tossed him so he could enjoy his burger with Sookie in peace. While he eventually pulled it together and did the right thing, it took far too long for it to happen. Still, he wasn't apologetic to Lorelai.Fans largely agree that Jackson's first date behavior was subpar. The season 1 episode, 'Double Date,'[3] is one of the show's most disliked.  
Jackson's deep-fried Thanksgiving turkey[4] 
It would go on to become a bit of a pattern. While someGilmore Girlsfans perceive Jackson as someone a bit simple, who accidentally failed to understand Sookie's complex feelings[5], that doesn't seem to be the case. Jackson Belleville was in touch with Sookie's feelings when it benefited him but completely ignored them if there was something he wanted. 
Christopher might have been a bit meek as a young adult, but he always stood up for Lorelai. He stood up to his father for Lorelai and was always pretty gracious when dealing with the overbearing Gilmores. Jackson never did the same.  
Jackson Belleville bullied Sookie, Christopher Hayden wasn't a bully  
If Jackson Belleville's worst quality was his inability to stand up for his long-term partner, we could probably forgive him. While Jackson was meek with his own family, he was a bully to Sookie and her friends. Jackson gave Sookie the silent treatment because she didn't instinctively know he wanted to move in together. He tried to force fruit and vegetables on her that she didn't want.  
"Oh boy," Sookie is pregnant[6] 
Jackson's bullying got much worse once he and Sookie were officially married. He tried to bully Sookie into having four children in four years. He stormed away from her when she wasn't on board with the idea. To make it even more cringe-worthy[7], Jackson even approached Lorelai to yell at her about the whole thing. His reaction was over the top and, frankly, kind of abusive. 
Christopher didn't exactly play fair when it came to fights, either. Still, he wasn't a bully. Christopher was far more avoidant. Instead of dealing with an argument, he walked away from it. Chris's behavior was troubling and often left Lorelai frustrated. Still, Jackson's constant bullying feels a whole lot ickier.  
He later lied about having a vasectomy 
Jackson's interest in having a ton of children, despite Sookie's lack of interest, went far beyond bullying. In a season 7 storyline[8] that still stymies us, Sookie found herself unexpectedly pregnant with her third child. The pregnancy was a huge shock because Jackson was supposed to have had a vasectomy following the birth of their second child. Jackson was taken by a hospital tech immediately following Martha's birth to have the procedure done, much to his surprise. 
Gilmore Girls | Season 7 Recap | Netflix[9] 
Sure, you could argue that Sookie had no right to try and force Jackson Belleville into having the procedure. Still, he had no right to lie to her about going through with it. There is nothing the least bit amusing about reproductive coercion. 
Christopher suggested he wanted to have another child with Lorelai, but he never tried to force the issue. He certainly never claimed to have had a medical procedure to render him infertile when he didn't. That alone makes Chris a way better partner than Jackson.  
RELATED:'Gilmore Girls': 3 of Sookie St. James' Most Intense Scenes[5] 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  [ 3]:  [ 4]:  [ 5]:  [ 6]:  [ 7]:  [ 8]:  [ 9]:  
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: July 20, 2022


End of Document
