




Newstex Blogs 
The Cheat Sheet
September 4, 2022 Sunday 7:06 AM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 987 words
Byline: Andrea Francese
Body


Sep 04, 2022( The Cheat Sheet: / Delivered by Newstex)  
   Gilmore Girlsmight not seem like a controversial show. In most ways, it's not. The series' popularity is almost entirely based on how comforting it is and how nothing bad happens in the beloved town of Stars Hollow . Still, there were some divisive moments. We've collected the three most controversial storylines from the show's seven-season run. 
 Sookie and Jackson's season 7 storyline is largely despised
During season 7 of Gilmore Girls , the writing team had a slight issue to tackle. Melissa McCarthy, the actor who portrayed Sookie St. James, was pregnant. Instead of attempting to hide the pregnancy, they wrote it into the series. There was just one problem, Sookie's husband, Jackson Belleville, was supposed to have a vasectomy seasons before. 
     Gilmore Girls | Season 7 Recap | Netflix925520      
Instead of a vasectomy failure or a scandalous cheating storyline, the writers opted to write a reproductive coercion storyline into the series. Jackson never bothered to tell Sookie he didn't have the vasectomy she had set up for him. While some Gilmore Girls fans argue that the storyline was unique, most agree that it was gross, problematic, and frankly, downright felonious. 
 Lorelai's romance with Max Medina is still heavily debated by 'Gilmore Girls' fans
In season 1 of Gilmore Girls , Lorelai Gilmore finds herself involved with Max Medina, Rory Gilmore's high school English teacher. The duo got together, broke up, got back together, became engaged, and called off the wedding during seasons one and two of Gilmore Girls.
 wp-block-embed is-type-video is-provider-youtube wp-block-embed-youtube wp-embed-aspect-4-3 wp-has-aspect-ratio    Listening to Max's message925694      
Max disappeared from the show after Rory graduated from Chilton, but some Gilmore Girls fans still argue that Max and Lorelai's relationship was a good thing. According to some fans, Max was sexy and well-read and just different enough from the men of her upbringing to fit into Lorelai's life. Others argue that the entire relationship between Max and Lorelai was creepy. Even Scott Patterson , the actor who portrayed Luke Danes, thought it was weird. He does, however, have a vested interest. 
 h-the-revival-s-final-words-fell-flat-for-some-fans-but-others-loved-itThe revival's final words fell flat for some fans, but others loved it
Amy Sherman-Palladino always intended to end Gilmore Girls with Rory Gilmore's unplanned pregnancy. She didn't get to do it during the original series , so she inserted the storyline into Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life . While many fans dislike the storyline, others really enjoyed it. 
  1200800Kelly Bishop, Lauren Graham, and Alexis Bledel stand next to each other and look onin 'Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life'wp-image-2932706" srcset=" 1200w,  150w,  640w,  768w,  1024w,  90w" sizes="(max-width: 1200px) 100vw, 1200px Kelly Bishop, Lauren Graham, and Alexis Bledel in 'Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life' | Robert Voets/Netflix   
The ending's critics argue that ending the revival with Rory, single and pregnant at 32, required too many illogical leaps to get there. When fans left Rory at the end of the original series, she was determined and had a vision for the future. When they reconnected with her, she was rootless, jobless, and sleeping with her engaged ex . It all felt kind of forced. 
Fans of the storyline argue that the cliffhanger leaves plenty of room to imagine what happens to Rory next. One " rel="noreferrer noopenerReddit user points out that the ending gave rise to plenty of FanFiction. When you think about it, the ending does lend itself well to fan creations. 
 RELATED: '   Gilmore Girls': 3 Storylines the Show Dropped That Fans Still Want Answers to   

Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: September 4, 2022


End of Document
