




Newstex Blogs 
The Cheat Sheet
December 4, 2019 Wednesday 7:06 PM EST


Copyright 2019 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 791 words
Byline: Robert Arissen
Body


Dec 04, 2019( The Cheat Sheet: / Delivered by Newstex)  Grey's Anatomy first appeared on the small screen in March 2005, making it one of the longest-running shows on television. It always has been and still is, a fan favorite, with millions of viewers tuning in to see what happens next. Over the years, lots of different faces have come and gone, and the drama is always there to keep people deliciously entertained. 
With so many characters that we have come to know and love, there is one that just sits the wrong way with a lot of people. It is widely agreed that Alex Karev[1] isn't exactly on many people's good list, for a variety of reasons. Although he has shown some signs of growth throughout the show's run, there are still many things that have left less than a favorable impression on fans of the show. Let's talk about how Grey's Anatomy fans still can't forgive Alex Karev[2] for the 'worst' thing he has ever done.Who is Alex Karev?Justin Chambers | Kelsey McNeal/ABC via Getty Images For those who may not be familiar, let's quickly discuss who Alex Karev is. According to Fandom[3], the character is portrayed by Justin Chambers and first came on the scene as an intern at Grey Sloane Memorial Hospital. He held the position of Head of Pediatric Surgery and is currently married to Jo Karev, although he was previously married to Izzie. It is said in the show that Alex didn't have the most stable life as a child, something that is reflected in both is character and his work. An unlikeable person Although he has matured over the years, it is pretty safe to say that Alex Karev holds the title as the most unpopular character to ever appear on Grey's Anatomy. According to Screen Rant[4], he has done quite a few things that have left fans confused and shaking their heads in disbelief. What are some of the things that Alex has been involved in that have left him with a bad reputation? He wasn't really that nice to Jo[5], at least for a period of time. Their relationship was pretty rocky, and she felt betrayed because Alex was constantly defending Meredith, even when she was in the wrong. What else did he do that didn't earn him any points with fans of the show? He treated his first wife, Izzie, very badly after her battle with cancer. Although it can be argued that he supported her in the beginning, he did the unthinkable, something that no husband should ever do, and flat-out revealed that he felt trapped in their marriage due to the unfortunate circumstances. As if that weren't bad enough, at the beginning of their relationship, Alex was unfaithful to Izzie when things got too hard, and he had a fling on the side with Olivia. The most outrageous part of it all? While these storylines were absolutely jaw-dropping, Alex has been involved in much worse. Fans still can't forgive Alex Karev for the 'worst' thing he has ever done View this post on Instagram  Director Chandra Wilson in the house[6] A post shared by Justin Chambers[7] (@officialjustinchambers) on Aug 24, 2017 at 4:14pm PDT So, what it is that fans still can't forgive Alex for? Millions of viewers were absolutely stunned when he nearly beat residentDeLuca to death without even giving him a chance to explain himself. Apparently, Alex jumped to the wrong conclusion when he believed Deluca was taking advantage of his future wife, Jo, and things got physical pretty quickly. The situation escalated, and Alex found himself in handcuffs as a result and facing severe legal consequences over what he had done. Feelings were mixed among the other characters, with some placing blame and some being sympathetic. Even so, it is something that fans have never gotten over, and aren't able to forget about. Read the original article from The Cheat Sheet[8] [ 1]:             [ 2]:             [ 3]:             [ 4]:            / [ 5]:             [ 6]:             [ 7]:             [ 8]:             

Load-Date: December 4, 2019


End of Document
