




USA Today Online
March 13, 2024


Copyright 2024 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Section: ENTERTAINMENT: LATEST & CONSUMER: RELATIONSHIPS NEWS
Length: 3173 words
Byline: KiMi Robinson, USA TODAY
Body


The  might have revealed  on , but there were so many questions left unanswered. Thankfully, the reunion addressed, well, most of them.
Yes,  was engaged right before he went on the show (for a brief engagement with )? But apparently that was no secret. Did he and  indeed jet ski off into the sunset and start a relationship off the show? Also yes, though they did have some apologies in their back pockets for Laura.
Did  leave behind a girlfriend to join the cast? Um, maybe? You'll have to read on to see what he had to say for himself.

What we didn't hear from the horse's mouth was whether  and  are dating again, however. At around the hour and three minute mark, after they discussed how Chelsea outed his friend as a one-time sexual partner, Jimmy touches Chelsea's leg and she rubs her hand against his comfortingly. 
Here's everything that went down during Netflix's "Love is Blind: The Reunion."
'I owed it to myself': 
To wrap things up, Micah from Season 4 has the honor of announcing “Perfect Match” Season 2.
File this one under "not a surprise, but good to know."
She and Izzy from Season 5 — who, by the way, announces he's improved his credit score — will be part of the cast. And Jess, whom she calls “one of the biggest rocks I’ve ever had in my entire life.”
The rumors have been floating for months, but it’s good to have confirmation. Also rumored? That Jess and Harry Jowsey from "Too Hot to Handle" Season 1 (who has successfully pivoted into a career in the public eye) had a fling during filming, per photos published by  last week.
Matthew wasn't at the reunion, but his name was very much on everybody's lips.
He'd “politely declined” to be part of the reunion, allegedly. And you’re telling me Trevor wanted to be there?
Thankfully, six seasons in, the "Love is Blind" editors and producers figured out that we want, which is for them to show, don't tell. And they do just that by showing the unseen footage of what Matthew told Amber in the pods that was apparently identical to his conversation with the other Amber, aka AD.
Roll the tape!
“I don’t want to tell something to somebody else and tell you something; I’m just not going to do that," past-Matthew tells Amber across a wall. At this, reunion-AD nearly falls off the couch laughing.
Turns out, Matthew did indeed discuss how he wouldn’t propose to Amber without talking to her dad. This begs the question: Why is Amber not here? Sure, she seemingly didn't make it out of the pods with a relationship, but neither did Sarah Ann.
“This is insane,” AD says as she reacts to the clip.
“It wasn’t that he was saying the same thing to both of us. It was the fact that I had shared something so intimate about my father passing," she explains. "So when (Amber) comes in and she has the same story as far as, like, the dad thing. That’s what really robbed me because I was like ‘Well, my story is obsolete, then.’”
Then comes the big reveal: AD and Matthew "went on a few dates" after filming. "Two, two-ish," specifically, she says. 
"Lowkey he's cute, y'all," she says in her defense. And what might become the next viral meme: "He ended up cooking me dinner," she says before revealing, "It was rice and chicken."
She certainly withheld this nugget of information when speaking with USA TODAY prior to the premiere; perhaps she was saving this reveal for a global stage.
"Matthew is a very intriguing man. He's a man of few words," she said. "The experience I had with Matthew, you know, it was great for that time. I don't really know much about what he's up to." 
Ultimately, things did not work out (shockingly). “We live two completely different lifestyles," she says. He’s “disciplined,” and she’s “with the wind a little bit.”



“Finally we get our time!” Nearly an hour and 20 minutes in, Brittany was more than ready to talk about what happened between her and Kenneth.
“We speak nearly every day," she says. Wow! So they're back together?
Or not. She follows with: “Although we are no longer in a relationship together, the bond that we have is going to last for an eternity, and I’m happy with that.”
We were ready for another relationship reveal, but putting this one to rest might be for the best.
Kenneth agrees "I was phone a lot!" He'll own up to it. But he's a "very on-the-grounds principal," and he had work to do, in his defense, after three weeks away.
Though he seemed shut-off as he and Brittany broke up earlier in the season, Kenneth corrects the "perception" that he was unaffected by the engagement ending. He called Clay “in shambles" after the breakup, he says.
It’s time for Amy and Johnny to be put on the spot. Well, as much as they can be as two people with absolutely no on-screen drama.
Let’s hope Vanessa Lachey has heard the pleas of “Love is Blind” viewers around the world who critiqued her in previous reunions for asking personal and private questions about cast members’ pregnancy plans.
After some lighthearted ribbing about their lack of sex education — which became a viral storyline on social media — which Johnny and Amy take on the chin, the latter reveals she never went on birth control and Jimmy didn’t get a vasectomy.

Johnny sets the record straight: “Condoms were always an option.”
He also confirms what we all figured by now. “I didn’t really know too much about the whole topic of birth control at all until I really had the first conversation with Amy.” He adds, “But (it was) something I really never had to think about, I feel like, as a guy because it wasn’t something I was thinking about constantly.”
They, uh, “figured it out,” apparently. We’re glad to hear it.

So are they friends?
Jess says she thought so, but “it seemed like you took the first opportunity you had to just make an attempt at throwing me under the bus,” she says.
She's angry that Jimmy said she stormed out of a date after 10 minutes, but she stayed at least 45 minutes. “What made you want to say horrible things about me?” she asks.
Jimmy says that Jess left early. He now looks like he would rather be anywhere but on this couch. He isn't looking at Chelsea. He isn't looking at Jess. Where is he looking?
“Your tone of voice was offsetting to me,” Jimmy says.
Now looking at Jess for so long, does she resemble Sandra Bullock? Jess is so rational in this conversation, we’re not sure why she was picked for this show.
Now Jimmy admits that maybe 45 minutes felt like 10 minutes. He says this OUT LOUD. 
OK, this conversation feels like more than 10 minutes, maybe 45. Next they show the actual date, which is more than 10 minutes. Jess is right. We didn't doubt this.
We still don’t know if they are friends. And it doesn't feel that important at this point.
—Laura Trujillo
The last time we saw AD, Clay had left her at the altar. Now they are sitting on a loveseat, with her scooted as close to the edge as she can.
“She’s the love of my life. I made a mistake going to the altar and saying no,” Clay tells her. “I’ve been doing the work .. I’ve been doing therapy to be a better person. It was a big let down. I apologize. I love you. You are the love of my life. It was a mistake.”
AD scoots farther. Can you scoot farther and still technically be on the same loveseat?
“What am I supposed to do with that information?” AD asks.
Vanessa Lachey butts in with the tough question: “Would you date him again?”

AD looks at Clay. “Next question. You had your chance. … There was nothing I wouldn’t have given you …There’s nothing I wouldn’t have done for you .. respectfully you played in my face. You knew you didn’t want to get married,” she says.
We almost forget we are watching TV – are we in their counselor’s office?
“That’s not true,” Clay says.
“Then why (aren’t) we married?” AD says, closing her eyes. Those eyelashes are magnificent, but they also look heavy.
Everyone is watching uncomfortably. The couples seem to be scooting further away, glad they aren’t being asked these questions. Clay cries. It looks real. (He is NOT Trevor.)
“Do you think you’re ready now?” Vanessa asks.
“I went to therapy. I tried different therapists out, even. I want to be a good guy. I want to be the best version I can be,” Clay says. AD scoots closer to him.
“I came out a different man. I have to credit AD. When someone changes your life, you don’t just turn your back on them,” he says.
We get no resolution, but Nick celebrates Clay for going to therapy. (Yay for men going to therapy!)
“I applaud you for growth. I applaud you as a man for be willing to say, ‘I need to take a look at myself, I need therapy  I wanna seek that out. I wanna be a better person for myself and others,’“ Nick says.
And then somehow now Johnny is eating tomatoes.
We don’t know what is happening with AD and Clay, but they are closer on the couch by the end of this segment.
—Laura Trujillo
So while Trevor (also known as Mullet Guy ™) was professing his love to Chelsea, who was vacillating between Trevor and Jimmy, he was also texting with a girlfriend at home and saying, “I love you.”
And there are screenshots!
Nick Lachey reads the texts Trevor sent to his girlfriend at home – taking a page from a “Real Housewives” reunion.
“I love you so much honey. I’m excited for it but more excited to get back to you after and start our life together.”
Then next: “I love you more than anything in this world And I’m going to marry you.” And: “I had to pretend this wasn’t real life to say anything I said.”
After struggling to explain himself, Trevor claimed that he wasn’t “dating” the other girl, but that he wanted to “go for someone I wouldn’t go for in real life.”
“I went in with the mindset of: I want to try it. … There isn’t an answer,” he said.
Nick goes in like he is interviewing a state leader who has the receipts.
Trevor says: “I’m toxic … I need a lot of, like therapy.”
Is anyone feeling bad for him? No one on stage seems to.

“That’s disrespectful,” Brittany says. (Which one is Brittany again?) Chelsea tries to get involved: “What if I picked you?”
“Did you come here to forward your career and be on TV?” Vanessa asks. She and her husband are tag teaming!
“Can I just, like, leave right now?” Trevor asks.
“How unfair is it to everyone on the stage?” Nick asks. “Unbeknownst to her, you had someone on the outside.”
“We do not want people to come here motivated by fame,” Nick Lachey says.
Suddenly the show is very meta. Is this reality? Is reality TV not real? Is Nick calling out that he thinks everything on the show is real?
“It’s not what this is about. It’s not fair to the audience. Most of all, it’s not fair to the people right here. It’s just wrong. We’ve got to call you out for it," Nick says. 
Trevor finally gets his wish and is excused to leave stage right.
Why are there NOT commercials? We need a moment.
—Laura Trujillo

It's not the biggest surprise, but it's one of the bigger reveals that we've been waiting for.
“We’ve been dating for almost a year now. We live together," Sarah Ann says after walking out to join Jeramey on the hot seat couch.
And now we have Laura calling in from Spain to have a cross-continental argument.
Jeramey confirms he did indeed have a fiancée shortly before applying to be on the show, and Sarah Ann and Laura benevolently back him up on the fact that he relayed this recent engagement to them in the pods.
The Lacheys start getting into the location sharing of it all, and Jeramey gets heated as he insists Laura was not waiting up for him when he got home from his all-night, er, conversation with Sarah Ann. (For the record, by the way, Sarah Ann insists they did not kiss that night.)
We're getting into the weeds that this point, but Laura seems to come out victorious as she earns applause for saying she should've been waiting out on the porch all night waiting for him.
After some unproductive arguing, with Laura and Sarah Ann accusing each other of being a "pick-me girl," Laura gets in the final dig: "I don’t care what they did until 5 a.m. I think they’re both disgusting.”

Another "Love is Blind" baby is on the way, and it's a reality TV cross-over. For those who haven't been following every development in the reality television extended universe, Season 1's  and Blake Horstmann from  and "Bachelor in Paradise" Season 6 are expecting a baby boy.
"I'm hoping it looks just like him," Giannina — who is wearing a stunning floor-length sparkly gown — says. She stops short of revealing their son's name because they're waiting until "he pops out" to properly decide.
Here's one revelation she imparted: "I actually had 'Perfect Match' lined up. I was gonna hang out with you," she told the Lacheys. "And I ended up just falling in love and not doing that."
Of course, Brendan and Alexa from Season 3 are also expecting "baby Lemieux," per their  in January.
Phew. We got officially got one couple out of this season who's married — and seemingly still happy together.

Amy and Johnny reveal they've traveled together since getting married, and their families are closer than ever.
 separately before the season premiered last month, and they revealed their engagement really was as "smooth" as it came across on screen.
"Amy was very open about a lot of different things. I basically would question her to really test her and see where she stood on certain topics. And she would really try to see where I was coming from with asking it and then be able to respond back," Johnny said. 
He acknowledged, however, that the couple “definitely" faced challenges.
"I feel like one of the big ones was around the birth control topic, because we both weren't seeing eye-to-eye on that," he said. "But at the same time, by really being able to actually have a conversation around this that was open, we both feel comfortable actually sharing what we felt about it. That's where we really grew as people."

You can stop refreshing your Netflix app or browser tab now; the episode is here — and on time, to boot. Which is a good thing, because we'd hate for  to happen (see: April 16, 2023).
We're starting with a scripted bit by Nick and Vanessa Lachey, naturally. Because that's all fans have ever been asking for: more appearances by the show's hosts! (That is sarcasm, by the way.)
Fortunately for all, this segues into a pretty fun intro sequence with some Season 6 fan favorites as well as stars from years past.
Sarah Ann, who's perceived as one of the season's villains due to pursuing Jeramey after he got engaged to Laura, started heating up some piping hot tea tonight with  she posted shortly before the reunion.
"I heard that Chelsea uploaded a video trying to deflect her haters on to me, which I think she deleted. But that's OK because I have no problem with Chelsea. I like Chelsea! I think you should know that some people can take the heat and some people can't," Sarah Ann said. "So y'all try not to make her too uncomfy."
She delivered the last part with a fake gag and a laugh as she made fun of Chelsea for telling Jimmy he made her "feel uncomfy" in one of the earlier episodes.
It's not clear what video Sarah Ann is referencing here, as Chelsea's last TikTok was posted three days ago. But it seems like somehow there's already post-reunion drama. 
There's less than an hour to go until the reunion drops, and we're looking for some more clues about what to expect.
AD cryptically  from the episode on Instagram earlier this week, saying she "can’t wait to clear everything up for y’all on that reunion stage. Meanwhile, Brittany and Kenneth teased the fact that they are potentially back on in  they filmed together.
Jimmy alluded to being nervous about how he will come across in the episode in . "Anxiously waiting for the reunion to drop tonight," he wrote over a screenshot of him in Chelsea. He also incorporated a scene from "Friends" in which Ross insists "I'm fine" in a "loud and squeaky voice."  
Finale recap and interview: 
Netflix's "Love is Blind: The Reunion" premieres at 9 EDT/6 PDT Wednesday.
Here's who appeared in the trailer and in promotional images for the reunion, in order of appearance:
Johnny
Amy
Clay
AD
Jess
Jeramey
Chelsea
Jimmy
Brittany
Kenneth
Laura (by video conference)
Sarah Ann
Trevor
Other notable personalities from the franchise – and from the extended reality TV universe – will also be featured in the episode.
Kwame and Chelsea (Season 4)

Tiffany and Brett (Season 4)
and Blake Horstmann ( and "Bachelor in Paradise" Season 6)
Alexa and Brennon (Season 3)
Izzy (Season 5)
Micah (Season 4)
'Cut her some slack': 
Inquiring minds want to know after the 37-year-old senior financial advisor recently took to social media to cast doubt on whether things really did happen the way the show made it seem.
In clips from the pod episodes  to the show's official Instagram account on Feb. 14, Matthew appeared to have a hard time connecting with the women on the other side of the wall. In one scene, he seemingly walked out of his conversation with Sarah Ann while she answered a question off his prepared spreadsheet (can you tell he's a finance guy?) about her short-term goals.

Matthew shared two comments under the Instagram post defending himself and implying that he was edited to come across as insensitive.
"Key element of my story that was never disclosed is that I live an alcohol free lifestyle and did the experiment sober. It was a key factor in why I had so much difficulty connecting with women in the beginning," he wrote. "There was also many misrepresentations and falsehoods created in my opinion to smear my character. I look forward to telling my side of the story with the full truth at the appropriate time."
'Felt like a prisoner': 
In another comment he added, "Misrepresentation of the truth, never walked out when a (woman) was talking."
A teaser for the reunion shared Tuesday on the  revealed fans will get the unseen footage of Matthew telling AD and Amber, his other connection in the pods, "the same thing." (Presumably that he wanted to leave the show her, though the clip stops short of showing what's said.)
Will Matthew get the chance to tell "the full truth" at the reunion? Chances are no, as he doesn't make an appearance in the episode's trailer, but we're holding out hope!
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: 

Load-Date: March 26, 2024


End of Document
