




Newstex Blogs 
The Cheat Sheet
September 14, 2022 Wednesday 7:11 PM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1069 words
Byline: Abeni Tinubu
Body


Sep 14, 2022( The Cheat Sheet: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 Do you have any idea the physical toll that three vasectomies has on a person?  Michael Scott  certainly does. In the 'Dinner Party' episode of The Office ,  Michael has a whole monologue about getting a vasectomy and getting it reversed countless times. The rant is just one of the laugh-out-loud moments that the episode boasts. But it was originally a little too serious until  Steve Carell  added his unique spin on it. 
  1200800The Office Dinner Party stars John Krasinski as Jim Halpert, Jenna Fischer as Pam Beesly, Rainn Wilson as Dwight Schrutewp-image-3168629" srcset=" 1200w,  150w,  640w,  768w,  1024w,  90w" sizes="(max-width: 1200px) 100vw, 1200px 'The Office' stars John Krasinski as Jim Halpert, Jenna Fischer as Pam Beesly, Rainn Wilson as Dwight Schrute | Chris Haston/NBCU Photo Bank   
 h-how-much-of-the-office-is-actually-improvisedHow much of 'The Office' is actually improvised?
Because  The Office  is so alive and humorous, many people think that the hit comedy is highly improvised. And while some moments are spontaneous (e.g. Michael kissing Oscar in 'Gay Witch Hunt'), a lot of the humor was accomplished on the page. The talented writer's room dreamed up hilarious and unique situations (often pulling from their own life experiences) that the cast was able to bring to life.  
     House Tour from Hell - The Office US925520      
 RELATED:  'The Office': Steve Carell Really Tore Up His Knees and Elbows in 1 Episode   
In an interview with  " target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopenerRolling Stone ,  John Krasinski  (who played Jim Halpert) revealed the approximate ratio of improvised content vs written content. 'People always ask me, 'Oh, man, how much of  TheOffice is improvised?' and I go, 'Ninety percent of the time it was exactly what the writers wrote,'' he shared. 'Nobody ever believes me. I mean, we truly had one of the greatest brain trusts of comedy since probably, like, early [ National] Lampoon days.' 
 Michael Scott's vasectomy monologue was a little too serious initially 
While improvisation wasn't common, actors did have the opportunity to add their own personal flair. In fact, at times, it was encouraged by directors to add more levity to otherwise intense moments. An example of this occurred when Carell was delivering his vascectomy monologue. According to Paul Feig, who directed the 'Dinner Party' episdoe of  The Office , the rant was initally too heavy. 
     The Dinner Party From Hell - The Office US925520      
 RELATED:  Why Mindy Kaling Had to Fight for Her Producer Credit on 'The Office'   
'We shot that exchange, like, four or five times, and it was really good but it was superheavy,' Feig explained about shooting  The Officeepisode. 'I remember we were all like, 'This is a little . . . this isn't as fun as we wanted it to be.' So I went over to Steve and said, 'It's awesome, we just need to make it a little more fun.'' 
 h-steve-carell-improvised-some-incredible-lines-in-the-dinner-party-episodeSteve Carell improvised some incredible lines in the 'Dinner Party' episode 
Carell immediately understood the assigment and improvised two words that made the vascetomy moment sing. 'And so that was the take that's in when he said, 'Snip-snap, snip-snap, snip-snap,'' Feig remembered. 'That all came out of Steve being such an amazing actor and going, like, 'OK, I know how to take it and make it Michael craziness.' [ The Office  cast] were just laughing so hard and going, like, 'God, this guy is such a f****** genius.' 
 'The Office' director revealed that there's an even longer version of the iconic episode 
Of course, the vascetomy monologue wasn't the only moment that left  The Officecast in stitches. The episode was packed full of laugh-out-loud moments. In the bloopers for the episode, Carell jokes that they will never make it through the episode. Eventually, however, they did. And while fans of the show love 'Dinner Party', most fans have truly only seen the half of the episode. The episode that was filmed was actually supersized. This means that Feig shot enough footage for a 44 minute episode rather than the typical 22 alotted minutes. Fans may never see all of the footage that was shot, but Feig insists that there's a 29 minute episode of 'Dinner Party' somewhere out there in the ether.  
 RELATED:  'The Office' Writers Tried to Kill Off 1 of The Characters   

Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: September 14, 2022


End of Document
