




The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)
September 5, 2003 Friday


Copyright 2003 Dolan Media Newswires
Section: NEWS; Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)
Length: 987 words
Byline: Barbara Grzincic
Body


A family doctor who assured his patient that he had never "heard of a vasectomy failing" can't be held liable for the birth of the man's fourth child, the Court of Special Appeals affirmed yesterday.
Despite the general practitioner's negligence, the appellate court held, James W. Dehn was contributorily negligent in failing to follow his surgeon's orders to have his semen checked three times for sperm before engaging in unprotected sex.
Dehn's own negligence not only bars him from recovering damages, it also blocks any claim by his wife against the family practice doctor, Dr. Glenn R. Edgecombe.
"At the outset, it is clear that Maryland, unlike some other states, has not established an independent cause of action for wrongful birth," wrote retired Judge Charles E. Moylan Jr., who sat on the appellate panel by special assignment. "Wrongful birth cases in Maryland are embraced within the tort of negligence."
Corrinne Dehn had no relationship with Edgecombe that would have created a duty from him to her, the court concluded, distinguishing the case from one in which a couple jointly consulted their physician about a tubal ligation for the wife.
"Mrs. Dehn's claim for damages against Dr. Edgecombe, if it existed, was only derivative, through her husband-wife relationship with the primary plaintiff," Moylan wrote, analogizing any such claim to loss of consortium or wrongful death.
 "The verdict of contributory negligence against Mr. Dehn, barring any recovery by him, thereby also barred any derivative claim that Mrs. Dehn arguably possessed," the court concluded.
Different recollections
The Dehns decided on a vasectomy when they were expecting their second child in 1994. James Dehn also had a child from a previous marriage.
Edgecombe referred James Dehn to the surgeon, who performed the operation in October 1995 and wrote three prescriptions for follow-up tests within the next six months.
Dehn never used the prescriptions, later explaining that they were too vague and that he thought his health plan would not pay for the tests.
The parties differed about what happened next, but both sides agreed that at some point in July 1996, Dehn raised the topic of the follow-up analysis on a visit he made to Edgecombe for an unrelated condition.
Edgecombe recalled telling Dehn "that I had not heard of a vasectomy failing," the doctor testified. "He also seemed to indicate that the surgeon had discharged him a long time previously and, based on that, I said 'I guess you don't need to have a semen analysis. It should have been done at three months.'"
Dehn's recollection was that he asked the doctor on three separate occasions to refer him for semen analysis -- the first at six months, the last in November 1996, just a month before his wife conceived -- and that Edgecombe was emphatic that he should "go home, [and] tell your wife I personally assure her you cannot father any children."
While the Prince George's County jury found Edgecombe negligent, it also found James Dehn contributorily negligent for not following the surgeon's orders.
On appeal, however, the Dehns argued that Circuit Judge Michele D. Hotten kept key information from the jury -- including the couple's motivation for wanting a vasectomy.
'Nonsensical'
The Dehns sought to introduce evidence that James Dehn suffered from peripheral artery disease, which would likely require the amputation of both his legs by the time he was in his mid-40s and would cause his death before the age of 50, leaving Corrinne Dehn a widow who could not afford to raise three children.
"We cannot fault Judge Hotten's conclusion that that combination of grim circumstances would have engendered massive jury sympathy for the [Dehns] of a type that might readily override mere legal reasons against a verdict in their favor," yesterday's opinion says. "If ever sympathy had the power to move jurors to overlook the law, this was such a case."
In any event, an appeal on that ground was "nonsensical," Moylan wrote.
"Whether the vasectomy was sought for the gravest of reasons, the silliest of reasons, or some reason in between, that original reason had no influence at all on Mr. Dehn's subsequent negligence," he wrote. "It may have affected the consequences of the unwanted pregnancy, but it was irrelevant to the cause of the impregnation."
The court also upheld the exclusion of Dehn's testimony that Edgecombe, on learning of the pregnancy, "concluded that Mr. Dehn was not the father," leading Dehn to accuse his wife of infidelity and damage the marital relationship.
But that was irrelevant to the issue of Dehn's contributory negligence, which "consisted of contributing to his wife's pregnancy," Moylan wrote.
"Whatever happened after she became pregnant cannot relate back so as to influence Mr. Dehn's pre-pregnancy negligence "," the court concluded. "A later event cannot influence prior events. 'The moving finger writes and, having writ, moves on.'"
WHAT THE COURT HELD
Case:
Dehn et ux v. Edgecombe, CSA No. 1536, Sept. Term 2002. Reported. Opinion by Moylan, J., retired, spec. assigned. Filed Sept. 4, 2003.
Issue:
In a medical malpractice action alleging negligent post-operative care from a vasectomy, (1) did a verdict of contributory negligence by the husband bar a claim by the wife? (2) Did the trial court properly exclude testimony on the couple's motivation for wanting the vasectomy and on actions the defendant allegedly took subsequent to the occurrence of the wife's pregnancy?
Holding:
Yes; affirmed. (1) The wife's claim, if any, was derivative; as in wrongful death and loss of consortium claims, negligence by the primary plaintiff defeats the derivative claim. (2) The evidence would have been irrelevant to the question of the husband's contributory negligence, "which consisted of contributing to his wife's pregnancy" by failing to have post-operative tests.
Counsel:
David Latt for appellants; Michelle Callender for appellees.

Load-Date: September 5, 2003


End of Document
