




Billboard
March 19, 2025


Copyright 2025 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved


Length: 567 words
Byline: Michael Saponara
Body


 is never one to shy away from just about anything these days, but even he's distancing himself from Ye (formerly ). 
While  at plenty of his peers - from  to  and  - he actually showed some love to 50 Cent.
"50 Cent is one of my favorite people," Ye wrote to X on Tuesday (March 18). "He will be one of the people who brings back Black economic independence."
However, 50 was hesitant to associate with the rapper, who has been criticized for his repeated hate speech. "Damn it Ye ya dangerous right now, what you say about the kids man," 50 replied with a repost to  hours later.
Fans had plenty to say about the interaction between the hip-hop titans. "50 the only n-a who Ye didn't crash out on this week," one person wrote in the "In Da Club" rapper's comments section.
Another chimed in: "50 like 'leave me out this ish ye, not the time.'"
During a 2024 interview with  50 said nobody's been through more or had as many reasons to crash as Ye, but credited him for powering through to have one of the most decorated careers in rap.
"I don't think anybody's been through more or have more reasons to fall apart than Kanye," he said at the time. "The success of his project comes, and his mom passes away. So what you been praying for - the gift is a curse. You lose that, and he had real reasons to f-king be out of it. He did the right thing. He went to work."
While representing different pillars of hip-hop, 50 and Kanye have been pop-culture fixtures for more than two decades. They famously matched up for a memorable, which saw them face off at the MTV Video Music Awards and join forces for the cover of Rolling Stone.
Kanye's Graduation ended up throttling 50's Curtis (957,000 versus 691,000 first-week album sales), which elevated West's superstar status in music to another level.  
"We made the highest sales week for hip-hop culture, doing that and being competitive," 50 told when looking back at their battle. "People that were participating as fans were buying more than one copy of it, because of the competitive side of it. When you look at it... we had to stand together to face off, but we never had an issue."
 also seemingly responded to one of Ye's X messages, in which he broke down how he sees the  and claimed  replaced the Bronx native. "WHERE CARDI B GONNA BE 10 YEARS FROM NOW THEY USED HER,"
The "WAP" rapper appeared to , flexing her staying power even without dropping an album going on seven years now. "7 years 1 album... STILL being a topic and STILL being asked about my music," she wrote. "I'm anointed and I have a real fanbase. They come and go but The Brim is still here and will stay!"
Ye has been embroiled in controversy again in recent weeks due to his repeated antisemitic rants and willingness to engage in beef with just about any of his collaborators outside of 50 and A$AP Rocky. However, he did drop his  as part of a short film starring his son Saint on March 19.
More from Billboard
  

Load-Date: March 19, 2025


End of Document
