




The Chronicle of Higher Education
June 23, 2006 Friday


Copyright 2006 The Chronicle of Higher Education All Rights Reserved
Section: THE CHRONICLE REVIEW; Pg. 12; Vol. 52; No. 42
Length: 1291 words
Byline: MARCIA C. INHORN
Body


Over the past 20 years, my career as a medical anthropologist has included frequent trips to the Middle East, where I study the social impact of infertility and the spread of in vitro fertilization. So a recent opportunity to speak about my work in Iran, the global center of Shia Islam, came as a great opportunity.
The Avesina Research Institute, in association with the University of Tehran, sponsored a two-day conference on IVF and gamete donation. I was one of only four Western scholars   one of two from the United States   invited to speak at the conference. The sessions attracted academics, lawyers, physicians, and mullahs; although most people came from Iran, other Muslim countries were also represented.
The Iran I encountered is far from the medieval theocracy often portrayed in American media. On the streets of Tehran   where I visited restaurants, markets, and new, high-tech malls   modernity is everywhere. Young Iranian women are pushing the fashion envelope with tiny and colorful head scarves that barely hide streaked and carefully arranged hair. Nonalcoholic beer from Europe is served with sumptuous Persian meals of soup, rice, kabobs, yogurt, and locally grown produce. The city skyscrapers and new suburban apartment complexes would not have looked out of place in America.
And, much to my surprise, the Iranians I met were not unwilling to discuss politics, often emphasizing in those discussions that they felt connected to the United States through their kinship ties with the large Persian diaspora. For example, Los Angeles has the largest Iranian population outside of Iran and has been nicknamed "Tehrangeles."
At the conference I attended, I did have to wear a knee-length jacket and head scarf, both required of any woman appearing in a public work setting in Iran. My audience included scores of female university students in black chadors, and mullahs in turbans and robes, although other Iranian men had on Western business suits. They all listened intently as I, a non-Muslim American, spoke about religious and social attitudes toward IVF and gamete donation in the Arab world, drawing on research I had presented in Local Babies, Global Science: Gender, Religion, and In Vitro Fertilization in Egypt (Routledge, 2003).
Although the conference was officially conducted in Farsi, the lilting Indo-European language of Iran, I spoke slowly and carefully in English, with accompanying PowerPoint slides. I told the audience about the Sunni Muslim religious rulings, or fatwas, that prohibit any form of third-party donation of gametes   sperm, eggs, embryos, or uteruses. According to Sunni clergy, gamete donation is immoral for three major reasons: It is tantamount to adultery; it confuses lines of kinship, descent, and inheritance; and it leads to future incest should the children of the same anonymous donor happen to marry.
Iran, however, is a Shia Muslim society   the only country in the world to be ruled by a Shiite clergy. Unlike the Sunni clergy, Shiites value a form of individual religious reasoning known as ijtihad, which permits mullahs to reach their own views on matters of technological innovation, often disagreeing with one another on what religion permits. Thus members of the Shiite clergy have varying opinions about the morality of gamete donation. Whereas Ayatollah Ali Hussein Khamanei, the handpicked successor to Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini, has issued a fatwa permitting both sperm and egg donation, other Shiite religious authorities agree with the Sunni ban on gamete donation   especially the use of donor sperm in cases of male infertility.
Indeed, the conference I attended included fascinating examples of ijtihad, with public and private debates about the morality of gamete donation. For example, one Shiite mullah from Bahrain took great pains to describe to me his opposition to all forms of gamete donation. According to him, Iran is innovating in ways that are religiously unacceptable and at odds with the rest of the Muslim world.
For instance, although sperm donation is illegal in Iran, the parliament recently passed a law permitting embryo donation. Surrogate motherhood is being practiced in the absence of any legislation banning it. Taking their lead from Iran, some fertility specialists in Lebanon   where Shiites are also in the majority   are offering all forms of gamete donation to their desperate patients.
Not all of the patients in Lebanon and Iran are Shiites. Some of the largest and busiest IVF clinics in Beirut and Tehran are catering to hundreds of Sunnis from other Middle Eastern countries. The relatively liberal attitudes of at least some Shiite religious leaders toward third-party gamete donation has resulted in significant reproductive tourism, with gametes being donated across ethnic, racial, religious, and national lines.
Furthermore, the acceptance of donor technologies is leading to a transformation in marital relations among infertile Muslim couples, who are choosing to use donated gametes rather than get divorced because of infertility. It is also leading to a rethinking of biological kinship and greater acceptance of children born through the use of the gametes as legitimate members of a family. In addition, the acceptance in Iran of reproductive acts that Sunnis consider immoral   because of the ban on third-party gamete donation   is weakening the power of the ban in other Middle Eastern countries.
In short, Iran is a country to watch, on many levels. It has a model population-control program that encourages men to use condoms and have vasectomies as part of family planning. As a result, over the past 20 years, the population growth rate has dropped from 3.2 percent to 1.1 percent, one of the sharpest fertility declines ever recorded. The United Nations predicts that Iran's population will be stable, with two children per family, by 2010.
Another significant change is that more Iranians   particularly girls   are receiving an education than they were 25 years ago. About 62 percent of college students today are female.
In addition, both organ transplantation and sex-change operations have been approved by the Iranian clergy. The government is coping openly with its drug-related HIV/AIDS epidemic through innovative needle-exchange and rehabilitation programs. Stem-cell science has emerged as a byproduct of the active IVF programs in the country.
Developments like those convince me that Americans need to recognize the high-modern nature of Iran, which is on the cutting edge in reproductive science and technology. We also need to stop vilifying   indeed, demonizing   the Shiite Muslim clergy, some of whom are condoning various innovations, but whom the Western media generally represent as backward and fanatical.
Although my visit to Iran was very brief, I came away with a new appreciation of the country's long history, rich culture, and bright, motivated scientists and professionals. Unfortunately, few Americans know anything about science or technology in Iran except in the context of nuclear weapons. What our government tells us about Iran is that it is a member of the "axis of evil."
Such fear-mongering is very unwise. It leads to closed minds, closed embassies, restricted visas, and other limitations on travel   even the possibility of war. Although the American and Iranian governments may never see eye to eye about most issues, surely it is possible for our two peoples to have peaceful exchanges of views like the ones I experienced in Tehran.
Marcia C. Inhorn is director of the Center for Middle Eastern and North African Studies at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, where she is also a professor of public health and of women's studies, and an adjunct professor of anthropology.

Load-Date: June 20, 2006


End of Document
