




University Wire
October 11, 2006 Wednesday


Copyright 2006 The Pitt News via U-Wire
Section: EDITORIAL
Length: 399 words
Byline: Staff Editorial, The Pitt News; SOURCE: U. Pittsburgh
Dateline: PITTSBURGH 
Body


The BBC reported Tuesday that researchers are expanding a male contraceptive study because of "overwhelming initial interest."
The device in question is conceptually similar to female intra uterial device, a non-hormone contraceptive that is surgically inserted into a woman's uterus. The male version is a small plug inserted into the vas deferens, the tube connecting the testicles and penis, through a small hole in the scrotum.
There are probably some people cringing at the thought of inserting plugs into their nether regions, but lots of men are excited about the device as an alternative to a vasectomy -- a procedure in which the vas deferens is surgically severed.
The intra vas device is a less-permanent method of contraception than a vasectomy (which was designed to be permanent) that, in testing on both men and monkeys, has proven to be effective and reversible.
Although a vasectomy can be reversed through a meticulous, costly surgery, the chances of pregnancy are reduced by 10 percent for each year of the vasectomy. Similar information is not available for the IVD yet.
And what do guys have to say about this? Well, the large interest in the study is an indication that the IVD is appealing because of its effectiveness and ease.
"It's a lot easier to pull the plugs out than to find the best, most expensive micro-surgeon to sew a vas deferens back together," Elaine Lissner of the Male Contraceptive Information Project said.
Previously, the only forms of contraceptives available for men were condoms and vasectomies. Other research is being done right now on various alternatives for male contraception, including a pill for guys, but few are as promising as the IVD.
Sure, there are some concerns about this procedure, like what will happen to the sperm that are getting "stuck" behind the plug. Only time and more testing will tell.
The IVD and devices like it are not only a good thing for guys. The IVD will offer more security than condoms, which can slip off or break or go unused. After thorough testing and approval, this just might be the closest thing to turning off the baby switch.
Still, plug or not, it's a good idea to use condoms to reduce the risk of contracting STDs and viruses.
It's nice to see that some men are interested in shifting the responsibility of contraception from women -- after all, it takes two to get pregnant.
(C) 2006 The Pitt News via U-WIRE

Load-Date: October 11, 2006


End of Document
