




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
March 22, 2009 Sunday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FRONT; Pg. A1
Length: 979 words
Byline: By DOUG ERICKSON , ,  608-252-6149
Body


A new medical clinic in Madison will attempt to bring together two groups of patients from vastly different points on the health-care spectrum - those who can afford unlimited access to doctors and those who can afford no access.
Our Lady of Hope Clinic will operate as both a free clinic for the uninsured and a "boutique" clinic for people who want unparalleled access to a personal physician. The latter will pay an annual fee for high-end service, which will fund the free clinic.
"They'll be subsidizing us so that we can give away half of our visits to the uninsured," said Dr. Anne Volk Johnson, 33, a primary care physician in Monona who will staff the facility with Dr. Michael Kloess, the clinic's president.
An open house is set for Tuesday. People paying for the personalized service, called benefactors, will begin using the clinic in early April. Appointments for the uninsured will follow this summer.
The two physicians, who are friends, said they set out to address two vexing problems. Uninsured people need access to health care, while people with insurance often feel they lack individualized attention from their physicians.
"This allows us to go back to the days of old where the patient and the physician have a unique relationship and make decisions based on that," said Kloess, 41, most recently an urgent care physician at Marshfield Clinic.
Both physicians said they're drawn to the undertaking by their Catholic faith. Although the nonprofit clinic will be independent of any formal church affiliation, it has the support of the Madison Catholic Diocese. Bishop Robert Morlino is serving on its board of directors and will bless the clinic at Tuesday's open house.
The clinic will be "pro-life and respect the teachings of the church," Kloess said. He and Johnson will not prescribe birth control or refer patients for abortions, vasectomies, tubal ligations or in-vitro fertilization.
However, the clinic will serve "people of any faith or no faith at all," said Steve Karlen, development director.
The clinic will need about 600 benefactors to be self-sustaining, Karlen said. So far, about 50 people have signed on.
"They see this as being able to do something good for themselves while also helping the uninsured," he said.
Kloess and Johnson will cap their case-loads at 300 patients each. A typical family practitioner carries a caseload of 2,600 patients, Karlen said.
Kloess said the clinic is patterned after St. Luke's Family Practice, a similar facility in Modesto, Calif.
Most benefactors will pay $1,200 per year or $2,300 per couple. Each child is another $500, although families with more than three children pay a maximum of $1,500 annually for children's coverage.
Benefactors will get extended time with their doctor, same-day appointments and round-the-clock access to their doctor's cell and home phone numbers and e-mail addresses.
Benefactors will need to maintain high-deductible insurance for expenses outside of a traditional family practice, such as hospitalization and surgery. They otherwise will pay no fees for clinic visits, and their insurance companies will not be involved.
David Stiennon, 45, a self-employed patent attorney in Madison, said he signed on as a benefactor because he likes the philanthropic aspect of the clinic and wanted a physician who shares his pro-life views. He doesn't think he'll save money but anticipates better quality health care.
"It's sort of like being in a family of physicians," he said. "If you have a malady, you have someone who knows you and your medical history and can give you advice."
The number of slots available to uninsured patients will vary by day because benefactors will get first dibs on appointments, Kloess said. However, the clinic's bylaws state that the doctors must spend at least 50 percent of their time giving free care. Recipients will be served on a walk-in basis.
"There will certainly be days when we'll have to say, 'Come back another time,'" Kloess said. "It's a very small solution to a big problem, but it's a step in the right direction."
IF YOU GO< What: Open house for Our Lady of Hope Clinic, Suite D, 6425 Odana Road, Madison.
When: 3 to 7 p.m. Tuesday. Catholic Bishop Robert Morlino is scheduled to bless the clinic at 3 p.m.
Information: 608-445-2063 or .
OTHER FREE CLINICS
Several organizations provide free medical care in Dane County and the region, although hours and services are usually limited and access highly coveted:
Benevolent Specialist Project: Opened in 2001, this Middleton clinic, 2711 Allen Blvd., provides free secondary care to uninsured, low-income patients who have been referred by a primary care physician. It is the only free clinic in Dane County to offer care in specialty areas such as rheumatology and neurology, It is funded by the Dean Foundation, area hospitals and private donors. Hours are by appointment only on Wednesdays and Thursdays. 608-827-2308.
MEDiC Clinics: These free clinics at six Madison locations are staffed and managed by volunteer UW health professional students and supervised by a rotating group of volunteer faculty physicians. Each clinic is open usually only a few hours each week, and only one is a walk-in clinic open to the general public. The others have a specific clientele, such as people at homeless shelters. 608-265-4972. .
Shalom Holistic Health Services: Staffed by volunteers, this Stoughton clinic, 1116 Ridge St., offers free service to low-income adults with no health insurance who live in the Stoughton School District. It provides service one evening a week. 608-205-0505. .
Free clinics also exist in Beaver Dam, Dodgeville, Prairie du Sac, Janesville, Boscobel, Richland Center, Jefferson and Watertown. Contact information for these clinics can be found on the Dean Foundation Web site at .

Graphic

 
JOHN MANIACI State Journal Supporters of Our Lady of Hope Clinic are transforming a former dental office on Odana Road in Madison into space to serve both uninsured medical patients and people who want unlimited access to a personal physician. With Dr. Anne Volk Johnson, center, are Steve Karlen, development director, and volunteers Clare Stiennon, 15, and her mother, Beth Stiennon.

Load-Date: March 24, 2009


End of Document
