




Pittsburgh Tribune Review
March 26, 2012 Monday


Copyright 2012 Tribune Review Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Length: 561 words
Byline: Ralph R. Reiland
Body


Every week, I think it can't get any crazier -- and then it does. 
Two grown men got thrown out of Rick Santorum's rally at the Christian Liberty Academy in Arlington Heights, Ill., after they stood up and kissed. And it wasn't just a little peck on the cheek -- right there in a packed gymnasium while Santorum was saying that Barack Obama thinks "there is nothing really unique about America." 
Video footage shows the crowd chanting "USA, USA, USA" as the men were escorted out the door. 
Then we found out there's a pill for racism. 
A new study from Oxford University, "Propranolol reduces implicit racial bias," states that this common blood-pressure pill "reduces in-built racism." 
Explains the university's news release, "In a study published in Psychopharmacology, researchers gave 18 people the drug propranolol and 18 people a placebo and found that the propranolol group scored significantly lower on the Implicit Attitude Test into subconscious racial bias -- a standard test for testing subconscious racial attitudes." 
Reportedly, propranolol "blocks activation in the peripheral 'autonomic' nervous system and in the area of the brain implicated in fear or emotional responses," explains a news release. "The researchers believe propranolol reduced implicit racial basis because such bias is based on automatic, nonconscious fear responses, which propranolol blocks." 
Sylvia Terbeck, the study's lead author and experimental psychologist at Oxford, said the results "offer new evidence about the processes in the brain that shape implicit racial bias," a bias that "can occur even in people with a sincere belief in equality." 
Oxford philosophy professor Julian Savulescu, a co-author of the study, took things a step further: "Such research raises the tantalizing possibility that our unconscious racial attitudes could be modulated using drugs." 
So what if we add a hefty dose of propranolol to the water supply at the Christian Liberty Academy, to short-circuit the brain's automatic "fear and emotional responses"? Would a smooch between two guys in the gym then produce diminished levels of nationalistic chanting? 
"They're lurching toward Soviet-style political psychiatry by suggesting that ideological disagreement on racial matters is a mental disorder requiring medication," warns Taki's Magazine columnist Jim Goad. 
In other medical news, a Massachusetts physicians group is offering a free pizza to any new vasectomy patient. Dr. Evangelos Geraniotis, a urologist with the practice, maintains that a fast vasectomy is an "easy and less stressful" form of birth control. 
For guys who are extra apprehensive, pepperoni is included. 
There's been no response from Santorum yet. Last October, he asserted during an interview with an evangelical blog called Caffeinated Thoughts that contraception is wrong, pizza or no pizza. 
Explained Santorum: "Many in the Christian faith have said: 'Well, that's OK. Contraception's OK.' It's not OK because it's a license to do things in the sexual realm that is counter to how things are supposed to be. They're supposed to be within marriage. They are supposed to be for purposes that are, yes, conjugal, but also commutative, but also procreative." 
It can't just be about "simply pleasure," said Santorum. Or as they say, "For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain a free tomato pie and lose his soul?" 

Load-Date: March 26, 2012


End of Document
