




The Taos News (New Mexico)
May 28, 2009 Thursday


Copyright 2009 The Taos News All Rights Reserved
Section: TEMPO; Pg. TE-10
Length: 588 words
Byline: PHAEDRA GREENWOOD
Body


By Phaedra Greenwood
Who was the late Abbie Hoffman and what drove this "Jewish road warrior" to risk his freedom for social change? On the eve of his 50th birthday, Hoffman sat down for an interview with filmmaker Nancy Cohen at a New York deli.
The result was "My Dinner With Abbie," a 60-minute documentary presented as part of the town of Taos Summer of Love promotion that will be shown Saturday (May 30), 6:30-8 p.m., at The Taos Gallery, 103 Paseo del Pueblo Norte.
Cohen, who is a fellow at the Wurlitzer Foundation, will be on hand to answer questions afterward. Admission is free.
Cohen has won many grants and awards as an artist, writer, film director and co-director of independent films and British TV documentaries. "My Dinner With Abbie," which she says expanded her own consciousness, gained historical value when Hoffman killed himself two years later. The film premiered at Jungforum, Berlin 1990, American Film Institute Festival in Los Angeles, International Documentary Festival in Amsterdam and won best in the category "Struggle for Human Rights and Justice" at Vermont Earth Peace Film Festival, 1992. "The interview certainly colored my path and how I view myself," Cohen said. "After Abbie died, I felt an obligation to show the film, to keep him alive."
In the thick of the antiwar movement in the 1960s, Hoffman was arrested on a conspiracy charge at the Chicago Democratic Convention as one of the Chicago Eight (later Chicago Seven). Founder of the Youth International Party (the "Yippies") with a genius for street theater, he helped organize symbolic demonstrations. He also authored several books including "Steal this Book" and "Revolution for the Hell of It." His life changed when he went underground for seven years after being charged with cocaine trafficking.
In "My Dinner With Abbie," completed in 1989 by Cohen and her partner Howard Katzman, Hoffman looked vigorous and tan in a blue shirt with an open collar. Although Hoffman cajoled and flirted with Cohen, she created a dichotomy between them that triggered a frank discussion about his life. Frighteningly articulate, he spoke with insight and humor about his activism -- even the 2 1/4 years he spent in various jails and prisons -- but he clammed up when Cohen asked about his sexual attitudes and his vasectomy. He turned evasive as Cohen tried to plunge through his resistance to the root of his Jewish guilt, and confessed that being psychoanalyzed on camera made him uneasy.
He recalled that he began his career as an American dissenter "very young in life, on the playground. When the bully picked on the other kids, I took on the fight."
When Cohen asked him how to reach the comfortable middle class, he said, "I don't believe they are comfortable. You can't be comfortable living in a world that is constantly on the verge of war, that can explode at any minute."
Hoffman said that when he was invited to talk on campuses around the country, he was aware that 25 percent of his audience did not know who he was. He tried to get them charged up about justice and social change, a vision of a country with universal health care, zero homelessness, everyone with a job, fixed up schools and militant unions without sexism or racism.
Asked if he considered his life a success, Hoffman said, "I don't have the sense that a lot of people ... under the age of 30 are visionaries, that they've picked up the flag -- are carrying on. It's embarrassing to be more radical than the younger generation."
For more information, call (575) 758-3911.

Graphic

 
See pdf's for exact rendition, caption, graphics and photographer info.

Load-Date: January 14, 2010


End of Document
