




Newsweek.com
August 26, 2022 Friday 11:22 AM EST


Copyright © 2022 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 410 words
Byline: Megan Cartwright
Highlight: In June the DJ, who shares twins with Cannon, revealed she's pregnant but has not said who the father is.
Body


Abby De La Rosa cracked a joke about Nick Cannon's  following news he's expecting baby No. 9.
The DJ, 31, who shares twins Zion and Zillion, 14 months, with Cannon, 41, took to her  Story on Thursday, August 25, to tease  host.
"Lmaooo! Ayyeeee! Move over , Gen 'C' taking over babyyyy," she wrote alongside a slew of laughing emojis.
On Wednesday, the  star announced his ninth child is on the way, his third with model .
"Time Stopped and This Happened…@missbbell #Sunshine #SonRISE," he captioned the maternity shoot video on Instagram.
Fans were quick to comment on his post, with many making a , "Another One."
"Another one *Khaled voice*," one person wrote, which garnered more than 7,000 likes at the time of publication.
 revealed in June that she's expecting, though she did not divulge who the father is.
"I'M PREGNANT," she shared via Instagram on June 3, before asking her followers, "Another set of twins?!"
In addition to Zion and Zillion, Cannon shares a second set of twins—Moroccan and Monroe—with ex-wife . He's also a dad to Golden "Sagon" and Powerful Queen with Bell, as well as Legendary Love with actress Bre Tiesi.
His son Zen, who he welcomed with model Alyssa Scott, died in December 2021 after being diagnosed with brain cancer. He was five months old.
The California native hinted earlier in 2022 that more children were in his future while responding to rumors he had "three babies on the way."
"When you say 'on the way…,' what count are you at?" he joked during an appearance on the Lip Service podcast in June.
"Let's just put it this way…the stork is on the way," he told hosts Stephanie Santiago, Angela Yee and Gigi Miguire. "If you thought the numbers I put up in 2021 was…wait 'til 2022! You know, there was a lot of kids last year."
Following his son's passing, the Drumline actor practiced celibacy and even had a .
"I ain't looking to populate the Earth completely," he told E! News in May. "But I'm definitely looking forward to taking care and loving all the children that I currently have."
"I don't know if I would've designed it this way, but it's one of those things when you're blessed with the gifts of children. I've been through so much, I find solace, I find peace in my children and I find purpose."
Newsweek reached out to Cannon and De La Rosa for comment.


Graphic

 
Abby De La Rosa Nick Cannon Joke
Phillip Faraone/Getty Images for REVOLT; Inset Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images/Getty Images
Abby De La Rosa attends the REVOLT X AT&T Host REVOLT Summit In Los Angeles at Magic Box on October 27, 2019 in Los Angeles, California. (Inset) Nick Cannon attends the 2022 Fox Upfront on May 16, 2022 in New York City. The DJ recently made a joke about the host's growing family.

Load-Date: August 26, 2022


End of Document
