




Forbes.com
May 7, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 Forbes LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1110 words
Byline: Katie Jennings, Forbes Staff
Highlight: With Roe v. Wade in jeopardy, getting a safe abortion will become more difficult and costly.
Body


With Roe v. Wade in jeopardy, getting a safe abortion will become more difficult and costly. 
Abortions have been legal in the U.S. for nearly 50 years, following the 1973 Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade. That could change with the Justices poised to overturn the historic ruling, according to a leaked draft opinionobtained by Politicolast week. This means the right to an abortion would be kicked to the state level.
Estimates vary for how many people get the procedure each year, with 630,000 on the low end to around 886,000 based on other models. The median cost of a medication abortion, which make up just over half the total, was $560 in 2020 without insurance. For context, about one-third of American households would be unable or have difficulty paying a $400 emergency expense. A patchwork system with various prohibitions across different states means accessing safe abortions, whether medication or surgical, will become more difficult and costly, especially as people will be forced to travel greater distances. Here s a look at some of the numbers.
FAILURE RATE OF BIRTH CONTROL PILLS, PATCHES AND RINGS
There s no contraceptive method that s 100% effective in preventing pregnancy   not even vasectomy or tubal ligation. Aside from surgical interventions, long-acting reversible contraceptives have the lowest rates of failure with implants and intrauterine devices, known as IUDs, having a less than 1% chance of unintended pregnancy within the first year of typical use,according to researchfrom the reproductive-health policy organization Guttmacher Institute. Birth control pills, patches and vaginal rings have a 7% failure rate in the first year of typical use.
RATE OF UNINTENDED PREGNANCIES IN THE U.S. 
A little under half of the total 6.1 million pregnancies in the U.S. were considered unintended in 2011, according to aNew England Journal of Medicinestudy, which is the most recent datacited by the CDC. The highest rates of unintended pregnancy were among women ages 20 to 24 years old. There were also higher rates among certain demographic groups, including low-income, Black and Hispanic women. TheCDC citesthe Guttmacher Institute estimating that around 18% of pregnancies end in abortion.
ABORTIONS REPORTED TO THE CDC IN 2019
The CDC received reports of 629,898 abortions in 2019, the last full year ofavailable data. The agency started tracking the number of legal abortions in the United States in 1969. Providers voluntarily submit data to states, which means the dataset is incomplete (and it excludes California, Maryland and New Hampshire), so the actual number is likely far higher. Amodel-based approachdeveloped by researchers from the Guttmacher Institute, World Health Organization and United Nations puts the average annual number of abortions in the U.S. around 886,000.
MEDICATION ABORTIONS ACCOUNT FOR MORE THAN HALF OF TOTAL
There are two ways to terminate a pregnancy: medication or a surgical procedure. What s often referred to as the abortion  pill  actually requires two different drugs   a combination of mifepristone and misoprostol   which can be taken up to 70 days, or 10 weeks, gestation. The Guttmacher Institute hasreleased preliminary datafrom its census of U.S. abortion providers suggesting that medication abortions accounted for a majority of the total for the first time ever in 2020, up from 39% in 2017. In December 2021, the FDAlifted the requirementthat mifepristone had to be prescribed in-person.
MEDIAN COST FOR A MEDICATION ABORTION 
The cost of medication abortions has been rising over the past few years. The median cost to pay out of pocket has gone from $495 in 2017 to $560 in 2020,according to a studyinHealth Affairs. This is a 13% increase, which the researchers note is  more than would be expected  due to healthcare inflation alone, which was around 8% over the same time period. There was also significant geographic variation. The highest median price at $730 was in the Midwest, including Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota. The lowest median price of $490 was in the South Atlantic region, including Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia and Washington, D.C.
AMERICAN HOUSEHOLDS UNABLE TO PAY A $400 EMERGENCY EXPENSE
In 2020, 12% of American householdssurveyed by the Federal Reservesaid they would be unable to pay a $400 emergency expense  by any means.  Thirty-five percent of households would have difficulty covering the expense, meaning they might have to borrow money, sell something, take out a loan or pay it off on a credit card over time. This can frequently take the form of unexpected healthcare expenses. Seventeen percent of adults reported major, unexpected medical expenses over the last year and 16% already had existing medical debt for themselves or their family members.
OF ABORTIONS OCCUR IN THE FIRST TRIMESTER
The vast majority of abortions occur in the first trimester,according to the CDC. Nearly 80% of abortions happen at or before 9 weeks gestation and 93% occur at or before 13 weeks. The average pregnancy lasts around 40 weeks and medication abortion is an option up to 10 weeks. Texas, Oklahoma and Idaho haveall recently passed banson abortions after six weeks. An AprilWall Street Journalpoll found48% of U.S. adults somewhat support restricting abortion after 15 weeks of pregnancy, while 43% oppose it. It was also split among party lines, with 75% of Republicans and 21% of Democrats backing 15-week bans.
MEDIAN COST FOR A SECOND-TRIMESTER SURGICAL ABORTION
The cost of a first-trimester surgical abortion has increased but the cost of a second-trimester surgical abortion went down in the same period. The median cost of a first-trimester surgical abortion went from $475 in 2017 to $575 in 2020, while the second-trimester procedure decreased from $935 to $895,according to a studyinHealth Affairs. The percentage of providers that accepted insurance for the procedure decreased from 89% to 80% in the same time period.
TRAVEL AND RELATED COSTS
As more states adopt restrictive policies regarding both medication and surgical abortions, people seeking care have to travel longer distances to locate out-of-state providers. The Brigid Alliance, a New York-based nonprofit that arranges travel for people seeking abortions, says the average cost of travel is around $1,000. This may include transportation, hotels, childcare reimbursement, meal stipends and a dedicated coordinator.
Update: This story has been updated to reflect the CDC was citing the Guttmacher Institute in the estimate that 18% of pregnancies end in abortion. 
MORE FROM FORBES

Load-Date: May 10, 2022


End of Document
