




Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)
January 22, 2012 Sunday


Copyright 2012 Herald-Times
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News
Section: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS
Length: 512 words
Byline: Christy Mullins, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.
Body


Jan. 22--Protesters gathered Sunday outside the Monroe County Courthouse to rally against abortion.
But the abortion opponents' annual march was inhibited this year by two things: slick ice and a group of abortion-rights advocates, some dressed in cheerleading outfits.
Organizers decided last-minute to shorten this year's march against abortion because of the weekend's inclement weather. The group, Christian Citizens for Life, marches each year down Walnut Street to Second Street, past Planned Parenthood and back to the courthouse. This year they decided to walk around the courthouse square once, after a keynote address and a prayer. They served free hot chocolate and collected diapers for the Crisis Pregnancy Center.
Five minutes into the event, a group of about a dozen people who didn't want to be named or quoted in the newspaper lined the sidewalk outside the courthouse and chanted in cheerleader fashion.
They held signs -- "My sperm is not a person," "Family values suck," "Do we really need more people?" -- and shouted loudly enough to be heard over a guest pastor from Indianapolis, who spoke into a microphone for a crowd of about 150 anti-abortion advocates. Many had small children.
Most of the families who attended Sunday's rally listened to the pastor's speech on the courthouse lawn, but some congregated to the courthouse steps, also holding signs -- "Abortion kills children," "Stop abortion now," "Face it, abortion kills."
They watched the counterprotesters in mostly silence. Eventually the two groups began trying to level with one another, which failed miserably and escalated into more shouting.
Michal Crun, a mother of two boys, yelled "shame" into the face of one abortion-rights advocate while holding her 4-year-old son, Daniel.
"I yell shame because somewhere inside, they do know God has written the truth on their hearts," Crun said. "When I see people who think of themselves as protectors or see themselves as heroes in the pro-choice movement, on some level they see themselves as defending women's rights. They are actually defending genocide; here in the U.S. where we think of ourselves as educated and progressive, yet we murder an entire segment of a population because of an inconvenience."
Crun said she was glad her son saw the "stark reminder" of the other side.
Organizer Carole Canfield said the anti-abortion rally attracts counterprotesters each year. About a decade ago, a similar group dumped fake blood on the sidewalk and waved coat hangers. More recently, a group of women stood outside the Trojan Horse and wrote "My body, my choice" on their bare stomachs.
"I'm never surprised when the opposition shows up, and I don't mind it," Canfield said. "To me, it means the word is getting out, and it's affecting people."
Canfield then pointed to a sign that read, "Free vasectomies for pro-lifers."
"That's kind of a stupid sign," she said.
This story will be updated.
___ (c)2012 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) at  Distributed by MCT Information Services

Load-Date: January 23, 2012


End of Document
