




Newsweek.com
December 4, 2024 Wednesday 2:42 PM EST


Copyright © 2024 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 457 words
Byline: Kayla Caldwell
Highlight: 'The Social Network' actor seemed to be playing with his reputation in Georgie Leahy's new video.
Body


Armie Hammer is making light of  in a new music video.
The 38-year-old actor, who has recently been trying to  following abuse allegations, made a brief cameo in Georgie Leahy's  for "Typical Squeeze," released on Monday, December 2.
In the song, Leahy sings about not being a typical girl, with lyrics sharing she is not a "safe bet, good girl, or typical squeeze." Hammer's cameo seems to be a Barbie reference, parodying Ryan Gosling's Ken popping up in the back of Barbie's car in the 2023 smash hit.
Hammer, who is credited as "Kannibal Ken," pops his head up out of nowhere while Leahy is driving a convertible through a stylized version of Hollywood. The Call Me By Your Name star briefly sings along with the music, before his appearance seemingly from the car's trunk, scares Leahy. She yanks at the wheel, causing her car to flip, and as it does, bloody body parts scatter.
The cameo comes after The Social Network actor admitted in October on his  that he now enjoys the cannibalism rumors about him. "I kind of like the cannibal stuff now," he told guest Tom Arnold, adding, "I'm just like, 'Hey, I'm a cannibal!'"
The music video appearance seems to be a nod to  — claims he has denied — which led to the actor taking a hiatus from Hollywood. Following the public scandal in 2021, Hammer was dropped by his publicist and talent agency, and had to leave multiple acting projects that were in the works.
He and wife Elizabeth Chambers split in 2020 after a decade of marriage, and finalized their divorce in 2023. They share children Harper, 10, and , 7.
After spending time in the Cayman Islands selling timeshares in 2022, Hammer returned to Los Angeles, but has been open about his financial struggles. In August 2024, The Man from U.N.C.L.E. star revealed that he  because he could not afford the high price of gas while living in Los Angeles.
In November 2024, he announced he was launching his podcast, and a source told  Hammer was "trying to redeem himself" and fix his image following the sexual abuse allegations. He has addressed the allegations in multiple episodes of his podcast, including a few where he chatted with his mother, Dru Hammer.
In one of her episodes, the Rebecca actor revealed the  she had given him for his 38th birthday: a vasectomy.
"I call Armie and I go, 'What would you like for your birthday this year?' He was like, "I don't know. Maybe money. Whatever.' And I was like, 'I believe I'm going to give you a vasectomy,' his 62-year-old mother said. Armie explained, "I have two beautiful kids... I'm done."


Graphic

 
Armie Hammer
Tibrina Hobson/WireImage
Armie Hammer attends the Go Campaign's 13th Annual Go Gala at NeueHouse Hollywood on November 16, 2019 in Los Angeles, California. In December 2024, Hammer appeared in a music video that seemingly played with the cannibalism rumors about him.

Load-Date: December 4, 2024


End of Document
