







Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
September 15, 2002 Sunday Spokane Edition


Copyright 2002 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: IN LIFE; Pg.F1
Length: 1447 words
Byline: Paul Turner/Staff writer
Body


IN Life had a problem.
 So the features section asked readers for some advice.
 What syndicated column should run in the spot vacated by the death this
 summer of newspaper legend Eppie Lederer (Ann Landers)?
 Hundreds weighed in, often with a passion and intensity usually reserved
 for heated debates about yanking a comic strip.
 In recent weeks, The Spokesman-Review held tryouts. Advice columnists took
 turns appearing in IN Life.
They had big shoes to fill.
 Lederer began writing the Landers column in 1955. A few months later came
 the Dear Abby column, written by her twin sister, Pauline Phillips.
 Both were huge national hits.
 Now there's a new generation of advice columnists. When a handful of them
 did a pirouette in IN Life, each prompted deeply divided reactions.
 For example …
 "My vote is for Carolyn Hax," wrote Judy Huguenin. "She is a fresh fix for
 the large hole left by the loss of Ann Landers' column. Smart, direct, and
 with a bit of sass. The rest of the candidates are just warmed over Ann
 wannabe's."
 Thomas Dempsey did not concur. "Please, whatever you do, don't make Carolyn
 Hax permanent. Her column is a waste of printed space. Her columns are
 strange. Maybe she's trying to be funny, but she isn't."
 There's no easy way to fill the void left by a departed giant.
 IN Life reader Rory Metcalf, whose note borrowed a familiar voice,
 addressed the dilemma.
 She wrote: "Dear Perplexed in Spokane,
 "Keep looking, toots. You can't replace in six weeks and a handful of dates
 a relationship that lasted a lifetime. (Where did I learn about transvestites
 when I was 10 years old? From Ann Landers, that's where.)
 "Annie had snap and sass that went along with her common sense, and I don't
 see that in any of the young babes you've been bringing to the dance the last
 few weeks."
 Other readers surveyed the field of candidates and saw things they liked.
 "I think you should keep the Advice Diva, Tara Solomon," wrote Heather
 Marie Reynolds. "She has short answers that keep your attention."
 ''Annie's Mailbox is great," wrote Doris Brown. ''I was waiting for
 someone like Ann Landers to replace her, and this is it."
 ''I have been very impressed with Harriette Cole," wrote Laura Hyde. ''She
 is fresh, interesting, and her advice has been excellent."
 ''I like Dear Abby's daughter, Jeanne Phillips," wrote Barbara Karnitz.
 ''Let's have some more Prudence," wrote Mary Pichette.
 Some readers cast votes despite being a bit fuzzy about their candidates.
 ''Thanks for the opportunity to tell you my favorite advice columnist,"
 wrote one woman. ''I have thrown the paper away so I don't know the name, but
 it was the first one the paper published."
 ''I vote that you send the Advice Diva back to Miami and hire the one that
 was running just before," wrote another reader. ''I can't remember her name,
 but she appeared to have short blond hair."
 ''Count one vote here for Carolyn Max," wrote another.
 ''The two ladies, Somebody and Sugar, were the best," said still another.
 (That's Kathy Mitchell and Marcy Sugar, authors of Annie's Mailbox.)
 A handful of respondents even volunteered themselves for the job of advice
 columnist.
 ''I would bring fresh ideas to the advice game, if for no other reason than
 being male," wrote one man.
 ''I have lived life," wrote a woman applying for the job.
 Another guy provided a sample column featuring his account of undergoing a
 vasectomy.
 Ann Landers has definitely left the building.
 Of course, even those content to remain spectators look for different
 things in an advice column. Some simply seek a diverting read.
 ''I cannot imagine consulting someone in the newspaper about any problems I
 might have," wrote a reader named Patti.
 ''Most people read the advice column for entertainment," wrote Diane
 Davis.
 For decades, newspaper readers, perhaps consoling themselves with the
 thought that at least certain others are worse off, have scanned suggestions
 about dealing with wayward lovers, belligerent children and aggravating
 in-laws.
 It would be a mistake to take this lightly. As evidenced by readers'
 response to the S-R's informal poll, people care about their relationship with
 advice columnists.
 Some seem to feel that the advice columnist has a social contract with
 them. It is one based on truth, understanding and responsibility.
 ''I've read them all, and my pick for the job is Harriette Cole," wrote
 Joann Daugherty. ''Her style would be easy to take day after day. She presents
 the reason for doing something and also provides instructions for bringing
 about a solution to a problem. My second choice is Carolyn Hax. Her advice is
 based on good thinking."
 It's no real mystery why people are drawn to advice columns, which have
 been called the world's oldest literary form. (Think about early religious
 texts.)
 The columns' subjects are the things most of us care about - love, sex,
 family, manners, getting along at work.
 A few Spokesman-Review readers critiqued specific bits of counseling
 offered by the tryout columnists. Others addressed tone.
 ''They seem to get caught up in their own brilliance," wrote an
 unimpressed Judy Van Houtan. ''Some of the columnists have even been
 insulting."
 One in particular could almost be described as polarizing - Carolyn Hax.
 None of the tryout columnists prompted more reaction from readers.
 Here's a sampling.
 ''The first of her columns you ran was so good I even read it to my
 husband, and he thought it was good, too," wrote Kathy Beaver.
 ''Carolyn Hax is terrible," wrote Gwen Berry. ''Too much showy attitude
 and not enough coherence."
 ''Ms. Hax's column really stands out with the unique writing style and
 insightful consideration of individual situations," wrote Bill Tann. ''No
 canned, generic answers here!"
 ''I vote NO on Carolyn Hax," wrote Ellie Warmbier. ''Her answers are too
 long and complicated."
 ''My husband and I loved Carolyn Hax's 'Tell Me About It' column," wrote
 Rose Dempsey. ''She's sharp, witty, down-to-earth. More, more, more."
 ''It's easy to like her assertive and confident advice," wrote Gunnar
 Holmquist.
 ''Even though I am a 60-year-old great-grandma, I feel that it is a hip
 column," wrote Jeri McGuire.
 ''Her advice-giving style reflects the way I give advice to my friends,
 whether asked for not," wrote Elaine Grow.
 ''Please, please, please, anybody but her," wrote Tammy Bradshaw.
 Welcome to the juggling act that is newspaper editing. Put simply, you
 can't please everyone.
 Not many readers appeared to be racked with compassionate worry about this
 predicament, however.
 ''The choice is obvious," wrote one.
 But reader Carol Krahenbuhl acknowledged that making a selection won't be
 easy. She likened the task of choosing someone to take Ann Landers' spot to
 replacing a beloved, longtime pastor.
 There's no instant substitute for years of trust and credibility.
 Bonnie Rae weighed in on the side of Annie's Mailbox, rating it the best of
 the bunch. ''By about a jillion percent," she wrote.
 Her letter had a postscript.
 ''Are you the one to talk to about bringing 'Gasoline Alley' back to the
 comics page?"
 This sidebar appeared with the story:
 The readers' favorite? Hax's Tell Me About It
 And now for the announcement.
 We've listened to your feedback, tallied your opinions, and discovered the
 clear readers' choice to be . . . The Washington Post's Carolyn Hax.
 Of the 437 readers who responded, 132 pleaded for Hax's column. "She's the
 bomb," one reader wrote.
 Her Tell Me About It column, designed for the under-30 crowd, will appear
 on IN Life's People page on Sunday, Wednesday and Friday, beginning today on
 F2.
 On Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, another reader favorite, Annie's
 Mailbox, will appear in that space.
 Hax, a Harvard graduate, is the author of "Tell Me About It: Lying,
 Sulking, Getting Fat . . . and 56 Other Things NOT to Do While Looking for
 Love" (Hyperion).
 "Hax is a master of the art of telling it like it is," Time magazine has
 written. "Faced with the immemorial conundrums of love gone awry or astray,
 friendships and families come undone or the regular frustrations of living in
 a world with other people in it, Hax manages to offer advice that is simple,
 bracing and smart."
 Annie's Mailbox is written by Kathy Mitchell and Marcy Sugar, the Chicago
 team who helped Eppie Lederer research and edit the Ann Landers column in
 recent years. This column will carry on in the classic Ann Landers' tradition.
 Thank you for your feedback, and as always, we're happy to hear your
 opinion. You may reach the Features Department by e-mail at
; by phone at (509) 459-5485; or by mail at Features,  
 The Spokesman-Review, P.O. Box 2160, Spokane WA 99210.
 -- Jamie Tobias Neely/Features editor

Graphic

 
3 Photos; 1. (photos of newspaper columns from Ann Landers and Dear Abby) 2. Readers picked Carolyn Hax, left, as their favorite. 3. Annie's Mailbox, written by Kathy Mitchell and Marcy Sugar, also will appear.

Load-Date: September 21, 2002


End of Document
