




Good Housekeeping
September 1, 2016


Copyright 2016 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: YOUR BODY; Pg. 113; Vol. 263
Length: 2206 words
Byline: Beth Janes
Body


Feeling crazy, sexy, hot -  sometimes literally? Our decade-by-decade guide to your body's tricky chemical messengers will help you stay strong, sane and on top of your game
It's the hormonal double standard: If your best pal plopped onto your couch, began crying over a piddly problem and then said, "I'm sorry - I'm just hormonal," you'd smile and quickly administer chardonnay. But if your husband's friend chalked up his wife's emotions to hormones, you'd want to punch him in the throat.
Be that as it may, hormones, whose job it is to tell your organs what your brain wants them to do, can indeed be responsible for turbulent feelings and weird bodily happenings - but only some of the time. While reproductive hormones (mainly estrogen and progesterone) get blamed for everything from weight gain to forgetfulness, they're not always the culprits, and it's tough to separate health issues that are primarily hormone-related from those caused by any number of other things.
That's why we're here. Read on for what to expect when from your hormones, how to spot problems and what to do to feel your best no matter how many candles are on your birthday cake.
YOUR 20S TO LATE 30S
In these years, you're probably popping prenatals because you wish to get pregnant or taking the Pill because you don't. Either way, your hormones are as baby-crazy as your desperate-for-grandkids mom, which (barring any problems) makes your cycles as predictable as her not-so-subtle hints.
WHAT TO EXPECT
A revved-up sex drive Assuming no hormonal issues (see "Are You Normal?", page 116), you're likely ovulating like clockwork. "Your hormones want you to have babies, so at the time of ovulation, you may sort of go on the prowl," Alice Domar, Ph.D., executive director of the Domar Center for Mind/Body Health, says. It could be that you feel more confident, that your body is pushing to fulfill its reproductive destiny or both, she says.
SMART MOVE: Unless you want to expand your family, don't skimp on birth control. "Fertility doesn't plummet the second you turn 35; it slows down a little, but in all likelihood, you'll still be able to get pregnant," Domar says.
Intense PMS Hormone levels drop before and with your period, so otherwise manageable problems may feel like category 5 disasters. Migraines, bowel trouble and other conditions can flare up at various times in your cycle, as can blue moods. "PMS isn't responsible for depression or anxiety, but if you're already depressed, you may feel worse," says Nanette Santoro, M.D., chair of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Colorado School of Medicine.
SMART MOVE: Chart symptom intensity along with your cycle, then talk to your doctor about a strategy. Consider continuous birth control, which stabilizes hormones all month, and take care to eat and sleep well during the relevant days so you'll be better able to deal.
Major munchies You may need up to 500 extra calories a day for a few days around your period, and junk food cravings may be your body's way of demanding to be fed, says Domar. Also, progesterone may stimulate the brain's appetite center, so you're hungrier when it surges during the second part of your cycle, says Jill Maura Rabin, M.D., an ob/gyn in Manhasset, NY, and a spokesperson for the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists.
SMART MOVE: Get most of the extra calories from healthy, fiber-rich whole foods instead of sweets and refined carbs, which cause insulin to skyrocket and then crash, leading to more cravings. Snacking on foods with heathy fats and protein, like nuts and yogurt, can help keep you satisfied and prevent you from getting "hangry."
Shiny, unhappy skin Research suggests that estrogen helps keep skin hydrated and firm. But when estrogen and progesterone fall before your period, "male" hormones (androgens) may be more dominant - and that means increased oil production and plugged pores, says Kathy Fields, M.D., a dermatologist in San Francisco. The roughly 50% of 20-somethings and over 25% of 30-somethings who get zits know that they tend to be knoblike, painful and likely to appear in the same places every month.
SMART MOVE: Some birth control pills (e.g., Yaz, Yasmin) can be skin-savers because they have a type of progesterone that blocks androgens. You can also treat and prevent acne with daily use of benzoyl peroxide and sulfur, says Dr. Fields.
HORMONE WHO-KNEW 
Higher levels of progesterone during the second half of your cycle turn up your internal thermostat, says Dr. Santoro. You could also have restlessness as well as disturbing dreams. Protect your zzz's by dressing lightly and avoiding the phone, the TV, big meals and alcohol near bedtime.
Problematic periods  If you're one of the 20% to 25% of women prone to heavy flow, cramps, bloating and/or aura-free migraines, your doctor has likely already recommended hormonal birth control like the Pill, the ring or an IUD. These can be game changers.
SMART MOVE: If you've always had uneventful periods but suddenly develop severe, persistent symptoms, spotting or cycles that are short (less than 25 days) or long (more than 35 days), see your doctor ASAP. It could be an issue such as premature menopause or PCOS (see "Are You Normal?", page 116). But don't assume it's just stress - push for testing, says Dr. Santoro.
YOUR 40S TO EARLY 50S
Perimenopause, the five to 10 years during which you transition from predictable cycles to menopause, can be a wild ride. Unlike your desire to head out clubbing at midnight, your estrogen doesn't gradually fade away. "This stage of life is filled with long stretches with low to no estrogen interspersed with days to weeks of normal or even high estrogen," Dr. Santoro says. The upshot: You may feel all over the place physically as well as mentally.
WHAT TO EXPECT
Wacky periods, hot flashes, vaginal discomfort or not In your early to middle 40s, periods may become heavier or lighter, shorter or longer, then return to normal. As you get closer to a full year period-free (a.k.a. menopause), you'll go through longer stretches of low estrogen, which is when you may experience hot flashes, night sweats and vaginal dryness, says Dr. Santoro. Then again, you might not experience any of those symptoms, especially if you're on the Pill.
? SMART MOVE: If over-the-counter treatments don't help, ask your doctor about low-dose hormone therapy for hot flashes and hormonal and nonhormonal options to treat vaginal dryness, says Lauren Streicher, M.D., author of Sex Rx: Hormones, Health and Your Best Sex Ever.
Surprise! A pregnancy "Women in perimenopause may think they're no longer fertile, but that's not the case," says Genevieve Neal-Perry, M.D., Ph.D., associate professor at the University of Washington School of Medicine. In fact, the 40-and-over set has a high rate of unintended pregnancy (48% are a surprise). You're still ovulating, albeit less regularly.
SMART MOVE: Contraception, baby, until you've gone a full year without a period , you've gotten a tubal ligation or your partner has had a vasectomy.
Brain fog This might not be all the fault of hormones. Experts believe many of the mental effects associated with perimenopause - muddled thinking, forgetfulness, irritability, mood swings, low libido, weight gain and more - occur primarily because of poor sleep and life stress. "When you're tired, you're cranky, you have cognitive issues, you don't eat right or want to exercise, you don't want to have sex - it all circles back," says Dr. Streicher.
SMART MOVE: Talk to your doctor to rule out issues like depression, says Dr. Rabin. You might also ask about melatonin, a natural sleep aid. Of course, follow the usual sleep advice: Power down at least an hour before bed, keep your room cool and dark and turn in at the same time each night. (Some women also find that avoiding alcohol can help.)
HORMONE WHO-KNEW
If you had hot flashes or night sweats after having a baby, chances are you'll be sweating at this stage, too. "The postpartum period is a sneak preview of menopause," says Dr. Santoro. In addition to hormone therapy, certain antidepressants and other meds can help you keep your cool.
Rebellious skin Low and yo-yoing estrogen can give pore-clogging androgens the upper hand - similar to what happens with pre-period breakouts, says Dr. Fields. On top of that, as skin gets less and less estrogen in your late 40s, it can start to look thinner, duller and drier.
SMART MOVE: Talk to your dermatologist about prescription-strength retinoids, which can help clear pores and reduce pimples while building up collagen. You can also try OTC anti-acne products formulated specifically for adult or dry skin, such as creams that combine benzoyl peroxide with ceramides, ingredients that help mature skin retain moisture.
MID-50S AND BEYOND
The average age for menopause is 51; you officially join the club after a year with no period. While you'll still have a small amount of estrogen, you experience fewer weird symptoms. One perk: Many women feel relieved about no longer having to deal with periods - and cramps, birth control and everything related, says Domar. You and your body begin adjusting to a new normal.
WHAT TO EXPECT
Balance, at last "The toughest part about menopause is the transition, when hormones fluctuate a lot," Dr. Neal-Perry says. Once you've arrived, your moods even out and you generally feel better. You should also be back on your game mentally, although it's not clear why. "Cognitive function seems to improve as the body acclimates to menopause," says Dr. Streicher.
SMART MOVE: Celebrate if you feel like it! And if you feel a bit of sadness that your fertile years are in the rearview, cut yourself some slack - that's normal, too.
Still-great sex There's no sugarcoating the fact that vaginal dryness persists after menopause, but that's a solvable problem. And your sex drive may be as strong as ever, especially after your sleep issues pass. "Estrogen levels alone don't change your libido," Dr. Neal-Perry says.
SMART MOVE: Get busy. "The more sex you have, the more it seems to help keep your natural juices flowing," says Domar. If sex hurts, try over-the-counter lubricants -  Dr. Streicher recommends longer-lasting silicone formulas - and don't be shy about asking your doctor about other options, including estrogen in a cream, a ring or tablets.
HORMONE WHO-KNEW
Estrogen plays a role in storing fat in your hips, thighs and rear, where research suggests it fuels baby-growing and breast milk production. A decline in estrogen may cause fat to be stored in your middle (the so-called "menopot"). This shift is somewhat inevitable, but exercising and eating right can help keep your weight healthy.
Hot flashbacks You're still making some estrogen - possibly enough to trigger mild hot flashes - for years after menopause, says Domar. Adds Dr. Santoro: "About 10% to 15% of women have at least one more bleed after not having had a period for a year. This can be confusing and concerning, but can also be normal."
SMART MOVE: Report recurring flashes and bleeding to your doctor, especially if you've been out of menopause for years. The bleeding could be a sign of endometrial cancer, uterine polyps or other serious issues, so it's worth erring on the side of caution.
Skin that needs extra TLC Estrogen is involved in keeping skin hydrated and firm, so when levels drop, skin feels dry. Collagen can also decrease by as much as 30% in the first five years after menopause, making skin seem less plump and elastic.
SMART MOVE: Reallocate your tampon budget toward a good moisturizer as well as products with proven complexion-boosters such as hydroxy acids, retinoids, peptides, hyaluronic acid, antioxidants and sunscreen. (See the GH Institute's picks for anti-aging night creams, page 38.)
New health concerns Your risk of heart disease and bone loss goes up as your estrogen levels drop. Staying vigilant is important.
SMART MOVE: Eat calcium-rich foods (you need 1,200 mg a day, a third of which you can get in a cup of yogurt) plus plenty of fruits, veggies and plant-based fats, which are heart-healthy. Also, make sure to exercise: Do weight-bearing moves to strengthen bones as well as cardio for your ticker, says Dr. Rabin.
are you normal?
Read up on two fairly common disorders that can sometimes cause similar symptoms. Getting treatment can help address all sorts of issues.SYMPTOM CHECKLISTvery irregular periods and infertility . stubborn acne . excess hair on face and body . pelvic pain (due to enlarged ovaries) . more
IT MIGHT BE  Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), which may affect as many as 20% of women.
TREATMENT Birth control pills, insulin-sensitizing drugs and weight management help regulate hormones and alleviate symptoms.
SYMPTOM CHECKLIST fatigue . weight gain . dry skin . heavy or irregular periods . trouble getting pregnant . cold intolerance . thinning hair . more
IT MIGHT BE   Hypothyroidism, which is when the body doesn't produce enough thyroid hormone, a key regulator of metabolism that also can be important for fertility. Almost 5% of the population and 10% of postmenopausal women have hypothyroidism.
TREATMENT Taking a daily pill with a synthetic form of thyroid hormone reverses symptoms and controls the condition.

Load-Date: October 4, 2016


End of Document
