




College Heights Herald: Western Kentucky University
May 18, 2019 Saturday


University Wire
Copyright 2019 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 488 words
Body


class="asset-contentsubscriber-premium">
State Attorney General Josh Kaul announced Thursday, May 16, that Wisconsin is filing a lawsuit against Purdue Pharma L.P. alleging the maker of OxyContin helped ignite the drug crisis with deceptive marketing claims.
Separate lawsuits are also being filed in Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, and West Virginia. Wisconsin and the other states claim that Purdue's advertising strategy downplayed the harm of the popular and powerful opioid and that marketing was approved by the company's former president Richard Sackler.
"With these five state's filing suit I hope we are sending a clear message about the seriousness with which AG's and states around the country are taking these cases," Kaul said in the state capitol flanked by Gov. Tony Evers, who said the lawsuit was critically important for families affected by addiction.
"People we're trying to get justice for were just trying to get the medication and health care they needed without risk of addiction or abuse," Evers said.
One state has already settled its lawsuit with Purdue. Last month the company agreed to pay Oklahoma $270 million. It was the first settlement of more than 1,600 lawsuits pending, according to NPR.
Wisconsin wants a permanent injunction to stop what it calls deceptive marketing practices. It's also seeking compensation for harm to residents, along with civil penalties. In 2015 alone the opioid crisis was estimated to have cost Wisconsin $10 billion in health care, worker productivity, and criminal justice services.
"This must end," Dane County Sheriff Dave Mahoney said Thursday. "In Dane County alone, we're responding to between 12 and 15 overdoses a week."
In 2017, 916 people in Wisconsin died from opioid overdoses, more than the number of people killed in car crashes.
More from this section
Carbs: How low can we go?
I'm getting a vasectomy
As the opioid crisis peaks, meth and cocaine deaths explode
The civil complaint says that in order to overcome doctor resistance to concerns about addiction, Purdue allegedly created a narrative of untreated pain where as many as 100 million people were suffering. The company also paid doctors to speak about the drug, according to the complaint.
In 2007, Purdue Pharma was ordered to pay more than $19 million to Wisconsin and 25 other states for violating consumer protections laws with its marketing of OxyContin. Despite that judgment, the complaint said Purdue continued deceptive advertising, although more surreptitiously by relying on front groups to mislead the public and influence opinion.
Purdue Pharma did not immediately provide a reaction to the lawsuit.
Wisconsin Public Radio, © Copyright 2019, Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System and Wisconsin Educational Communications Board.
CLICK HERE TO SUBSCRIBE TO THE SPOONER ADVOCATE: 
This article originally ran on apg-wi.com.

Load-Date: May 18, 2019


End of Document
