





Daily News (New York)
April 12, 2018 Thursday
SPORTS FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2018 Daily News, L.P.


Section: NEWS; Pg. 20
Length: 372 words
Byline: BY JILLIAN JORGENSEN NEWS CITY HALL BUREAU CHIEF
Body


TALK ABOUT bucking a trend.
After years of reckless reproduction, the Staten Island deer population has dropped 8%, city officials told the Daily News - crediting an oft-mocked program to perform vasectomies on male deer.
"There were a lot of skeptics," Anthony DeNicola, the wildlife biologist hired by the city to run the program. "And there was quite a bit of jest at our expense. But the data and the results today are what they are, and they show that this concept can work, and it's working well."
Two years into the plan - and after the first mating season during which some of the bucks had been snipped - DeNicola's nonprofit White Buffalo counted 1,884 deer this January. That's down from 2,053 his company counted, using the same technique, in 2017.
And the number of baby Bambis appearing on Staten Island has decreased by more than half, DeNicola said.
"The big test for this whole experiment is how many fawns are there relative to does," said DeNicola, who noted Staten Island is the first area to use vasectomies for male deer as a control method on a large scale.
When DeNicola counted in January 2017 - shortly after the first round of vasectomies, which happened in fall 2016, but too soon to see an impact - there was one fawn for every doe. Now, there's about one fawn for every two does, he said.
The results of the first-of-its kind program had Mayor de Blasio, well, fawning.
"We are already seeing tangible progress from this novel strategy, and earlier than expected," he said. "These numbers show that our smart, humane plan is the right one, both for Staten Islanders and their antlered neighbors."
The project, which from some corners has elicited snickers or sympathetic leg-crossing, costs $3.6 million over three years, including an extra $300,000 budget increase that was required because Staten Island was home to even more deer than first suspected.
The plan involves baiting traps, shooting bucks with tranquilizer darts and having vets perform a surgery that takes just a few minutes. The deer are then tagged. The mortality rate has been just 0.5%, DeNicola said, and the deer are still amorous.
"They're still keeping busy. They're very busy," he said. "This is purely a vasectomy, so all systems are go."

Graphic

 
Sightings like this one of deer on Staten Island are becoming a little less common - there are 8% fewer of them this year compared with last year. NICHOLAS FEVELO

Load-Date: April 12, 2018


End of Document
