




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
November 12, 2016 Saturday


Copyright 2016 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 807 words
Body


(PRWeb) - Batavia Urology today announced that their first patients have been treated with the UroLift System, an innovative new treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), also known as enlarged prostate.
The UroLift System is designed to relieve symptoms caused by an enlarged prostate, while preserving sexual function. Delivered during a minimally invasive procedure, the UroLift permanent implants act like window curtain tie-backs to hold the lobes of an enlarged prostate open. Patients recover from the procedure quickly, and return to their normal routines with minimal downtime. The cost of the UroLift System procedure is covered by Medicare in New York.
We are committed to providing patients with the highest-quality, most effective options to address their urology needs, said Mr. Jason Donovan, P.A., who was present for the first procedure. The UroLift System has an excellent safety profile and provides men suffering from an enlarged prostate a beneficial first-line treatment alternative to drug therapy or more invasive surgery. Importantly, the UroLift System provides fast and meaningful relief from BPH symptoms, improving overall quality of life for our patients.
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), also known as enlarged prostate, affects more than 37 million men in the United States alone. Twelve times more common than prostate cancer, BPH occurs when the prostate gland that surrounds the male urethra becomes enlarged with advancing age and begins to obstruct the urinary system. Approximately one in four men experience BPH-related symptoms by age 55, with 90 percent of men over 70 symptomatic.
Data from clinical trials showed that patients receiving UroLift implants reported rapid symptomatic improvement, improved urinary flow rates, and sustained sexual function. Patients also experienced a significant improvement in quality of life. Most common adverse events reported include hematuria, dysuria, micturition urgency, pelvic pain, and urge incontinence. Most symptoms were mild to moderate in severity and resolved within two to four weeks after the procedure.
To schedule a consultation with Batavia Urology, please call (585) 343-4555.
Batavia Urology is located at 36 Ellicott St # 2, Batavia, NY.
About BPH Treatment More than 500 million aging men worldwide have an enlarged prostate. Medication is often the first line therapy but relief can be inadequate and temporary. Side effects of treatment can include sexual dysfunction, dizziness and headaches, prompting many patients to quit using the drugs. For these patients, the classic alternative is surgery that cuts or ablates prostate tissue to open the blocked urethra. While current surgical options, such as the `gold standard` surgery, Transurethral Resection of the Prostate (TURP), can be very effective in relieving symptoms, they can also leave patients with permanent side effects such as urinary incontinence, erectile dysfunction and retrograde ejaculation (dry orgasm).
About UroLift The UroLift System provides an alternative to tissue removing surgery for the treatment of an enlarged prostate. Performed through the urethra, a urologist uses the UroLift System to push aside the obstructive prostate lobes and positions small, tailored permanent UroLift implants to hold the prostate lobes in the retracted position. This opens the urethra while leaving the prostate intact. Adverse reactions associated with UroLift System treatment were comparable to other minimally invasive surgical therapies as well as standard cystoscopy. The most common adverse events reported during the study included pain or burning with urination, blood in the urine, pelvic pain, urgent need to urinate, and the inability to control urine because of an urgent need to urinate. Most symptoms were mild to moderate in severity and resolved within two to four weeks after the procedure. For more information about UroLift, visit  .
About Batavia Urology Our team of providers includes Dr. David Gentile, Dr. Ralph Madeb, Dr. P.Miller Ashman and Jason Donovan, physician assistant. Our providers offer top-notch care and specialize in minimally invasive and non-surgical forms of treatments that our patients and their families have become accustomed to over the last several years.
Batavia Urology treats all urologic conditions which include but are not limited to: BPH, cancers of the prostate, bladder, and kidneys, incontinence, vasectomies, hypogonadism, overactive bladder, urinary retention, and kidney stones.
Urologic health is important to us, and we appreciate our patients loyalty to our practice. We will continue to offer a high standard to our community, our patients and their loved ones. Please contact us at 585-343-4555 to schedule your next appointment with one of our exceptional providers. 2016 Global Data Point.

Load-Date: November 12, 2016


End of Document
