




AutoWeek
October 29, 2007


Copyright 2007 Crain Communications All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 30
Length: 639 words
Byline: George P. Blumberg
Body


John Buscema is out to build better 1968-74 Mopar muscle cars than Chrysler ever did. By all accounts, he's succeeded. The gearhead and former investment manager saw a market niche with boomers who were snapping up classic Mopars.
``I saw a sweet spot in the muscle-car market,'' said Buscema. ``Values are high, yet when guys pay big bucks, they're reacquainted with how vintage cars drive and handle and know something's to be desired.''
Enter Buscema with XV Motorsports () of Irvington, New York, bringing modern handling and power to classic Mopars. He builds around a stiffened chassis and modernized suspensions, adding modern Hemis, brakes and super trim and paint.
For their time, B-bodied (such as GTXs and Chargers) and E-bodied (such as Challengers and 'Cudas) unibody-based Mopars had good rigidity. Buscema's suspension development goes further, using a four-post suspension rig, torsion tests and computer analysis to stiffen chassis through strategic bracing and supports and to develop suspension options.
``After baselining three stock cars,'' said Buscema, ``we found front torsion bars not stiff enough and rear leaf springs too stiff.''
XV's Level I suspension maintains stock geometry, with a direct bolt-in package with custom-valved monotube shocks and new torsion bars, roll bars, bushings and leaf springs. ``Level I is optimization, reversible like a vasectomy,'' said Buscema, laughing. ``Some restorers want a better ride but with the option to change parts back for originality.'' He recently added Level I suspension to a numbers-matching '71 Challenger, tagging and bagging the original suspension pieces.
Level II is a permanent, clean-sheet approach, revising geometry and eliminating torsion bars and leaf springs, substituting coil-overs, a three-link rear and a double-control-arm front setup, with rack-and-pinion steering. Both levels offer rotor and caliper setups by StopTech and 18-inch wheels. During development, computer simulation was augmented by track testing at Mosport to verify and tweak the suspension setups.
Buscema offers purpose-built Hemi Gen III 5.7 and 6.1 engines with baseline 440 hp and 525 hp, respectively. Options are offered for horsepower and five- or six-speed manual or automatic transmissions, even with paddle shifting. Customers opt to have their cars converted, or they have Buscema build a project-car shell with driveline and suspension or purchase a completely remade turnkey car. Turnkey goes for $140,000 to $230,000, said Buscema, driven by year and model. ``A '71 'Cuda convert is the most expensive versus a '69 Road Runner.'' He typically has 20 shells on hand and 12 cars in fabrication.
This is no backyard operation. Buscema is allied with Canadian race-car shops Multimatic Motorsports for suspension engineering and Sean Hyland Motorsport for powertrain development. Fabrication is done in New York and Canada. Turnkey builds take six months and carry a 12-month/12,000-mile warranty. Custom parts developed for the program are available to the aftermarket.
Back-to-back driving of a '70 Challenger T/A mint survivor and Buscema's orange '70 Challenger demonstrator confirms the value of the upgrades. The period-correct T/A has vague steering, iffy brakes, squirrelly rear axle tramp and hop, body lean and high-speed float. Buscema's demonstrator carries the 440-hp 5.7 Hemi, five-speed Tremec transmission, Level II suspension, 18-inch six-piston front discs, custom leather interior, air conditioning, power everything and killer audio.
Ride and handling are transformed into those of a modern GT car, with precise steering, powerful braking, confident cornering and a firm yet compliant ride. Power delivery is instantaneous, with a basso exhaust snarl. Chrysler would do well to make this car the new '08 Dodge Challenger's benchmark.

Graphic

 
Art Credit: 2 photos
Art Credit: XV Motorsports (2)

Load-Date: November 2, 2007


End of Document
