




Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne, WY)
June 05, 2000, Monday


Copyright 2000 Cheyenne Newspapers, Inc.
Section: Front; Pg. A1
Length: 1596 words
Byline: Erin Hottenstein
Body


CHEYENNE -- At 31, Jeff and his wife are thrilled with their first new baby. But they want to wait awhile before they have another one. The couple likes to use condoms as birth control, but Jeff has discovered he's allergic to latex.
Sarah is a 20-year-old sexually active college student. Her boyfriend doesn't like male condoms, so she's wondered if the female condom would be better.
Dawn, a teen-ager, is not a good candidate for the pill. Like many women her age, she uses condoms. But she knows that on average they are only effective about 80 percent of the time, and she wants more protection. She starts shopping around for female contraception, like foam, film or gel, that would bring the number up to about 95 percent.
These situations are hypothetical, but if Jeff, Sarah and Dawn were shopping for over-the-counter birth control in Cheyenne, they would probably have some difficulty finding the products they want.
The Wyoming Tribune-Eagle visited two pharmacies, a discount store and a grocery store and found that the availability of over-the-counter birth control varies from store to store. Some types of products are not available at all, or are not on display.
Some people prefer it that way, believing that artificial contraception is unacceptable. They say people should practice abstinence or, in marriage, natural family planning.
About 60 million U.S. women are in their childbearing years, ages 15 to 44, according to the Alan Guttmacher Institute, a reproductive health research and education non-profit corporation. Forty-two million, or 70 percent, of these women are sexually active and do not want to become pregnant.
About 64 percent of women aged 15 to 44 practice contraception, said the Guttmacher Institute. About 28 percent have undergone tubal sterilization, followed by almost 27 percent who are on the pill. Some 20 percent of these women put male condoms to use, while another 11 percent rely on the fact their male partners have had a vasectomy.
Further down on the list, periodic abstinence was used by slightly more than 2 percent of women, while over-the-counter female contraception was used by just less than 2 percent of women.
Where to go?
Part of the challenge in shopping for over-the-counter birth control in Cheyenne is finding out where to shop, but it is also in how the products are displayed and what sales clerks say.
Daniel, 17, said he only found two kinds of condoms at a convenience store, but found many more options at a discount store.
"They're real easy to find and if you can't (find them) you can always get those samples at the county (family planning clinic)," he said.
Kyle, 17, said he went to a convenience store to buy condoms, but he couldn't find any with the spermicide nonoxynol-9. He said he found the product he wanted on the shelf at a grocery store.
Heather, 15, said she had bought condoms at a grocery store, too.
"To just walk up and get it in the aisle and pay for it is better. So you don't have to ask a pharmacist. It's embarrassing," she said.
Dolores Wilson, 35, lives in Colorado, but was visiting Cheyenne recently. She said she has had many problems buying birth control.
"If you go in the night and they have them behind the counter, you can't get them," she said. "(Or) people in the store can't tell you where to find them.
"You're looking for something and they (broadcast) it over the intercom," she said. "I just walked out. You're trying to be discreet about it."
Carolyn Clary is the family planning director at the City/County Health Department. "I have had kids tell me they've gone to the store and had clerks ask, 'Why do you want them?'" she said.
"We recommend that all females that come to our clinic use condoms to protect against (sexually transmitted diseases)," she said. About 3,000 women visit the clinic per year, with about one-third being under age 19, she said.
People, especially young people, may face barriers in buying contraception, said Susan Tew, deputy director of communications for the Guttmacher Institute. Embarrassment, cost and selection are factors that come into play, she said.
"If you put those products away, it doesn't make it easy," she said.
On the shelf or hidden?
Of the four places this newspaper visited, three put all their products out on the shelf: Wal-Mart, Albertson's (on Yellowstone Road) and Gibson Discount Pharmacy.
Hoy's Drugs had female contraception out, but the reporter had to ask to see the condoms, which were in a drawer behind the counter.
Condoms are easy to steal, said Ted Hoy, pharmacist.
"We have problems with juveniles all the time and not just juveniles," he said.
But Hoy also said buying birth control isn't as taboo anymore.
"I don't think there's as much reticence for people to ask for it these days as before," he said.
At Wal-Mart, the over-the-counter birth control is out on the shelf because it's not a prescription drug, said corporate spokeswoman Jessica Moser. It's also easier to access, she said.
Albertson's general merchandise manager Todd Woolridge said the corporation made decisions on product selection and display. But multiple calls to the corporate office were not returned.
A program through the wholesaler also determines how Gibson Discount Pharmacy will display its goods, said Lana Hendricks, pharmacy technician.
"Anyone should be able to buy them," she said. "I would rather the younger people buy them than be embarrassed to ask for them."
As for selection, Gibson, Wal-Mart and Hoy's all said it's based on customer demand.
The problem is some people have allergies to latex or certain chemicals, Clary said, adding she does not recommend lambskin condoms because they don't protect against disease.
Hendricks was aware of the allergy problem, too.
"I had a customer the other day who was allergic to latex. We couldn't help him," she said.
At least two brands, Trojan and Durex, manufacture a polyurethane male condom. The Reality female condom is also made of polyurethane.
Female options are fewer
But none of the four stores carried the female condom, though Gibson had brochures on display. Only one store, Wal-Mart, carried a polyurethane male condom.
In latex or lambskin male condoms, the stores provided many choices. Wal-Mart sold 33 varieties; Albertson's showed 25; Gibson displayed 13; and Hoy's had 9.
The availability of foam, film, gel, jelly and inserts varied a lot. Hoy's carried two kinds; Gibson had five; Wal-Mart also had five; while Albertson's offered six.
Wilson said she has shopped for all kinds of birth control and it wasn't easy to find.
"A lot of times it is hard to find the foam or they don't have the kind you're looking for," she said. "I went to the birth control pill because it was easier than trying to find the stuff I wanted."
"If someone makes a request, we would stock it," said Hendricks. "If you don't have a request for it -- be it over-the-counter or prescription -- then there's no reason to stock it."
Gibson also uses merchandising catalogs that show national usage figures to make decisions, she said.
Wal-Mart watches sales closely, but may also use focus groups and other forms of research to order goods, said Moser.
"Most of the contraception (recommendations) originate with the physician," said Hoy. He also said since the pill became popular, demand for female contraception has dropped.
Hoy's carried the female condom for awhile, but "they haven't been a roaring success," he said.
Target of religious groups
Adrienne Verrilli, senior press officer with the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said there could be another reason for the number of products that are available.
"There are few manufacturers of contraceptives because sadly they've been targeted by religious and anti-contraception groups," she said.
"The more the better. Everyone needs to have the options that work for them," she said. "Nothing is effective if it's a burden."
Tew agreed. "It's a choice and choice is key here," she said. "(Some forms) may not be popular, but some people love that method.
"Should all drug stores be responsible and carry all products even if only 10 people in Cheyenne use them?" Tew said. "The businesses have to make those decisions."
But Pat McCarthy, director of Catholic Family and Respect Life Ministries, doesn't see the issue that way. She coordinates natural family planning classes and advocates abstinence.
"The Catholic Church teaches that artificial contraception is not to be used. It doesn't matter what it is," she said. "Any act of intercourse should happen only within marriage and should be open to the possibility of new life.
"But there may be serious reasons to limit the number of children or space them," she said. That's where natural family planning comes in -- it teaches how to track a woman's natural signs of fertility and limit intercourse.
Couples also are saved from the side effects of birth control products, like allergies, she said. "If used correctly, it is equally as effective," McCarthy said.
"We market all kinds of harmful things to our young people. Birth control is one of them," she said. "We are marketed to death by people who want to make money off of contraception.
"It would be better if we were teaching our young people about chastity and the dignity of relationships," McCarthy said.
Wilson, mother of two teen-agers, said she wanted them to have access to over-the-counter birth control.
"I just think it should be easier for the kids to obtain it, so they don't get diseases or unwanted pregnancies," she said. "I put my daughter on the Depo-(Provera) shot because I don't want her to say, 'I couldn't find it.'"

Load-Date: June 6, 2000


End of Document
