




University Wire
April 16, 2001


Copyright 2001 The Diamondback via U-Wire
Length: 578 words
Byline: By Michelle Rothman, The Diamondback
Dateline: College Park, Md.
Body


"The pill" might not be just a woman's thing any more. While women have multiple birth control options including Depo-Provera and diaphragms, choices for men are mostly limited to condoms or vasectomies. But new methods for men could be available within the decade, according to researchers.
U. Maryland
Research into men's birth control has been conducted at several universities, including Johns Hopkins University, University of California, Los Angeles and the University of Virginia. Severe overpopulation problems have prompted the World Health Organization, the Population Council and the governments of countries like India and China to pursue similar research.
Methods being given the highest degree of attention include the use of synthetic hormones, such as those used in female birth control pills. Synthetic hormones are the basis for a Chinese treatment known as the "pill and patch method," which consists of an oral pill containing progesterone, a female sex hormone, and a skin patch containing testosterone, a male sex hormone.
This method has been found to temporarily lower a man's sperm count to zero without causing long-term infertility. Side effects may include abdominal cramps, depression and headaches, similar to side-effects felt by some female pill users. This treatment and others using synthetic hormones are still being researched, but many believe this type of birth control could be available for men within five or six years.
Scientists are also researching the use of Nifedipine, a hypertension drug, as a birth control method. The drug, which slows the movement of calcium through cell membranes, has been found to cause infertility in men. Researchers have begun to determine reasons for this in hopes of developing Nifedipine for use as a contraceptive.
Another area of research is immunocontraceptives, which would use the body's immune system to attack the sperm-production process. A vaccine would cause an immune response to a hormone, FSH, without which sperm are unable to mature. Once the vaccine wears off, men would return to their normal fertility. One drawback is it's effective only in two-thirds of the men tested thus far.
If such a method were approved, it could affect campus students. Dr. Margaret Bridwell, director of the University Health Center, said the health center currently has no male birth control methods available, aside from condoms. "We offer many kinds of birth control," Bridwell said. "Certainly if there was another adequate method of birth control for males besides condoms, we would offer that, too."
But would men be receptive to new contraceptive methods for them? Companies are worried even if a product was developed, men might not be interested in taking it, according to male contraceptive researchers' websites.
Several men on the campus expressed interest in the development of new birth control methods geared toward males.
Freshman mechanical engineering major Steve Kaiser said he'd be willing to use male birth control.
"I'd take it. I think it's important for both sexes to take charge with birth control," Kaiser said.
Women on the campus said they are pleased research is being done, but they are skeptical about new methods.
"I think its good that they are starting to pay attention to the fact that it's both partners responsibility, but I would still make him wear a condom," said freshman journalism major Lauren Golfer.
(C) 2001 The Diamondback via U-WIRE

Load-Date: April 16, 2001


End of Document
