




Cosmopolitan(US)
November 2018


Copyright 2018 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: WELL; Pg. 0136; ISSN: 0010-9541
Length: 3134 words
Byline: By Jennifer Gerson & Ashley Oerman

Photographed By Jamie Chung

Introduction By Michele Promaulayko,Editor-in-chief Of Cosmopolitan
Body


Right now, your contraception is under attack, with politicians looking to make it way more expensive and much harder to get. If they succeed, American women will suffer a devastating setback.
Check the boxes that apply to you. The more you tick off, the higher your chances of ­losing access to affordable birth ­control. None seem relevant? Great, you can still help others
I don't have health insurance.
I don't qualify for Medicaid (aka the government program for people with low incomes).
I have health insurance through my religion-affiliated workplace or school (e.g., I work for a Catholic university or a church). Or it seems like my employer opposes birth control for "moral" reasons.
I get my BC from Planned Parenthood or another publicly funded clinic.
I live in a rural area or "red" state.
I don't own a car or have access to one.
I pretty much live paycheck to paycheck.
My high school boyfriend and I were chomping at the bit to do the deed, and I wanted to act responsibly (high-five to my teenage self!). Back then, for me, that meant taking the Pill. And since I had less-than-zero intention of sharing my desire to become sexually active with my busy single mom, I hightailed it to a Planned Parenthood in a neighboring New Jersey town. There, a doctor discussed my options with me, conducted a pelvic exam-my first-and dispensed a prescription. It was a seamless, formative experience.
Fast-forward to today. While a slew of women (some of them peers I know and admire) have bravely, publicly acknowledged that they've had abortions, I have a different confession_ I've never been pregnant. A big ­reason is that I've had easy access to affordable birth control.
Why am I revealing this non-news? Because while much of the reproductive-rights conversation is centered on abortion, the Trump administration is also waging war on your birth control-the very thing that prevents the need for an abortion.
Like me, 99 percent of women who have had sex have used birth control at some point. And currently, more than 62 million are getting it for free. (That's largely thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act, or ACA-which requires health insurers to fully cover all FDA-approved forms of contraception-and to clinics such as Planned Parenthood that receive government funding for "family planning services.") This has helped the teen and unintended pregnancy rates drop to historic lows.
But that could all change...and it has already begun. "We are seeing a deeply concerning attack on access to affordable, high-quality contraceptive care," says Kinsey Hasstedt, senior policy manager at the Guttmacher Institute, a research and policy organization committed to advancing sexual and reproductive health and rights. Since last year, the government has made moves to_
Kill the ACA and gut Title X, a federal program that funds free or cheap contraception for some 4 million low-income women (a majority are under 30 years old and more than 60 percent are women of color). Title X helps prevent more than 800,000 unintended pregnancies a year, which would otherwise result in close to 300,000 abortions.
Eliminate federal funding for orgs such as Planned Parenthood. This would mean fewer clinics, longer drives, endless wait times, or no access at all for those who can't get birth control through insurance. (For the record, abortions make up just 3 percent of PP's ­services, and they are almost never paid for with federal tax dollars.)
Make it easier for employers and schools to refuse to cover birth control for any moral or religious reason, putting hundreds of thousands of people at risk for steep out-of-pocket costs.
At the same time, the administration is appointing Supreme Court justices who could ensure these plans become law. If that happens, birth control could cost American women at least $1.4 billion more every year!
Over the past half century, contraception has been ­ crucial to women's advancement, which is why it needs to remain accessible and cost-free rather than a financial burden. (This isn't even remotely controversial_ 96 percent of American voters support contraception access.) Yet government ­officials are trying to halt or, worse, eradicate this progress.
"The message from the administration on birth control is, 'You're on your own,'" says Susan Inman, a chief counsel at the Center for Reproductive Rights. Adds Rachel Fey, director of public policy at Power to Decide, a campaign to prevent unplanned pregnancy_ "This is real. Alarm bells need to ring. I've been doing this for 18 years, and this is the greatest number of threats I've seen in my career."
If this is all sounding a ­little too Handmaid's Tale, keep reading. Cosmo debriefed top experts for advice on how to stop the erosion of your birth-control access. I hope you'll join me in letting politicians know that we see what's happening and we're not forfeiting our ­reproductive rights.
$1.4 billion The amount annual costs for the Pill alone could soar
78% of American voters don't think employers should be able to deny birth-control coverage.
Only a handful of states still haven't expanded Medicaid coverage or used a family-planning program to at least offer free contraception to cash-strapped citizens who don't qualify for Medicaid.
"I'm a resident adviser [at a Jesuit school], and when freshmen ask me, 'Can I get my birth control prescribed here?' I tell them 'Yes, but you have to say it's for cramps or acne, not sex.' That students have to lie is heart­breaking to me."
As the federal government aims to restrict access, some states are rushing to expand it. A guide to bright spots and danger zones.
On the rise_ reports of pharmacists declining to dispense birth control because of personal beliefs. In 13 states, they can flat out refuse to honor your prescription. In six, they can even hold on to or return an Rx instead of referring it to someone else, potentially forcing a woman to go back to her doctor for a new one.
Certain ones now require all FDA-approved forms of birth control be fully covered by state-regulated insurers. So even if the ACA dies, local women's free BC may not. Meanwhile, other states have passed laws allowing patients to get 12 months of birth-control pills at once, sparing them frequent pickups (and reducing unintended pregnancy rates by up to 30 percent).
"I went off the Pill when my new work insurance wouldn't pay for my brand. But I needed emergency contraception while waiting to get an IUD, and it took me two days to find a pharmacy that stocked the version my plan covers. It's like the system wanted to get me pregnant, and I have insurance! What will happen if we lose coverage?"
It was the first to mandate that state-regulated insurers cover birth control (even before the ACA) and as of this year aalso covers vasectomies and OTC emergency contraception.
Planned Parenthood is being targeted by a new law denying Title X cash (used for free or low-cost birth control) to clinics that refer for or perform abortions. The PP in Lincoln, the capital, serves about 4,000 women who may now face higher costs (or longer wait times at the only other Title X clinic in town, which serves around 1,400).
Similar Laws Targeting Abortion Providers Have Gone into Effect in 12 Other States
ar az co ia in mi Mo ms Nc oh tx WI
As of January, 10 states and Washington, D.C., allow pharmacists to prescribe birth control, bypassing the need for an MD visit. Many facilities are still in the process of rolling out their programs. Visit BirthControlPharmacies .com to see what's available near you.
You Could Get Your BC Directly From a Drugstore in These Locales
CA CO DC HI MD NH NM OR TN UT WA
"I got a Pill prescription at my college health center, but I'd miss a day or two if I couldn't get a ride to Walgreens every month. There are not many places in Alabama to get an implant, so I got one for free at Planned Parenthood in my home state over Christmas. I have to get it replaced in January. I'm nervous. What if my access disappears?"
What you could end up paying for birth control if the Affordable Care Act is decimated and clinics such as Planned Parenthood are defunded
Max Cost
$400 per year
popularity
1.5 million users
The progestin shot (four times a year, in your butt or arm) keeps sperm and eggs from comingling. It's easier than the Pill, but if you get it two or more weeks late, it may stop working. Side effects can include loss of bone density and dizziness.
Max Cost
$2 each
popularity
5.5 million users
Before it gets near your V, slip one of these pouches securely over his P to block sperm from entering you. They're not the most fail-proof method, but they are cheap, lack side effects (unless you're allergic to latex), and also prevent many STIs.
Unlike the "abortion pill," which ends a pregnancy, these meds prevent ­conception in the first place-yet some ­politicians (inaccurately) argue they are abortifacients, and the drugs are under attack in many states. The two types, levonorgestrel (e.g., Plan B One-Step) and ­ulipristal acetate (Ella), are now fully covered by insurance with a ­prescription. Otherwise, OTC pills can cost up to $67 out of pocket.
Max Cost
$90 per device
popularity
235,000 users Barrier methods (which also include the sponge) paired with spermicide block sperm. They can be hard to insert and have to be left in for at least six hours post-deed. For the diaphragm and cap, your doc will size you, then write a script. They last for up to two years (unless they break).
Max Cost
$600 per year
popularity
9.5 million users One kind contains estrogen and progestin, which stop ovulation and thicken cervical mucus, making it harder for sperm to swim upstream. The other (aka the mini-Pill) packs just progestin. Both can cause nausea, spotting, breast tenderness, and weight gain...but also clearer skin and fewer cramps.
Truth_ Even with superb insurance, getting your BC can be a pain. "Right now, to get the Pill, women have to find a health-care provider, get an appointment, get a prescription, then go to the pharmacy," says Kelly Blanchard, president of Ibis Reproductive Health, a nonprofit research organization. But what if you could just wander into a drugstore and pluck it off a shelf? Ibis and its partner, HRA Pharma, are in the process of developing a progestin-only, truly OTC birth-control pill. If it scores FDA approval, it could prompt other companies to develop additional OTC options. There's just one catch: Politicians disagree about who would pay. Republicans want users to fork over the cost (which Ibis estimates will be $15 or lower per month) using health savings or flexible spending ­accounts, while Democrats say private insurers should pick up the tab. As with so much else contraception- related, until they decide, this total game changer ­remains a maybe.
Max Cost
$2,400 per year
popularity
906,000 users The ring-you DIY one into your vag every month-is powered by estrogen and progestin. Take it out for sex (if you want), but put it back within three hours. Side effects can be ­similar to the Pill's plus discharge or irritation.
Max Cost
$1,800 per year
popularity
69,000 users The water-resistant stickies, loaded with estrogen and progestin, are a solid option for those who think the Pill is too much work but want the same perks. Users just have to remember to slap a new one on their upper arm, back, butt, or stomach once a week for three weeks every month (you skip week four to get your period).
After the 2016 election, Planned ­Parenthood famously reported a 900 percent spike in IUD interest, as women freaked out about Trump coming for their reproductive rights. They had cause for ­concern_ The administration isn't just ­trying to roll back access, it also wants to convince women they shouldn't get some types of birth control. Many ­conservatives consider IUDs to be abortifacients (doctors disagree), and now the Department of Health and Human ­Services is paying-with your taxes- for "research leading to...discontinuing reversible ­contraceptive methods, such as...intrauterine devices." Translation: The government wants to get women to take out their IUDs. ("What's shocking is that this is completely counter to what the medical community is pushing toward," says Mary Alice Carter, executive director of Equity Forward, a research organization focused on repro rights.)
Given this, it's rational to ask whether you should rush to get one of the long-lasting devices now, says Mara Gandal-Powers, senior counsel for ­reproductive rights and health at the National Women's Law Center (NWLC). "I completely understand this fear of not ­knowing if you'll be able to get the birth control you need. People shouldn't have to make health decisions based on politics."
The fact is, the IUD may soon be the most cost-effective BC method, says Aisha Wagner, MD, a fellow with Physicians for Reproductive Health. Getting one is still free for most people (Trump's rules were tied up in court as of press time), and you wouldn't risk seeing a monthly co-pay in the future. Plus, most IUDs will outlast this administration. So go ahead, if you're interested (and aware of the potential side effects). Once it's up there, no one can make you take it out.
Max Cost
$330
popularity
832,000 users
Max Cost
$330
popularity
832,000 users
Fertility awareness methods and trackers use ovu­la­tion predictors, such as your body temp, to tell you when to avoid sex. The first FDA-approved app, Natural Cycles (at left, $80 per year), relies on thermometer readings and claims 93 percent effectiveness. But when it says not to have sex, you have to listen.
Max Cost
$6,000
popularity
8.2 million users Getting your "tubes tied" typically involves an outpatient laparoscopic surgery, during which a doctor ties, cuts, or seals your fallopian tubes. It's costly but effective...and only for women who are sure they don't want (any more) kids.
Max Cost
$1,300 per insertion
popularity
4.5 million users The copper one works for up to 12 years via a chemical reaction toxic to sperm; progestin versions last three to seven (or until you have them removed). Side effects can include irregular bleeding, cramps, or a heavier flow.
Max Cost
$1,300 per insertion
popularity
966,000 users A doc numbs your upper arm before inserting a tiny rod under your skin. This might cause soreness, but once it's in, it releases progestin for up to four years. Side effects may include irregular bleeding, headaches, and acne (similar to the hormonal IUD).
After Lili Gomez, 22, of Texas, asked for an IUD, her doctor's reaction was shocking. "She said, 'You have to commit to 10 years on the IUD, so ask your partner if he'd want kids in that time span,'" recalls Lili. (An IUD can actually be taken out any time.)
Provider bias like this is common, says Aisha Wagner, MD. Patients may be given incorrect info or coerced into (or out of) certain types of birth control.
If you feel your doctor is judging you or spouting BS, it may be time to switch to a new one.
When getting a script is tough, apps and sites like Nurx, The Pill Club, Pandia Health, Planned Parenthood Direct, and Prjkt Ruby can prescribe and send the Pill, the patch, or the NuvaRing to you (with free shipping). In most cases, you just complete an online questionnaire, text or video-chat with an MD, or transfer an existing Rx. Many apps accept insurance and offer automatic refills. The downsides_ They don't do IUDs or other long-lasting methods and aren't available in every state. For more info, check out Bedsider.org, an online birth-control support network run by Power to Decide.
If you get slapped with out-of-pocket costs for birth control, it pays to pick up the phone. "Look at mail or e-mails from your insurance company for info on who to call," says NWLC's Mara Gandal-Powers, "and be sure to have documentation of your benefits ready." For now, most insurers are required to fully cover BC, but errors and fine print can still result in random charges. For extra help advocating for yourself, call the NWLC's ­CoverHer hotline at 866-745-5487 or e-mail ­
In the event that a pharmacist refuses to fill your prescription, "It's important to ask, 'Is there someone else who can give me this medication?'" says Gandal-Powers. In some states, pharmacists must refer you to a colleague or transfer your script to another pharmacy. You can also file a complaint with the pharmacy's national headquarters; many big chains have policies that protect customers. If the pharmacy is acting illegally (look up your state laws at NWLC.org), you can also file a complaint with your state's pharmacy board.
Don't have insurance or don't want to use your parents' to get birth control? Go to Bedsider.org to look up government-funded providers near you that prescribe free or low-cost contraception. "We try to be a clearinghouse for all your options," says Power to Decide's Rachel Fey.
If you're over 18 and on your parents' plan, call or write your insurance ­company and request to have any documents related to your health care sent directly to you. In many states, the company is not obligated to do this, but it's worth the ask.
Should your employer deny you contraception coverage through your work insurance, talk to your doctor to see if the Pill could address any other ­conditions you have. Then ask your insurer_ "I need this medication for acne. Is that covered?"
If your company cuts BC coverage, "gather colleagues and meet with HR," says Suzanne de Janasz, PhD, a visiting ­professor of ­management and conflict resolution at George Mason University. She ­suggests the A-C-E ­approach, popularized by persuasion expert Kathleen Kelley Reardon, PhD. "A is for appropriateness," de Janasz explains. "Similar companies offer free coverage, so yours should too. C is for consistency with the company's focus on employee well-being. And E is for effectiveness. Canceling coverage will be pricey when more employees get pregnant."
Planned Parenthood's Trump Tracker (TrackingTrump.org) has the latest news on the administration's attacks on birth control. Go to Guttmacher.org or KFF.org for info on what states are doing to strengthen or restrict access.
"When the government proposes a rule, they must allow public comments ­online [at Regulations.gov]," says Susan Inman, of the Center for Reproductive Rights. "Anyone can post. We need to ­create lots of noise around why these ­policies are harmful."
"Call your senator or congressperson and let them know how you feel," says Rachel Fey. Even if your elected officials agree with you, "remind them to prioritize birth-control access." Find contact info at USA.gov/Elected-Officials.
"The best way to make politicians listen is to vote," says Dawn Laguens, ­executive vice president and chief brand officer of Planned Parenthood. To find candidates' records on birth control, go to VoteSmart.org.

Graphic

 
New rules are clamping down on your rights.
Even diaphragms could become valuable commodities.

Load-Date: December 11, 2018


End of Document
