




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
October 2, 2009 Friday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. A13
Length: 969 words
Body


Regarding Sunday's letters on the Society of Jesus Christ the Priest, Catholics believe our church has the authority to maintain doctrine that allows us to follow Jesus in truth, not as we see fit.
Bishop Robert Morlino follows true Catholic doctrine, which is following Jesus, not what we want "following Jesus" to be.
The writings of the early church include opposition to abortion and contraception. As a family physician, I know there is no such thing as a medically-necessary tubal ligation or vasectomy. A person can never be in medical danger simply from having reproductive organs that work. Abstinence remains the best alternative, though difficult for many.
Jesus confronted the expectations of the people of his day by telling them they were wrong, and many became angry with him. His designated authority to bishops allows them to tell us when we are wrong, especially when that wrong is clear from the teachings of our church.
Religion is supposed to help us live our lives - not any way we want, but the right way. As Catholics, our bishops and priests serve as our guides to that way when they help us follow the teachings of our Catholic faith.
- Dr. Michael Robiolio, Darlington
Keillor's view on home crisis naive, wrong
I have been entertained and amused by Garrison Keillor for much of my adult life. But Keillor is out of his element when attempting to pass blame for recent and current problems being dealt with by the president and Congress.
His assertion that the mortgage crisis was caused by "anti-regulation" conservatives is naive and wrong. Government policies encouraging and guaranteeing no money down and 100 percent financing were a recipe for disaster. Federal Reserve money manipulation certainly poured fuel on the fire. Its a stretch to pin the problems on conservatives.
I don't think many people would disagree we need some kind of health care reform, but more and more Americans are wary of the approach that President Barack Obama and Keillor are advocating.
To hand the keys to health care to the boys in Washington before they've formulated a workable plan they can show us is lunacy. To fault Republicans for resisting the biggest government power grab in history is certainly the socialist thing to do.
Keillor gets a weekly soapbox to write about the America he sees, but most weeks it eventually devolves into promoting more government solutions.
The State Journal should be fair and run a weekly column by a humorist who believes in the free market.
- Ben Olson III, Wisconsin Dells
Even Pitts knows that lying is bipartisan
Leonard Pitts' Monday column, "They forgot Sunday lessons," made a lot of sense. My hope is that his standard for lying is truly bipartisan. When it comes to debating health care, both the Democrats and Republicans seem to be telling whoppers.
I'll give President Barack Obama some slack, but his public speeches don't assure many of us. For example, he says we can keep our current coverage (including Medicare) yet we must overhaul the entire health care structure. How is that possible?
Then Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., tells us our Medicare coverage will improve while his bill cuts an estimated $500 billion in Medicare funding over the next 10 years. He says we'll save that by cutting waste, fraud and abuse.
When I enroll in Medicare, will my name be Mr. Waste, Mr. Fraud or Mr. Abuse?
Pitts points out that "lying is as bipartisan as it gets," so the issue isn't lying since we all know both parties spin the truth. The issue is trust, and my trust in government has never been lower.
Until we citizens get clarity on key issues, I can't see passing a massive health care bill based on trust alone.
- Ray Unger, Madison Reform health care for national security's sake So the Senate Finance Committee shot down the "public option," instead inviting more discussion about increasing "choice and competition."
Perhaps we should remind ourselves that we are in this unsustainable economic health care bind because of the third-party payer model that encouraged decades of health care industries trying to beat each other to the profit through choice and competition.
Amidst the political debates over President Barack Obama's public option, it's easy to lose sight of the primary reason we should reform our system: national security.
A nation of overweight diabetics, children who consume junk food instead of veggies or people who've been bankrupted by their medical bills are not good candidates for defending our country or making it the best it can be, now or later.
We need a national health care philosophy that makes it easier to be healthy than to get sick. And a health care system that is readily available to the sick when needed doesn't place profit and political interests above the availability and cost of health services. It provides affordable care for everyone - including free care, not fines - for those who can't afford it through no fault of their own.
We need to collaborate, not compete, for better health care solutions. How to begin to pay for it? Don't fine the poor. Tax soda.
- Richard Althouse, Verona Schneider knows we still need the press The State Journal's Wednesday editorial, "How about more openness instead?," was a bit hard on Rep. Marlin Schneider. Yes, it's true he's taken stands contrary to the state's traditions of open government. But his impulse to extend a tax deduction to newspapers in a time of need is sort of touching, if doomed.
I believe Schneider is misguided in seeking to limit public access to information. I continue to hold out hope that he can be educated on this score.
But it's noteworthy and commendable that Schneider, who is regularly castigated in the press, still recognizes its value to a functioning democracy. So should we all.
- Bill Lueders, president, Wisconsin Freedom of Information Council

Load-Date: October 3, 2009


End of Document
