




The Salt Lake Tribune
June 20, 2009 Saturday


Copyright 2009 The Salt Lake Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: SUNDAY ARTS; Features
Length: 607 words
Byline: By Steven Winn San Francisco Chronicle
Body


Readers are going to quote this book verbatim, and the writer knows it. Throughout Home Game, his very funny and fearlessly self-mocking Accidental Guide to Fatherhood, Michael Lewis lands one casually lethal line after another. The pleasure he takes in his aphoristic touch is palpable.
"Memory loss," writes this Berkeley father of three, "is the key to human reproduction. If you remembered what new parenthood was actually like you wouldn't go around lying to people about how wonderful it is, and you certainly wouldn't ever do it twice."
Elsewhere, Lewis notes that when "your wife goes into labor, you go into waiting," that "the American father of a baby is just a second-string mother" and that "maternal love may be instinctive, but paternal love is learned behavior."
But don't think this small, deft book is simply a pastiche of one-liners by a besieged and sometimes selfishly evasive dad. Based on a series of occasional pieces for the online magazine Slate, Home Game proves to be a pointedly specific and resonant appraisal of 21st-century fatherhood. Lewis, the well-known author of Moneyball and Liar's Poker, observes everything from childbirth to breast-feeding to his own persistent slouchiness and bafflement in prose that is glintingly sharp-eyed and unfailingly good-humored.
Chalk it up to his journalistic skills when Lewis calculates the exact number of his third child's diapers that he's changed ("seven out of six hundred") or how many hours he actually spends with his children. He's big on articulating various rules and stages of early parenthood. The author is also an excellent and unsparing reporter when it comes to his children, source material that can reduce even the most flinty comic writers to puddling sentimentality. Even the more compressed episodes, such as a family trip to New Orleans, crackle with aptly chosen details and quotes. Here's Dixie calmly explaining to Lewis how she cadged so many Mardi Gras beads: " 'Daddy, you want me to tell you why they gave me so many things? 'Cause I was making a sad face.' "
Humor is a primary objective. Lewis can be as funny and knowing about France, where he and his wife, Tabitha, spent some time with their first child, as David Sedaris or Adam Gopnik. But Lewis is up to more than entertaining his readers. The main reason for keeping his dad's-view journal, he writes, was to puzzle out "this persistent and disturbing gap between what I was meant to feel and what I actually felt." In his own self-effacing but tough-minded way, he's a truth-telling parent for the times, now that the first wave of tremblingly sensitive fathers has passed. Lewis isn't only addressing the perplexities of parenthood; he's writing about modern life, crammed with operating instructions (and their attendant expectations for emotional gratification) and precious little real-world knack for using them.
In the end, Lewis does arrive at some modest conclusions. One of them has to do with a lot of the "grunt work" that he often tried to avoid, only to find its rewards when it was thrust upon him. "It's only in caring for a thing," writes Lewis, "that you become attached to it." The offhand understatement, with a child seen as a "thing," is just the sort of inflection that gives Home Game its authentic, grounded and persuasive voice.
Lewis is a storyteller, and such a good one that his occasional missteps (the tale of his vasectomy is something of a standard cartoon) stand out. Right down to its choice final line, this anecdotal "accidental guide" faithfully records one man's game attempts to keep his head up and keep going in the flood tide of new fatherhood.

Load-Date: June 26, 2009


End of Document
