




The New Yorker
November 28, 2016


Copyright 2016 The Conde Nast Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: BOOKS; Pg. 91; Vol. XCII; No. 39; ISSN: 0028-792X
Length: 511 words
Byline: LAURA KOLBE
Body


The Framers' Coup, by Michael J. Klarman (Oxford). This history of the Constitutional Convention, in 1787, highlights the extent to which our Constitution was geared "toward constraining democracy." The reason was that the delegates charged with reforming the Articles of Confederation (the Constitution's forerunner) feared that rising populism might lead to civil war. Klarman details the resulting debates about "peacetime standing armies," executive term limits, and who should have the power to elect the people's representatives. Antifederalists "charged the Framers with seeking to establish an aristocracy of sorts," objecting to such anti-democratic elements as the Electoral College and Supreme Court appointments-complaints that resonate today.
Avalanche, by Julia Leigh (Norton). This intimate memoir of in-vitro fertilization starts when the author, a novelist and filmmaker in her late thirties, marries an old flame. They try for a baby, but are hampered not only by her ticking clock but by his vasectomy (albeit reversed). The marriage fails, but she keeps trying on her own. The book's straightforward tone sometimes seems almost like therapy, but Leigh poses trenchant questions about the competing demands of motherhood and artistic careers and the way that our faith in technology and consumerism produces a kind of blithe certainty in would-be parents. As she goes through round after round of egg harvesting, she tells herself, "I only need one and it could be the next one."
The Explosion Chronicles, by Yan Lianke, translated from the Chinese by Carlos Rojas (Grove). Explosion City-the fictional town at the heart of this satire of Chinese corruption since the Communist Revolution-was named for nearby volcanoes. In the present day, the name has come to reflect its boomtown ways. The plot hinges on a prophecy about four brothers, which throws them into a frenzy of competitive self-enrichment-through train robbery, prostitution, and, eventually, American industry. Charting the arc from unprincipled Communism to lawless capitalism, Yan employs hyperbolic touches that facetiously evoke legend: applause at a rally lasts "for eight and a half hours, and many villagers clapped so hard their hands bled"; a critic of the new prosperity drowns in his neighbors' spittle.
Sleeping on Jupiter, by Anuradha Roy (Graywolf). In this concise, elegant novel, a twentysomething filmmaker's assistant travels to an Indian temple town, ostensibly in order to scout locations but actually with the intention of confronting her traumatic past. (As a child, she saw her father murdered, and then landed in an ashram run by a sexually abusive guru.) Roy intertwines the protagonist's journey with her attempts to discover more about the ashram; she also incorporates the experiences of other visitors to the town, including a trio of elderly vacationers and a tour guide lusting after a tea-stall waiter. The numerous perspectives and the split chronology create some confusion, but the novel's examination of violence, sexism, and spirituality is powerful.

Load-Date: December 6, 2016


End of Document
