




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
January 25, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION


Copyright 2003 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: SPORTS; Pg. D1
Length: 1151 words
Byline: Tom Archdeacon Dayton Daily News
Highlight: COMMENTARY
Body


SAN DIEGO - Once upon a time, even Santa Claus wanted nothing to do with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
As the story goes, Bucs' offensive lineman Sean Farrell was playing the jolly fat man at a mall when the little tyke in his lap turned and said, "And what do you want for Christmas?"
To that, Santa scowled: "Kid, I just want the hell out of Tampa Bay."
In the early days, that's how it was. There wasn't much to "ho, ho, ho" about. The Bucs weren't just losers, they were the league's laughingstock. They introduced themselves to the NFL with an 0-26 start - still a league record for futility - and went on to 18 losing seasons in their first 21 years.
"Things got so bad our family didn't go out for dinner, we just did the the drive-through a lot," said Rich McKay, whose dad - the late John McKay - was the team's first head coach and the target of a town-wide 'Throw McKay in the Bay' campaign. "My mother even had to stop going to the grocery store. I went in undercover."
McKay knows what a long journey it's been for the Bucs, who are in their first NFL championship game, Sunday's Super Bowl XXXVII match-up here with the Oakland Raiders. He's now the team's general manager, but when Tampa Bay debuted in 1976, he was the teenage ball boy.
And during the lean years, the ball took some bad bounces for the Bucs.
Take the time wide receiver Alvin Harper went to get treatment, only to have the team trainer accidently cut off the tip of his finger. And there was the time his dad punched the chalkboard to make a point and ended up with a broken hand.
Then there was the game McKay's assistants avoided him like the plague. A death threat had been called in and the other guys on the staff weren't taking chances.
"Those first 17 years were the longest of my life," McKay said. "There's no way back then you ever could have seen this happening."
Part of the problem may have been that the Bucs' eyes were closed.
Like the time during a team meeting John McKay tried to stir his troops: "Men, losing starts with mistakes. Losing starts with turnovers, with penalties, with . . ."
At that moment he saw offensive lineman Howard Fest, who was sound asleep. "Fest!" bellowed the irate McKay. "Where does losing start?"
The groggy Fest responded: "Right here in Tampa Bay, Coach."
Truer words never were spoken. During their initial 26-game stagger, the Bucs were held scoreless 11 times. And with those orange and white uniforms, they looked like Creamsickles and were treated like suckers.
When quarterback Vinny Testaverde came to town, the team was stumped over the way he continually connected with the guys in the other jerseys. It wasn't until his 12th interception that the Bucs realized he was color blind.
Or how about the time in 1984 when they let the New York Jets score an uncontested touchdown near the end of the game, just so they could get the ball back and let James Wilder have another shot at breaking the NFL's single-season yardage record? The crowd turned on the Bucs and Wilder came up short.
It was during these early years that McKay was asked about his team's execution.
He said he was in favor of it.
The problems with the Buccaneers actually started in April of 1974, when the NFL awarded Tampa builder Tom McCloskey the expansion franchise. He soon pulled out for financial reasons and Jacksonville lawyer Hugh Culverhouse took over on Halloween. How apropos. Right off, it was all trick, no treat.
"One of the NFL's greatest failures was the way they treated expansion teams in those days," said Rick McKay. "You can't give a new city a franchise they paid all this money for, invested all this emotion in, then give them nothing else. The expansion of Jacksonville and Carolina was vastly superior by what they got. They had free agency. It was a much fairer process after us."
Yet the league's failings were nothing compared to Culverhouse's culpability.
As people have learned since, he skimmed money from the team to pay for other businesses and personal pleasures. Court documents have shown he gave a former receptionist with drug problems hundreds of thousands of dollars in diamonds, furs, cars, and fancy apartments. He also sought a doctor's help in undoing a vasectomy so he could father a child with her.
Meantime, when quarterback Doug Williams asked for a a $200,000 raise after leading the 1979 team to the NFC title game, Culverhouse pleaded poor. Williams then jumped to the USFL and later was the Super Bowl MVP with the Washington Redskins. In all, the Bucs got rid of four quarterbacks - Steve Young, Chris Chandler and Trent Dilfer were the others - who made the Super Bowl.
After Culverhouse died in 1995 from cancer, Joy, his wife of 52 years, had to go to court to get a proper share of his estate. As she told reporters: "I'd love to dig him up so I could shoot him with every bullet I could get."
If she did, it would be the first time the Bucs hit what they were aiming at.
Take the time the Bucs mistakenly picked Farrell in the first round of the 1982 draft. Turns out their representative in New York was the team equipment manager and he turned in the wrong card. Then there was the time the Bucs were getting pummeled in a game. During the intermission, tackle Ron Heller pleaded with his teammates "not to quit." Coach Ray Perkins walked past a second late and only heard the last word. "You quit?" raged Perkins, who swung for Heller's jaw, but caught the helmet. Once again, a Bucs' coach had a broken hand.
Tampa Bay was tough on coaches.
Leeman Bennett was summoned to a press conference where he was led to believe he was getting a contract extension. But on the way to the microphone, Culverhouse changed his mind. "Leeman, I don't feel confident going into another season with you," Culverhouse then told the crowd as he looked at the stunned coach. "You are fired."
Growing up in Florida, defensive tackle Warren Sapp knew many of these stories and said he "always hated the Bucs. They played nasty football. They looked nasty in those old uniforms. Then I get drafted by them and I remember telling my brother, 'We're going to the graveyard.'"
At least Sapp went. When the Bucs drafted Bo Jackson in the first round years earlier, he opted to play baseball with Kansas City.
A year after Sapp got to Tampa Bay, Tony Dungy took over and things began to change. The Bucs have steadily improved - "even our uniforms are champagne colored," grinned Sapp - and now under Jon Gruden, the team is one game away from being the toast of the league.
That makes Rich McKay smile: "My dad would be pleased with all this. He'd love it that the Bucs were being embraced by so many people."
Maybe now, even Santa Claus.
 
  
Super Bowl XXXVII
 
 
MATCHUP
 
 
Oakland Raiders (13-5) vs. Tampa Bay Buccaneers (14-4)
 
 
WHEN
 
 
Sunday, 6:25 p.m.
 
 
WHERE
 
 
Qualcomm Stadium
 
 
(San Diego, Calif.)
 
 
 
TELEVISION ABC (Chs. 2, 9)      MORE NFL, D6
 
 
COMMISSIONER EXPECTS NEW OT SYSTEM
 
 
RAIDERS' DBS HURTING

Load-Date: February 4, 2003


End of Document
