




Chicago Daily Herald
March 11, 2012 Sunday


Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: NEWS; Pg. 16
Length: 541 words
Body


Burns a solid leader for Kane
I am writing to endorse Kevin Burns for Kane County Board Chairman. As a former alderman who served close to 10 years and had the privilege of serving with Kevin both as a fellow alderman and then when he became mayor, I know from experience that this is the right decision for Kane County.
Mayor Burns was never a cookie cutter politician. He understands that we serve for the greater good yet we must hear from everyone. We look at all sides of an issue and then we can reach conclusion. He is not afraid to make the tough — not so popular — decisions. I watched him break a few tie votes in city hall while others were intimidated by a couple of angry citizens. He voted what he believed to be right.
I have seen Kevin vehemently defend himself and city staff, as a good leader should. I want a board chairman that will assemble a staff that he can defend and weed out those who he cannot. I've read an article that other former alderman speak of being ‘taken to the woodshed' publicly. I want a board chairman willing to take other elected officials to task. Let them know they can't be condescending to staff or to him and they better be prepared.
It's time that people stop expecting their hands to be held. The city of Geneva continually cuts the budget creatively without cutting services. We have a great staff, a great group of elected officials and a great mayor. Let's make him county board chairman and help Kane County continue to move forward in a positive direction through teamwork and with people who truly care about the citizens of this great county.
Bob Piper
Geneva
Zip it, men, on contraception
This vicious attack on women and contraception by Republican men in Congress without any testimony from women is outrageous. It is disrespectful and degrading and time for these men to investigate their own gender. Women are not getting pregnant on their own, you know.
They are complaining about tax money going to women for contraception, but don't care about paying for vasectomies or Viagra for men.
In this country there are more than 200 rapes a day. Three women are killed every day by their spouses or boyfriends. Two in five women who are murdered are killed by their husbands. Every nine seconds a woman is beaten. Homicide is the leading cause of death of pregnant women — usually a husband or lover — and thousands of women are abandoned when they become pregnant.
Where are the investigations? Start investigating the abuse of women and there will be fewer abortions.
Cecile Powell
Huntley
Why can't we control gas prices?
I have to laugh when I read the paper about gas prices. Every time gas prices go up or down it's big news. People scream we should drill more or the oil producing countries need to give us a break. The first oil crisis was in 1974. That was 38 years ago.
We are supposed to be the greatest, smartest people in the world, but we have not been able to come up with engines that use much less fuel or even alternative fuel sources to power our machinery. Sheesh, we put a man on the moon in less than 10 years.
I guess the oil companies have one heck of a lobby group that controls this country. Maybe we are not as great a country as we think we are.
Raymond A. Wojtysiak
Pingree Grove

Load-Date: March 11, 2012


End of Document
