




Anchorage Daily News (Alaska)
October 23, 2000, Monday,
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2000 Anchorage Daily News
Section: BUSINESS,
Length: 913 words
Body


Seattle Mortgage Company Alaska announced one promotion and two new staff members. Jorge O'Hoyt was promoted to branch manager in Anchorage after the preceding manager, Dick Dolman, retired. O'Hoyt has 26 years of experience in the mortgage lending and banking field. Her experience ranges from management and commercial banking operations to every facet of mortgage lending. Jack Green has joined the Alaska branch as senior loan officer. Green has been more the 10 years' experience in the mortgage business. Green previously worked in the title insurance industry and was also a regional manager for a large mortgage company in Anchorage, where he opened and staffed three other offices in Alaska. Mark Truskett joined the company as a loan officer. He has 15 years of experience in residential lending. He was a C-130 navigator in the Air Force and has several years' experience as a real estate broker prior to his career in mortgage lending. He holds a master's degree from the University of Southern California.
Shannon & Wilson, Inc. announced the addition of two staff members. Jennifer Engle has joined the staff as an environmental engineer. Engle holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri-Rolla. Anna Jones joined the company as an environmental geologist. Jones holds a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke College.
Lynda Banner has joined the Anchorage office of Coldwell Banker Fortune. Banner has more than 17 years of real estate sales and listings experience. She will specialize in new construction sales and relocation services. Pete Johnson has joined the company as a residential sales associate. He previously worked more than 20 years in the administration department for Carr Gottstein as a department director. Johnson will specialize in multi-family resale.
Dr. John Nolte recently completed training by the Association for Voluntary Surgical Contraception. The training allows Nolte to offer a ''no-scalpel'' vasectomy at Hillside Family Medicine.
Corporate Express Alaska announced two promotions and two new staff members. John Sexton was promoted to vice president of operations. He has more than 15 years of warehouse experience with the company, most recently as warehouse manager. Kathy Honeysett was named furniture manager. She has been with the company 20 years. She will be in charge of commercial and contract furniture sales and operations. Karl Holfeld was hired as controller for the Alaska division. He has more than 17 years of experience in the field. Holfeld will be responsible for all accounting and finance functions within the company. Ron Caldwell was hired as manager of Alaska retail operations. He has more than 25 years of retail management experience. He will be in charge of the daily management and operations of the company's four locations in Alaska.
Travis Whitlock accepted the position of sous chef in charge of the dinner program at the Glacier BrewHouse. He is a graduate of the Culinary Academy of San Francisco and has experience as an instructor at Yuba College and with a Napa Valley property.
Steelfab hired two employees and promoted a third. Dennis Hebner was hired as a customer relations representative. He will represent the company's metal distributing and fabrication division statewide. He formerly worked for Block Steel Industries, Seaport Steel and Alaskan Copper and Brass. Kevin Mesceda was hired in the shipping and receiving department. He has 11 years' experience in the transportation services industry. Heath Faulkner was promoted to an estimator. Faulkner has worked for the company nine years in various positions. He estimates weights and costs for job proposals.
Terri Weary was promoted to assistant vice president of shipping for City Mortgage Corp. She has been with the company more than three years and has more than 10 years of experience in the title and real estate industry.
Preston Gates & Ellis announced that a partner and two associates joined the Anchorage law firm. Douglas Parker joined as a partner. His practice focuses on management labor relations. He is a former chairman of the Alaska Bar Association's employment law section and has headed the offices of two law firms in Anchorage. Kristen Richmond joined the firm as an associate. She clerked for the Alaska Court of Appeals and worked in the office of Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska. Richmond earned her law degree from the University of Oregon School of Law and will focus on employment. Christine Lee French, associate, will focus on municipal and business litigation. French is a certified public accountant with experience in maritime actions, taxation and insurance issues. She earned her law degree from the University of Washington.
Sarah Barker recently joined The Wilson Agency as an employee benefit assistant. She will work with the group benefit services team for the insurance and financial services company. Barker holds a bachelor's degree.
David Bohan joined Brady & Co. as a senior account manager for large property and casualty accounts. He was previously with Allstate Insurance, servicing and managing commercial and business accounts. Bohan has more than 19 years of experience in the industry.
Rick Cables was named the regional forester of the Rocky Mountain region, based in Denver. Cables has been with the National Forest Service for 24 years, most recently as the Alaska regional forester. In Colorado, he will oversee 11 national forests and seven national grasslands in five states.

Load-Date: October 24, 2000


End of Document
