





LANCASTER NEW ERA (LANCASTER, PA.)
July 2, 2004, Friday


Copyright 2004 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
Section: NEWS,
Length: 1407 words
Byline: Cindy Stauffer
Body


The brand-new Warwick Township hospital will offer six birthing suites with whirlpool tubs for moms, foldout sleeper sofas for dads, oak cabinetry and other amenities when its maternity unit opens in October.
But Heart of Lancaster Regional Medical Center may have a tough time filling those suites, at least at first.
The $60 million hospital, which will replace Community Hospital of Lancaster - the switchover will occur Aug. 1, officials say - is facing the challenge of rebuilding its maternity service, a business it has been out of for two years.
Rebuilding its maternity service is a vital task for the new hospital, because women make most health-care decisions for families, studies show. A positive childbirth experience can influence a woman to seek future care for her family at a hospital.
#MATERNITY CIN#
And, relatives of women who have had good delivery experiences may choose the same hospital for their knee surgeries, tonsillectomies, vasectomies and other procedures.
But during the past two years, obstetrician/gynecologists who were associated with Community for decades merged with other practices after Community shut down its maternity service. Old alliances faded away as the heath professionals began doing deliveries at The Women & Babies Hospital of Lancaster General and Ephrata Community Hospital.
Now Heart of Lancaster must woo those doctors - and others - back to its delivery rooms. And so far most OB/GYNs here, who say they have had little or no contact with hospital recruiters, appear to be indifferent to that call.
In Lancaster County, about 5,600 babies were born in hospitals here in 2002, the most recent year statistics were available.
Two large practices, including almost 19 doctors and 16 midwives, deliver more than two-thirds of those babies. Neither has plans at this point to deliver babies at the new hospital.
Two other OB/GYN practices, including one that works at Ephrata Community Hospital, and two family practices also say they will not be delivering babies at the new hospital.
Heart of Lancaster officials say six local OB/GYNs will have staff privileges at the new hospital, but would not say who they are or which ones will do deliveries.
"We feel more comfortable with them making that announcement," says Lee Christenson, Heart of Lancaster's chief executive officer.
A survey of local practices shows those doctors include three solo practitioners and possibly a family practice. One of the solo practitioners, Dr. Nazafarine Keyvani, is adding a partner in September. Another, Dr. John Stafford, says he will deliver at the new hospital if patients ask for it, but does not plan to make Heart his primary place of operation.
The third, Dr. David Abbott, has a large Plain patient population and does most of his deliveries in homes, not hospitals.
Diamantoni & Associates, the family practice, may deliver babies at the new hospital if patients request that and insurers cover it.
Christenson says he expects the numbers of OB/GYNs on Heart's staff to grow, as county residents ask their doctors to deliver their babies at the new hospital, which will feature maternity services in an adjoining women's hospital called The Women's Place.
"It really is going to be driven by patient choice," Christenson says. "We feel very confident there will be a number of patients who want to select our hospital to do their delivery and receive our gynecological services."
Diane Gallagher, hospital spokeswoman, says, "The day we open the doors - it's just like anything else - we don't expect to have people rushing in, but over a period of time we will build the business."
In fact, hospital officials are projecting 30 deliveries a month, or 360 deliveries the first year at the new hospital, which is owned by Health Management Associates, a Florida for-profit hospital chain. The main part of the hospital opens in August.
A second HMA-owned hospital here, Lancaster Regional Medical Center, ceased delivering babies in May 2003. That hospital and its predecessor, St. Joseph Hospital, were used by many of the county's OB/GYN practices and family practice physicians.
Heart is counting on its new surroundings and new building, combined with what it says will be "high-touch care," to draw patients into its maternity suite.
"We are a small community hospital," says Ann Reid, physician relations coordinator for Heart. "We are not going to be for every single individual but it's going to be a high-touch, a different experience than a patient would have at Hershey, at Reading Hospital, at Women & Babies."
But local OB/GYNs say they take into consideration other factors as well.
OB-GYN of Lancaster's 10 doctors and eight nurse midwives deliver about 1,800 babies a year at Women & Babies, where it has an office in an adjoining building.
The practice has a nurse midwife and a physician attending deliveries, which means it would have to have a team of two providers on call at Heart, says Dennis Hertz, practice administrator.
"Our practice is so busy … we just don't feel it's in the patient's best interest to try and duplicate that at the current time," he says.
OB-GYN of Lancaster's physicians will perform elective gynecological surgeries, such as hysterectomies, at the new hospital, Hertz says.
May Grant Associates, the county's other large practice, also has no plans to deliver babies at the new hospital, says practice administrator Shelvy Frank, although it too will perform elective surgeries should a woman request to go to Heart.
The group has nine doctors, eight midwives and three nurse practitioners and delivers around 2,000 babies a year.
Frank says the practice would be hesitant to deliver at a hospital without a neonatal intensive care unit, which the new hospital will not have. The hospital will have a helipad for transfers to other hospitals that have NICUs.
Dr. Paul Visneski is one of May Grant's OB/GYNs. He delivered babies at the former Community Hospital for 15 years, but when the hospital closed its maternity unit, his practice merged with May Grant.
Visneski says he doesn't think patients will bring business to Heart, as its officials are hoping. He says HMA doesn't understand the health care market here.
"What HMA is thinking is, you build a hospital and patients and doctors are going to go to it because it's new," he says. "I don't think it's going to happen. The area is saturated with good medical care as it is."
Even Community acknowledged that when it got out of the baby business. It briefly suspended its plans to build The Women's Place last year, citing the success of Women & Babies and the county's aging population. It reversed its position four months later, saying patients and doctors wanted the center to go forward.
Frank says May Grant also simply doesn't know much about how the unit will be set up or staffed.
Several practices echo that and add they have had little contact from the new hospital or its recruiters, a fact that mystifies some.
"They haven't approached us," says Loretta Krum, practice manager for Lancaster Physicians for Women, which delivers about 250 babies a year.
"They've never promoted their center to us. We've received no information from Heart of Lancaster other than a one-page letter that they're opening," says Dr. Stephen Diamantoni of Diamantoni & Associates, which delivers about 250 babies a year.
"We know very little about the services that are going to be offered in their labor and delivery section," he adds. "Hospitals generally have marketed new service lines more aggressively than it appears the Heart of Lancaster hospital is doing with their OB service."
Christenson says the hospital is still approaching practices. Reid adds that doctors want to see the new facility, and that tours are taking place now.
Some physicians are leaving the door open about what they would do. Diamantoni says his practice would consider delivering babies at the new hospital.
"I think it will depend on the volume of patients who have an interest and the number of insurers who offer that option," he says.
Heart officials say they want local OB/GYNs to deliver at the new hospital but they may recruit new doctors if that doesn't happen.
"Our preference is to do it with local doctors," Christenson says. "We don't want to bring in additional competition if we don't have to do that.
"We feel very confident there will be a number of patients who want to select our hospital … and that will influence what physicians decide."

Graphic

 
COLOR PHOTO, Richard Hertzler , This is the women's health wing at Heart of Lancaster Regional Medical Center in Warwick Township.

Load-Date: August 25, 2004


End of Document
