




 Medical Economics
May 6, 2005


Copyright 2005 Gale Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved
Business and Management Practices
Section: Pg. 46; Vol. 82; No. 9; ISSN: 0025-7206
Length: 2852 words
Highlight: Cultural Competence
Body


When the doctor entered the exam room to meet with his Iranian patient, he found Seyyed huddled on the floor, mumbling. At first he thought Seyyed had fainted, fallen off the table, and perhaps struck his head. But when he tried to help him up, the patient became agitated and resisted his help. Seyyed spoke no English, and the doctor had no idea what the problem was.
He later learned that Seyyed had been praying. The Muslim would have preferred to pray on a prayer rug in a place where he wouldn't be interrupted, but it was growing late for the fourth of his five mandatory daily prayers. If the doctor had had an understanding of Islamic customs, he would have realized that his patient was praying and would have given Seyyed some privacy.
Misinformation, half-truths, and stereotypes surround the Muslim culture in this country, particularly since 9/11. Conversely, Muslim patients, just like any patient from a different religious or cultural background, may react to your style of practice or choice of words in ways you don't expect. Both situations can be counterproductive to an effective doctor-patient relationship.
So, how do you tailor your interactions to appropriately consider patients' cultural heritage? Because the American Muslim community, approximately 7 million strong, is so diverse, there's no single strategy. A first step, therefore, is to assess the individual--his country of origin and his degree of assimilation into American culture. Also get a feel for how important Islam is to his daily life. (Muslims, like adherents of other religions, differ in their adherence to prescribed teachings.)
"To make your Muslim patients comfortable and keep them coming back, show respect for them as individuals as well as for their religion," says Anvar Velji, an internist and director of cross-cultural medicine and chief of infectious disease at Kaiser Permanente South Sacramento (CA) Medical Center. "Realize that they may look at things differently than you do." Also, ensure that you have adequate interpreter facilities in place. (For information on dealing with interpretation and translation, see "Cultural Competence: Caring for Latino patients' April 23, 2004, available at .) Muslims from different populations may speak Farsi, Urdu, Arabic, Pashtu, or Malay. If your patient will be hospitalized, there are dietary requirements to be considered. Some of them may even affect your prescription practices.
Dietary issues may affect medical care
The Muslim patient who enters your office may be nearly indistinguishable from any other American--he may be assimilated to American ways, wear Western dress, and adapt his religious observances to a Western lifestyle. On the other hand, it may be very important to him to maintain traditional customs of dress, food, social relationships, and religious observance.
In general, practicing Muslims avoid eating pork or drinking alcohol, and are proscribed from taking medicines that contain alcohol or pig byproducts unless they are life-saving drugs and no substitute is available. Porcine heparin, for example, contains gelatin from pork products, and is the only heparin universally used.
"That was thought to cause a potential problem for Jewish, Muslim, and Seventh-day Adventist patients at this institution," says Doha Hamza, the coordinator of Muslim volunteers at the spiritual care service department at Stanford (CA) University Medical Center. "We investigated the issue with an imam and a Muslim doctor who concurred that the use of porcine heparin is lawful because of the chemical modification the product undergoes and the urgent need involved. Also the amount is so small, it doesn't fit the definition of consumption," Similar solutions might be found for insulin products derived from pork and porcine heart valves.
Fasting during Ramadan, the ninth month of the lunar Muslim calendar (it begins in October this year), from approximately an hour before sunrise until sunset, is compulsory for all healthy, adult Muslims. Potentially exempt from fasting are pregnant, lactating, or menstruating women, the sick, and travelers. If a person misses the fast, he makes up for it when he's able. Fasting encompasses total abstinence from food, drink (including water), smoking, and sexual relations.
Although pharmaceuticals and IV drips technically aren't allowed, there's an exception made for people who are ill. Still, some patients may insist on fasting regardless, and in a life-threatening situation you should consult an imam, an Islamic religious leader, or an elder from the Muslim community to negotiate with the patient to accept the necessary treatment.
Be sensitive to gender issues
Modesty is an important issue, and many Muslim women might tune out what the doctor is saying out of nervousness over having their bodies exposed. Velji suggests get ting some full-body gowns to replace those revealing johnnies. The gowns should be long enough to cover a patient's legs and wide enough to ensure that the backside remains covered.
Patients typically prefer same-gender providers and may feel uncomfortable when alone with a physician of the opposite gender. If that's unavoidable, leave the door or privacy curtain ajar (as long as your patient is dressed). Don't be surprised if a husband asks to stay with his wife during a physical exam.
Don't shake hands or hug patients, unless the patient initiates it (this is especially true for patients of the opposite sex). Some patients may avoid prolonged eye contact out of respect and modesty.
Female patients may wear an opaque black cape, or abaya, over their clothing and a head scarf, or hijab. They should be given ample time to cover their hair, arms, and legs after a knock on the exam room door, even if they're wearing a full-body gown. Consider posting a sign stating, "Please knock before entering. This patient observes modest dress and requires the announcement of your presence."
Sex, birth, contraception, and abortion
Islam prohibits sex, and therefore contraception, outside of wedlock, but within a marriage, the religion allows certain types of birth control. "Permitted methods should cause no harm and be reversible, so prophylactics, withdrawal methods, and oral contraceptives are allowed," says Shahid Athar, an internist and chair of the medical ethics committee of the Islamic Medical Association of North America. "Permanent measures such as tubal ligation and vasectomy are not, nor are methods that can lead to abortion, such as the morning-after pill."
Abortion of a viable fetus, except under certain circumstances, is considered a serious crime, equivalent to murder. Muslims consider a fetus to be viable when "ensoulment," or full personhood, takes place, 120 days after fertilization. Abortion may be permitted if continuation of pregnancy could harm the pregnant woman or if the fetus suffers from a lethal condition. Abortion could also be permitted if the fetus has been diagnosed with certain nonlethal conditions such as hydrocephaly, spina bifida, and Down syndrome. In all these cases, the mother will usually consult with a team of Islamic scholars and medical experts before making a decision.
Another instance when abortion is permitted is when the pregnancy occurred against the wishes of the woman, such as following rape or incest. Even in these situations, it's preferable to perform the abortion before ensoulment. An intrauterine death occurring 120 days after conception requires a burial.
All forms of reproductive technology, including the use of fertility drugs, are permissible between husband and wife during the span of marriage as long as the husband's sperm and the wife's ovaries, eggs, and uterus are used. Surrogacy, third party donation, or frozen sperm aren't allowed. An infertile couple may care for someone else's child as their own.
Genetic research and engineering to alter or delete diseased genes are allowed, as is genetic research using stem cells from products of spontaneous abortion or miscarriages. However, to conceive in order to harvest and use stem cells and then abort the fetus isn't permissible, and neither is reproductive human cloning.
Soon after a baby is born, an imam, sheikh, or the baby's father may be called upon to recite a prayer call (adhan) in each ear of the newborn, and the heads of babies may be shaved about a week after birth. Most traditional Muslim women breastfeed their babies.
All male children are circumcised. The timing of this procedure varies, but it is preferable within a few weeks of birth. The practice of female genital mutilation, or infibulation, by some Muslims from African countries, Asia, and the Middle East isn't supported by Islam.
Disclosure and informed consent
Medical decision-making typically involves the patient's immediate family even when the patient is conscious and competent. The family may deliver bad news gradually to the patient or may even choose to conceal information. "For example, at first, they may tell a heart attack patient that he's fainted," says Doha Hamza, an Egyptian.
"The disclosure issue can present a potentially serious legal dilemma," says Wayne J. Miller, a healthcare attorney with the Compliance Law Group in Woodland Hills, CA. "The doctor may be legally obligated to disclose information even if the family is reluctant to do so. Failure to disclose relevant information could be the basis for a malpractice or wrongful death action." Another legal complication: HIPAA and your state's laws may require written authorization by the patient when revealing medical information to a parent or sibling.
When the patient is a woman, the issue is further complicated because of a belief that, among more conservative populations, women of any age cannot sign consent forms. Instead, they typically have a father, older brother, husband, or son sign their forms.
"The issue here is that the law may not recognize the legal status of a family member to act for an adult, competent patient," says Miller. "In such cases, the doctor faces a legal risk--the legal decision maker, the patient, hasn't given consent to care if she didn't sign the form."
You may be able to solve the problem simply by talking to the patient's family. Ann T. McKennis, a former surgical nurse at The Methodist Hospital in Houston, which cares for many Muslims, recommends explaining to the patient's male protector that in this country, as long as the woman is an adult, she must sign the consent for a procedure. In McKennis's experience, the woman will then sign.
But if that doesn't work, one possible resolution might be to have the male protector countersign the form after the patient, says Miller.
Dying patients and their families
Suicide is prohibited by Islam, as is euthanasia and assisted suicide in terminally ill patients.
When death is inevitable, Islam directs that the patient be allowed to die without heroic measures. "Medicines or technology can be used to improve the living patient's quality of life," explains Athar, "but no mechanical life support should keep a patient in a vegetative state." Muslims disapprove, however, of any medical care that may hasten the death of a patient, even for humane reasons. No attempt should be made to withhold nutrition and hydration.
Arrange for a private room for your dying patient, if possible. For the patient in a coma, turn his face and right shoulder toward Mecca. Muslim family and friends may recite, or play tapes of, the sacred book of Islam, or Quran, or they may say prayers in front of him or in a nearby room. The hospital or hospice chaplain may be able to help you accommodate specific religious requests, such as for a sheikh or imam, for Quran tapes, or for prayer supplies.
For the traditional Muslim, death is predestined by God as the beginning of eternal life, so, by Western standards, the family may appear inappropriately calm and accepting in the face of death. After death, a member of the immediate family or a religious leader of the community will usually prepare the body hospital personnel should simply cover the body with a sheet and handle it as little as possible, preferably only by a person of the same sex.
"It is important to Muslim families to bury the body as soon as possible after rituals have been observed, sometimes on the same day as death, so make sure all paperwork is obtained expeditiously' says Athar.
Finally, keep in mind that your patient may not know much about the American healthcare system, including insurance and managed care procedures. The fact that doctors, nurses, aides, social workers, and others all work together, particularly in the hospital setting, may be confusing. They may not take seriously anyone but the physician. Explain to the patient and his family what the other providers do and when they should be consulted. For example, tell hospitalized patients, "Don't page the doctor when the social worker can best help you."
Power Points
* 92 percent of Arabs are Muslims, but Arabs comprise only about one-seventh of the world's total Muslim population.
* Blood transfusions and transplantation are, in general, acceptable medications made with pork products or alcohol may not be.
* It is a sign of disrespect to walk in front of a person who is praying.
* Muslim culture is paternalistic women may prefer to have a male protector sign consent forms. That may present a liability risk for the physician.
* The left hand is usually considered less clean than the right hand. It is a sign of respect to use your right hand for palpating, or administering medications.
* The practice of female genital mutilation isn't supported by Islam.
Cultural clues: Who are Muslims, what is Islam?
Some prevalent misunderstandings: The terms Muslim and Islam are interchangeable. (Not true: Islam is the organized religion a Muslim is one who practices that religion.) All Muslims come from one or two regions and have similar cultural attributes. (Not true.) Arabs are Muslims, and Muslims are Arabs. (Not true.)
The Arab world extends from the Atlantic coast of Northern Africa in the west to the Arabian Sea in the east, and from the Mediterranean Sea in the north to central Africa in the south. It encompasses 10 countries in Africa and 12 in Asia--a population of approximately 300 million. Most people living in that region call themselves Arabs because of a common language and a shared geographic, historical, and cultural identity. But thepopulation includes Muslims, Christians, and Jews. Granted, the large majority of Arabs are Muslim--92 percent--but Arabs comprise only about 15 percent of the Muslim population worldwide.
The majority of Muslims live in 184 countries, including Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Iran, Turkey, and the countries of Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. They represent many different ethnic groups and linguistic backgrounds. Muslim-Americans speak many languages and represent a spectrum of educational backgrounds, social classes, and ways of expressing their faith.
Islam is the second largest religion in the world with an estimated 1.2 billion adherents. One of its tenets, shahadha, is the declaration of belief in one God, Allah, and that Muhammad is the messenger of God. Like any other worldwide religion, Islam is practiced and interpreted in many different ways. Traditional Muslims pray five times a day-at dawn, noon, midafternoon, sunset, and nightfall. Prayer, or salah, consist of recitations of prescribed texts while standing, bowing, prostrating, and kneeling. The entire salah takes about five minutes, and the supplicant faces toward the Kaaba, the religion's most sacred shrine in Mecca.
Before a Muslim performs the obligatory prayers, he must thoroughly wash the hands, mouth, nose, face, forearms, and feet. Sand or stone can be used for the wudhu, or ablution, if water is unavailable or considered harmful to the patient's medical condition. The holy day for Muslims is Friday, and a shower, or ghusl, is recommended before attending special congregational Friday prayers.
No eating or talking is allowed during prayers, and it's a sign of disrespect to walk in front of a person who is praying. If interrupted by a nurse or doctor, a supplicant will probably finish his prayers before responding.
"I'd like to see more healthcare administrators set up a private area or sajadah with a prayer rug, or mussallah, for their Muslim patients," says Anvar Velji, an internist and director of cross-cultural medicine and chief of infectious disease at Kaiser Permanente South Sacramento (CA) Medical Center. "To do so demonstrates respect and cultural sensitivity and shows that you care."
Salah requires some physical agility, and patients who can't manage are allowed to pray sitting or lying in bed. "Necessity overrules prohibitions," says Doha Hamza, the coordinator of Muslim volunteers at the spiritual care service department at Stanford (CA) University Medical Center. "Sickness can exempt patients from performing salah, but then the prayers have to be made up."
The author is a former Senior Editor of this magazine.Copyright 2005 Advanstar Communications, Inc.2685

Load-Date: July 29, 2005


End of Document
