




University Wire
August 17, 2001


Copyright 2001 Sidelines via U-Wire
Section: COLUMN
Length: 904 words
Byline: By Angela White, Sidelines
Dateline: Murfreesboro, Tenn.
Body


For some women, it makes little difference whether birth control and abortion are legal. Their hospitals provide neither, regardless of the law.
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest private-sector owner of non-profit hospitals in the United States. An estimated 85 million patients were treated by Catholic hospitals in 1999. In 1998, the Catholic Church was the sole provider of emergency medical care in 91 communities, a 20 percent increase from 1997. Only 5 percent of those communities have a Catholic majority in their populations. The remaining 95 percent hold many citizens who are refused control of their bodies by a religion they do not believe in.
Middle Tennessee State U.
The Catholic Church exerts its influence through mergers -- it finds financially struggling secular hospitals and offers the hope of brighter days through its plentiful monetary resources. HMOs are adding to the burden, cutting into hospital revenues and forcing them to merge to save themselves, even if it means making a pact with the "devil," so to speak. Many times an emergency health care monopoly is created in the process, leaving women with little option in a crisis.
As of 1998, there had been 127 Catholic hospital mergers since 1990, according to Catholics for a Free Choice. Forty-three of these mergers, or 34 percent, happened in 1998 alone. In nearly half of these mergers, the secular hospitals adopted the Catholic health care policies.
Catholic hospitals are required to follow the Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services, adopted in 1994 by the National Council of Bishops. The Directives are binding to any Catholic health care service, and any attempt to compromise with a potential secular partner during a merger attempt could lead to an "alienation of property," when a Catholic facility is no longer considered by the Vatican to be Catholic.
The Directives prohibit Catholic hospitals from offering birth control, abortion, sterilization, infertility treatments and end of life care such as euthanasia and living wills to its patients. These services are considered by the Catholic Church to "undermine the biological, psychological and moral bonds on which the strength of marriage and the family depends." These restrictions apply to all patients, regardless of their religious beliefs. In most cases, these services are quietly eliminated from the formerly secular hospital's service roster without a word to its patients, often until it's too late for them to turn anywhere else.
Not only are the pill, Depo-Provera, diaphragms, sponges, condoms and other forms of birth control prohibited, but any information pertaining to birth control, as well as referrals to places like Planned Parenthood that would provide such services, are banned as well. Permanent forms of birth control such as vasectomies and tubal ligation, which is the most commonly used method of birth control in the United States, according to the National Organization for Women, are not allowed. Infertility treatments such as in vitro fertilization and artificial insemination are prohibited as well, as the Catholic Church considers them acts that separate conception from the "act of marriage."
Fortunately for most people, these services can be obtained elsewhere, although for some at a much greater (and perhaps unbearable) cost. However, the true trouble with Catholic hospitals arises in a state of emergency, when time is of the essence. This is when a Catholic hospital is most likely to fail a woman during her most dire time of need.
According to Catholics for a Free Choice, 82 percent of Catholic hospitals refuse to dispense emergency contraception, even to rape victims. Most aren't even told that it's an option (many women still have not even been educated as to its existence), and 31 percent of Catholic hospitals refuse to provide a referral. As emergency contraception is effective only 72 hours after penetration, women who unwittingly come or who are brought to Catholic hospitals after a rape may lose their only chance to prevent a pregnancy by their rapist.
In addition, Catholic hospitals refuse to provide emergency abortions, even to save a woman's health or life. Often times, abortion clinics are unequipped to provide such abortions, leaving a mortal hole in the reproductive health of women.
The consumption of hospitals by the Catholic Church is leading to a crisis situation for many women. Far too many counties and cities lack a family planning clinic, and for many people, the local hospital is the only access they have to valuable reproductive services. Worst of all, this is happening silently in the background, with little or no public knowledge of the blatant stripping of patient rights.
The Catholic Church knows exactly what it's doing. Instead of creating separate, privately funded hospitals, it is merging with public, secular hospitals that often are the only source of emergency health care in a given community. The Religious Right never fails to push its views on an unwilling public -- this case is no exception.
Things can change only when women take a stand and join organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union and NOW to eliminate the use of public funds in Catholic hospitals. Everyone deserves access to services that are in accordance to his or her own belief system, not that of the Vatican alone.
(C) 2001 Sidelines via U-WIRE

Load-Date: August 17, 2001


End of Document
