




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
February 8, 2023 Wednesday


Copyright 2023 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 790 words
Body


By the time the retired pilot came to Dr. Berit Madsen, he was dealing with unbearable pain.
Suffering from a cancerous mass in his jaw, he waited months to ask his regular oncologist about accessing life-ending medication through the states Death with Dignity Act. He knew that physician, from a Catholic-affiliated health system on the Kitsap Peninsula, was bound by rules against providing such medication.
When the pilot finally brought it up, his doctor referred him to Madsen, a radiation oncologist who started the process, allowed to patients with less than six months to live. But despite the nearly 80-year-old being a tough guy, as Madsen remembers, he couldnt wait any longer.
He went into his backyard one morning and fatally shot himself.
To Madsen, the violent death represents the dangers of Washingtons largely consolidated health care system, which has left almost half of the states hospital beds as well as an increasing number of doctors offices, hospices and other medical facilities affiliated with Catholic institutions that restrict certain types of care.
Catholic health care is a huge industry in the U.S., often known for high-quality, mission-driven service and the ethical and religious directives many of their facilities follow.
Carried out with varying degrees of strictness and workarounds, the directives prohibit medical aid in dying, abortion, some types of fertility treatments and contraception, including tubal ligations and vasectomies. Such facilities also do not typically offer some forms of care for transgender patients.
Mounting concern about those prohibitions has led Madsen and others to call for more oversight of health care mergers, acquisitions and affiliations, similar to policies in Oregon and California.
Senate Bill 5241, dubbed the Keep Our Care Act, would authorize Washingtons attorney general to launch a public process to review such transactions and determine whether any would diminish access to affordable care, including reproductive health, end-of-life, and gender affirming services. If so, the attorney general could impose conditions or reject transactions altogether.
A version of the legislation also intended to guard against consolidated systems rising prices and reduced services due to cost-cutting and perceived efficiencies died in committee last year. But Attorney General Bob Ferguson and Gov. Jay Inslee support the bill, and leaders from the nonprofit Pro-Choice Washington, who call the legislation a top priority, say theyre hearing growing enthusiasm as lawmakers seek to shore up reproductive health care in the wake of the U.S. Supreme Courts overturning of Roe v. Wade.
It is, however, a turbulent time for health care systems, facing financial and other pressures from the COVID-19 pandemic. Opponents argue a sweeping new regulatory scheme, in the words of one critic, could cause delays and obstacles that torpedo mergers needed to save fragile institutions.
We may have hospitals that dont exist, said Chelene Whiteaker of the Washington State Hospital Association.
Denied care, difficult access
Washington has one of the highest rates of religiously affiliated hospitals in the U.S., with several counties lacking even one secular hospital, according to a 2021 analysis by the state Insurance Commissioners office.
Swedish in 2012 formed an alliance with Providence, a multistate Catholic corporation, and Virginia Mason merged with CHI Franciscan in 2021, becoming part of CommonSpirit Health, another national player in Catholic health care.
Providence and Virginia Mason Franciscan Health consider some of their hospitals to be secular: Swedish facilities in the Puget Sound area and Kadlec Regional Medical Center in the Tri-Cities for Providence; and Kitsap Countys St. Michael Medical Center and Seattles Virginia Mason Medical Center for the Franciscan system.
But the mergers did not leave those hospitals, and the clinics associated with them, untouched by religion. For instance, internal policies governing St. Michael providers (viewed by The Seattle Times) assert human life is a gift of God, that all health care facilities under our sponsorship should protect life from conception through death and Catholic health care institutions may never condone or participate in euthanasia or assisted suicide in any way.
Religious alliances have also, at times, sparked community backlash.
When the Seattle Sounders announced a partnership with Providence last month, the council representing season ticket holders objected to the health systems policies around abortion and transgender care, as well as its treatment of low-income patients. (Ferguson is suing Providence for allegedly failing to abide by charity care obligations, charges the nonprofit denies).

Load-Date: February 8, 2023


End of Document
