




Lawyers, Guns, and Money
August 21, 2013 Wednesday 5:57 PM EST


Copyright 2013 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 623 words
Body


Aug 21, 2013 (Lawyers, Guns, and Money:/ Delivered by Newstex)
  Matt Zoller Seitz has an article on Vulture[1] that helps answer a question many of you have asked me: 'Where can I can find more stuff like the stuff you do?' Here's MSZ: It's customary to decry much TV writing, recaps especially, as plot summary plus snark; I've done it myself. But as television criticism has evolved, this catch-all insult has started to seem as lazy and out-of-touch as cinephiles writing off the whole of television as an idiot box. Even those sites that adopt a lighter touch—such as previously.tv[2], the new site from Television Without Pity's original founders—invest snark with imagination and a sense of play. Tara Ariano's  vs. Whites' chart and  recaps, the  index,' and  the Experts' are all riffs, but not just riffs; the site's a welcome reminder that most people watch TV because it's fun. (Though they do get serious on occasion: see  D. Bunting's appreciation of Tony Soprano as a prototypical Jersey dad.) 
 Joanna Robinson does the most visually inventive recaps I've seen, using GIFs and screenshots as rimshots. At Lawyers, Guns and Money,  Eric Kaufman's detailed breakdowns of composition and editing liven up the recap with a dash of film theory. Look beyond the writers who churn out thousands of words a week, and you'll find many insightful, sometimes powerful one-offs, such as Aura Bogado's piece[3] accusing Orange Is the New Black of being unthinkingly racist even as it strives to enlighten. Bogado's target isn't just the show, but the complacent white liberal point-of-view that dominates criticism in every field, not just TV. Tom and Lorenzo's style-oriented approach and Molly Lambert's Grantland pieces—on Mad Men, especially[4]—are a breed apart. They're not recapping, exactly, and I don't know if they're reviewing or criticizing, either, but they're definitely feeling and responding, and noticing, and at their best, they make art from art. Tom and Lorenzo's coverage[5] adopts an outside-in approach, looking at the clothes, architecture, colors, and textures, and then finding their way into the drama, but they do more straightforward criticism[6] as well, and it's often dazzling. Yes, I see what I did there too. But soon I'll be able to provide another answer: 'At The Onion AV Club's 'Internet Film School,'' which will be me. I'll provide a link when it goes live in the next week or two. In the meantime, enjoy the bounty of links MSZ provided. (I'm not saying there'll be a pop quiz, but neither am I saying there won't be.)
 [1]:  [2]: / [3]:  [4]:  [5]:  [6]:  

Load-Date: August 23, 2013


End of Document
