




The Santa Fe New Mexican
November 9, 2024 Saturday


Copyright 2024 The Santa Fe New Mexican All Rights Reserved
Section: A; Pg. 7
Length: 998 words
Byline: Gabrielle Porter , 
Body


The last surviving members of the Alamogordo chimpanzee colony will live out their final days in a Louisiana sanctuary rather than at the Holloman Air Force Base facility where they formerly underwent medical testing, officials announced this week.
Animal rights activists have pushed for years for the National Institutes of Health to relocate the animals still living at the Alamogordo Primate Facility to Chimp Haven, a wooded preserve in northern Louisiana that's already home to more than 300 former research chimps.
National Institutes of Health officials have long insisted that the chimps left in New Mexico - whose numbers have dwindled to about 23 in recent years - are too medically frail to safely make the nearly 800-mile journey east to Chimp Haven, an assertion that's been hotly contested by activists for several years. But in the end, the about-face came not as a result of a change in the chimps' medical conditions but because of staffing challenges with their contracted caretakers.
"NIH learned from its contractor that a significant number of their staff are expected to retire by July 2025," said a statement provided by agency spokesperson Amanda Fine. "Recruitment and training of new staff has proven difficult due to the specialized nature of the work and [the Alamogordo Primate Facility's] remote location. Given this uncertainty, NIH has determined that the best course of action for the welfare of all these chimpanzees is to relocate them to the federal sanctuary at Chimp Haven."
Animal rights activists said they were elated at the news.
"It's been a long time coming," said Gene Grant, animals and science policy officer for Animal Protection New Mexico. "We are very thankful that decision-makers at the NIH have seen a way to make this happen. ... It's not over, certainly, but this is a major, major step forward."
Rana Smith, president and CEO of Chimp Haven, agreed.
"We are so thrilled that the chimps are going to be able to leave Alamogordo and ... live out their lives in a really naturalistic setting with new chimp friends," she told The New Mexican on Friday.
The timeline for moving the nearly two dozen chimps is still under discussion, although Fine wrote in an email the process is expected to begin within the next several months. Smith said she thinks the first chimps could arrive as soon as weather permits after Jan. 1, with the chimps being moved a few at a time.
"Relocation of chimpanzees is a complex, time-consuming process and the timeline for relocation of each individual chimpanzee is an animal-welfare driven process with consideration of health and social grouping," Fine wrote in the email.
Smith said NIH is scheduling a call next week to allow the sanctuary, the federal agency and the contractors in Alamogordo to begin work on a detailed plan for how to proceed.
The first step will be to review medical and behavioral records for each animal, and to determine which ones will be moved first. The chimps will be moved in their existing social groups, and a plan will need to be made for how to introduce them into the much larger social groups they'll be living with at Chimp Haven. Weather and transportation are also concerns.
"Transfers depend on the availability of a licensed shipper, moderate temperatures, staff availability, the health and behaviors of the chimpanzees, and quarantine space at Chimp Haven," Fine wrote.
There's also still concern about the chimps' ability to handle the long trip, according to the NIH's statement.
"NIH recognizes that the health status of these chimpanzees increases the risk of adverse events during transport and integration to life in the federal sanctuary," the statement said. "... NIH, APF and Chimp Haven will make every effort to ensure the health and safety of the chimpanzees during the relocation process."
Smith said there is enough room at Chimp Haven to start transferring in chimps. But there will need to be an addition to an existing building at the site, which Smith said is estimated to cost about $4 million, which will have to be privately funded. Chimp Haven is federally supported, but NIH doesn't fund construction projects, which means the organization will have to fundraise.
"The good news is that we'll be looking at a building addition versus a new building," Smith said, adding the needed construction will probably take about six months.
Smith said she is excited about the new arrivals. The chimps haven't been used for experiments since 2015, and Smith said a number of Chimp Haven residents were transferred to the Louisiana sanctuary from Alamogordo several years ago. She said she's hopeful staff will be able to witness some "sweet reunions between old friends" once the new residents arrive.
"They'll totally remember each other, like if they were in the same social groups or next to each other," she said.
The chimps, which in Alamogordo are currently housed in same-sex social groups, will also get to experience coed communities for the first time, Smith said. The sanctuary is not a breeding facility, so all the males have vasectomies and all the females are on birth control, but couples still form attachments and partner up.
"Let's just say they'll have some fun together without breeding," Smith said.
The larger and more complex social groups also allow the chimps to have variety in their friendships.
"We really want larger, more robust social groups," Smith said.
Grant said that while his organization is celebrating the news, "the story's not over."
"Watchdogging ... it never ends," he said. "They can have a plan, but ... with the new administration and other things that are going on, there's a lot of ways this could potentially go sideways."
Grant said he hopes all the groups involved will push forward with moving the chimps as quickly as possible.
"We're really leaning into this more than ever to make sure that this timeline doesn't slip," he said. "If the timeline continues to slip, more chimps will die, and it's just that simple."

Load-Date: November 15, 2024


End of Document
