




Contraceptive Technology Update
August 1, 2004


Copyright 2004 AHC Media LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1021 words
Body


Clinic-based vasectomy:    How to do it successfully
 Want to drive more men    toward your family planning clinic? You may want to consider adding clinic-based    vasectomies. The Women's Health Care Clinic at Harbor-University of California    Los Angeles (UCLA) Medical Center in Torrance has found success in steering    its program in this direction.
 While the Women's Health    Care Clinic has been seeing male patients for some time, the addition of vasectomy    services has resulted in more men coming through the clinic's doors, says Kim    Burtle, RN, CNM, director of clinical services at the clinic.
 "Our male numbers are increasing,"    she notes. "That means that it is now common to see male patients in the clinic,    and that is reassuring to the new male patient."
 Since the first vasectomy    procedure was performed in December 2002, male patient numbers have grown steadily,    Burtle reports. With appointment availability now running two months out, the    clinic hopes to expand its vasectomy services soon, she says. The approximate    charge for the procedure is $312, Burtle says
Why add services?
 The clinic provides services    under California's Family PACT (Planning, Access, Care, and Treatment) Program,    which offers family planning reproductive health services to low-income women    and men. In January 2000, Family PACT was expanded statewide to provide more    services to men, including reproductive health exams; contraceptive methods,    including barrier methods, vasectomy, and fertility evaluation; sexually transmitted    infection screening and treatment; HIV screening; and education and counseling.1    In fiscal year 1999-2000, more than 95,000 male clients in the state were served    under Family PACT, which represents 8% of all clients served.1
 While the clinic's previous    Family PACT covered vasectomy service, its nearest referral was located about    20 miles away, says Burtle. The distance represented a barrier for the clinic's    patients, most of whom are Hispanic and financially disadvantaged, Burtle notes.    As part of the Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, the clinic contacted the center's    urology department and Richard Reznichek, MD, MHA, director of the urology    clinics at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center and assistant clinical professor at UCLA,    expressed interest in working with the clinic.
 Men who are interested    in a vasectomy at the clinic go through a series of three visits, explains Reznichek.    The first visit includes a counseling visit, which takes about 45-60 minutes    and is performed by a specially trained staff member, says Burtle. The counseling    covers the risks involved with vasectomy, the permanency of the procedure, what    the procedure will entail, and pre- and postoperative instructions. The consent    form is signed at this visit, and the patient is provided take-home educational    material.
 The second visit includes    an exam by Reznichek, accompanied by urology residents. They review the points    covered in the first counseling session, check to see that the consent form    has been signed, then perform a physical exam. Patients are provided an instruction    form that covers information for both pre-and post-vasectomy, and they are given    appointment times for the actual procedure. 
 Prior to the vasectomy    procedure, the consent to sterilization is reviewed by the physician who then    completes and signs the physician's statement portion. Following the procedure,    the patient returns for a postoperative sperm check, which is performed by a    clinic employee, explains Burtle. Patients call prior to obtaining specimens    to make sure an employee is on site. They then bring specimens in and wait until    a microscopic examination is performed for the results.
 While no-scalpel vasectomy    is the technique used for sterilization, Reznichek says men are more interested    in how the procedure will affect them than how it is performed. The clinicians    take time to cover such questions as:
Is it going to be      painful? 
 The clinicians explain    that local anesthetic will be used for the procedure. Men are advised to bring    a jock strap to wear after the procedure for support, and they are encouraged    to use an ice pack to help reduce swelling.
How will it change      my sex life?
 The clinicians explain    that the procedure does not change a man's sexual drive; erections and climaxes    will be the same. Vasectomy does not affect masculinity; there is no change    in a man's beard, voice, or any other male trait. Men do not lose their strength    as a result of the procedure. Men are advised that they can have sex as soon    as it is comfortable, but protection must be used until an examination of the    sperm finds that sterility has been achieved. 
 How hard is it to add vasectomy    services? According to Burtle, the clinic has not increased its staffing. The    vasectomy clinic does use one extra health worker during its three- to four-hour    session, which usually includes three procedures and three to four pre-operative    exams. While the clinic's outreach coordinator does promote the vasectomy service    during community presentations, word of mouth from clinic female patients and    fliers posted in the facility have helped to bring men in for the procedure,    she notes.
 "I think it is so important    for patients to have the choice of the best contraceptive method that meets    their needs," says Burtle. "Adding this procedure has helped the Women's Health    Care Clinic to have a full range of contraceptive methods/services."
Reference
 1. Treat J, Ramirez A,    Llewelyn L, et al. Men in the family planning clinic? The Family PACT experience.    Presented at the 129th Annual Meeting of the American Public Health Association.    Atlanta; October 2001.
Resource
 For more information on    vasectomy services, contact:
Kim Burtle, RN,      CNM, Women's Health Care Clinic, Harbor-University of California Los Angeles      Medical Center, 1124 W. Carson St., N-28, Torrance, CA 90502. Telephone: (310)      222-3715. E-mail: 

Load-Date: May 28, 2010


End of Document
