




Contraceptive Technology Update
January 1, 2008


Copyright 2008 AHC Media LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 308 words
Body


CNE/CME objectives/questions
After reading Contraceptive Technology Update, the participant will be able to:
identify clinical, legal, or scientific issues related to development and provisions of contraceptive technology or other reproductive services.   
describe how those issues affect services and patient care.   
integrate practical solutions to problems and information into daily practices, according to advice from nationally recognized family planning experts. 
The Intra Vas Device, a vasectomy alternative now under development, relies on soft, hollow silicone plugs inserted in:     
each of the vas deferens.   
the scrotum.   
the penis.   
the testicles. 
Which "red-flag" medical conditions should clinicians look for when it comes to potential drug interactions with oral contraceptives?     
Current antibiotic use, tuberculosis, skin and nail fungal infections, depression (use of St. John's Wort), and HIV   
Seizure disorder/epilepsy, tuberculosis, skin and nail fungal infections, depression (use of St. John's Wort), and HIV   
Sexually transmitted diseases, tuberculosis, skin and nail fungal infections, and depression (use of St. John's Wort)   
Seizure disorder/epilepsy, tuberculosis, skin and nail fungal infections, depression (use of St. John's Wort), and use of contact lens 
Which of these is NOT a risk factor for chlamydia in women?     
Age 24 years or younger and sexually active   
Previous history of chlamydia or another sexually transmitted infection   
Previous pregnancy   
New or multiple sexual partners 
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has issued new guidelines for colorectal cancer screening that recommend that women, beginning at age 50, be screened for the disease by colonoscopy:     
every two years.   
every three years.   
every five years.   
every 10 years. 
Answers: 1. A; 2. B; 3. C; 4. D.

Load-Date: May 28, 2010


End of Document
