




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
March 16, 2023 Thursday 12:25 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2023 Axios 
Length: 423 words
Byline: John Frank
Body


Colorado wants to   its   for women by making abortions and contraception free.
 Driving the news: A   that advanced Wednesday at the state Capitol would require most health insurance plans to cover medication abortions, contraception, vasectomies and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases without any out-of-pocket costs.
The far-reaching measure would also allow girls as young as 12 to receive contraception, including long-acting methods like IUDs, and abortion referrals without notice or consent from parents.
Other provisions provide abortion coverage for people living in the country illegally and make it easier to get treatment for HIV.
 The big picture: Colorado ensured   in state law last year, just ahead of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision to  .
Advocates consider the new bill — and two related measures —  the next steps  to making it easier for women to seek reproductive health care.
 What they're saying:"We need to take Colorado from legal to accessible," said Sen. Lisa Cutter, a bill sponsor and Democrat from Morrison.
 Reality check: Not all insurers would provide cost-free coverage. The requirement for large employer plans wouldn't take effect until 2025, and individual and small group plans must wait for federal approval.
The bill also contains an exemption for religious institutions based on federal law, and observers say the rules wouldn't apply to self-funded plans.
 By the numbers: The new coverage would increase premiums across the board by roughly $2 million — or up to $4.4 million,  . But increases in enrollment and reduced costs of pregnancies and surgical abortions would negate the increase for the insured.
 The other side: Opponents argued at the Wednesday hearing that the measure would face legal challenges and circumvents a state constitutional prohibition on taxpayer funding of abortions.
They also expressed concern about not requiring parental notification for health care services. "Parents should know if their minor is seeking an abortion so they are able to provide counsel," said Nicole Hunt with Focus on the Family, a religious organization based in Colorado Springs.
 What's next: The conversation will continue with bills designed to crackdown on  , as well as   against  .
All are expected to pass in the Democratic-controlled statehouse.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: May 11, 2023


End of Document
