




Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)
February 24, 2012 Friday


Copyright 2012 The Deseret News Publishing Co.
Length: 436 words
Byline: Kristen Wyatt Associated Press
Body


 DENVER ? Hospitals with religious objections to procedures such as abortions would have to tell patients in a special notice Colorado's Senate approved Friday. The measure was approved over vigorous objections from Senate Republicans, who called the notification bill a thinly veiled attempt to stigmatize religious hospitals. 
The bill, which requires one more procedural vote before it heads to the House, would require hospitals to tell patients that any service not provided because of religious beliefs or moral convictions can be obtained from another hospital. Such services could include abortions, but also sexual health procedures such as vasectomies or tubal ligations. They could also include visitation opportunities for same-sex partners. The bill's sponsor, Democratic Sen. Morgan Carroll, of Aurora, said the notices are needed because hospital consolidations can confuse patients about where to get certain services. "It's really about a patient's right to know," Carroll said. Republicans strongly objected to Carroll's proposal, which passed on a narrow voice vote. Some compared the requirements to the religious labeling used in Nazi Germany. "It's putting in place a not-so-subtle message that you're second-class if you have a moral scruple based on religious principles," said Sen. Kevin Lundberg, R-Berthoud. Democratic Sen. Irene Aguilar countered that hospitals would not be stigmatized. "I think most of these hospitals are proud of the choices they've made," said Aguilar, who is a physician. Lundberg held his ground. "It's none of the state's business, period, what institutions do or don't do based on their religious convictions," said Lundberg, who described the bill as "bending over backward for the abortion industry." Religion-affiliated health care providers are increasingly sparking political debate. Several religious groups and Republican presidential candidates in recent weeks blasted a requirement from President Barack Obama's administration that employees of religiously affiliated businesses receive birth control coverage. Obama later announcing a compromise that allows employees at religious-affiliated institutions to get free contraception directly from health insurance companies rather than from employers who say it would violate their long-held convictions. In Congress, Democrats accused Republicans in the House of ignoring women's voices in a hearing about access to contraception. The GOP committee did not allow testimony from a female law student who wanted to talk about the cost of paying for contraception. Online: Senate Bill 93:  

Load-Date: February 25, 2012


End of Document
