




University Wire
April 16, 2009 Thursday


Copyright 2009 Indiana Daily Student via U-Wire
Length: 474 words
Byline: By Chris Nelson, Indiana Daily Student; SOURCE: Indiana U.
Dateline: BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Body


The debate over birth control has been an arduous one and most likely will be for years to come.But should it be? We've come to a point in our world where sex is a topic much more open for discussion.I'm
often out to dinner with friends and family when the subject of sex
comes up. Maybe it's just the company I keep, but no one's ears start
bleeding. No one hides under the table and whimpers.Sex is going from a private act to public knowledge. The ways to have sex safely should also become public.Some
schools in our fine nation are still preaching the ways of abstinence
as the only way to truly have safe sex. Hey, whatever floats your boat.I'm not against abstinence in any way. I think it's a tremendously smart method of avoiding pregnancy and STIs.But
we need to be realistic. With sex becoming more and more public through
the media and other outlets, the chances of people having sex are
getting higher and higher. And if they haven't been educated in birth
control methods other than abstinence, well, the chances of becoming
pregnant or contracting an STI might just go up.And I don't
think I'd be alone in saying that I'd rather kids had sex 10 times
using some type of birth control than once unprotected.Someone
who might agree with that statement is the current U.S. president of
this country. In March, President Barack Obama signed bill that
restored the incentives for drug-makers to sell birth control pills at
a discount. Although the bill doesn't guarantee that drug-makers will
actually sell the pills at a discounted price, it's the president's
actions that matter.If the man who runs our country thinks
birth control is an issue, especially during our current economic woes,
then it probably is.And birth control is about to become an
even bigger issue. Even though some parents without a daughter may have
thought they'd never have to deal with the birth control pill issue,
they ought to think again.Huge strides have been made in the
past few years to make male birth control available. Instead of using
the not-so-reliable condom or going the more painful route of getting a
vasectomy, men will have a few birth control options from which to
choose.From pills to patches, injections to implants, men will
have the option to take birth control in the next five to seven years.
Even though all the technology might be there, a lack of funding has
certainly slowed the process.Birth control does more than just
prevent pregnancy. The pill has been found to prevent ovarian cancer in
women for more than 30 years after they stop taking the pill. It was
also found that the longer one takes the pill, the greater the
protection against cancer one has.So next time you're out to
dinner, rethink talking about how the Cubs lost, and start a discussion
on birth control. You might be surprised by what people have to say.
(C) 2008 Indiana Daily Student via UWIRE

Load-Date: April 17, 2009


End of Document
