




University Wire
October 23, 2003, Thursday


Copyright 2003 Kansas State Collegian via U-Wire
Length: 578 words
Byline: By Rachel Krier, Kansas State Collegian
Dateline: Manhattan, Kan.
Body


Injections once every three months or an oral pill every day plus hormonal supplements -- women do it to control their reproductive system, and soon men might have the same options.
It's high time for a male contraceptive, said Susan Allen, director of the Women's Center at Kansas State University.
"Women are told all our lives to take hormones to adjust and regulate our bodies in various ways," Allen said. "We need to look at ways men can regulate their bodies."
Kansas State U.
Which is exactly what various pharmaceutical companies across the world are in the process of investigating. Researchers are working toward being the first to release a contraceptive for men that is both effective and practical to use.
One company, Organon International in the Netherlands, along with the German company Schering are in the midst of joint research on a "male pill." The pill actually is a long-acting subdermal implant of progestogen combined with testosterone injections that suppresses sperm production while maintaining normal levels of testosterone, according to a press release from Monique Mols, associate director of media relations for Organon.
"Like the female Pill, its contraceptive effect will be reversible," according to the press release. "But, unlike the female pill and like vasectomy, the male contraceptive will need several weeks after first administration to achieve its full contraceptive reliability."
With recent progress and successful results in research, companies are able to project a possible release date to the public -- at least five years for Organon, according to Mols -- and are beginning to probe the public for interest.
Brian Hall, president of Sexual Health Awareness Peer Educators at K-State, said it would depend on the side effects and price, but a male contraceptive generally was appealing.
"I think guys would like it because they'd have peace of mind and reassurance if both partners were on birth control," said Hall, a senior. "That way you would know that you'd be safe regardless of whether the other person was telling the truth or not."
SHAPE Vice President Katherine McKenzie said she hopes both women and men will be receptive to the idea of a male contraceptive.
"It's great for partners in a relationship to share the responsibility of birth control," said McKenzie, a senior.
Ron Riley, a pharmacist in Manhattan, Kan., said everyone has their own situation when it comes to contraceptives. The risks and benefits of various forms of birth control differ with each person and couple, he said.
"It's an interaction between the couple," Riley said. "It's not just one person's decision."
For instance, if a woman is a smoker, that puts her at higher risk for side effects with an oral contraceptive, so for that couple, it might be better for the man to take a contraceptive, Riley said.
Although the pharmaceutical market for women's birth control has exploded since the 1960s, there hasn't been a major breakthrough in the market of male contraceptive since the condom, produced in the early to mid-1800s, and the vasectomy.
Scientists have been researching a male contraceptive over the last 50 years, but until recently, progress was slowed due to lack of funding and public interest.
"Women asked for [birth control]. They showed an interest in it more than men," McKenzie said. "If there is a market for it, pharmaceutical companies will make it."
(C) 2002 Kansas State Collegian via U-WIRE

Load-Date: October 23, 2003


End of Document
