




The Capital (Annapolis, MD)
August 24, 2000, Thursday


Copyright 2000 Capital-Gazette Communications, Inc.
Section: Police Beat; Pg. A12
Length: 376 words
Byline: By BRIAN M. SCHLETER Staff Writer
Body


The state's highest court ruled yesterday that a county Circuit Court judge erred in ordering a Brooklyn Park man to pay his exwife child support for teen-age twins they raised even though he was not their father.
The Court of Appeals did not address the issue of whether the man should help support the 13-year-old twins fathered during an extra-marital affair. Instead, it ruled that Judge James C. Cawood Jr. lacked the authority to declare the man was not the father because there was no scientific evidence.
The focus of the ex-wife's claim for support was not the paternity issue as she maintained, but whether cutting off support would be detrimental to the girls' welfare, the court ruled.
The court ordered Judge Cawood to rehear the case. At the request of attorneys for the parents, The Capi
tal is not identifying the parties to protect the children.
Michael J. Lay of Severna Park, the ex-husband's lawyer, said his client was pleased the court re
versed the support order. Because he is not the biological father and did not choose to adopt the children, he was not legally obligated to pay support.
"The court found the responsible party in this matter should be the natural father," he said. "That was our argument all along."
Attorneys for the ex-wife could not be reached for comment.
The twins were born 10 months after the couple was married in 1986. From the beginning the man doubted he was the father because he had undergone a vasectomy prior to the wedding.
In 1992, his ex-wife confessed to her husband that she had a short lived affair with a college student some two weeks after their wedding and that he was the likely biological father. But the couple remained married and continued to raise the girls together until March 1997 when they separated. He made voluntary support payments until October, and in May 1998 he stopped having any contact with the girls.
A year later, Judge Cawood or
dered the ex-husband to pay $ 697 support even though both parties waived a paternity hearing and blood tests.
"Where the Circuit Court was without the benefit of a blood test or other scientific investigation, it was error for the judge to announce a ruling as to (his) non-paternity," Appeals Court Judge Irma S. Raker wrote in her 17-page opinion.

Load-Date: August 24, 2000


End of Document
