




Newstex Blogs 
JD Supra
July 19, 2024 Friday 5:38 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 JD Supra 
Length: 814 words
Byline: Davis Wright Tremaine LLPAlexander Sisto
Body


July 19th, 2024 (   - Delivered by   )
California agency's proposed regulations for data brokers include clarifications and new definitions
On July 5, 2024, the California Privacy Protection Agency (CPPA) released a    
The CPPA stated that it initiated this rulemaking primarily to address "common questions and occasional obstacles that indicated a need for clarification of [the DELETE Act's] registration requirements." The proposed regulations in large part address administrative issues (e.g., clarifying how fees may be paid and whether they can be prorated or refunded). However, the proposed rules also clarify key definitions, including the meaning of "direct relationship" (i.e., between businesses and consumers to make clear which businesses will be deemed "data brokers"), "minor," and "reproductive health care data." The proposed rules also make clear that each data broker business - regardless of its status as subsidiary to another business - is required to uniquely register.
Notably, the proposed rules do not address the CPPA's obligation under the DELETE Act to establish by January 1, 2026, an "accessible deletion mechanism" for consumers "through a single verifiable consumer request" to request that all registered data brokers delete their personal information.
Below, we have summarized the most significant proposed regulations in more detail:
New Definition of Direct Relationship. The DELETE Act defines "data brokers" as businesses that knowingly collect and sell to third parties personal information of consumers with whom the business does not have a "direct relationship." The proposed regulations define "direct relationship" to mean where "a consumer intentionally interacts with a business for the purpose of obtaining information about, accessing, purchasing, using, or requesting the business's products or services within the preceding three years." The proposed regulations also clarify that "a business is still a data broker if it has a direct relationship with a consumer but also sells personal information about the consumer that the business did not collect directly from the consumer." This clarification should help businesses determine whether, when, and for how long they are covered by the Act.
New Definition of Minor. The DELETE Act requires data brokers to disclose whether they collect personal information of minors which the proposed regulations clarify to mean "a consumer the data broker has actual knowledge is less than 16 years of age."
New Definition of Reproductive Health Care Data. The DELETE Act requires data brokers to disclose whether they collect reproductive health care data which the proposed regulations define as any of the following:
Information about a consumer searching for, accessing, procuring, using, or otherwise interacting with goods or services associated with the human reproductive system, which includes goods such as contraception (e.g., condoms, birth control pills), prenatal and fertility vitamins and supplements, menstrual-tracking apps, and hormone-replacement therapy. It also includes but is not limited to services such as sperm- and egg-freezing, in vitro fertilization, abortion care, vasectomies, sexual health counseling; treatment or counseling for sexually transmitted infections, erectile dysfunction, and reproductive tract infections; and precise geolocation information about such treatments.
Information about the consumer's sexual history and family planning, which includes information a consumer inputs into a dating app about their history of sexually transmitted infections or desire to have children.
Inferences about the consumer with respect to any of the above information.
Parent and Subsidiary Registration Requirement. Finally, the proposed regulations require any business that independently meets the definition of "data broker" to register, but the rules also appear to require that a business register "regardless of whether it is a subsidiary or parent of another business" that is a data broker. This suggests that even if a registered data broker has a parent or subsidiary that is not a data broker, each would still have to register with the CPPA. On the other hand, the rule may be simply "clarifying" that if a registered data broker has a parent or subsidiary that is also a data broker, then each cannot avoid registration because a parent or subsidiary entity is registered.
The CPPA is accepting written comments on the proposed regulations until August 20, 2024, which can be submitted to 
[ 


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: July 19, 2024


End of Document
