




St. Joseph News-Press (Missouri)
September 15, 2016 Thursday


Copyright 2016 St. Joseph News-Press
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS
Length: 406 words
Byline: Megan Favignano, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.
Body


Sept. 15--After seeing photos of the home at the center of a child neglect case, a Buchanan County circuit judge likened the living situation to that of a third-world country.
Buchanan County Circuit Judge Daniel Kellogg told the child's father, who was sentenced Thursday, that he wishes he could pay for the man's vasectomy to ensure he doesn't father any more children.
"You're not fit to be a parent, sir," Kellogg told the man during sentencing Thursday.
Scottie R. Briner, 29, pleaded guilty Thursday to the felony charge of neglect of a child. He was sentenced to five years in the Department of Corrections.
He and his fiance, Jean Louis Mangus, both were charged with child neglect after their 3-year-old daughter ingested methamphetamine at their home in July.
Briner told the judge some people had come to their home just after midnight July 10 to collect on a drug debt. He said that while he was distracted talking to those people, his daughter disappeared for a short period of time.
"When I found her, she was acting different," Briner told the judge.
Briner said he called an ambulance immediately. The child was taken to Mosaic Life Care, and she tested positive for methamphetamine and oxycodone.
Briner told the judge Thursday he was under the influence of drugs that night.
Kate Schaefer, an assistant Buchanan County prosecutor, showed the judge photos of the home where Briner and Mangus lived with their child. She further described for him the living conditions, mentioning that people regularly did drugs on the side of the home and that the home was infested with roaches.
"This baby, she didn't have parents," Schaefer said. "She is lucky these drugs didn't kill her."
Briner's public defender told the judge she believes Briner loves his child. He plans to study and take the high-school equivalency test while he is incarcerated, she said.
Kellogg told Briner he would be interested to see what a jury thinks of this case and their living conditions. Briner, he said, is lucky the state has favored him with a plea deal.
Mangus, who is pregnant, pleaded guilty earlier this week to the felony charge of neglect of a child. She received a five-year prison sentence.
The Buchanan County Children's Division removed the child from the home.
___ (c)2016 the St. Joseph News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) Visit the St. Joseph News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) at  Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

Load-Date: September 16, 2016


End of Document
