




Crain's Detroit Business
January 4, 2010


Copyright 2010 Crain Communications All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; Pg. 0019
Length: 748 words
Byline: JAY GREENE
Body


William Beaumont Hospitals in Royal Oak has signed an agreement to take over management of St. Clair Shores-based Michigan Institute of Urology&apos;s male fertility clinic in Troy.
Under the agreement, Beaumont has leased MIU&apos;s 4,000-square-foot fertility clinic, which opened in 2008, and is operating it as a hospital department, said Eric Hunt, Beaumont&apos;s vice president of ambulatory services.
Alphonse Santino, M.D., MIU&apos;s president, said no cash was exchanged in the transaction. However, Beaumont agreed to spend several hundred thousand dollars in advanced outpatient medical surgical technology and use its brand name to market the clinic in Michigan, Ohio and Indiana, he said.
The Beaumont Male Urology and Fertility Center, 130 Town Center Drive, is the first fertility clinic in Michigan to be located adjacent to a female infertility center, the two-physician Reproductive Medicine Associates of Michigan, Santino said.
&quot;We wanted to have a state-of-the-art center and work with reproductive endocrinologists (obstetrician-gynecologists) who are involved with infertility,&quot; Santino said. &quot;It is much more convenient for patients and doctors to have everything so close together.&quot;
Most male and female infertility clinics are located some distance apart. Couples who are undergoing in vitro fertilization procedures with fertility complications are generally responsible for transporting the sperm to the IVF center.
&quot;In a typical procedure, on the day of IVF the ob-gyn would extract the eggs from the wife and we would obtain the sperm from the husband,&quot; said Richard Bennett, M.D., one of MIU&apos;s four urologists at the Troy clinic. &quot;Before, we would need family members to pick up and deliver it. Now this makes it much more convenient.&quot;
Bennett said there is a two-hour window after the sperm is extracted to have the IVF procedure completed.
Bradley Miller, one of the two obstetrician-gynecologists with Reproductive Medicine, said the arrangement with MIU and Beaumont will help grow the specialty practice.
&quot;We have been slowly increasing (in vitro fertilization procedures) since we opened in 2007,&quot; Miller said. &quot;We are up over 250 IVF cycles.&quot;
To further increase fertility and urological services at the Troy clinic, however, Santino needed a hospital partner to provide necessary capital equipment and specialty nurses. A hospital partner also could increase the number of referring physicians to the center, he said.
Beaumont&apos;s startup costs for the clinic totaled about $400,000, including a $120,000 operative microscope and a $65,000 anesthesia machine, said Earl Doucet, Beaumont&apos;s administrative director who is overseeing the project.
&quot;It helps having Beaumont bring in equipment because it would be very expensive for doctors to buy it,&quot; Santino said.
In addition to MIU&apos;s four urologists who specialize in male fertility services, Beaumont has about 15 urologists trained in fertility services who could practice at the clinic. MIU has a total of 36 urologists, and Beaumont has about 60 urologists on staff.
Beaumont also will employ a 12-member staff at the clinic, including six specialty nurses. MIU&apos;s employees have been reassigned to its other offices, Santino said.
Over the next several weeks, Beaumont and MIU will develop a marketing and advertising campaign to patients and physicians to increase the 15 to 30 patients per week who currently use the clinic.
&quot;We want to reach out to (physicians in) northern Michigan, Ohio and Indiana,&quot; Hunt said.
Bennett said Beaumont&apos;s equipment, nurses and other specialists also allow the clinic to conduct additional fertility and urological procedures.
For example, Bennett said urologists can now perform microsurgical testicular sperm extraction procedures using the microscope. This procedure is conducted for men with very low sperm counts who are going through IVF.
Other procedures available at the clinic include microscopic bilateral varicocelectomy, a common fertility outpatient procedure that works to increase sperm count, and a vasovasostomy, or a vasectomy reversal.
Beaumont also has leased 5,500 square feet of the second floor of MIU&apos;s 40,000-square-foot medical office building in Troy to centralize its physician credentialing services for its three hospitals. The credentialing center is expected to open Feb. 15.
Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Load-Date: January 7, 2010


End of Document
