




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
January 7, 2025 Tuesday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2025 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FRONT; Pg. A1
Length: 534 words
Byline:  DAVID WAHLBERG , 
Body


Medical providers in Madison are seeing increased demand for long-term birth control, with UW Health inserting a record number of IUDs in patients last month and UnityPoint Health-Meriter scheduling special clinics for IUDs and implants.
Demand has been up since the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade in 2022, but a "sharp uptick" came after Donald Trump's reelection in November, which raised new concerns about access to reproductive health care, said Dr. Shannon Reed, associate medical director for primary care at Meriter.
"There are a lot of people who are afraid that they will lose access to either long-acting contraception or sterilization procedures," Reed said. "People, in general, are thinking more about their reproductive health."
UW Health inserted 404 intrauterine devices last month, 47% more than average and the most of any month on record, spokesperson Sara Benzel said.
More patients are calling to get IUDs for the first time or to replace the devices earlier than necessary, Benzel said. They last 3 to 12 years.
Heightened demand led Meriter to schedule two special clinics for long-lasting reversible contraceptives last month and two more this month, Reed said. On Saturday at the Meriter clinic in DeForest and Saturday, Jan. 18, at the clinic on West Washington Avenue in Madison, patients can choose among three types of IUDs and Nexplanon, a hormone implant in the arm.
Most of the growing demand is among women in their late teens to late 20s, but some is among women in their 30s who have had children and don't want more, Reed said.
Meriter also has seen more requests for tubal ligations and vasectomies in men, she said.
"Anything that prompts people to manage their health care in a way that works for them is ultimately good," she said. "In my ideal world, it wouldn't be fear that's driving this."
At Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin, appointments for new and replacement IUDs and other long-term birth control have doubled or tripled since the election, spokesperson Analiese Eicher said. People "are concerned this type of contraception will not be available when they need to replace it in the next few years," she said.
Anti-abortion advocates are pressing Trump for more restrictions on abortion pills, but it's not clear what might happen during the second Trump administration regarding access to contraceptives of any kind, the Associated Press reported in November.
Trump told a Pittsburgh television station in May that he was open to supporting regulations on contraception. But after media reports on the interview, he wrote on his social media platform Truth Social that he "has never and will never" advocate for restricting birth control and other contraceptives.
In Wisconsin, the state Supreme Court is poised to decide a case that challenges Wisconsin's 1849 abortion law, which in 2022 was revived and initially interpreted as a near-complete ban on abortion. After a Dane County judge ruled the law applies only to feticide, not to consensual abortions, Planned Parenthood resumed abortions in the state.
The case is now before the high court, for which the election in April will determine if liberals maintain their majority or conservatives reclaim it.

Graphic

 
OWEN ZILIAK, STATE JOURNAL ARCHIVES People walk by a large inflatable IUD on the Library Mall of the UW-Madison campus on Nov 5, election day.

Load-Date: January 7, 2025


End of Document
