




USA Today Online
August 19, 2024 11:19 AM EST


Copyright 2024 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 6593 words
Body


President Joe Biden took the stage on Monday at the Democratic National Convention, passing the torch to Vice President Kamala Harris after he chose not to seek another term in office.
The president reflected on his 50-year career in politics, his decision to end his reelection bid and the Democratic Party's future as he addressed Democrats in Chicago and pivotal voters across the country. First lady Jill Biden and former Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton also delivered speeches, the latter telling Democratic delegates that "the future is here."
On Monday and throughout the rest of the convention, Democrats will be focused on how a potential Harris-Walz administration would address inflation, the southern border, abortion rights and other top debates facing the nation.
Catch up with the USA TODAY Network's live coverage of the Democratic convention in Chicago.
Protestors for Palestinians 'have a point,' Biden says
In one of his most forceful calls for a cease-fire in Israel and Gaza, Joe Biden acknowledged the crowds outside the convention protesting his administration’s response to the Israel-Hamas war.
“Those protestors out in the street, they have a point,” Biden said. “A lot of innocent people are being killed, on both sides.”
Biden said he and Secretary of State Anthony Blinken have been working to bring Israeli hostages home, provide humanitarian aid to Palestinians, and “finally, finally deliver a cease-fire and end this war,” the president said while pounding the podium with his fist.
−Savannah Kuchar
Biden says he’s not angry at the people who called on him to step down
Joe Biden in his remarks made clear that he’s not angry at the Democrats who expressed concerns and urged him to step down following his dismal debate performance in June.
“It's been the honor of my lifetime to serve as your President. I love the job. I love my country more. I love my country more…with all this talk about how I’m angry at all those people who said I should step down, that’s not true.”
He added that, “we need to preserve our democracy in 2024. We need your vote.”
−Sudiksha Kochi
Biden says Trump 'killed' bipartisan border deal
Biden criticized Trump's record on border and immigration, particularly for pressuring Republicans to kill a bipartisan border deal earlier this year that would have tightened asylum laws.
"Trump continues to lie about the border. Here's what he won't tell you: Trump killed the strongest bipartisan border deal in the history of the United States," Biden said.
The president said he and Harris are committed to strengthening "legal immigration, including protecting DREAMers and more."
− Melissa Brown
Biden touts his economic achievements in office
Biden in his remarks to convention attendees praised his and Harris’ handling of the economy, claiming that they rebuilt “the backbone of America, the middle class.”
“We've gone from economic crisis to the strongest economy in the entire world,” he said, referencing how inflation has gone down and new jobs have been created.
“We both know we have more to do, but we're moving in the right direction,” he added.
He also knocked Trump, claiming that the former president never “built a damn thing” when it came to infrastructure.
“We're improving our quality of life, we're building a better America,” he said.
− Sudiksha Kochi
Freedom and democracy dominate Biden's speech
After receiving a warm and enthusiastic welcome, President Joe Biden turned his address to a key campaign theme: Preserving democracy. He reflected on the Jan. 6, 2021 attack on the Capitol, the 2017 white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia and more.
“Are you ready to vote for freedom?” Biden asked the crowd. “Are you ready to vote for democracy and for America? Let me ask you, are you ready to elect Kamala Harris and Tim Walz?”
In an Oval Office address to the nation last month, following his decision to exit the race, Biden had said, “The defense of democracy is more important than any title.”
− Savannah Kuchar
Jill Biden says there are moments where she falls in love ‘all over again’
Jill Biden told convention attendees that she and her husband have been together for almost 50 years, but there are moments where she falls in love with him “all over again.”
“Like when I handed him our baby Ashley for the first time and saw the smile that lit up his face, or on nights after an exhausting day working in the Senate when he would read one more bedtime story, just because the kids asked,” she said.
She added, “And weeks ago when I saw him dig deep into his soul and decide to no longer seek reelection and endorse Kamala Harris.”
Jill Biden said that Joe Biden knows that the nation’s strength “comes from the small acts of kindness that heal deep wounds from service to the communities that make us who we are, from love of a country that shines with promise and renewal.”
“Kamala Harris knows that too,” she said.
− Sudiksha Kochi
Ashley Biden introduces her father
Ashley Biden, Joe Biden's daughter, introduced her father on Monday. She joked that he's the "OG girl dad" and shared memories of growing up and watching her father's work in the Senate.
− Marina Pitofsky
‘We love Joe’: Senator and Biden's close friend Chris Coons addresses Democrats
Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware praised his longtime friend Joe Biden moments ahead of the president’s keynote address.
“I have never known a more compassionate man than Joe Biden,” Coons said.
“Mr. President, you were my senator as a Delawarean. You are my president as an American. And you will always be my friend,” he added, before leading the crowd in chants of, “We love Joe.”
− Savannah Kuchar
Sen. Raphael Warnock calls Donald Trump a 'plague on the American conscience'
Sen. Raphael Warnock of Georgia said the 2024 election is "about the character of the country."
"People with no vision traffic in division," Warnock said. "(Former President Donald Trump) doesn't know how to lead us, so he wants to divide us. Make no mistake, Donald Trump is a plague on the American conscience. He is a clear and present threat to the precious covenant we share with one another."
Warnock also praised Biden as a "true patriot who has always put the people first."
−Melissa Brown
Speakers share emotional reproductive rights stories
Texas couple Amanda and Josh Zurawski took to the stage Monday to retell their story of struggling to have an abortion under their state’s near-total ban. After being told by doctors “with 100% certainty” that they would lose their baby, the pair said they had to wait days until Amanda Zurawski was “sick enough” to receive abortion care.
“I’m here tonight because the fight for reproductive rights isn’t just a woman’s fight,” said Josh Zurawski. “This is about fighting for our family and, as Kamala Harris, says our future.”
Joining the Zurawskis was Kaitlyn Joshua of Louisiana and Hadley Duvall of Kentucky, who each shared their own emotional stories.
“I can’t imagine not having a choice,” said Duvall, who was sexually assaulted by her stepfather and became pregnant at 12 years old. “But today, that’s the reality for many women and girls across the country.”
"What is so beautiful about a child having to carry her parent's child?" Duvall added.
The group’s appearance and joint remarks come as reproductive rights weigh heavily on the first post-Roe presidential election.
− Savannah Kuchar
Andy Beshear says reproductive rights on the line in 2024
Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear, who was on the shortlist to be Harris’ vice president, accused former President Donald Trump and his running mate Sen. JD Vance of attacking reproductive rights.
“Here's the thing, Trump and Vance simply don't believe in your freedom. Trump says people are absolutely thrilled that women have their basic rights eliminated. JD then says women should stay in violent marriages and the pregnancies resulting from rape are simply inconvenient…That's not inconvenient, it's just plain wrong,” he said.
The former president has backed individual states setting their own abortion restrictions, but he has often celebrated the three Supreme Court justices he appointed who were pivotal in overturning Roe v. Wade.
Beshear said that Harris knows “we must move beyond anger, extremism and division, that everyone has dignity and deserves respect.”
“We're going to win by staying true to our values of compassion, empathy and doing right by our neighbors,” he said.
− Sudiksha Kochi
Rep. Jasmine Crockett calls Donald Trump 'vindictive, vile villain'
Rep Jasmine Crockett, D-Texas, sharply criticized Donald Trump in her convention speech.
"She became a career prosecutor, while he became a career criminal," Crockett said, citing Trump's felony conviction in his New York hush money case.
Crockett, a former public defender and civil rights lawyer, said she "knows a good prosecutor when she sees one."
"Kamala Harris has a resume, Donald Trump has a rap sheet," Crockett said.
Crockett continued to slam Trump throughout her speech, calling him a "vindictive, vile villain" while saying Harris is the only candidate in the race "capable of empathy."
− Melissa Brown
Raskin blasts Trump during Democratic convention
Rep. Jamie Raskin, D-Md., in his speech said little about Harris, opting to use the majority of his time on stage to condemn Trump and the Jan. 6, 2021 attack on the Capitol.
Raskin, who served on the House committee investigating the insurrection following the 2020 election, described violent details from that day, including rioters’ chants of, “Hang Mike Pence.”
“Someone should have told Donald Trump that the president’s job under Article II of the Constitution is to take care that the laws are faithfully executed,” Raskin told the crowd, “not that the vice president is executed.”
In an election where fears about democracy are among voter anxieties, Raskin raised alarms about a potential second Trump administration.
“Make no mistake, a man who uses fraud, theft and violence to take power will commit any crime to keep it,” Raskin said.
− Savannah Kuchar
Clyburn praises Biden for backing Harris
Rep. James Clyburn, D-S.C., one of President Joe Biden's closest allies, told delegates during a primetime speech "we owe him a debt of gratitude."
Clyburn applauded Biden's response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which he claimed Trump "mismanaged" from day one. The South Carolina lawmaker also delicately praised Biden for stepping aside from the presidential race.
"We are all grateful for one of the best decisions he made, selecting Kamala Harris as his vice president and endorsing her to succeed him," Clyburn said
− Melissa Brown
Hillary Clinton: 'The future is here'
When Hillary Clinton took to the convention stage, it took about a minute before she officially kicked off her remarks as the crowd erupted in applause.
“Thank you so much. Wow, there's a lot of energy in this room, just like there is across the country,” she said. “Something is happening in America. You can feel it - something we've worked for and dreamed of for a long time.”
Clinton, who unsuccessfully ran for president against Trump in 2016, said that the party is writing a “new chapter in America’s story.” Harris could be the country's first female president.
“My friends, the future is here,” she said. “I wish my mother and Kamala's mother could see us. They would say, keep going.”
She also knocked Trump, saying that it is no surprise the former president “is lying about Kamala's record. He's mocking her name and her laugh sounds familiar, but we have him on the run now.”
− Sudiksha Kochi
Ocasio-Cortez references cease-fire in convention address
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., praised Harris on stage, citing a variety of the vice president’s priorities – including “working tirelessly to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and bringing hostages home.”
Ocasio-Cortez, a member of the House’s progressive “Squad,” has been an outspoken critic of Israel's actions in Gaza as the Israel-Hamas war has raged on. Some members of that progressive wing have faced pressure from constituents for taking similar positions, including Rep. Cori Bush of Missouri and Rep. Jamaal Bowman of New York, who each lost in primary elections this year.
− Savannah Kuchar
Fact-checking DNC Day 1: See what Joe Biden, Hillary Clinton, AOC get right and wrong
Washington Democrats celebrate 'Cowboy Kamala'
Washington Democrats stood out in the convention crowd for their illuminated cowboy hats, “Cowboy Kamala” sashes and friendship bracelets.
“It’s wonderful to be unified and looking good,” said Karyn Kenyatta Russell, a delegate and daughter of Boston Celtics legend Bill Russell. “Beyoncé goes across generations.”
Washington Democrats might wear the cowboy hats again Thursday especially if Beyoncé makes a surprise appearance. Many delegations are planning to wear white to honor the suffragettes.
− Jessie Balmert
Harris makes her debut on the convention stage
Vice President Kamala Harris made her debut on the convention stage Monday and kicked off her remarks by praising President Joe Biden.
“Joe, thank you for your historic leadership, for your lifetime of service to our nation and for all you will continue to do. We are forever grateful to you,” she said.
She added that looking out at the crowd, she sees “the beauty of our great nation.”
“People from every corner of our country and every walk of life are here, united by our shared vision for the future of our country, and this November, we will come together and declare with one voice, as one people, we are moving forward,” she said.
-- Sudiksha Kochi
Steve Kerr says if Harris wins in November, they can tell Trump 'night night'
Famed professional basketball coach Steve Kerr opened his remarks poking fun at young voters in the crowd: “It is so fun to be back here in the United Center. And as you guys know, a lot of good stuff has happened in this building, especially in the nineties. You young people, google Michael Jordan and you can read all about it.”
But on a more serious note, Kerr said good leaders are those who tell the truth, possesses knowledge and expertise, and care for and love the people they are leading.
“When you think about it that way, this is no contest with Kamala Harris and Tim Walz,” Kerr said. “I see all those qualities. They have devoted their lives to serving other people.”
Kerr encouraged the crowd to get out and vote for Harris and Walz in November.
“And after the results are tallied that night, we can, in the words of the great Steph Curry. We can tell Donald Trump night night!” he said.
-- Sudiksha Kochi
More: Coach Steve Kerr endorses Kamala Harris for President, tells Donald Trump 'night night'
United Auto Workers president Shawn Fain calls Trump a 'scab'
United Auto Workers President Shawn Fain called former President Donald Trump a 'scab' during a speech at the Democratic National Convention, which has heavily featured union leaders in its first night of speeches.
"That's not just my opinion, that's a fact. All we have to do is look at the track record," Fain said. "When Donald Trump was president, corporate America ran wild. Donald Trump did not bring back the auto industry."
The union leader said the 2024 election "comes down to one question."
"Which side are you on?" Fain said. "On one side, we have Kamala Harris and Tim Walz, who have stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the working class. On the other side, we have Trump and Vance, two lap dogs for the billionaire class who only serve themselves."
-- Melissa Brown
New York Gov. takes swing at Trump, NY conviction
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul touted Harris’ and Walz’s ticket – an took a swing at Trump, a native of her home state.
“Donald Trump was born a New Yorker but ended up a fraud, a philanderer and a felon,” Hochul said of the former president, who in May was found guilty on 34 counts by a New York jury.
“He wasn’t raised with the New York values that I know,” Hochul continued, later adding, “Trust me America, if you think you’re tired of Donald Trump, talk to a New Yorker.”
-- Savannah Kuchar
Democratic National Convention to criticize Project 2025 in nightly segment
Michigan state Sen. Mallory McMorrow kicked off a nightly recurring segment at the Democratic National Convention highlighting Project 2025, the conservative agenda designed by the Heritage Foundation for a possible second Trump administration.
"Whatever you think it might be, it is so much worse," McMorrow said after lugging an oversized copy of the policy blueprint onto the Chicago stage.
McMorrow decried the document as an "expansion" of presidential powers designed to turn President Donald Trump into a "dictator."
"If Donald Trump gets back into the White House, he's going to fire civil service workers like intelligence officers, engineers and even federal prosecutors if he decides that they don't serve his personal agenda," McMorrow said. "They're talking about replacing the entire federal government with an army of loyalists that answer only to Donald Trump."
-- Melissa Brown
Laphonza Butler praises Harris, says they share things in common
California Senator Laphonza Butler said in her remarks to convention attendees that her and Harris “share a lot in common.”
“We both graduated from historically Black colleges, me from Jackson State University, the Vice President from Howard University. We were both raised by mothers who worked fiercely to provide for us, and we both believe that every single one of us has the power to change the world when we choose to do it together,” she said.
She added that Harris, a former prosecutor, looked towards a “better future.”
“For her, it wasn't just a professional oath, it was a battle cry, and let's be clear to her opponents, this way of seeing the world, the idea of fighting for someone other than yourself, is unthinkable,” she said.
-- Sudiksha Kochi
Who performed at the Democratic convention?
The opening night of the Democratic convention featured multiple musical performances. Mickey Guyton performed before Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass delivered her address, and her fellow musicians Jason Isbell and James Taylor will take the stage later on Monday.
− Marina Pitofsky
Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass says Kamala Harris will 'fight fiercely' for children
When Los Angeles Mayor Karen Bass was sworn into office in 2022, she asked Vice President Kamala Harris to administer the oath. During her convention remarks on Monday, Bass noted the significance of the first female vice president swearing in the city's first mayor.
"We knew we were sending a message to young girls everywhere that they too can lead. I know Kamala, and she feels the importance of this work in her bones," Bass said. "When Kamala meets a young person you can feel her passion, you can feel her heart and you can feel her fearlessness. That is what defines a commitment to children: being willing to fight fiercely for every child. And trust me, Kamala has done that her entire life."
− Melissa Brown
Union leaders take the convention stage
A group of leaders from some of the nation’s largest labor unions appeared Monday to pledge their support for Harris.
“We’re all in for Kamala Harris because Kamala Harris has always been all in for us,” said April Verrett, president of the Service Employees International Union and one of six union presidents to deliver joint remarks.
Members of their unions, a traditionally left-leaning voting bloc, stand to have a pivotal role in this year’s election.
The fight for blue-collar workers’ backing was highlighted last month as well during the GOP’s convention, during which Teamsters President Sean O’Brien gave remarks on stage.
− Savannah Kuchar
Ohio Rep. Joyce Beatty slams Donald Trump running mate JD Vance
Rep. Joyce Beatty, D-Ohio, criticized former President Donald Trump’s running mate and fellow Ohioan JD Vance Monday night.
“JD Vance likes to talk about how he’s from Ohio, but as soon as he could, he ran away to Yale and Silicon Valley, cozying up with billionaires,” she said. "While JD Vance and Donald Trump have been sharing conspiracy theories from the darkest corners of the Internet, Kamala Harris and Joe Biden have been busy expanding access to the Internet."
Beatty, a staunch supporter of Biden's, also touted the administration's work on the CHIPS Act to bring jobs to central Ohio.
− Jessie Balmert
Dick Durbin knocks Donald Trump’s handling of the economy
Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin in his speech blasted Donald Trump’s handling of the economy, saying that the former president’s record is “defined by failure.”
He also compared Trump to a “bad boss.”
“You want time off to take care of your sick parents? Ask Donald Trump. Denied,” he said.
− Sudiksha Kochi
Minnesota Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan praises Tim Walz
Minnesota Lt. Gov. Peggy Flanagan, co-chair of Monday night's Democratic National Convention program, said she's watched Gov. Tim Walz work hard − and share his snacks − over the past six years of working together.
"I've seen how hard he's worked for Minnesota to be the best place for kids to grow up," Flanagan said. "He does it all with a big heart, a buffalo plaid jacket and a bottomless bag of snacks: Nutter Butters, cheese curds, and Diet Dew."
Flanagan said Walz "always" has her back.
"When he's vice president, he will have yours," Flanagan said.
− Melissa Brown
Delegates approve Walz as Harris’ running mate in ceremonial vote
Democrats certified Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz as their official 2024 vice presidential nominee Monday in a ceremonial vote, on the first night of the party’s convention.
Harris, the official presidential nominee, tapped Walz earlier this month to join her on the ticket, and they received their formal nomination earlier this month.
− Savannah Kuchar
Rep. Maxine Waters says 'no better leader' than Kamala Harris
Rep. Maxine Waters delivered a history lesson to the Democratic National Convention Monday night, reminding delegates of the 1964 convention when Mississippi voting rights pioneer Fannie Lou Hamer demanded Black delegates be seated in place of Mississippi's all-white delegation.
Hamer delivered gripping televised testimony to the convention's credentials committee at the time about the violence voting rights activists faced in Mississippi.
"When she finished, she asked the country a simple but profound question: 'Is this America?'" Waters said. Sixty years later, Harris is the party's nominee and there is "no better leader to marshal us into the future," she added
− Melissa Brown
Convention honors civil rights icon, Rev. Jesse Jackson
Democrats paid tribute Monday to Rev. Jesse Jackson, 82, the longtime civil rights activist and politician.
Jackson announced last year his diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease. He appeared on stage in a wheelchair and received a standing ovation from delegates.
−Savannah Kuchar
Donald Trump suggests he has Taylor Swift endorsement that he will never get
Donald Trump is making fun of Taylor Swift again. The former president posted a fake image of the renowned singer/songwriter asking people to vote for Trump, something that has not happened and almost surely never will happen; Swift endorsed Joe Biden four years ago and criticized Trump for promoting division.
An altered photo of Swift in an Uncle Sam top hat - falsely labeled "Taylor Wants You To Vote For Donald Trump" - was part of a Trump Truth Social post on Sunday that also included pictures of supposed "Swifties For Trump."
"I accept," Trump said in the post.
No comment from Trump, Swift, or their publicists on promoting fake images.
−David Jackson
Barack Obama: 'It's good to be home'
One of the most anticipated nights of the 2024 Democratic convention will be Tuesday when former President Barack Obama returns to the stage where two decades ago a barely 40-something Senate candidate launched himself into America's history books.
"It's good to be home in Chicago," Obama said in a post Monday evening on X, formerly known as Twitter.
At the kickoff of the convention, the 44th president said he looks forward to joining party faithful to "share what's at stake in this election, and why VP Harris and running mate, Gov. Walz, should be elected.
Former first lady Michelle Obama is also scheduled to speak on Tuesday, setting up an Obama Day in their political backyard.
−Phillip M. Bailey
Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson opens Democratic convention
Chicago Mayor Brandon Johnson helped kick off the first night of the Democratic National Convention with a speech lauding Vice President Kamala Harris as he welcomed delegates to his city.
"As a Black man raising a little Black girl on the west side of Chicago, I know my daughter Braedyn will see not only a reflection of herself in the White House, but she will experience the deepest part of American values," Johnson said.
Johnson said Harris, "the daughter of a mom who worked hard every single day," will "look out" for the interests of everyday Americans.
"What will it take to build the middle class and make it easier for families to not only get by but to get ahead? It will take someone with toughness to stand up for us. And let me tell you, America, Kamala's got it," Johnson said.
− Melissa Brown
Hadley Duvall, abortion advocacy to take convention stage
Hadley Duvall, a 22-year-old abortion rights activist from Kentucky, will join other speakers on stage Monday with a personal story about abortion access.
As a surrogate for the Harris campaign, Duvall has previously told crowds her story of being sexually abused for years by her stepfather, becoming pregnant at 12 years old and seeking an abortion.
Her joint remarks are expected toward the end of the evening just ahead of Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear and President Joe Biden.
− Savannah Kuchar
DNC kicks off primetime speakers
Democratic National Committee Chairman Jaime Harrison and convention committee chair Minyon Moore kicked off opening remarks on day one of the convention.
Notable speakers for tonight will include Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, President Joe Biden and Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear.
− Sudiksha Kochi
Former Biden advisor says his speech will look to the Democratic Party's future
Anita Dunn, former senior advisor to President Joe Biden, told CNN’s Dana Bash Monday that the president’s speech will look “very much forward.”
“This is not a time for legacy. This is a time for arguing why Kamala Harris is the best candidate,” said Dunn.
“He’s making a strong case for why the choices voters made in 2020 was the right choice,” she added.
− Sudiksha Kochi
Biden to leave DNC for California wine country after speech
Joe Biden won’t be spending much time at this week’s Democratic National Convention in Chicago.
After passing the torch to Kamala Harris in his keynote address Monday night, Biden and first lady Jill Biden will travel to Santa Ynez, California to vacation in wine country.
That means the Bidens will not be at the United Center in Chicago to watch Harris accept the party’s nomination on Thursday. Biden returns to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware on Sunday
Democrats are expected to pay tribute to the five-decade political career of Biden on Monday night. Yet Harris has a delicate line to walk to honor the man who named her vice president yet distancing herself from Biden’s unpopular handling of inflation and the economy.
− Joey Garrison
No, it's not clear Taylor Swift and Beyoncé will make a convention appearance
You might have heard a rumor that two mega-stars – Taylor Swift and Beyoncé – are making appearances at the Democratic convention. While both have previously backed Democratic candidates, and Beyoncé gave Harris her approval to use her song "Freedom" on the campaign trail, it's not confirmed that they're making any kind of statement at the convention in Chicago.
Notably, Swift is on tour in the United Kingdom until at least Tuesday night.
More: Will Beyoncé and Taylor Swift make a DNC appearance in support of Kamala Harris? What we know
– Marina Pitofsky
Cast, where to watch and stream What time is the 'Love Island USA' Season 6 reunion?
Biden hits back after Trump criticism
Trump claimed at a rally on Saturday in Pennsylvania that Biden was ousted from the top of the Democratic ticket through a “coup.” That's not true. Biden dropped out of the presidential race last month after several Democratic lawmakers, donors and others in the party expressed concerns about the president since his dismal debate performance in June.
When asked about Trump’s claims Monday at the Democratic National Convention, Biden jabbed Trump's "stability" to CNN’s Kaitlan Collins.
– Sudiksha Kochi
Democratic convention (James Taylor's version)
Kicking off the first night of the Democratic convention is award-winning singer-songwriter James Taylor.
His performance comes before the night’s keynote speaker, President Joe Biden. Taylor and Biden have appeared together in the past, including at a fundraising event in December, when Biden was still running for reelection.
– Savannah Kuchar
Trump sticks to the script – mostly – in attacking Harris
Trump on Monday pretty much stuck to the issues when it came to critiquing Harris' economic policies, alleging they would lead to more inflation, higher taxes, less domestic energy production, and an over-regulated economy.
"Kamala puts America last - I put America first," Trump said during remarks at Precision Custom Components in York, Pennsylvania, the start of a week-long series of events counter-programming the Democratic convention.
Trump still found time to refer to his opponent as "Comrade Kamala," despite admonitions from fellow Republicans that he stick to the issues and avoid personal attacks. The former president also drifted off-topic to attack another prominent Democrat, President Joe Biden. He spoke at length about a House Republican impeachment report, though it seems unlikely the GOP will pursue a case against Biden now that he is out of the presidential race.
– David Jackson
Harris calls for raising corporate tax rate to 28%
Kamala Harris would propose raising the corporate tax rate from 21% to 28% if she’s elected president in November, her campaign said on Monday.
Harris campaign spokesperson James Singer said the tax increase would be aimed at putting money “back in the pockets of working people and ensure billionaires and big corporations pay their fair share."
The proposal follows a broader economic plan Harris laid out last week seeking to ban price gouging on food and groceries, lower prescription drug costs and aid first-time homebuyers, among other measures. Harris was asked by a reporter on Sunday about how she planned to pay for the tax credits and suggested at the time that they would pay for themselves.
As president, Trump reduced the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.
– Karissa Waddick and Francesca Chambers
Abortions at the DNC? Planned Parenthood bus providing no-cost service and vasectomies
Planned Parenthood has placed reproductive rights front and center at this year’s Democratic National Convention in Chicago and is offering free vasectomies, medication abortions and emergency contraceptives to attendees through its mobile health bus.
The Planned Parenthood Great Rivers of St. Louis announced on X that its bus will be in Chicago on Monday and Tuesday to provide these services, directly challenging the shifting landscape of reproductive rights in the United States since the last Democratic convention, after the U.S. Supreme Court voted to overturn Roe v Wade in 2022.
– Brandi D. Addison
John Fetterman is skipping the DNC. Here’s why
Sen. John Fetterman, D-Pa., told The Free Press that he is skipping the Democratic National Convention, dismissing speculation that it has to do with his pro-Israel stance.
“I’ve got three young kids, and they’re out of school,” he said. “That’s four days I can spend with my children.”
Fetterman has become one of his party’s most outspoken supporters of Israel since the Israel-Hamas war began in October last year. He’s on an island apart from his Democratic peers, who have struck a balance between supporting Israel’s interest in self defense and condemning the attacks on the Gaza Strip.
Fetterman told the Press that his decision to skip the convention was “made well before” the June 27 presidential debate between former President Donald Trump and President Joe Biden. Biden dropped out of the 2024 race following his dismal performance.
– Sudiksha Kochi and Riley Beggin
When is DNC 2024?
The DNC is scheduled to take place August 19 through August 22.
— Maya Homan
Retired Republican judge J. Michael Luttig endorses Kamala Harris
Retired federal appeals court Judge J. Michael Luttig, a prominent conservative, endorsed Harris for president, CNN first reported.
“In the presidential election of 2024 there is only one political party and one candidate for the presidency that can claim the mantle of defender and protector of America’s Democracy, the Constitution, and the Rule of Law,” Luttig wrote in a statement obtained by CNN. “As a result, I will unhesitatingly vote for the Democratic Party’s candidate for the Presidency of the United States, Vice President of the United States, Kamala Harris.”
Luttig added in the statement that because of Trump’s continued denial of the 2020 election results, “millions of Americans no longer have faith and confidence in our national elections, and many never will again.”
– Sudiksha Kochi
More: Republican-appointed jurist Michael Luttig endorses Harris, citing Trump democracy threat
Pro-Palestinian delegates say Kamala Harris' election chances tied to Israel arms embargo
A group of uncommitted delegates to the Democratic National Convention and their allies warned Vice President Kamala Harris Monday that her chances of winning the presidential election are still threatened by her failure to embrace calls for an arms embargo and immediate Israeli cease-fire in Gaza.
They also could not guarantee an absence of disruptions inside the convention hall this week.
Ultimately, only about 30 delegates out of 4,995 – less than 1% – were seated as being uncommitted, representing a handful of states.
But since President Joe Biden ended his reelection effort and Harris secured the votes to become the Democratic nominee late last month, the uncommitted delegates and their allies have been lining up Harris delegates to declare themselves cease-fire delegates and demanding they be given time and space to be heard this week.
Read more about how the Israel-Hamas war is playing out at the convention.
— Todd Spangler and Clara Hendrickson
AOC, Bernie Sanders set to take the stage at the DNC
U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., will speak on Monday night at the Democratic convention along with other Democratic rising stars, including Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear, Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro and Georgia Sen. Raphael Warnock.
Ocasio-Cortez will speak at 8 p.m. CT/9p.m. ET.
Her fellow progressive, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, is slated to address the convention on Tuesday night at 8:30 p.m. CT/9:30 p.m. ET. Sanders’ is expected to focus his message on the economy and removing money from politics.
— Karissa Waddick
JD Vance doesn't want to talk about the polls (especially this week)
Donald Trump usually loves to talk about polls — at least the ones with good numbers for him — but running mate JD Vance is more reticent on the subject.
Especially now that Kamala Harris is moving up in a number of surveys.
During a campaign event Monday in Philadelphia, Vance demurred when asked about polls that show a statistical tie in the pivotal state of Pennsylvania, a month after surveys had given Trump leads of around 4.5 percentage points over President Joe Biden.
"Our job is to win the trust of the American voters, not public opinion polls," Vance said.
Many Trump officials believe Harris will get a bounce in the polls during her convention this week; they are doing what they can to minimize it.
— David Jackson
Protest groups hit Chicago streets for Democratic National Convention demonstration
A day of demonstrations and marches is underway as delegates to the Democratic National Convention formally begin meeting Monday, with organizers of one group saying they hoped to stage one of the largest anti-Gaza war marches seen nationally.
Hundreds of people began gathered at Union Park early Monday, a half mile from the convention hall, before planning to march several miles along nearby streets. They had not yet begun marching as of 11 a.m. Central Time. Demonstrators playing music and periodically chanted "free, free Palestine" as they assembled.
By noon local time, the crowd had swelled to about 1,000 people.
Read more on the Monday demonstrations.
— Trevor Hughes, Michael Loria and Tamia Fowlkes
Tim Walz surprises Democrats on first day of Democratic National Convention
A convention hall burst into gasps and cheers as vice-presidential candidate Tim Walz took the stage in a surprise visit to the Democratic National Committee’s Hispanic Caucus meeting Monday morning.
It was one of a series of unannounced appearances Walz made in an effort to rally attendees as the convention kicked off its first day of activities. He also stopped by a meeting of the Black Caucus and the Wisconsin and Pennsylvania delegation breakfasts meeting Monday.
Walz touted the positive energy and joy he’s feeling out on the campaign trail since he joined Harris on the party's presidential ticket and he pushed those in attendance to keep working to get Democrats elected this fall.
“This is challenging work. This is hard. There's a lot at stake,” he told the Hispanic Caucus as attendees swarmed closer to the stage to take pictures and video. “But that's no different than a lot of people live their lives. It can be challenging and hard, but you can do it with a sense of optimism and, what (Harris) is doing, with a sense of joy, with a sense of joy. To smile.”
“(Republicans) are on her because she laughs,” Walz scoffed. “My God, I'll take someone who laughs any damn day of the week.”
— Brianne Pfannenstiel
1968 Democratic National Convention protests in Chicago
In the lead up to this year's Democratic convention — particularly before President Joe Biden exited the race — 2024 felt a lot like 1968.
Anti-war protests. A divided Democratic Party. An unpopular candidate.
Flashbacks of bloody clashes between police and anti-Vietnam War demonstrators outside the Democratic National Convention in Chicago during that chaotic summer weighed heavily on the minds of Democrats earlier this year.
Read more on similarities and differences between 2024 and 1968.
— Michael Collins, David Jackson and Michael Loria
Shapiro says his Jewish faith didn’t factor into VP discussions
Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro refuted former President Donald Trump’s claims that he was not chosen as the Democratic vice-presidential nominee because of his Jewish faith.
“Antisemitism played absolutely no role in my dialogue with the vice president,” Shapiro told the media after delivering remarks to the Pennsylvania Delegation at the Democratic convention Monday morning.
“He’s trying to use me and he’s trying to use other Jews to divide Americans further,” Shapiro said. “He is the least credible person when it comes to standing up against hatred and bigotry.”
— Karissa Waddick
Memories of talk show politics: Phil Donahue dies at 88
Followers of this week's Democratic convention may want to pause and reflect on the death of a fairly influential political figure: Television talk show host Phil Donahue.
In the spring of 1992, as then-Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton marched toward the Democratic presidential nomination, he included afternoon television talk shows in his media strategy, including a contentious interview with Donahue.
The high-rated afternoon host peppered Clinton with questions about "character issues," drawing bo

Load-Date: August 20, 2024


End of Document
