




Skin & Allergy News
January 2007


Copyright 2007 Elsevier Inc., International Medical News Group All Rights Reserved
Section: Pg. 48; Vol. 38; No. 1; ISSN: 0037-6337
Length: 704 words
Byline: Michele G. Sullivan, Mid-Atlantic Bureau
Body


PHILADELPHIA - For women with semen allergy, the cure may be simply more of the same.
        
"Women can be successfully desensitized, but to maintain the desensitization, they need frequent exposure to their partners' semen," Dr. David Resnick said at the annual meeting of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology. "Husbands usually give me an extra bonus when I tell them that the wife needs to have unprotected sex with him at least twice a week after being desensitized."
    
Semen allergy is a rare-but very real-disorder that causes embarrassment and anxiety in addition to potentially serious systemic allergic reactions, said Dr. Resnick of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, New York. Prevalence is unknown; there are about 80 case reports in the literature.
    
A 1997 study addressed prevalence in a symptomatic population. Of 1,073 women evaluated for semen allergy, 130 (12%) tested positive (Ann. Allergy Asthma Immunol. 1997;78:54–8).
    
Only 30% of women present with solely localized reactions; 70% present with systemic symptoms, and of those, more than 50% also have localized reactions. Local reactions can include burning, pruritus, erythema, blistering, or edema of the vulva or any other area of contact. Systemic reactions can include everything from hives to anaphylaxis.
    
Symptoms must be temporally related to unprotected intercourse, and must not occur when the partner uses a condom. Reactions typically occur upon a woman's first exposure to semen but may occur after a long hiatus from sexual activity. A few women have developed the allergy after their partners underwent urologic surgery such as a vasectomy or prostatectomy. There are even cases of women allergic to specific foods or medicines who develop a semen allergy after their partners have ingested those particular substances.
    
Eliciting a description of symptoms can be difficult, Dr. Resnick warned. He described a young woman who complained of itching and rash when going to the bathroom. It took some targeted questioning to discover that the skin reaction occurred when semen dripped onto her thigh during her postcoital trip to the toilet.
    
Although many cases describe women who required emergency department treatment, there are no reported fatalities related to anaphylaxis, he said. The differential diagnosis includes latex allergies (condom or diaphragm), reactions to lubricants or spermicides, sexually transmitted diseases, and other vulvar infections, including allergic candida vulvovaginitis. Patch or prick testing with the partner's semen will confirm the diagnosis.
    
Treatment consists of desensitization followed by "maintenance therapy" of regular exposure, Dr. Resnick said. "In most cases of allergy, avoidance is usually our first-line therapy, but in these cases abstinence is usually not an option. And many couples don't find condom use acceptable, especially if they are trying to conceive."
    
Antihistamines and topical mast cell stabilizers have been tried with varying success, he said. The best option is to attempt desensitization, usually with intravaginal seminal graded challenge. Because of the possibility of severe reaction, this procedure must be performed in a setting capable of handling anaphylactic shock.
    
A fresh semen specimen is diluted in fractions of 1:10, 1:100, and 1:1,000; some very allergic patients may need to begin at a dilution of 1:10,000. Every 20 minutes, 2 mL of the sample dilution is placed intravaginally, beginning with the most dilute specimen, until 2 mL of undiluted semen are placed. "If successful, the patients need to have unprotected intercourse at least twice a week to maintain the desensitization," Dr. Resnick said. Patients who are frequently separated from their partners by travel can be taught to self-administer semen that has been refrigerated or frozen. The duration of protection offered by intravaginal challenge is unknown.
    
Semen allergy doesn't impact fertility, he said. But women with intractable semen allergy who wish to conceive may need to use assisted reproductive technology.
    
Patients should receive a prescription for self-injectable epinephrine in case of anaphylactic shock, Dr. Resnick stressed.
   

Load-Date: July 31, 2009


End of Document
