




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
June 24, 2024 Monday


Copyright 2024 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 409 words
Body


DNA Diagnostics Center (DDC), a global leader in consumer testing services, and part of the global network of Eurofins laboratories, announces its collaboration with Contraline, a clinical-stage medical device company specializing in reproductive health innovation, in their first of a kind clinical trial for ADAMTM, an investigational male contraceptive device.
ADAMTM represents a significant advancement in male contraception. It involves injecting a proprietary hydrogel into the vas deferens, providing long-lasting and non-hormonal contraception for male patients. ADAMTM occludes sperm transport within the vas deferens, similar to a vasectomy, however, is designed to be non-permanent and easier to reverse. This innovative approach aims to offer men an alternative to traditional contraceptive methods such as condoms and vasectomy.Contraline's ADAMTM Study, a First-in-Human trial conducted in Australia, has fully enrolled 25 patients into the study and is now focusing on monitoring the long-term safety and efficacy of the device.
Contraline received approval from the Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC) to integrate DDCs SpermCheck Vasectomy into the ADAMTM Study protocol. SpermCheck Vasectomy is an accurate and convenient at-home test kit designed to confirm the success of vasectomy procedures by detecting the presence of sperm in semen samples. SpermCheck Vasectomy is a leading male fertility brand in the US, with over one million units sold, and is currently an investigational device in Australia.
SpermCheck Vasectomy will be utilized by patients implanted with ADAMTM to monitor the effectiveness of the male contraceptive in real-time. By offering a user-friendly and accessible solution for monitoring sperm presence, SpermCheck Vasectomy enhances the convenience and reliability of ADAMTM as a male contraceptive option.
Kevin Eisenfrats, co-founder & CEO of Contraline, remarked, We are excited to integrate SpermCheck Vasectomy into the trial. Its a natural fit to combine an at-home diagnostic like SpermCheck Vasectomy with a male contraceptive like ADAMTM because it will offer patients the ability to know whether ADAMTM is working from the privacy of their own home. We are excited to be collaborating with DNA Diagnostics Center to make this happen.
Both DNA Diagnostics Center and Contraline are dedicated to advancing the field of male contraception and improving reproductive health outcomes for individuals worldwide.

Load-Date: June 24, 2024


End of Document
