





Anchorage Daily News (Alaska)
March 6, 2003 Thursday, FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2003 Anchorage Daily News
Section: METRO; Pg. B1; Staff
Length: 654 words
Byline: By Sheila Toomey, Anchorage Daily News
Body


Sperm found in the body of murder victim Della Brown did not come from Joshua Wade, a DNA specialist from the state crime lab testified Wednesday.
And the blood splattered around the abandoned Spenard shed where Brown was killed belonged to her, not Wade, Dr. Abirami Chidambaram told jurors at Wade's trial on charges that he raped and killed Brown.
A pubic hair found inside Brown at autopsy also did not come from Wade or Brown, said Kristen Denning, a second state criminalist called to the stand Wednesday by the prosecution.
TX: In fact, according to trial testimony so far, forensic experts found no trace at all of Wade in or around the shed where Brown died.
Brown's body was found Sept. 2, 2000. She had been beaten to death a day or two before police were called to the scene. The state charged Wade based on statements he made to other people, some of them captured on tape but most of them not.
While the elimination of Wade as the source of the blood, hair and semen was strong evidence for the defense, other DNA results cut against their theories about who should have been investigated in Brown's death.
Chidambaram testified that the sperm did not come from Gregory Poindexter, a serial rapist operating in town when Brown was murdered. In opening statements back in January, defense attorney Cindy Strout offered Poindexter as a more likely suspect than Wade.
Denning also eliminated Poindexter as the source of the pubic hair. Poindexter is black and the hair probably came from a white person, Denning said.
Prosecutors asked the state lab to compare the sperm found in Brown to DNA from the main witnesses against Wade, a collection of young men who were hanging out with Wade at a local garage around the time Brown died. They have testified that he admitted the murder and showed some of them the body.
According to Chidambaram, DNA test results eliminated all of them as possible sources of the sperm, including Timothy Beckett, Danny Troxel and Johathan McCune, all of whom the defense has suggested as better suspects than their client.
Denning said she was not asked to compare the hair to this group.
Although science can eliminate specific men as sources of the sperm, it cannot say with certainty that none of them assaulted Brown. Rape can happen and leave no DNA trace, Chidambaram said. Rapists can have a vasectomy, use a condom, have a low sperm count or fail to ejaculate, she said.
So who is the source of the mystery sperm? Right now, science can't say. The crime lab ran the mystery DNA pattern through CODIS, the national DNA data bank that includes patterns from convicted criminals and from unsolved crimes. They found no match, Chidambaram said.
Prosecutors argue that Brown had consensual sex with an unknown man before Wade raped her and that no trace of Wade was found because he used a condom.
Police did not find a condom at the crime scene.
The day ended with Rudy D'Apice, Brown's boyfriend at the time of her death, on the witness stand. He admitted he hit Brown, especially when both had been drinking. She was a belligerent drunk, he said.
Their combative relationship and his conviction for assaulting Brown make him another likely candidate for the real killer, the defense says.
DNA tests eliminated D'Apice as the source of the sperm.
D'Apice testified that he and Brown had been together for three years when she died. They got into fights, "like most couples," he told jurors.
D'Apice said he was convicted of assaulting Brown after she threw a bowl of soup at him. Actually, he only pushed her in the face -- "just a natural reaction" -- he said, then slapped her a few times as she lay on the carpet.
Unfortunately, his "push" was hard enough to bang up Brown's face and drive one of her teeth through her lip, he admitted.
The trial continues today. The state is expected to rest its case Monday or Tuesday.
Reporter Sheila Toomey can be reached at  or 907-257-4341.  

Load-Date: March 6, 2003


End of Document
