




Ka Lee O Hawaii: University of Hawaii-Manoa
September 8, 2014 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2014 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 529 words
Body


With the Republican Party's "war on women" coming down on reproductive rights, it is no surprise that students, including those at the University of Hawai'i at Manoa, aren't aware of all the options they have for contraception.
HOBBY LOBBY
If you're not convinced of the existence of a "war on women" and their rights to control what they do with their bodies, you may have missed all the media coverage of the Supreme Court's decision in the Hobby Lobby case earlier this year - not to mention hundreds of other legislation.
Five men of the Supreme Court decided an employer - in this case the Hobby Lobby - could refuse to cover contraceptives for women. The decision meant that the Hobby Lobby had the right to force their religious beliefs on the hundreds of women who they employ.
Contrary to the beliefs of libertarians and right-wingers, the issue at hand is not the risk of our government becoming a "nanny" state, nor is it a threat to religious freedoms. It is about robbing women of their right to make their own decisions about their bodies and futures.
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote in a scathing dissent, "Contraceptive protection is something every woman must have access to, to control her own destiny." 
TYPES OF CONTRACEPTION
Most of the students interviewed on this topic could name only two to four methods of contraception, one named six, and Simon - who is from Australia where health coverage is much more advanced than the U.S. - was able to name eight.
There are around 20 different types of birth control: abstinence, the arm implant, the patch, the pill, the shot, the sponge, the ring, breastfeeding as birth control, the cervical cap, condoms, the diaphragm, female condoms, fertility awareness based methods, the IUD, the morning-after pill, outercourse, spermicide, sterilization for women, the vasectomy and withdrawal.
Abstinence is the most unrealistic of the group, as sex is a natural and inevitable part of humans - except for those who identify as asexual. The pill, IUDs, condoms and the morning-after pill are the most convenient. For those who want more long-term contraception, the implant, the shot and the ring are the best options. 
Withdrawal, also known as the pull-out method, can be up to 85 percent effective when done correctly. However, both sexual partners must be in agreement to use this method and fully aware of the risks in order for it to be a healthy decision.
Most of these methods of birth control can be found at a Planned Parenthood clinic. Planned Parenthood, as mentioned in the history of birth control, is a great resource for information and services regarding birth control and general information about issues surrounding sex. I encourage anyone with questions about sex or birth control to visit  her nearest Planned Parenthood clinic or visit its website.
To all the birth control users out there, be informed of your rights. Have no shame for your sexuality or your desire to have absolute control over your bodies and your futures. Most importantly, know that you're not alone in the alienation that women must undergo to simply protect what is rightfully theirs - what is rightfully ours.

Load-Date: September 8, 2014


End of Document
