




The Daily Caller
November 9, 2023 Thursday 11:47 PM EST


Copyright 2023 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: WORLD
Length: 300 words
Byline: Alexander Pease, Contributor, 
Body



A doctor from India performing surgery angrily walked out mid-operation Nov. 3 because his staff would not serve him tea, according to NDTV.
The incident happened at the local health center of Mauda tehsil of Nagpur, a government-owned hospital located in central India. The doctor, Tejrang Bhalavi, asked his subordinates for a cup of  mid-surgery and then left the operation room, leaving his series of surgical obligations for the day behind, according to .
 India: Doctor goes on four-hour tea break after sedating four patients in operation theatre
 READ:  
 - WION (@WIONews) 
Dr. Bhalavi had performed half of the female vasectomy surgeries he was expected to that day, the outlet noted. 
 Vasectomy is a reliable form of birth control for men and doesn't affect their hormonal levels. Follow us to know how we're driving more male participation in family planning.  
 - Gates Foundation India (@BMGFIndia) 
Nagpur Zilla Parishad's CEO Soumya Sharma stated an investigation has been opened into the incident. 
Sharma stated after the review is complete, “action will be taken against them,” the outlet noted. “This is a very serious matter. If doctors are leaving such operations for the sake of tea, then action should be taken against such doctors under 304 of IPC,” Sharma concluded.
In light of the unexpected absence, hospital administrators reached out to the district medical officer for some kind of aid, and another doctor was sent in to finish the jobs, per NDTV.

Graphic

 
TOPSHOT - ENT specialist Dr. Brajpal Singh Tyagi (L) performs a surgery to remove black fungus (Mucormycosis) from a patient who recovered from the Covid-19 coronavirus at a hospital in Ghaziabad on June 1, 2021. (Photo by Prakash SINGH / AFP) (Photo by PRAKASH SINGH/AFP via Getty Images)

Load-Date: November 9, 2023


End of Document
