




Newstex Blogs
ReleaseWire
June 1, 2015 Monday 12:10 PM EST


Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 796 words
Body


Jun 01, 2015( ReleaseWire: / Delivered by Newstex)  Laguna Hills, CA -- (ReleaseWire) -- 06/01/2015 -- All around the United States, medical practitioners and professionals look to the American Medical Association (AMA) for guidance and guidelines for best practices related to the healthcare. On June 6, 2015, the AMA House of Delegates, a body of individuals that serve as the primary policy-makers for the AMA, will hold their annual meeting. 
Dr. Aaron Spitz, lead practitioner at Vasectomy Reversal USA[1] and Orange County Urology Associates in Orange County, California, will be representing urology as a whole during the event. Amidst the United States' advancement into the new millennium, a doctor shortage quietly approaches. It is of the utmost importance that the American Medical Association does everything in their power to not only protect current medical practitioners, but also to add some incentive to bring new doctors into the field. Recently, with the repeal of the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula for Medicare payments, the AMA has made steps towards doing just that.The AMA House of Delegates played a heavy hand in the new law passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. The House coined it "The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act," and it was adopted in a crushing vote of 92-8. The Act was brought to a vote following a 21% percent cut to physician's Medicare payments that is slated to take place during 2015. According to the AMA, several changes are in the works through the passing of this Act, dubbed the "Doc Fix." Medicare's programs currently being used to measure quality and delivery of care will be replaced. The new system is referred to as the "Merit-Based Incentive Payment System," called MIPS by some. The system would reduce financial penalties faced by physicians working with Medicare patients, and will offer benefits for physicians using alternative payment methods and models, as well as a long list of guidelines set by the AMA. Additionally, the Act sets apart the standard of care set for Medicare patients versus non-Medicare funded ones. This was done so that legal disputes regarding medical liability and malpractice cannot use Medicare's standards of care as part of their measurements during litigation.Dr. Aaron Spitz is considered by many to be amongst the leading urologists in California, and even nationwide. With many years of caring for patients with a wide range of urological difficulties and ailments, Dr. Spitz is fit to represent urology as a whole. He can be found on multiple television shows including "The Doctors" and "Dr. Phil." During the AMA House of Delegates meeting in June 2015, Dr. Spitz will ensure that urology has their voice amongst the hundreds of representatives that will be present. For more information on Dr. Aaron Spitz, Orange County Urology Associates and/or Vasectomy Reversal USA[2], contact them today to request complimentary consultation. Reach them by phone toll-free nationwide at 800.352.2956. For more information on the American Medical Association, their Chicago, Illinois headquarters can be reached nationwide at 800.621.8335, or they can be found at [3]. About Vasectomy Reversal USALed by Dr. Aaron Spitz, with offices in both Laguna Hills and Irvine, California, Vasectomy Reversal USA helps men from all over the United States by providing the most effective microsurgical vasectomy reversal procedures. The success rates are among the highest in the country due to ongoing refinements of the most advanced microsurgical techniques as well as comprehensive male fertility care. Vasectomy Reversal USA provides personalized service, renowned clinical expertise, and a caring team that has helped many men overcome infertility and other urologic conditions, allowing men to confidently achieve their goals of fatherhood again.For more information, please visit            /[4].For more information on this press release visit:            [5] Media Relations Contact Timothy A. Zenno Email: Click to Email Timothy A. Zenno[6] Web:            /[7] [ 1]:            / [ 2]:            / [ 3]:             [ 4]:            / [ 5]:             [ 6]:             [ 7]:            / 

Load-Date: June 1, 2015


End of Document
