




Defense Department Documents and Publications
June 29, 2010


Copyright 2010 Federal Information and News Dispatch, Inc.
Section: U.S. NAVY RELEASES
Length: 466 words
Byline: By Mass Communication Specialist 1st Class (SW/AW) Andrew McCord, USS Wasp (LHD 1) Public Affairs
Body


USS WASP, At Sea (NNS) -- Sailors now have an opportunity to undergo elective medical procedures aboard amphibious assault ship USS Wasp (LHD 1).
Lt. Cmdr. Jason Longwell, a flight surgeon attached to Helicopter Sea Combat Squadron (HSC) 28 "Sea Knights," is on board as part of a search and rescue detachment.
"When I got on board [the senior medical officer] asked if I would be willing to do these sorts of surgeries," said Longwell. "I do vasectomies in Portsmouth, and they're in pretty high demand with a nine- to 10-month waiting list. I have operating room space here, I have time, so I thought I'd do it."
Patients who undergo a vasectomy can expect to be sick in quarters for 48 hours, and to be on light-limited duty for two weeks, not necessarily because of the pain, but because lifting or excessive movement could upset or undo some of the surgery.
"I was a little nervous when I went in, but the staff really worked to relax me -- they did a great job," said Cryptologic Technician (Collection) 1st Class (SW/AW) Willie Mitchell, Wasp's indoctrination coordinator, who underwent the procedure June 26. "It was the right time, and I'd been discussing it with my wife, so when I saw that there were clinics, I signed up. And there haven't been any setbacks. I'd tell anyone to go for it if that's what they wanted to do."
Along with the vasectomies, Longwell is also removing skin lesions such as lipomas (non-cancerous fatty tumors), cysts and moles.
"It's basically a 'lumps and bumps clinic,'" said Longwell. "It's mostly cosmetic for bumps that are getting in the way, like if it's bothering someone with the equipment they wear, or if it's getting in the way of their shaving. We send [the excised lesions] to pathology regardless to make sure that they're not malignant. Sometimes it's peace of mind, or cosmetic, or just because [the bump] is an annoyance."
Longwell expressed confidence in the clinic and commended the Wasp support staff for their professionalism and capability during the procedures performed to this point.
"We've got a good support staff -- great corpsmen," said Longwell. "They're adapting. It's good training for them, and they're exercising skill sets they don't normally get to use."
Hospital Corpsman 3rd Class Julio Guardadorubio, who holds the Navy enlisted classification for surgical technician, noted that patient comfort was equally important as surgical success.
"We want the patient to feel as comfortable as possible, so we take our time and dedicate it to the patient's comfort," said Guardadorubio. "When people come in for surgeries, you can see it in their eyes that they're concerned, and you have to try to calm them down. So we give them a safe, comfortable environment. It's me and the surgeon. We've got it. They can just lay back and relax."

Load-Date: June 30, 2010


End of Document
