




The Daily Vidette: Illinois State University
April 13, 2017 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2017 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 607 words
Byline: Stephanie Rodriguez | Vidette News Reporter STEPHANIE RODRIGUEZ | News Reporter | @StephanieRoddd Stephanie Rodriguez | Vidette News Reporter
Body


In celebration of National Library Week, the Bloomington Public Library brought New York Times bestselling author Erik Larson to the twin-cities to talk about his book "The Devil in the White City."
People from all over town filled the Bloomington Center for the Performing Arts Wednesday night for a chance to hear Larson talk about his book and to get his John Hancock on their favorite Larson written piece.
There was a sold-out reception before Larson's author presentation in which he spoke about the research and writing process for "The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America" and answered readers' questions about the book.
The book, first published in 2003, focuses on the 1893 World's Fair in Chicago and H. H. Holmes, a serial killer who used the fair to lure his unsuspecting victims.
Larson said that he does not consider himself a historian, but rather a person who wants to transport readers into a different era.
"I like to do history; I try to bring history alive. I really love a certain kind of history, people like to refer to it as narrative history I don't have a label for it but it's something that I love to do," Larson said.
"I think to think of myself as an animator history, that's not to say that I'm making anything up-I'm not. If you want to use my book in you PhD pieces if you want, go right ahead. But as paradoxical as this may sound, it is not my goal to inform it is rather my goal to create as rich a historical experience as I possibly can," he added.
Staying on the topic of him being a journalist, not a historian or educator, who went from writing short articles to one who wanted to write books, Larson described to the audience who he imagines reading his books as he writes them.
"My ideal reader is somebody who gets one of my books, goes home and maybe there's a storm outside or foul weather and it's a great night for reading," Larson said. "They settle in with my book with a glass of brandy, put your feet up on your dog or your spouse, depending on what your circumstance is. You start reading and you emerge from the book at 4 a.m. with a sense of having lived in the past. My goal is to create that historical experience."
Larson kept the night light by cracking jokes from topics like Sean Spicer being the White House Easter bunny to revealing he would rather have a vasectomy without anesthetic than hear another writer read his or her own work.
The latter came after he jokingly said he was going to do a small reading of 18 pages from his book, to which the audience cracked up.
After his presentation, there was a question and answer portion in which the prospects of a "Devil in the White City" movie came up.
Though actor Leonardo DiCaprio purchased the rights to the film in 2010 and is interested in playing H. H. Holmes, Larson said he does not know much about what is happening with the production of the movie.
"I try to stay out of Hollywood matters because my attitude is these guys know what they're doing. I'm not a film guy," Larson said. "My attitude is, I believe Tom Wolf said it, 'So when you're dealing with Hollywood, the best thing to do is bring your book to the fence pass it over, take the bag of money and run,' so that's what I endorse."
Other well-known Larson titles include "Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History," "Dead Wake: The Last Crossing of the Lusitania" and "In the Garden of Beasts: Love, Terror, and an American Family in Hitler's Berlin."
?STEPHANIE RODRIGUEZ is a news reporter for The Vidette. Contact her at  Follow her on Twitter @StephanieRoddd.

Load-Date: April 13, 2017


End of Document
