




Business Insider
November 9, 2023 Thursday 10:20 AM EST


Copyright 2023 Insider Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 7264 words
Byline: aadekaiyero@insider.com (Ayomikun Adekaiyero)
Highlight: Nick Cannon has 12 children with six different women including Mariah Carey and "Selling Sunset" star Bre Tiesi.
Body


Nick Cannon has 12 children with six women, including Mariah Carey and Bre Tiesi.
Nine of the star's children were born in a two-year timeframe.
Here is everything the entertainer has said about his children.
Cannon said that his 2-month-old twins were developing personalities in 2011.Nick Cannon and Mariah Carey with their twin children Monroe and Moroccan.
Rich Polk/FilmMagic
Cannon's eldest children, twins Monroe and Moroccan Scott, were born on April 30, 2011. In June of the same year, Cannon told  that the twins, whose mother is Grammy Award-winning singer Mariah Carey, were already developing personalities.
"My son is laid back like me," he said. "My daughter's a diva like her mom!"
He continued: "When my daughter wants something, she'll let you know immediately. With [our son], you kind of feed him when you get around to it, and he's okay with that."
Cannon said that he wants his kids to "grow up helping others" in 2012.Actor Nick Cannon attends the 'Chi-Raq' photocall during the 66th Berlinale International Film Festival Berlin at Grand Hyatt Hotel in Berlin, Germany.
Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images
During an interview with , Cannon said of his twins, who were 17 months old at the time: "I want my kids to understand that every child isn't as fortunate as they are.
"I want [them] to grow up helping others. I was raised by my grandmother. We were low-income, but she was always taking in foster kids. She would help anyone, and it was a good lesson for me growing up."
The comedian also revealed that his children really like technology.
"My son was playing with [my laptop] and he broke it," he said. "My kids are already attracted to technology. They want to touch it; they're always reaching for it. They love my iPad. That's their generation; they love computers. So it'll be important as they grow older to know what they're doing online, to keep them safe."
In 2013, Cannon made jokes in interviews about punishing his twins.Nick Cannon and Mariah Carey with their children.
FilmMagic/FilmMagic
In March 2013, the "Masked Singer" host made several jokes about hitting his children if they acted out.
He told  that in preparation for his kids turning two in April: "I got my belt out already! It's ready."
He later told : "[Carey] doesn't need to handle" the corporal punishment, because "that's what daddies are for."
In 2014, Cannon said he doesn't want his kids to be in showbusiness.Nick Cannon at the ForbesBLK Summit in Atlanta, Georgia.
Paras Griffin/WireImage
During an interview on  in July 2014, Cannon said he didn't want his children to follow in their parents' footsteps.
"I actually don't want them to be in the business, but I understand that people have fallen in love with them and [they have] fans and stuff," he said.
However, the "Wild 'n Out" star seems to have changed his opinion on this. In 2021, at the age of 10, Monroe made her modeling debut in an advert for children's clothing company 
In the ad, she portrayed her mother Carey, and replicated the style for the singer's 1990 music video for  in which Carey wore a pair of OshKosh jeans.
Cannon shared the video on his Instagram page with the caption: "Proud Poppa!"
In May 2023, Cannon told  that he didn't want his children to become nepo babies.
"I'm hoping for a few athletes. I hope I can be that dad on the sidelines somewhere rooting for them. But, again, if they want to be accountants or equestrians, I don't care," he said.
Cannon added that success is bred from effort rather than connections in sports, which is why he prefers that path for his children.
"They can learn all of those cool principles through having fun with their friends," the comedian said.
Cannon referenced his children dealing with his divorce from Mariah Carey in his freestyle rap "Divorce Papers."Mariah Carey and Nick Cannon arrive at The Andre Agassi Charitable Foundation's 13th Annual Grand Slam at Wynn Las Vegas in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Denise Truscello/WireImage/Getty Images
Carey and Cannon filed for a divorce in 2014 but the separation was not finalized until .
In June 2016, Cannon dropped the freestyle rap song  which referenced parting ways with Carey as well as the reaction of his children.
In one part of the song, he rapped: "We single now but we really need to think about is how a child deals / How a child feels / Because we got two and they brilliant for real."
In 2016, Cannon said his eldest daughter, Monroe, is not allowed to date until she's 50.(L-R) Monroe Cannon, Nick Cannon, Mariah Carey, and Moroccan Cannon pose with Disney characters at Disneyland in Anaheim, California.
FilmMagic/Getty Images
In October 2016, when the twins were 5 years old, Cannon joked that his daughter, Monroe, was not allowed to date until she was 50.
"When she's 48 she can start dating, and that's still a little too young; I might make her wait till 50!" Cannon told  "My son, I hope he is dating now. I hope he has like three or four girlfriends."
Cannon also said during the interview that Monroe wanted to marry a close friend of the family.
"I'm like, 'What? You have him come talk to me immediately 'cause I don't even know why these conversations are happening.'" He said. "I'm actually gonna have to deal with this in reality one day, and I'm so scared."
Cannon defended his third son, Golden, from being called an "oops baby."Nick Cannon with Golden.
Robin L Marshall / Getty Images
In November 2016, Cannon confirmed he was having a , this time with Miss Arizona USA Brittany Bell. 
In December 2016, during his appearance on , he talked about his relationship with Bell and was asked if his third child was an accident.
"Never an 'oops baby.' I'm so calculated with my moves," he responded. "I've always wanted five kids."
He added: "Just because my marriage was over didn't mean I couldn't continue my family. I wanted to make sure it was someone who was solid, spiritual, and had the same views."
Golden Sagon Cannon was born in .
During Cannon's appearance on "The Wendy Williams Show" in December 2018, Williams called 1-year-old Golden "the oops baby."
Cannon laughed it off at the moment but later shared a  on Instagram of himself with the baby boy with the caption: "Got another Genius on my hands!!! The Golden Child! No oops over here @wendyshow LOL??️ My guy is brilliant! Reading at the age of 1!! #Genius."
In 2018, Cannon said the eldest twins love to play with their brother Golden.Entertainer Nick Cannon poses for photos at LEGOLAND California in Carlsbad, California.
Daniel Knighton / Getty Images
In an interview with , Cannon said of the twins' interaction with Golden: "They love him. Any chance they get an opportunity to play with him, they're all over him. The holidays were fun watching him crawl and try to take his first steps and watching his siblings try to help him walk around. It was a lot of fun."
He also told  that the twins understand the responsibility of being older siblings.
"They love hanging out with him, and it is almost like they are more concerned about him having fun than them having fun," the rapper explained. "They are always trying to make them laugh, and he is walking now, so they are trying to get him all the toys."
Cannon added: "They understand that they can teach him things, so it is really cool."
Cannon said he doesn't like the term "co-parent."Nick Cannon.
Rich Fury/Invision/AP
Cannon told  in January 2018: "It's funny when they say 'co-parenting' - that phrase is a little redundant. You can't co-parent, you have to parent, and that's what we do well because when it comes to our children, we're selfless individuals - they're first."
Cannon said that his children "fear the police."Cannon, Carey, and their children.
Jon Kopaloff / Getty Images
In the wake of the death of George Floyd in 2020, Cannon spoke about having to teach his children about what to do when they encounter law enforcement in an interview with 
"My children fear police," the musician admitted. "I try to teach fearlessness. I try to teach, 'You have a power within you that you need to fear nothing.' But when they see the energy of law enforcement, 'Uh oh, here comes the police.' Or that mindset of sit up straight and, 'Don't talk, keep your hands where they can see them.'"
Cannon added that law enforcement creates more fear.
He said: "It's something that is hurtful to have those conversations with your children, but you want to protect them at the end of the day."
Cannon said that his son, Morrocan, called him "a player."Nick Cannon and Moroccan.
David Livingston / Getty Images
In February 2020, Cannon spoke to  about how he no longer believes in marriage.
During the interview, he said: "It's the funniest thing, my kids call me a player. I was like, 'Who taught you that word? Who's been talking to you?' And [Moroccan's] like, 'Dad, you can't be a player forever.' I'm like, this is the worst."  
 
 
Nick Cannon said that his seven kids were "no accident."Nick Cannon visits SiriusXM's 'The Howard Stern Show' at SiriusXM Studios in Los Angeles, California.
Emma McIntyre/Getty Images for SiriusXM
Between December 2020 and June 2021, Cannon had four more children with three different women, including Powerful Queen with Bell, twins Zion Mixolydian and Zillion Heir with DJ Abby De La Rosa, and Zen with model Alyssa Scott.
After being urged by guests on his  Los Angeles radio show to use protection following Zen's birth, Cannon said: "I am having these kids on purpose."
The comedian then said: "I don't have no accident. Trust me there's a lot of people that I could've gotten pregnant that I didn't. The ones that got pregnant are the ones that were supposed to get pregnant."
In August 2021, Cannon also said that he isn't  when asked about his  on .
The "Wild 'n Out" host added: "Those women, and all women, are the ones that open themselves up to say, 'I would like to allow this man in my world and I will birth this child.' So it ain't my decision, I'm just following suit."
Cannon continued: "They know how I feel. I'm not going around like, 'Who am I gonna impregnate next?' ... The woman is always the one who leads and makes the decision."
In October 2021, Cannon said he was going to be celibate until 2022.Nick Cannon and Mother Nature on "Masked Singer."
Michael Becker/FOX
In September 2021, Cannon told  that his therapist told him to consider soon after the birth of his seventh child.
During the interview, he said he wasn't sure if he agreed with the advice but a week later, Cannon said on  that he will try to be 
Cannon said: "I'm kind of stepping away, getting focused, going within, getting my celibacy on. I have enough children, enough frolicking, I'm good right now."
In his interview with Entertainment Tonight, Cannon also said that he was spending a lot of his free time with his children.
"They get my full attention when I'm not working," Cannon said of his kids. "And that's the beauty of it because it kind of keeps me out of trouble. It's either work or playing with my kids."
Nick Cannon has always said he wants a big family.Nick Cannon on his talk show.
The Nick Cannon Show/Debmar-Mercury
In an interview with  in 2016, in the midst of his divorce from Carey, Cannon admitted that he wanted more kids after the twins.
"I'm not against it. I talk about that all the time. I love children. Everybody knows that," the "America's Got Talent" host said. "Whether it's having more of my own, or adopting, whatever, I love that process. Kids kind of bring that vibrant side [out] of me so whenever I can be a part of that process I'm with it."
In September 2021, after having seven children with four different women, Cannon did not rule out having more children during an interview with 
"Think about it, you can't be like, 'No I'm done.' Like what if God says, 'No you not,'" Cannon said. "I come from a big family, I have several siblings, being raised in an unorthodox family by my grandparents at times, I've experienced such a wide range of upbringing that I have such a love and passion for kids and family. I want a big family too."
During a more recent interview on "The Dr. Oz Show" in November 2021, Cannon said that he didn't know how many kids he'd have. He then joked about having the 12 children since it's a biblical number.
He added that he can't answer if he'll have more kids because he is single and he doesn't know whether he'll fall in love again.
In December 2021, Cannon revealed his son Zen had died of brain cancer on his talk show.Nick Cannon attends the Fox Upfront in New York City.
Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images
In December 2021, Cannon revealed that his son Zen had  at five months old.
 later reported that Zen had been diagnosed with high-grade glioma, a rare and fast-growing tumor found in the brain and spinal cord, according to the .
"He was the most loving. We called him Z Chilling. He was always smiling. Always having the most beautiful spirit," the actor said of his son.
He later explained in an interview with  that he and Zen's mother, Alyssa Scott, decided not to treat the child with chemotherapy because they didn't want him to 
Cannon himself was  after being , an autoimmune disease that can lead to organ damage and inflammation.
"To see that happen to a 2-month-old, I didn't want that," he told People. "I didn't want him to suffer."
Nick Cannon got a tattoo of Zen as an angel following his death.Nick Cannon now has 12 children.
Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images
A week after Zen's death, Cannon said on his talk show that he got a tattoo in honor of his son. The tattoo depicts Zen as an angel.
"It was a lot of pain, but it was so well worth it," Cannon said. "I enjoyed every moment of the experience to forever have my son right here on my rib, right here on my side as my angel."
In January 2022, Cannon also posted a picture of himself with his children on Instagram in honor of Zen.
He wrote in the caption: "Still missing my little dude... His Spirit and brightness were soo strong #ZensLight 'To be absent from the body, is to be present with the Lord.' 2Corinthians 5:8 The whole family, We ALL miss you young King! Forever Our Angel!"
Cannon said that his daughter Monroe helped him deal with his son's death.Monroe Cannon, Nick Cannon, and Moroccan Cannon attend the "Natti Natasha & Nick Cannon host" Sugar Factory in Times Square in New York City.
John Nacion / Getty Images
In an interview with , Cannon talked about telling his children about 
He said that explaining his son's death to his oldest children - Moroccan, Monroe, and Golden - was difficult.
"We had a short time with a true angel," Cannon said. "My heart is shattered. I wish I could have done more, spent more time with him, taken more pictures. I wish I could have hugged him longer."
The rapper continued: "My daughter, really, she's so in tune and in line and wise beyond her years. I got a lot of therapists, but she's probably my best therapist. She keeps me in check. She's so pure and honest. To be 10, she asks some really strong and powerful questions. Really, it's just all out of love."
In 2022, Cannon said he was "affected" by what people said about his large family.Nick Cannon attends "The Masked Singer" FYC event at Westfield Century City in Los Angeles.
Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP
In January 2022, Cannon revealed that he is expecting an . He announced on his talk show that he and model Bre Tiesi were expecting a baby boy.
During the episode, he also opened up about the news surrounding his children.
"As everybody know, I got a lot of children, and I love them all sincerely," the rapper said. "I'm not impervious to, you know, hearing and reading what people say about me. It definitely affects me because I'm a human being."
He said it's difficult when people criticize him by calling him insane or "careless, irresponsible, and selfish."
He continued: "This whole process has been extremely difficult for me because I've known about Bre's pregnancy for a while now, before my youngest son, Zen, passed. Even going through all of that, this was always in the back of my mind. Like, when is the right time? How do I share this? We didn't expect Zen to pass away. All of the news was so unexpected."
Nick Cannon apologized to the mothers of his children for the way he announced his eighth child.Bre Tiesi and Nick Cannon.
Getty Images
A few days later, Nick Cannon apologized for the way he handled the announcement of his  with Tiesi.
Originally, he went into detail about how long he was refraining from announcing the pregnancy due to the death of Zen. That same day, Zen's mother, Scott, reacted to the announcement in a 
"It is painful having my son be a part of conversations that aren't in alignment with his light and legacy," Scott said.
Cannon said on his talk show a couple of days later: "I misspoke and probably went too much into detail on Monday expressing my feelings and it probably felt like I was making some comparatives when talking about the passing of my son Zen and then also talking about the new child I'm expecting."
He added: "I didn't need to do that because those are two completely separate moments in my life and they both deserve the respect."
Cannon also apologized to anyone he hurt or confused with the announcement.
Nick Cannon confirmed that his celibacy vow started after he found out about his eighth child.Cannon performing at the Apollo Theater.
Shahar Azran / Getty Images
After the announcement of Cannon's eighth child, fans questioned whether the actor had broken the  he had made the year before.
Cannon had previously said in October 2021 that he was practicing celibacy at his therapist's suggestion after welcoming his fourth child in less than a year.
In February 2022, he clarified that his therapist actually made the suggestion after finding out about his eighth child.
"My therapist was one of the [people] who said that I should probably be celibate because I had shared that news, that Bre was pregnant," he said on his talk show, as reported by . "That was the reason why I started my celibacy journey back then. I was [celibate] because I was dealing with [this]."
Cannon said that he carries a "backpack full of guilt" for not spending enough time with Zen before his death.Nick Cannon at Fox Upfront 2022.
Jason Mendez /WireImage
Later in February 2022, Cannon appeared on his therapist's podcast,  to talk about his relationships with women and his children.
During the interview, he told Dr. Laura Berman that he feels  about not being able to spend a lot of time with all his children, especially his late son Zen, due to his work and the kids living in multiple households.
"The one thing that keeps me up at night," he said. "There's this heavy, heavy guilt with the fact of, I didn't get to spend time like I really wanted to with Zen. That I have other children even in a similar age that I was like, 'I'm guilty that I'm not there every day. I'm guilty that the mothers of my children yearn for more and I can only give so much.'"
He continued: "I walk around with a backpack full of guilt but at least I know the harder that I work, then it makes the guilt easier to deal with. I feel the guilt is if I am not working and I'm spending time with a lady and I'm like, 'Man, I got a house full of kids.'"
During the interview, he also admitted that he only had  with women who could be the mother of his child.
Cannon said he doesn't have the "bandwidth" for more children.Nick Cannon attends day 3 of SiriusXM At Super Bowl LVI.
Cindy Ord / Getty Images for SiriusXM
Cannon also admitted during the "Language of Love" podcast episode that he doesn't plan to have 
"I don't have the bandwidth for it anymore," Cannon told Berman. "Because I feel like I do owe the women that are currently in my life, I owe them as much energy, time, and effort as I possibly [can] - especially my kids." 
In May 2022, he told  hosts Justin Sylvester and Loni Love that he was considering a 
"I already went and got my vasectomy consultation. I ain't looking to populate the Earth completely, but I'm definitely looking forward to taking care and loving all the children that I currently have," he said.
In April 2023, Cannon said on  that the only reason he considered the vasectomy was because of external pressures.
"I felt the world was trying to make me get a vasectomy. I don't operate well under pressure. My body, my choice," the "Beat Shazam" host said.
Cannon said that he embraces having a big family.Moroccan Scott Cannon, Nick Cannon, and Monroe Cannon.
Frazer Harrison / KCA2018 / Getty Images for Nickelodeon
Cannon was asked again about his family during his appearance on  on V-103 in May 2022.
"I just want to be the best father I can possibly be, and lean into it," Cannon said. "I embrace all my children, I love children, but I wasn't setting out to be Father Abraham. I just embrace it."
He added: "A lot of people have a lot of children as well and they kinda keep it quiet or they don't talk about it, I lean into mine."
Cannon also said that he does not need to worry about his "baby mamas" getting along with each other because they only interact with him.
Cannon told People that he gets "nervous" every time he has to welcome a new baby.Cannon and his son Golden.
David Livingston / Getty Images
In an exclusive interview with , the "Wild 'n Out" host spoke about his excitement about his eighth baby.
He told the magazine in May 2022: "I'm so excited about all my kids. Constantly, from every aspect of it. From them getting citizen of the month awards in the first grade to the birth of the new ones. Every day I just wake up excited as a father."
However, Cannon added that he is always worried because every birth is "a miracle."
"You just stay in prayer, you stay in agreement with your partner to just make sure everything is a blessing and operates in the proper way," he said. "So just stay prayed up."
 
Cannon said that he is "the disciplinarian" in his family.Nick Cannon and Mariah Carey.
Photo Credit: Getty Images Rich Fury/ Jamie McCarthy
Cannon also told People that he likes to have fun with his children, but he also disciplines them because he respects values.
"And you know, we established that as early as infancy," he said. "So then there's no reason to be strict because clearly I live a fun, open, free lifestyle, and I want my kids to be able to be happy and be that as well."
He continued: "But long as it's rooted in respect and love. And that's the lines where we try not to break or try not to cross."
Cannon defended having eight children and said he's involved in "everything" going on in his children's lives.Nick and Golden.
Daniel Knighton / Getty Images
Cannon defended his big family during an interview in the May-June 2022 issue of .
Cannon said that  can be toxic.
"It's not about what society deems is right. It's like, what makes it right for you? What brings your happiness? What allows you to have joy and how you define family?" he added. "We all define family in so many different ways."
The "Masked Singer" host also said that he is involved in "everything" with all of his children whether that is dropping them off at school, guitar lessons, or coaching. He said he also FaceTimes them when he's not in town.
"Contrary to popular belief, I'm probably engaged throughout my children's day, more often than the average adult can be," he said.
Cannon added that the flexibility of his work allows him to still be involved in his children's lives.
In June 2022, Cannon said he had more children on the way.Nick Cannon ended his celibacy vow a few months after the announcement.
Vivian Zink/NBC/NBCU Photo Bank via Getty Images
After months of saying he wasn't going to have more children, Cannon surprised fans in June 2022 by revealing he had 
On an episode of the "Lip Service" podcast, Cannon was asked about rumors that he is expecting three more children.
Cannon didn't respond directly to the question and instead replied: "When you say on the way... What count are you at? Let's just put it this way ... the stork is on the way."
He then added: "If you thought it was a lot of kids last year."
Cannon then admitted that he broke his celibacy vow in December 2021 after the death of his son Zen.
"I didn't even make it to January," he said. "I got depressed with the loss of my son. So in December, everybody saw I was so down. So everybody was like, 'Let's just give him a little vagina, and that's gonna cure it all.'"
Cannon continued: "I fell victim to it 'cause I was in a weak state. So December, especially right before Christmas, I started fucking like crazy. So I broke the celibacy. But I was probably celibate for a month-and-a-half strong."
He added: "I was trying to do it. I had a new show, new energy, I was dealing with a lot."
Cannon appeared in an Aviation Gin ad in which he joked about getting a vasectomy.Ryan Reynolds.
Michael Buckner/Getty
A day after revealing he was having more children, Cannon appeared in a Father's Day advert for 
In the short video, he mixed a gin-based drink called "The Vasectomy."
"It's almost Father's Day and the one and only Ryan Reynolds asked me to help us all celebrate with the mother of all cocktails, 'The Vasectomy,'" Cannon said in the ad. "Lord knows I need one."
Toward the end of the ad, he and Reynolds joked about him having eight kids.
Reynolds hugged Cannon and said: "No wonder you have eight kids. You smell amazing."
Nick Cannon rapped about his kids all being friends.Nick Cannon at a "Wild N Out" Halloween Party.
Chance Yeh / Getty Images
In July 2022, Cannon rapped about his growing family during an appearance on the Los Angeles radio station Power 106 FM.
He said in the freestyle: "I gotta say something to all of my kids / Your daddy gonna love you whatever it is. All of my children will always be friends / Even if their mamas not in agreeance."
Cannon also said in the rap that there was no conflict between children's mothers but they were affected by public comments about them.
The video clips were later posted to Cannon's Instagram with the caption: "A message to all my kids."
Nick Cannon said it's "safe to bet" that he would have three more kids in 2022.Nick Cannon and Brittany Bell.
Scott Legato/Getty Images/Paul Archuleta/FilmMagic
A month after announcing he was expecting more children, Cannon was quizzed about it by Nischelle Turner while cohosting  in July 2022.
"That would take all the fun out of it if I just gave you a number right now," Cannon joked when he was first asked how many babies he was expecting.
Cannon then said he likes the mothers of his children to announce they are pregnant before he confirms anything.
"See this is what I like to do and it keeps me safe because I never like to generalize. So I allow the women in my life to share their news on their own because then it doesn't look like I'm trying to get publicity," he said. "So when they ready to speak on who and what and where I support but for now I let them talk. That's why I said 'The stork is in the way.' We'll see how it trickles down."
When Turner guessed Cannon was having three children in 2022, he said: "You would be close. You would be safe to bet on three in 2022."
Cannon also said he is self-employed so he's able to spend time with all his kids.
"I dedicate probably my entire day to my children," he said. "Luckily, we are in a world where I'm blessed with the opportunity. I get to spend more time with my children every single day because of my world and my business model."
He added: "My children have busier schedules than I do. They each have their sensory class at 9 a.m. and then they have, you know, ballet at 3 and baseball at 4, so they're the ones with the schedules."
Cannon denied "bizarre" allegations that his children's mothers were in a cult.Cannon with Moroccan and Monroe when they were younger.
David Livingston / Getty Images)
"Everybody's under this weird bizarre thing thinking I got some combine, cult thing going on," Cannon said on  "Every dynamic is different, but they're all positive and they're all healthy."
Cannon announced the birth of his eighth child, Legendary Love, in July 2022.Nick Cannon and Bre Tiesi.
Legato / Getty Images / Sam Craft / APScott
In July 2022, Cannon and Tiesi announced that their first child together, Legendary Love, was born at the end of June 2022. Cannon shared two posts on .
The first introduced  and all his nicknames: "Aka LL COOL CANNON!Aka LLC! Aka YOUNG LE-LO! Aka BROTHER LOVE!!"
In the second post of Cannon, Tiesi, and their newborn, the "Wild 'n Out" host wrote: "LEGENDARY LOVE CANNON!!!! Y'all gonna need a wide screen for this name!!! So grateful to God The Most High Elohim YAWEH for a Healthy, Happy and Harmonious Spirit having a Human Experience!!"
 
In August 2022, Cannon said that he was expecting another baby with Brittany Bell.Nick Cannon and former Miss Guam Brittany Bell.
Photo Credit: Getty Images Prince Williams / Jason Merritt
In August 2022, Cannon revealed that he was expecting another child with Brittany Bell, his ninth child overall.
Cannon posted on Instagram a video of the couple posing together for a maternity photoshoot, where Bell's pregnant belly is visible.
"Time Stopped and This Happened," he captioned the . "#Sunshine #SonRISE."
This was his  with Bell. The couple's children, Golden and Powerful Queen, can also be seen later in the video.
Nick Cannon praised his son Golden for starting second grade.Nick and Golden Cannon in May 2022.
Daniel Knighton / Getty Images
At the end of August 2022, Cannon shared on  that his third child, Golden, was starting second grade.
"Yesterday was the first day of 2ND GRADE for MR. GOLDEN CANNON!! (And he's only 5 years old!!!)" he captioned a picture of Golden. "Congratulations Champ!! I can't take none of the credit though! He gets his genius from his Mamma! @missbbell"
Nick Cannon welcomed his ninth child in September 2022.Nick Cannon and Lanisha Cole on "Fact or Faked: Paranormal Files" in 2011.
Mehmet Kaman / Anadolu Agency / Getty Images / Kim Christensen / NBCU Photo Bank / NBCUniversal via Getty Images via Getty Images
On September 14, 2022, Cannon shocked fans again when he announced that his ninth child, Onyx Ice Cole Cannon, was born.
Cannon shared her birth on his  page with a picture of himself, his newborn daughter, and her mother Lanisha Cole, whom Cannon hadn't mentioned publicly beforehand.
"Introducing ONYX ICE COLE CANNON... Once again Today I am in Awe of the Devine Feminine! God has given me and @MissLanishaCole the privilege of hosting an Angel here on earth," he captioned the post. "I vow to protect, provide, guide and love this child to the best of my abilities."
In the caption, Cannon said he would love Onyx and teach her to not feel shame from external opinions.
He continued: "As we all know I am not easily triggered and have quite tough skin and have always been an open book but not everyone in my family has that same level of strength. So I pray and ask others to please project all criticism and cynicism towards ME and not the loving and precious Mothers of my children."
Cannon ended the caption writing: "Just continue to pray for me and my entire family that God will grant us Peace that surpasses all Understanding." 
This is Cannon's first child with Cole. The model also shared videos of her baby shower and Cannon with his newborn daughter on her own Instagram.
"The joy that I feel as a mother is something that has forever opened up my heart in a huge new way. She's surrounded by so much love and I'm already obsessed with her!" the model said in an Instagram Story.
Cannon congratulated Powerful Queen for getting her cast removed.Brittany Bell and Nick Cannon have a daughter named Powerful Queen Cannon.
Daniel Knighton / Getty Images
On September 27, 2022, Cannon praised his one-year-old daughter Powerful Queen after she had her cast taken off.
The "Drumline" actor shared on  a slideshow of pictures of his daughter posing with the cast and a video of someone cutting it off.
"This little girl is so brave and strong!" Cannon captioned the post. "Finally getting her cast cut off after truly living up to her name as a Powerful Queen Super Hero! A Scary journey for Daddy to say the least but Pow kept me from being an emotional wimp! She is my hero!!"
 
Cannon welcomed his tenth child, Rise Messiah Cannon, in late September 2022.Nick Cannon and Brittany Bell have three children together.
Prince Williams/Getty Images/Thaddaeus McAdams/FilmMagic
 announced the birth on  with videos and pictures of a celebration before the birth. This was his 
"Another Blessing!!! As my journey on this planet becomes more and more remarkable and unfathomable, all I can do is thank God and continue to ask the Most High to order my steps," the television host captioned the post. "@missbbell has been the rock and foundation of my Fatherhood journey. She has taught me so much about parenting, psychology, spirituality, love and just life in general." 
Cannon continued: "Probably the most difficult labor and delivery I have ever witnessed! 48 hours of excruciating pain and life risking danger to welcome 10 pounds of Love and joy named RISE MESSIAH CANNON."
 
Cannon thanked his baby twins Zillion and Zion for his birthday gift.DJ Abby De La Rosa and Nick Cannon were friends before they started dating.
Getty Images John Lamparski/Amanda Edwards
Cannon turned 42 on October 8, 2022. A day later, the entertainer shared an Instagram  featuring his twins Zion and Zillion with Abby De La Rosa, thanking them for gifting him a kite with their faces on it.
"One of the coolest birthday gifts I have ever received!!" he captioned the post. "Anybody who knows me knows one of my favorite and most therapeutic pastimes is flying kites, especially with my children! It's so blissful and it's one of the most potent and first memories I have of my own father spending quality time with me as a child."
He added: "Thank you Zion and Zillion and @hiabbydelarosa for such a wonderful and thoughtful gift!! I love y'all!"
 
Cannon shared his daughter Onyx Ice's dedication ceremony.Lanisha Cole only has one child with the rapper.
Jean-Paul Aussenard/WireImage
In October 2022, Cannon shared another special moment with his child with Lanisha Cole. He posted on  a ceremony of Onyx Ice getting dedicated to God, a custom that many Christians do once their child is born.
"Such a beautiful Sunday!" he captioned the post. "Onyx Ice Cole Cannon as dedicated to Yahweh today!!! Romans 8:31 'If God Be For Us, who can be against us!'"
Cannon congratulated his son Golden for dressing up as him on Halloween.Cannon with his son Golden.
Daniel Knighton / Getty Images
For Halloween 2022, Golden dressed up as his father, complete with a "Wild 'n Out" shirt, gold chains, and fake tattoos.
Cannon shared the costume on , captioning the post: "The best 'Nick Cannon' costume I've seen this year!!"
He also called his son "The Golden Child."
He added: "Chip off the old block!"
Cannon welcomed two more children at the end of 2022.Nick Cannon and DJ Abby De La Rosa have three children together.
Gregg DeGuire/WireImage/Amanda Edwards/Getty Images
In the last two months of 2022, Cannon had : a third child with , and a second child with .
Cannon shared news of the birth of his daughter with Abby De La Rosa on Instagram on November 12.
"A BEAUTIFUL DAY for 'BEAUTIFUL ZEPPELIN CANNON' to arrive!" he captioned the .
Cannon appeared to be more private about his new daughter with Alyssa Scott, who was born in December. He shared his first Instagram post of the child, Halo, in .
In November 2022, Cannon didn't rule out having more children.Nick Cannon.
gotpap/STAR MAX/IPx
After the birth of his 11th child, Cannon told  that he was unsure about whether he would have more children.
"I don't know, man. I have no idea. I think I'm good right now," he said.
The "Wild 'n Out" host also said that his children have helped inspire his recent projects.
Cannon said: "My kids are definitely the creative force in all that I do. They're the funniest, most innovative, best questions. Every project I'm working on now is through their eyes."
Cannon also reiterated that he didn't have a "plan" for the size of his family during an interview with Andy Cohen on . At the time, he also shut down Cohen's suggestion of getting a vasectomy.
"This is my body, my choice!" he replied.
In December 2022, Cannon said he was "spiritually broken" a year after his son's death.Nick Cannon attends "Hip Hop Health: Mind Over Music" in New York City.
Shareif Ziyadat / Getty Images
A year after the death of his son Zen Scott Cannon, the "Drumline" actor shared a tribute on 
Sharing pictures of Zen, Cannon wrote in the caption: "Physically I'm definitely on the mend but Mentally and Spiritually I'm broken. Been tossing and turning all night, and as much as I know I need rest, last night I couldn't sleep at all. I can't believe it's been a year already since the toughest day of my life occurred. Such a painful anniversary."
He added: " Losing a child has to be the heaviest, most dark and depressive experiences that I will never get over. A mixture of guilt, pain, and sorrow is what I suppress daily."
Cannon also wrote that he wished his son could have felt more of his love while he was alive.
Later in the same month, Cannon expressed regret again for not spending enough time with all his children while appearing on the Paramount+ show 
The 43-year-old entertainer said: "Being a father of multiple kids, it's always the biggest guilt on me is that I don't get to spend enough time with all my children."
Cannon said he is letting God decide if he will have more children.Nick Cannon and Bre Tiesi.
Paras Griffin/WireImage; Amanda Edwards/Getty Images
In 2023, Cannon weighed in again about whether he will have more children.
In February 2023, he told  that he would leave the decision to God.
"Yeah, yeah, yeah. God decides when we're done but I believe I definitely got my hands full," Cannon said before adding. "But when I'm 85, you never know. I might."
Later in the year, Cannon said he was content with 12 children while answering the question on the  podcast and 
He said in the latter interview: "We're very comfortable with the disciple dozen that I got. I'll keep my constellations at 12. 12 is a righteous number. I'm going to stay there."
Meanwhile, while speaking to Mandel, Cannon said that he tried to use birth control to stop getting women pregnant.
"I've got some super sperm or something," He joked.
In May 2023, Cannon responded to claims that he is a "deadbeat dad."Nick Cannon attends "Wild N' Out" After Party at Sound Nightclub on June 10, 2023 in Atlanta, Georgia.
Prince Williams / WireImage
During an interview with , Cannon said that he has been unfairly judged due to the number of children he has.
"I've been villainized. I hear all the time: 'You can't be present for all those children.' So, therefore, I get this deadbeat dad title," He said. 
While appearing on the "" in the same month, Cannon said that he probably spends the most time with his 8-month-old daughter Onyx because he gets to see her three times a week and even has a nursery in his office for her. 
He said that he and Onyx's mother LaNisha Cole agreed to have equal time with the baby.
Cannon said it is better for his children with Mariah Carey that the former couple stays separated.Nick Cannon and Mariah Carey.
Photo Credit: Getty Images Rich Fury/ Jamie McCarthy
Cannon was questioned again about whether he would rekindle his romantic relationship with Mariah Carey during an interview on  in May.
Cannon shut down the idea saying that they are best friends now and his former wife is happy with someone else.
"I feel like for our children, which is the best thing and the thing that we both focus on, this scenario is a lot healthier for all of us," Cannon added.
In June 2023, Cannon held a tribute to his late son, Zen.Nick Cannon speaks onstage during the Future Superstar tour in 2023.
Paras Griffin / Getty Images
Cannon appeared to have a memorial for his late son Zen in 2023. He shared images on  of himself and a group of people on the beach standing next to a sign that read Zen. 
Cannon captioned the post: "A Difficult Day that turned into a Beautiful Night... We will forever celebrate Zen's Light! I love you Son."
 
Cannon said he has considered telling Golden about his other siblings.Brittany Bell, Powerful Queen Cannon, Golden Cannon, and Nick Cannon in December 2022.
David Livingston / Getty Images
In June 2023, Cannon appeared on "The Language of Love" podcast to talk about his life and journey with the therapist host.
During the interview, Cannon said he was pursuing a master's degree in  to understand his own kids better and that he had a  of being a father.
"I've never heard that clarity, but I heard that like, 'Yo, you're gonna be a father of many,'" Cannon said. "'There's gonna be your great influence, your lineage, your offspring are gonna do great things.'"
The former daytime talk show host also said that only his eldest children, Moroccan and Monroe, know about the rest of their siblings. He said that the  are too young but he has considered telling Golden, who is 6.
"I think he's kind of already figured it out," Cannon said before saying that Golden has interacted with some of his younger half-siblings and knows about his Moroccan and Monroe.
Cannon added that he wants to get to the point where he can hang out with all his children together but he would have to wait until they are older and can make their own decisions.
Cannon shared that his children with Bell made him cupcakes for his 43rd birthday.Brittany Bell, Nick Cannon and daughter Powerful Queen Cannon attend the Los Angeles Mission's Annual Christmas Celebration at the Los Angeles Mission on December 23, 2022.
David Livingston / Getty Images
In October 2023, Cannon shared on Instagram that he had a private celebration for his 43rd birthday with Brittany Bell and their three children. 
The  shows the two elder children Golden and Powerful, making cupcakes for Cannon.
"Golden, Pow Pow and Rizzy Rise made me the most Ncredible gifts today!!" Cannon captioned the post. "Truly my sunshine! Even though I'm not big on celebrating myself on this day my children are the best gifts one could ask for! Thank you Gang! Daddy loves you."
This article was first published on November 10, 2022, and most recently updated on November 9, 2023.
Read the original article on


Load-Date: December 2, 2024


End of Document
