




Bangor Daily News (Maine)
May 9, 2002 Thursday, ALL EDITIONS


Copyright 2002 Bangor Daily News
Section: B; Pg. 1
Length: 794 words
Byline: DIANA GRAETTINGER, OF THE NEWS STAFF
Dateline: CALAIS
Body


A former ambulance company owner, who earlier this year pleaded guilty to 40 counts of fraud, money laundering and other charges stemming from his billing practices, has agreed to pay the state and federal governments $300,000.
Dana McGovern, 38, who now lives in Port Charlotte, Fla., also agreed to be excluded for 15 years from participation in the federal Medicare and Medicaid programs.
McGovern's attorney, Dan Lacasse of Calais, said Wednesday he had received a copy of the civil settlement agreement Tuesday. "The agreement is to pay the United States government $280,000 and Maine state government, $20,000," Lacasse said.
Although the civil matter is settled, Lacasse said the criminal case is not yet resolved.
"This is a civil penalty that has been assessed in addition to any criminal restitution," he said. "He entered a conditional plea and the condition of the plea is that we reach an agreement with regard to a civil penalty, and that agreement has now been reached," he said.
The criminal portion of the case is expected to be resolved sometime this year. McGovern could face a long prison term.
In January, McGovern pleaded guilty to 20 counts of Medicare and Medicaid fraud, 16 counts of money laundering and two counts of obstructing a federal audit. Two final counts order the forfeiture of McGovern Ambulance Service Inc., the other defendant in the case, to make up for Medicare and Medicaid losses that totaled $891,492.
"Given the options that were available, it would have cost a lot of money to basically contest the allegation," Lacasse said. McGovern "doesn't have those resources available; the government does. Basically, he is satisfied with the results. He has reached a fair and equitable compromise with the government's claims."
McGovern's legal problems began in October 1999, when federal agents, including the FBI, raided his offices on Union Street.
Court documents reveal that the case against McGovern arose from a complaint filed by an elderly Lubec Medicare patient after the 1998 Ice Storm. The woman told Medicare she was taken to a shelter during the ice storm, not to a hospital, as indicated on the claim, and that she was taken in the ambulance with three other patients.
Investigation revealed a variety of billing irregularities, including a number of counts involving a dialysis patient from Lubec who was taken to Bangor three times a week for several years. Though the patient frequently was transported in a wheelchair van, claims were submitted to Medicare for more expensive ambulance transportation.
In addition, the court documents alleged that employees of McGovern Ambulance Service falsely completed ambulance run sheets for these trips. The total of alleged fraudulent claims for this one patient was $39,877.
The investigation also revealed that McGovern Ambulance billed Medicare for transports to the hospital, which are reimbursable, when patients actually were taken to doctors' offices, trips that are not reimbursable.
Medicare and Medicaid also were billed for more miles than patients actually were transported, advanced life support was billed when not provided, and individuals were taken by ambulance when it was not medically necessary.
At one time, McGovern had an ambulance and driver take him to a Bangor hospital for a vasectomy and circumcision, then drive him home after the procedure. He billed his insurance company $1,329, which seemed to indicate that "advanced life support services were provided," although none were rendered, the original complaint said.
According to court documents, McGovern personally determined the charges for each ambulance transport. At times, the ambulance run sheets were sent to him in Florida for pricing.
The investigation also revealed discrepancies in Medicaid claims for wheelchair van services, including billing for more miles than the patients actually traveled, billing transports for nonmedical purposes, and billing for an individual who was not wheelchair-bound. McGovern also allegedly provided altered or false documentation to Medicare and Medicaid auditors, the court documents said.
A spokesman for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' inspector general said McGovern's name will be added to the agency's exclusion database Web site in the next few weeks.
The Web site database "provides information to the public, health care providers, patients and others relating to parties excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and all federal heath care programs."
Assistant U.S. Attorney Halsey Frank said the settlement agreement was made final last month. Asked if the 15-year exclusion was significant, Frank said, "Exclusions can be of any duration including permanent. … It's pretty substantial, I think it is fair to say."

Load-Date: May 9, 2002


End of Document
