




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
May 20, 2015 Wednesday


Copyright 2015 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: C; Pg. 5
Length: 303 words
Byline: The Associated Press
Body


DES MOINES - The director of the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy will step down amid opposition to his appointment from state senators who questioned his personnel decisions, state officials said Tuesday.
Arlen Ciechanowski has informed Gov. Terry Branstad that he will retire effective June 30, after it became clear he didn't have enough support to win confirmation to a four-year term.
Branstad in 2011 tapped Ciechanowski, a longtime assistant director and instructor, to lead the academy that teaches and certifies local police officers during training sessions at Camp Dodge in Johnston. He replaced the academy's first female director, Penny Westfall, who retired after Branstad questioned her leadership style.
But Ciechanowski came under scrutiny over how he handled hiring and firing decisions detailed by The Associated Press, including a scandal involving his assistant director, Mike Quinn. Critics saw his management as an example of a "good old boy network" in which female cadets and employees faced hostility at times while misbehaving male subordinates got off easy. Groups representing victims of domestic violence and sexual assault were among those raising concerns about the academy's culture.
Branstad all along stood by Ciechanowski, who thanked the governor for the support in his retirement letter. "We have made some great strides at the academy and I leave it a better place than when you took office," wrote Ciechanowski, a former Ames patrolman and Story County deputy.
A 2012 state investigation found that Quinn asked female recruits about penis size and talked in the workplace about his sex life and vasectomy. The investigation found that he told Nancy Brady, a longtime female instructor who had complained about him, that he would "slit your throat" if he caught her talking to another worker.

Load-Date: May 20, 2015


End of Document
