




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
November 24, 2016 Thursday
Main Edition


Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: C; Pg. 002
Length: 314 words
Byline: Annie Lane Creators Syndicate
Body


DEAR ANNIE
 Dear Annie: As a child, I endured horrible physical and verbal abuse by my parents. As an adult, I found myself in an abusive relationship with a man. He lied to me about having a vasectomy and intentionally got me pregnant to keep me in his life "forever."
 I was pregnant and destitute with nowhere to turn, so I made the biggest mistake of my life. I contacted my parents. They fed me and made sure I had everything I needed for my son. Over the years, I allowed my son to have a very limited relationship with them. I thought I was protecting my son by not telling him all of the horrible things my parents and his father did to me.
 Now my son is 18 and has a very negative opinion of me. He moved in with my parents. It turns out that both my parents and his father have done nothing but bad-mouth me  for years. They must make stuff up about me, because I have never given them any reason to say bad about me. I am a good, kind person. I have also been in counseling since I became pregnant, making sure I don't continue the cycle of abuse.
 My parents and my son's father have destroyed the relationship between my son and me. Because they spoil him rotten, he believes everything they say. He treats me not based on how I've treated him but based only on how my parents and his father talk about me.  I have tried telling him the truth about them. I have tried counseling with my son, as well. I am completely hopeless.
 Is there any way at all to get my son back? -Hopeless in NY
 Dear Hopeless: I'm sorry for your separation from your son. Because he is 18, there is no legal course you can take here. Time is the only thing that can give your son back to you. Focus on your own well-being, physically and mentally. Be the healthiest you that you can be. As he matures more, he should be able to see for himself that Grandma and Grandpa aren't telling the whole story.

Load-Date: December 9, 2016


End of Document
