




 TheStreet.com
December 23, 2005 Friday


Copyright 2005 TheStreet.com, Inc.


Section: PERSONAL FINANCE; Taxes
Length: 950 words
Byline: ByTracy Byrnes, TheStreet.com Contributor; Tracy Byrnes is an award-winning writer specializing in tax and accounting issues. As a freelancer, she has written columns for wsj.com and the New York Post and her work has appeared in SmartMoney and on CBS MarketWatch. Prior to freelancing, she spent four years as a senior writer for TheStreet.com. Before that, she was an accountant with Ernst & Young. She has a B.A. in English and economics from Lehigh University and an M.B.A. in accounting from Rutgers University. Byrnes appreciates your feedback; click here to send her an email.
Body


Between the last-minute scrambling for undetermined gifts, the extra cars on the road, and the superfluous pressure of making New Year's Eve plans, it's no wonder you're dreaming of springtime in April.
Unfortunately, with April comes your 2005 tax return deadline. But don't allow your tax return to be a big buzz kill. Take a break from the holiday mayhem now and do the following five things so that you can truly enjoy this coming spring.
Lose the Losers
If you haven't done so already, go through your portfolio and evaluate the losers. If a stock is down and you think it's had its day, then dump it, especially if you already have generated other gains throughout the year. You'll need those losses to offset your gains so you can decrease your tax bill.
Then check out your mutual funds' Web sites for capital gain distributions. Mutual funds generally wait until December to make the bulk of their capital gain distributions, says Bob Scharin, editor of Warren, Gorham, & Lamont/RIA's Practical Tax Strategies, a monthly journal written for tax professionals. Remember, those distributions are taxable to you. But, again, if you sell some of your portfolio losers, you can offset the tax bill on those distributions.
 
Dissect Your Dividends
Check out your dividend situation, reminds Kevin Taylor, a financial adviser with H&R Block Financial Advisors in Overland Park, Kan. S&P 500 companies are expected to pay out a record $200 billion in dividends this year. And while that's good news, you'll be taxed on that money.
But the tax hit might not be so bad. Dividends used to be taxed at the regular ordinary tax rates, which could reach as high as 35%. But back in 2003, the Jobs and Growth Tax Reconciliation Act dropped the rate on "qualified dividends" to 15% (5% for taxpayers in the lowest two tax brackets).
 For your dividends to be considered "qualified," you must have held the security that paid the dividend for more than 60 days before or after the ex-dividend date (the date you need to be a shareholder to qualify for the actual distribution). So let's say you bought a stock the day before its ex-div date. You'll need to hold those shares for at least 61 days to take advantage of the 15% rate on your distribution.
So if you have a holding that's making a distribution, be sure to hold on to the shares until the 61 days are up. If you already sold some shares before the requisite time period, then at least you can prepare yourself for the tax bite.
 
Charge Some Charitable Contributions
 "If you're short of cash this holiday season, you can charge your contribution this year and get a 2005 deduction even if you do not pay the credit card bill until 2006," says Scharin.
Granted, if you have the cash, then just make the contribution. But if you spent way too much money on way too many holiday gifts, consider charging a contribution before year's end. As long as you plan on paying your credit card bill promptly, it'll get you the 2005 deduction and will allot you some time to come up with the money.
And remember, there's no adjusted gross income limitation on your contributions at the end of the year, reminds Taylor. Generally, your total charitable contribution deduction is limited to 50% of your AGI. But back in August, Congress lifted the AGI limitation on charitable contributions to encourage people to donate money to the hurricane relief funds. So any cash contributions made between Aug. 28 and year-end are exempt from that 50% AGI rule. (Stock gifts don't qualify.)
 Even better, this unlimited contribution applies to all taxpayers and any charity -- not just hurricane-related ones. So go give away tons of money to many charities!
 
Give Some Money to Family
And consider giving to family and friends too. On the estate-planning front, you can give up to $11,000 gift-tax free to any one person in 2005. And while getting money out of your estate can reduce your estate tax bill at your death, it can also lower your income tax bill now. Here's how.
 Let's say you're planning to sell some appreciated stock to make a cash gift to your low-tax-bracket kid. Well, don't sell the shares. Instead, just give them to him. Then your child can sell the shares himself and will only owe a 5% capital gain tax instead of the 15% capital gain tax you would owe. Since you're still probably paying his tax bill, you just saved yourself 10% in capital gains tax.
 
Use Up Your Flex Account
Go buy new eyeglasses so you can use up money you've been contributing to your flexible spending account. You have until Dec. 31 to spend that cash, unless your employer amended his plan. If he did, you'll then have until March 15 to spend your 2005 money. But if your plan's rules weren't updated -- and many companies' were not -- get out there and use that money or you'll lose it.
So go shop. Remember, you can buy over-the-counter drugs with your FSA money, so stock up on cold medicine for the whole family before the flu season kicks in.
Then go for acupuncture, go to the chiropractor, or go get that vasectomy already (c'mon, we're all adults here). They're all deemed to be qualified expenses that can be paid for with flex account money. Go get a list of acceptable expenses from your HR folks so you're familiar with all the other eligible expenses.
 And there you have it -- your final 2005 tax-saving moves. This is the best advice we have until the new year, when we go gonzo during tax season and cover all angles of your tax return in efforts to help you save money.
So do these five things quickly so you can get back to getting through the holidays and figuring out what you're going to do New Year's Eve. (Too much pressure for me. I'm staying in with a bowl of popcorn!)

Load-Date: December 24, 2005


End of Document
