




University Wire
April 30, 2007 Monday


Copyright 2007 The California Aggie via U-Wire
Section: COLUMN
Length: 627 words
Byline: By Melissa Rohlin, The California Aggie; SOURCE: UC-Davis
Dateline: DAVIS, Calif. 
Body


Sitting for hours is awful. But sitting for hours in a cramped space while forced to withstand other people's odors and voices is more uncomfortable than wearing skinny jeans to In-n-Out.
Unfailingly, on every flight there is a baby with a severe case of colic who ceaselessly screams and cries and makes every male passenger secretly consider having a vasectomy.
Stewardesses always say that if there is a change in cabin pressure, the two-legged passengers should put oxygen masks on themselves before doing so for their small children. I am fully convinced that this instruction is a homicidally motivated pretext instituted by pilots who are at their wit's end. If the instruction is followed, the colicky baby is eliminated.
My biggest pet peeve in life is sitting next to somebody who piggishly hogs the armrests. If I am sitting next to an extremely overweight individual who can't help spilling into my space without hesitation or resentment, I wedge my body up against the window.
But I fervently loathe space infringements from skinny people. Allowing this aggressive invasion is like allowing an able-bodied individual to park in a handicapped space.
I think that stewardesses' responsibilities should include monitoring their passengers' spatial boundaries, and all hogs should be fined.
Most of the time I am consigned to flying alone, but every once in a while I am lucky enough to fly with a friend or family member. The eavesdropper, always excited to be sitting behind people who are engaged in a conversation, tries to discreetly jam his head forward into the crack between my companion and my seat.
He often makes untimely grunts and giggles, jolting my chair with his protruding nose. At restaurants, with one little look, the eavesdropper is usually embarrassed into normalcy. But on planes with large chairs obstructing the efficacy of the irked turn-around, there is no sound way to intimidate the eavesdropper without resorting to physical violence.
The second I close my eyes to nap, the stewardess immediately decides to dole out peanuts. From twenty rows ahead, the stewardess announces her arrival with shrill shrieks. Logically, if I wanted peanuts, I would be sitting on the edge of my seat eagerly awaiting her arrival.
Even though I keep my eyes closed and desperately try to sleep in spite of her jarring utterances, she always thinks that I must not have heard her and steps into my aisle, leans forward and yet again shouts, "Peanuts." Passengers should have "do not disturb signs" to hang on their seats. Then, and only then, will the peanut Nazi be silenced.
After enduring hours of molestation from this pack of intrusive degenerates, which also includes the sneezer and Mr. Stinky, the torture continues when the plane lands. I think that the workers who put bags on planes should be college graduates, because clearly this job is too complicated for high school dropouts.
Countless times, my bag has been misplaced or lost. I don't understand why stewardesses receive training to distribute Planters nuts, but bag boys, who are in charge of my most valuable possessions, do not receive any formal training.
Unavoidably, while flying, every person encounters these grotesque incarnations of intolerable people. Every time I disembark from a plane I vow never to fly again, but whenever I have the opportunity to fly, I nonetheless excitedly embrace the opportunity. My relationship with taking a flight is like my relationship with watching a soap opera; no matter how obnoxious it might be, I have a twisted urge to find out what will transpire.
E-mail MELISSA ROHLIN at  if you would like to join a Flyers Anonymous chapter in your area and share your flight horror stories.
(C) 2007 The California Aggie via U-WIRE

Load-Date: April 30, 2007


End of Document
