





Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
January 2, 2003 Thursday Spokane Edition


Copyright 2003 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: SOUTH SIDE VOICE; Pg.S4
Length: 743 words
Byline: Hilary Kraus / Staff writer
Body


Saying Sheree Sweetland is tired is like saying Bill Gates is rich, or
 Strom Thurmond is old.
 Sweetland hasn't had a good eight hours between the sheets in, well, she
 can't remember. But the date Nov. 30, 2001, sets off alarms.
 That was the day Sheree gave birth to Artessa and Kadee and Cord and Wade.
That was the day she became "the quad mom."
 "It's different," said Sweetland, 13 months and too many diapers to count
 later. "A lot of people say, 'It's just like having one.' No it isn't. They
 don't know how different it is.
 "It's four times more difficult," she said. "But four times the joy."
 The Sweetlands don't get out much these days.
 Art Sweetland works the 3-to-11 p.m. shift as a security attendant at
 Eastern State Hospital. Sheree works the 24/7 shift at their isolated home in
 Medical Lake.
 A family outing is a trip to Costco, a five-hour ordeal they usually pull
 off on Saturdays.
 "Everyone knows who we are," Sheree said.
 They're not easy to miss.
 The Sweetlands are the ones with the quadruple-seated stroller. They're the
 ones who have the "Got quadruplets?" sticker on their bumper and the "Quads on
 board" sign on the window of their minivan.
 A night out without the kids is almost never.
 ''We won Classy 99 (radio station) tickets to the Neil Diamond concert.
 Third row," Sheree said.
 ''It was good. But it was more fun just being out."
 It was their second night out, post quads, as a couple.
 The idea of giving birth was planned about two years ago for newlyweds
 Sheree and Art Sweetland.
 Sheree, now 39, had two daughters, and Art, 61, had two children. But the
 death of Art's son, Jason, meant no one would be there to carry on the family
 name.
 Somehow, having a vasectomy 30 years earlier didn't seem like such a good
 idea when Art wanted to start a family with his new wife.
 The Sweetlands decided to try in vitro fertilization. The $14,000 procedure
 took. They found that out after the first week.
 Four weeks later, the Sweetlands were preparing for quads in the house.
 ''We were happy.   Sheree said. ''We weren't traumatized. We were pretty
 pleased they all hung in there."
 The pregnancy was rough.
 Sheree was bedridden the last four months. Getting up to go to the bathroom
 was an ordeal.
 She is reminded of her discomfort to this day. Taking off the 62 pounds she
 gained has been difficult.
 The babies were born two months premature, considered an adequate term
 under the circumstances. They weighed between 3 pounds, 11 ounces to 2 pounds,
 4 ounces, and were incubated at Deaconess Medical Center's neonatal
 intensive-care unit for four weeks.
 The quads' first birthday has passed, and the Sweetlands still are
 adjusting to paying to clothe and feed four more mouths. The caring and the
 daily routine, they've got down.
 The quads' morning rolls around between 7:30 and 8:30 a.m. Bedtime is
 between 8:30 and 9:30 p.m. There are morning and afternoon naps. All four
 sleep in one room.
 Dad is home to help for most of the day. Mom's two other children,
 16-year-old Jenelle and 10-year-old Kelsey, pitch in during the evenings.
 Art gets home shortly after 11 p.m, when he and Sheree have their alone
 time before going to bed around 1 a.m.  All the togetherness can be deceptive.
 ''I get very lonely around the house. I spend a lot of time on the phone,"
 Sheree said.
 The routine has brought a sense of peacefulness to the Sweetlands, who live
 in a newly built four-bedroom house that sits alone on 12-1/2 acres. They feel
 blessed that, aside for a few colds, their two baby boys and two baby girls
 are remarkably healthy. The children also fill hours of their days contentedly
 playing with each other.
 But money matters are a different matter. The Sweetlands were planning on
 one baby and got quadruple the cost.
 Art estimated the medical bill alone, from the in vitro process to the
 children's hospital stay, was about $750,000.
 There were a lot more bills than there was insurance money. Their solution
 was to file for bankruptcy.
 ''I resisted and resisted. It was an abhorrent thing to do. We wanted to
 pay them," Art said.
 There has been some help along the way. A quad mom from Richland, who has
 older quadruplets, supplied some hand-me-down clothes.
 She also passed along four plastic feeding chairs. The chairs sit on the
 floor, which makes it tough on Sheree's back during meal time.
 ''I'm tired," Sheree said. ''But when you see their faces in the morning,
 that tired feeling dissipates.
 ''They all wake up with smiles."

Notes

Hilary Kraus can be reached at 459-5534 or by e-mail at .  

Graphic

 
3 Color Photos; 1. The Sweetland quads, clockwise from the gate, Artessa, Cord, Wade and Kadee, enjoy a noontime bottle. Dan Pelle, The Spokesman-Review 2. Sheree and Art Sweetland with their 13-month-old quadruplets, from left, Cord, Wade, Kadee and Artessa. Photos by Dan Pelle, The Spokesman-Review 3. The Sweetland quads, from left front, Wade and Cord, and behind, Artessa and Kadee, scamper across their Medical Lake home floor.

Load-Date: January 5, 2003


End of Document
