




The Daily Titan: California State University - Fullerton
October 25, 2011 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2011 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 994 words
Byline: Charlotte Knight
Body


My dear friend Edgar lives in a cute little apartment complex in Anaheim where everybody knows his name. But its not because he goes out on his day off from work and spends his time introducing himself to everyone who lives there. Its because Im screaming his name multiple times at the top of my lungs while we are having sex.
And oh my God, was the sex phenomenal! There was no worry about his parents walking in on us (just maybe his roommatesand they knew better), his bed was the right size for nearly every position imaginable, he was able to locate my G-spot without the help of a GPS, and he instinctively knew where the other sweet spots on my body were.
I loved every minute of the sex, except for the night when he pulled out and found that his Trojan condom had snapped. Millions of sperm died on his bedsheets and in his hands, but I was not thrilled with the fact that millions more were swimming around inside me.
Panic? Chaos? Tears? Anger? Blame?
Nope. We both just laughed it off. Not only did he insist on wearing a condom before copulation, but I was also on the pill. We were fine.
I will, however, give some credit to my mother, whose good graces I would never be in again unless I got my sexually-active ass on the pill. Until I was prescribed Gianvi, I had only used good ol trustworthy Trojan condoms and never had any issues. But Mommy Dearest would not have it. She yelled at me, made me take a pregnancy test, then continued to yell at me some more until I came home with a box of little pink birth control pills.
The two most important lessons I learned from that experience were that negative reinforcement works and that, unfortunately, Mother is always right.
Its always smart to use at least one method of birth control if youre sexually active. I love my little pink pill because not only did it save me from an unwanted pregnancy with Edgar, but its hormones helped to lighten my heavy periods and clear my embarrassing acne. If properly taken at the same time every day, there is a less than 1 percent chance of getting pregnant (and nearly a 10 percent chance of getting pregnant if not taken properly).
However, not all bodies are made equal and some women might not find its such a good choice because they may undergo bleeding between periods, nausea and vomiting, or even tenderness in their breasts.
Men and women both have several options in case one form of birth control may not be the best for them. If youre not already a little pink pill popper like me, there are a few other highly effective alternatives you may take into consideration.
The Depo-Provera shot is also an effective method of birth control, as you get one shot every three months so you dont have to remember to take a pill at the same time every day. If properly regulated, there is a less than 1 percent chance of getting pregnant (and about a 3 percent chance of getting pregnant if the shot is not used as directed). One of my coworkers prefers this method because she virtually has no periods, and she also doesnt have to embarrass herself by fumbling around with the pills packaging in front of her friends or family.
The shot may also help to prevent cancer of the lining of the uterus. However, one of the more common side effects is to have spotting or light bleeding between periodsand what kind of woman really enjoys being caught off guard like that?
The vaginal ring similarly has the same effective rates as the pill and essentially works just like the pill, but you dont have to replace it every day at the same time. A woman can simply insert the ring into her vagina and replace it every three weeks. But she must be careful regarding the length of time she leaves the ring in. Its recommended to use a backup method of birth control if the ring slips out and stays out for more than three hours, or if the woman continues to have sex after having the ring inside her for more than four weeks.
The patch is also a decent alternative. It releases the same hormones and has the same effectiveness as the pill, only its something you can put on the outside of your skin if youre not a fan of getting shots or dont feel comfortable with sticking something up inside you. The patchs side effects may include bleeding between periods, breast tenderness, nausea, vomiting and an irritation around the skin where the patch is. Women may also need to take care and make sure it doesnt fall off.
Women can even use breastfeeding as a method of birth control for the first six months after giving birth, as the body changes the womans hormones so she does not get pregnant again while caring for a child. However, the baby would need to exclusively breastfeed and should not drink other formulas as a substitute. The effective rate is a less than 1 percent chance of getting pregnant if the baby is regularly breastfed, and the woman risks only a 2 percent chance of getting pregnant if she does not use this particular method correctly.
The most effective are vasectomies for men and sterilization for women because of their permanency. In any case, if men and women decide to go through with this kind of surgery, theyre screwed if they decide they want a biological child, or even another one, in the future. This kind of surgery isnt something you just decide to do on a whimit may take months of mental preparation and discussing the pros and cons with your partner.
The Planned Parenthood website has more information on types of birth control methods, including a My Method questionnaire that can help you pick a suitable birth control for all your personal needs. At the same time, it would be just as effective, if not more, to talk your doctor would love to talk to you about your options, especially if you are over 35, have diabetes, have high cholesterol, have high blood pressure, have blood-clotting disorders or if you are overweight.
I never thought Id see the day when a Trojan would let me down, but Im glad I had the necessary backup when I did.

Load-Date: January 17, 2018


End of Document
