




Gates of Vienna
November 22, 2018 Thursday 5:35 AM EST


Copyright 2018 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 12866 words
Byline: Baron Bodissey
Body


Nov 22, 2018( Gates of Vienna: / Delivered by Newstex)  The Metropolitan Police have launched a terrorism investigation after two IEDs were found in a London flat. The residence where the devices were found is not currently occupied. In other news, a university in Michigan has cancelled its production of 'The Vagina Monologues' because 'not all women have vaginas.' To see the headlines and the articles, click 'Continue reading' below. 
Thanks to AF, Andy Bostom, C. Cantoni, Dean, Insubria, JD, John, MB, Reader from Chicago, SS, Upananda Brahmachari[1], and all the other tipsters who sent these in. Notice to tipsters: Please don't submit extensive excerpts from articles that have been posted behind a subscription firewall, or are otherwise under copyright protection. Caveat: Articles in the news feed are posted 'as is'. Gates of Vienna cannot vouch for the authenticity or accuracy of the contents of any individual item posted here. We check each entry to make sure it is relatively interesting, not patently offensive, and at least superficially plausible. The link to the original is included with each item's title. Further research and verification are left to the reader. [2] [3][4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16][17][18] [19] [20][21][22][23][24][25][26][27][28][29][30][31][32][33][34][35][36][37][38][39] [40] [41] [42][43][44] [45][46] [47][48][49][50][51] [52] [53][54][55][56][57][58][59][60][61][62][63][64][65][66][67][68][69][70][71][72][73][74][75][76] [77][78][79][80] [81][82]  Learn When Facebook Will Collapse[83] Alex Jones breaks down Facebook's current financial state as its stock bubble prepares to burst, leaving most stockholders with nothing.[84]  Clinton Foundation Donations Plummet 90%[85] The Clinton Foundation saw contributions dry up approximately 90% over a three-year period between 2014 and 2017, according to financial statements.[86]  Dem Leaders Under Criminal Investigation for Using Altered Election Forms Staffer is 'Disappointed' In Dem Leadership 'For Allowing Other People Like Myself to Take the Fall for it'[87] Naples News reports — Florida officials confirmed Monday that they have launched a criminal investigation into the use of altered election forms by Florida Democrats to fix absentee ballots after the state deadline, expanding an investigation into potential election fraud that was first referred to federal prosecutors. The criminal investigation into the use of altered forms is underway in the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the attorney general's office. 'We now have an active criminal investigation into this matter. I cannot provide any additional information at this time,' said Gretl Plessinger, a spokeswoman with the state's law enforcement agency. One state Democratic party staffer who was instructed to share the altered form with voters said she has 'plenty of documentation to prove' several members in party leadership were made aware that the form, which was modified to include the wrong state deadline, was being circulated. 'Once I realized that the form was altered I brought it to the attention of several members in leadership. I have plenty of documentation to prove this,' Eli Logan, a Brevard Democrat, wrote in a private Facebook group message obtained by USA TODAY NETWORK — Florida.[88]  Democrats Want to Add Teeth to USMCA[89] change whatever domestic laws need to be changed in order to comply with the terms of the agreement The Democrats desire to add strong enforcement provisions to a USMCA Implementation Act, underscores the reality that Democrats do indeed support the globalist trade scheme. Absolutely no one in Congress has spoken out about the globalist nature of the USMCA and how it subordinates America's national sovereignty to international UN authorities, or how Chapter 30 of the agreement establishes an unelected 'Free Trade Commission' akin to the ruling European Commission of the European Union. This is perhaps the greatest threat to American sovereignty since then-Senator Jeff Sessions exposed how the Trans-Pacific Partnership was also a 'living agreement,' establishing its own 'TPP Commission,' which he described as a 'nascent European Union' and a 'Pacific Union.' This, more than all other reasons, underscores the urgency with which Congress ought to reject the USMCA. The USMCA is not about actual free trade between U.S businessmen and Canadian or Mexican businessmen without government intrusion; rather, it is an agreement for managed trade under the auspices of the World Trade Organization, toward the establishment of regional and eventually world government under the pretense of freeing world trade.[90]  Did Multiple GOP House Seats in CA Turn Blue After the Electionor Are Democrats Just Getting Better at Coming Up With Last Minute Votes?[91] Even though it's a mostly blue state, there are still a few Republican strongholds in California. Orange County used to be considered one of those stronghold districts. They were still considered a Republican district until several days after the election, when thousands of votes came in, and helped the Democrats to flip red seats blue. Axios is reporting that the House race for California's 39th district has been called for Democrat Gil Cisneros over Young Kim, who was vying to become the first Korean-American woman in Congress and Republicans' last hope to keep a seat in Orange County. It is the 39th House seat that Democrats flipped this year. MANY of the flipped seats happened AFTER the election Young Kim, the Republican running to succeed GOP Rep. Ed Royce of Fullerton, was up by 3,900 votes on election night with 100% of the precincts reporting and she ended up losing by 3,000 votes 11 days after the election. [Comment: Sure sign of fraud.][92]  Female Genital Mutilation: Five Lessons U.S. Lawmakers Can Learn From Europe[93] While the issue of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM), a practice common in some Muslim-majority and African countries, has only recently been thrust into the American sphere, there has been debate over the practice in the UK for decades.[94]  First New Butterfly Species Identified Since 2016[95] The 'Stanley Cup of entomology' has been won by a U of M biologist. The grey buckeye butterfly is dark brown, speckled, and somewhat mothlike, but it's actually a beautiful new species—the first new one identified in North America since 2016. And it's the first new one found in California for decades.[96]  For the First Time, Researchers Say Facebook Can Cause Depression[97] Spending too much time on 'social media' sites like Facebook is making people more than just miserable. It may also be making them depressed. A new study conducted by psychologists at the University of Pennsylvania has shown — for the first time — a causal link between time spent on social media and depression and loneliness, the researchers said.[98]  How the Left is Using Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to Bring in Socialism[99] Democrats no longer hiding their far left beliefs Democrats are pushing the young socialist into the spotlight to drive their party even further to the left. [Comment: 'young bolshevik' would be more accurate.][100]  Jerry Brown Might be in Big Trouble Over Wildfires; Here's Why[101] California Governor Jerry Brown might just land in hot water over the recent spate of wildfires as his veto of the 2016 Wildfire Mitigation bill comes under increased scrutiny, per the Washington Free Beacon:[102]  Police Make Arrest in Killing, Sex Assault at St. Louis Catholic Supply Store[103] (ST. LOUIS, Mo.) — A Missouri man was arrested in connection with a heinous crime spree at a Catholic Supply chain store in St. Louis in which a female customer was fatally shot and at least one other woman was sexually assaulted, officials said. Thomas Bruce, 53, is now in police custody on 14 charges including first-degree murder, sodomy, kidnapping, burglary, tampering with evidence and armed criminal action, according to the St. Louis County prosecuting attorney. Bruce entered the store on the west side of St. Louis shortly after 3 p.m. on Monday posing as a customer, left to get a credit card and then returned, displayed a handgun and forced everyone into a back room, police said in a press release. He ordered the three victims to the back room where he forced them to disrobe at gunpoint, according to a press release from St. Louis County Police. Bruce then allegedly exposed his genitals and demanded each of the victims perform sexual acts on him, police said. Two of the victims complied, but when mother of three Jamie Schmidt, 53, refused, she was shot in the head by Bruce, police said. Bruce then ordered the other victims to continue performing sexual acts on him, then he fled the scene, according to police. Officers swarmed the store — which sells rosary beads, votive candles, Bibles and other religious supplies — but by the time officers arrived Bruce was gone. Police later released images of clothing items similar to those Bruce wore during the alleged attack. Bruce then discarded the clothes he wore during the alleged incident, police said. Bruce was detained at a mobile home park in a St. Louis suburb Wednesday. Officials said detectives interviewed Bruce Wednesday afternoon.[104]  Powerful Tucker Carlson: We Must Build a Pro-Human Future[105] We are history's authors, not the machines We are not the victims of history — humanity is history — and we must now take control of our destiny and rise above the technocracy. Alex Jones provides analysis and commentary on the debate between Ben Shapiro and Tucker Carlson.[106]  Procter and Gamble Wants to Trademark 'LOL, ' 'WTF' And Other Millennial Friendly Acronyms[107] Procter and Gamble wants to trademark three-letter acronyms including 'LOL' and 'WTF' to use in an unlikely category: dishwashing detergents and soap. P...owner of brands such as Febreze, Tide and Mr Clean, has applied to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to use 'LOL' (which stands for Laughing Out Loud), 'WTF' (What The F — —), 'NBD' (No Big Deal) and 'FML' (F — — My Life)[108]  Report: FBI Classifies Proud Boys as 'Extremist Group, ' Warns Police They're 'Violent'[109] President Trump is just being openly punked by the deep state at this point. From The Guardian: The FBI now classifies the far-right Proud Boys as an 'extremist group with ties to white nationalism', according to a document produced by Washington statelaw enforcement. The FBI's 2018 designation of the self-confessed 'western chauvinist group' as extremist has not been previously made public. The Proud Boys was founded by the Vice Media co-founder Gavin McInnes. McInnes has insisted that his group is not white nationalist or 'alt-right' but the Proud Boys have a history of misogyny and glorifying violence. The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) lists them as a hate group. These are the 'alt-right' 'white supremacists': The group is actually explicitly anti-racist, but the media only has one refrain in situations like these and they repeat it over and over again Odds are the feds have already infiltrated the group and for all we know they've been provocateuring violence at their various events as a pretext to shut them down. Here's an example of the Proud Boys' 'extremism' from two days ago in Portland: 'Hannah McClintock, the woman in yellow with #antifa, repeatedly spit at a man ...rled punches at him. I had witnessed her trying to fight people over ...er. She was one among six people who were arrested. ' Antifa, who has the full backing of the feds, is allowed to commit crimes openly with the state's protection (all while deluding themselves that they're rebel anarchists): Hannah McClintock, the antifa woman in yellow seen spitting on ...nching people in the video, is not facing criminal charges. She theoretically could within the next year but that is highly unlikely.[110]  The Hitlergate Hearings[111] OK, so, that was a close one. For a moment there, I was starting to worry that the Democrats weren't going to take back the House and rescue us from ' the brink of fascism.' Which, if that had happened, in addition to having to attend all those horrible stadium rallies and help the government mass murder the Jews, we would have been denied the next two years of Donald Trump-related congressional hearings and investigations that we can now look forward to I'm going to go ahead and call them the Hitlergate Hearings. Staging these hearings has always been a crucial part of the Resistance's strategy. As history has proved, time and time again, when literal fascists take over your democracy, outlaw opposing political parties, and start shipping people off to concentration camps and revoking journalists' White House access, the only effective way to defeat them is to form a whole buttload of congressional committees and investigate the living Hitler out of them. This is especially the case when the literal fascists who have commandeered your democracy are conspiring with a shifty-eyed Slavic dictator whose country you have essentially surrounded with your full-spectrum dominant military forces, and who your media have thoroughly demonized, but who is nevertheless able to brainwash your citizens into electing his fascist puppet president with a few thousand dollars worth of Facebook ads. Once you've determined that has happened (which it obviously has), the gloves have to come off. No more prancing around in pussyhats, not with Russian Hitler in office! No, at that point, you really have no choice but to wait two years until your opposition party (which Hitler somehow forgot to ban) regains control of the House of Representatives (which Hitler somehow forgot to dissolve), wait another two months until they take office, and then immediately start issuing subpoenas, auditing Hitler's financial records, and taking affidavits from former hookers. I realize that may sound extreme, but remember, we're talking literal fascists, backed by literal Russian fascists, who are going around emboldening literal fascism, and making literal fascist hand gestures on television, and doing all kinds of other fascist stuff! Now, OK, if you're anything like me, you're probably wondering, if Trump is really a fascist, not to mention a Russian intelligence asset, why hasn't the 'Resistance' just assassinated him? Many of them are ex-CIA, after all, or are otherwise members of the Intelligence Community. Why bother with all these congressional hearings? Why not just go in there and kill him?[112]  The Only Options for Illinois Millennials: Fight or Flight[113] Don't expect Illinois millennials to ignore the state's collapsing finances for long. They'll soon be asked to bear more and more of the financial and economic costs, from higher taxes to diminishing job prospects to cuts in funding for their kids' schools. That's when Illinois' millennials will either fight back, as they've done on many national issues, or they'll simply leave the state. It's that simple.[114]  US Vet Says He's Going to Kill Himself on Twitter That's When Conservative Actor James Woods Does Something Amazing![115] Conservatives on social media have been attacked by George Soros funded groups like Media Matters, Democrat lawmakers, liberal Hollywood elites, the liberal media complex and censorship teams at Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. The funny thing is, most of the people they attack are really good and compassionate people whose only crime of fighting to defend the rights afforded to us by God and by our Constitution. Hollywood actor James Woods, is one of those conservatives, liberals love to hate. Late last night, James Woods responded to a veteran who said he was on Twitter all the time, but that he was tweeting for the first time to tell everyone he was going to kill himself. The veteran, whose name on Twitter is: @macmasters_a, tweeted:[116]  'Stud' Vs 'Dud': Conservative Leaders Bernier and Scheer Vie to Oust Trudeau[117] Conservatives in Canada have recently been witness to a tale of two leaders. First up was Maxime Bernier, leader of the People's Party of Canada who dropped by Ford Nation in Etobicoke, as compared to CPC leader Andrew Scheer who spoke at the PCPO convention in Toronto.[118]  DUP: May Has 'Torn Up' Her Brexit Promises Over Northern Ireland, 'Border Issue a Con'[119] Northern Irish MP Sammy Wilson has said the Prime Minister has 'torn up' her Brexit promises and said the EU was using the Irish border issue to cut off the province from the rest of the UK.[120]  France: The Multicultural Society is More and More Synonymous With a Multi-Conflict Society — Top Historian[121] French award winning historian Georges Bensoussan, who earlier warned for the Islamisation of certain districts, has now warned for the increasing tensions in his country. In an interview, the historian talks about how France's colonial past creates a culture of guilt and victimhood and therefore causes troubles concerning integration.[122]  Gaudy and Tacky Homes Belonging to Italian Mafia Family Are Demolished in Rome, As Italian Government Minister Declares: 'We'Re Going to Knock Down Every Last Villa Belonging to These Damn People'[123] Police in Rome has begun the demolition of eight illegal luxury homes built by an alleged mafia clan renowned for its violence and gaudy lifestyle, as Interior Minister Matteo Salvini swore to knock down 'every last villa belonging to these damn people'. More than 600 officers kicked 30 members of the Casamonica Mafia clan out of their illegal abodes in a Tuesday dawn raid, and today many of those evicted were at the scene crying foul, claiming they had not been allowed to fetch their belongings.[124]  Italy: Boy, 5, Fined for Riding Scooter in St Marks' Square[125] Sanction spurs furore on social media (ANSA) — Venice, November 21 — A five-year-old boy was fined for riding his scooter too fast in St Mark's Square in Venice after the toy was deemed an outlawed 'velocity accelerator'. Two inflexible traffic cops made the boy's father pay 66 euros and 88 cents in a case that has caused a social media furore. Commentators slammed the Venice cops for being so strict, posting comments like 'Shame', 'Madness' and Miserable 'Ghebi' (Fuzz)'. The centre-left opposition Democratic Party (PD) whip on the city council, Monica Sambo, said 'it seems like an over-the-top sanction, absurd. 'Piazza San Marco mustn't become an amusement park, but what harm can a five-year-old boy have caused?' Toy scooters and roller skates are banned by Venice by-laws. The boy's father said he would appeal.[126]  Last Night in Sweden: Massive Explosion Second Night in a Row in Malmö[127] An explosive device was detonated in a restaurant in the migrant area Rosengrd in Malmö on Tuesday night. The loud bang was heard all over Malmö. The police, who have opened a preliminary investigation of devastation endangering the public, blocked off a large area around the restaurant.[128]  Latest: France Hit by Fifth Day of Road Blocks as Second Death is Confirmed[129] Road blocks back in place in parts of France for fifth consecutive day A second person has died as a result of the protests Authorities ban protesters from Place de la Concorde in Paris on Saturday President Macron calls for dialogue[130]  Minister Salvini Warns EU: We Will Not Compromise, Any Sanctions Would be 'Disrespectful' Towards Italians[131] The European Union has rejected Italy's budget and are set to impose sanctions against Rome. Fearless Interior Minister Matteo Salvini says he's not prepared to compromise. Salvini is known worldwide for being the toughest and most trusted politician with Italian polls showing the rate of trust and popularity increasing monthly.[132]  Nikola Gruevski Granted Asylum in Hungary[133] Former Macedonian Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski confirmed on Tuesday that he has been granted asylum in Hungary. The daily Magyar Idok reported earlier in the day that the Hungarian authorities have approved the former Macedonian PM's asylum request.[134]  Pedophile Football Referee Charged With Molesting Over 300 Boys in Norway's Biggest Sex Abuse Case[135] A pedophile football referee in Norway has been charged with 300 counts of molesting teenage boys, including one count of rape, in the biggest sexual abuse case in the country's history. The referee, believed to be in his 20s, began targeting teenage boys aged from 13 to 16 from 2011, posing in online chat forums as a woman to request sexual photographs and videos. According to Norwegian media, the suspect would stalk chat rooms on messaging services 'Line' and 'Kitt', using the aliases 'Sandra' and 'Henriette', to swap thousands of explicit messages with around 100 teenagers between 2014 and 2016. The referee attempted to lure the boys into sending lewd material of themselves in exchange for pornographic content, threatening to publish the images online if they refused to send further material, including odd requests not of a sexual nature.[136]  Polish Stats Office Says Industrial Production in Poland Up 7.4 Per Cent in October[137] The production growth in Poland in October compared with October of 2017 was a healthy 7.4 per cent according to the country's Central Statistical Office (GUS) Tuesday. As well, compared to last month, September, it was 9.9 per cent higher, the statistics office stated.[138]  Security Must be Returned to the People of Europe and Identity Preserved — Hungarian FM[139] Hungary's minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade speaking at the National University of Public Service has said that mass illegal migration has caused 'parallel societies' in several western European cities. Whilst he believes that everyone wants a strong and successful Europe, the strategies for achieving that are different.[140]  Support for Populist Parties Has More Than Tripled in Two Decades — Study[141] Populist parties are on the rise throughout Europe, a study of British newspaper The Guardian shows. An election analysis in 31 European countries shows a steady support for numerous populist parties throughout the continent.[142]  Theresa May Gambling on 'Unicorn Fantasy' Compromise to Save Brexit Deal[143] As her draft Brexit deal flounders and senior members of her government threaten resignation if a compromise cannot be reached, UK Prime Minister Theresa May is reportedly going all in on what one lawmaker described as the 'unicorn fantasy island' solution: Replacing the Irish backstop (perhaps the most contentious aspect of her 585-page draft agreement) with a commitment to find a 'technological solution' that would avoid the return of a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, according to the Sun and the Financial Times. According to one Sky News reporter, the introduction of a commitment to find 'technological solutions' might be enough to win over some Brexiteer Tories by helping to assuage their concerns over the possibility that the UK could find itself trapped in the customs union indefinitely following Brexit. However, serious doubts remain about whether the technology even exists to carry this out. May reportedly pledged to explore adding the technology clause during talks Monday night with Ian Duncan Smith, Lord Trimble, Lord Lilley and Owen Paterson. In theory, a technological solution would allow the EU and UK to maintain a 'soft border' in Northern Ireland even if the two sides fail to hammer out a trade agreement. [Comment: The problem is that too many Europhiles in UK government and civil service that are hampering a proper Brexit.][144]  Theresa May and Re-Appointed Remainer Minister Threaten Brexit: 'Parliament Will Block No-Deal Exit'[145] Theresa May's newly appointed pensions secretary has moved quickly to undermine a full 'no-deal' Brexit, claiming Parliament will block a 'no deal' exit from the European Union (EU), with the Prime Minister echoing that view just hours later. The prime minister has long insisted Brexit will happen and a 'no deal is better than a bad deal'; however, Amber Rudd suggested Wednesday morning that a 'no Brexit' was more likely than no deal.[146]  Tommy Robinson Savages Tory Brexiteers: 'I Waited and They Did Nothing'[147] On the Day Jacob Rees-Mogg was forced to concede that the rebellion by the Tory Brexiteers had stalled and called for Brexiteers to see the virtue in patience, Tommy Robinson has back at their blatant inactivity. After announcing plans for a 'Brexit Betrayal Rally' Robinson, 35 said: 'I sat, as a Brexiteer, and I watched and I waited for the Tory Brexiteers to say and do something. They done nothing.'[148]  UK: Brexiteer Believes Tories Are Hiding Letters of No Confidence[149] Brexiteer Andrew Bridgen has told a national newspaper he believes the Tories are hiding the number of letters of no confidence.[150]  UK: SNP Plots With Labour and Tory Remainers to Push 'Soft' Deal Inside Single Market[151] The leader of the Scottish National Party (SNP) has hinted at plans to collude with anti-Brexit Tories and Labour to vote down Theresa May's Brexit proposals and push through a 'Norway model' exit. SNP, Labour, Liberal Democrats, and anti-Brexit Tory MPs have been in talks, accordingto The Guardian, with the aim of voting down the Prime Minister's plan and agreement on an alternative.[152]  UK: The Tulip: Inside the Plans for the City of London's Newest — and Tallest — Skyscraper[153] How do you go about naming a skyscraper? Do you name it after the company that owns it (such as the BT Tower)? The father of the developer who built it (the Heron Tower)? The number of floors in the building (Tower 42)? Or do you simply let time and popular opinion decide (Walkie Talkie, 20 Fenchurch Street)? For the latest proposed addition to London's skyline, the name has come from nature. Spouting up to almost double the height of its neighbouring 30 St Mary Axe (also known as The Gherkin), The Tulip will appear like a sleek silver lollipop among a forest of skyscrapers.[154]  UK: Terror Probe Launched After Two Improvised Explosive Devices Found in London Flat[155] Detectives from the Metropolitan Police's Counter Terror Command have launched an investigation after finding two improvised explosive devices (IEDs) at an unoccupied flat in London.[156]  Undercover Journalist Finds One in Ten German Mosques Preach Radicalism[157] German author and undercover journalist Shams Ul-Haq claims to have visited hundreds of mosques across Germany, Austria, and Switzerland and says that one in ten mosques there preaches radical Islamic ideas.[158]  Goldman Sachs Sued by Abu Dhabi Fund Over 1MDB Scandal[159] NEW YORK (AFP) - An Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund sued Goldman Sachs on Wednesday for allegedly conspiring against the Middle Eastern fund to further a criminal scheme by Malaysia's scandal-plagued 1MDB. The suit, filed in a New York court on behalf of Abu Dhabi's International Petroleum Investment Company, names Goldman Sachs as well as former Goldman officials who were charged by the US Justice Department in indictments unsealed earlier this month. 'This action seeks redress for a massive global conspiracy on the part of the defendants to defraud and injure plaintiffs,' said the lawsuit, which also named former executives from IPIC and its subsidiary Aabar Investments. [160]  Eugene Lyons — 'The Myth of Jewish Communism', April, 1947: Full Text and Brief Background[161] Eugene Lyons, 1947: 'The antisemitic legend that the Soviet regime is somehow Jewish thus makes no more sense than the related myth that American communism is Jewish.' Eugene Lyons (July 1, 1898 — January 7, 1985) born in Belarus, of Jewish parents who emigrated to the U.S., was raised nominally Jewish, but became a committed Socialist and even Soviet Communist fellow-traveler. Based upon firsthand eyewitness experiences as a journalist (and one-time Stalin sycophant, even granted a rare interview with the murderous despot), Lyons evolved into a foremost thoughtful and vociferous critic of Socialism-Communism, including all its manifestations, from the 'Soviet experiment' in Russia, to the global impact of Communist depredations and conspiracy, including within the U.S. (see this 'evolution' in Assignment in Utopia and The Red Decade). Lyons' 1967, Worker's Paradise Lost—Fifty Years of Soviet Communism: A Balance Sheet, summarized the catastrophic failure of the Soviet system, and the seeming 'paradox' that only the 'Communist faithful,' and 'the implacable enemies of socialism, the defenders of free economy,' were willing to 'unreservedly acknowledge that the existing situation in the USSR is true socialism.' Dismissing the baseless 'caveats' of those he termed (self-delusive) 'non-Communist Marxists', Lyons articulated the free economy champions' irrefragable argument as follows:[162]  Delhi Police Alerted on Two Jihadis to Avert Serious Terror Attack[163] They just came to India for killing of Hindus and peace loving people here to celebrate the birth anniversary of the father of Jihad. Police issue advisory against 2 suspected Islamic Terrorists who may have entered Delhi[164][165]  French Island Rocked by Cost-of-Living Protests[166] SAINT-DENIS DE LA REUNION (AFP) — Thirty police officers have been injured in five days of protests over rising living costs on the French Indian Ocean island of La Reunion, the government in Paris said Wednesday. The 'yellow vest' movement, which brought hundreds of thousands of people onto French streets last weekend to protest environmental taxes on fuel, has plunged La Reunion into its worst bout of violence in nearly 30 years. Roads across the volcanic island of 850,000 people off southeast Africa remained blocked Wednesday by demonstrators, causing petrol stations to run low on fuel, and schools were closed for fear of violence. [167]  Twitter CEO Accused of 'Hate Mongering' In India[168] Tables turn on Jack Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey has kicked up a social media storm in India after a picture of him with a placard saying 'smash Brahminical patriarchy,' referring to the highest Hindu caste, went viral in one of the company's fastest-growing markets. The picture, posted on Twitter on Sunday by a journalist who was part of group of women journalists, activists, writers whom Dorsey met during a visit to India last week, had him clutching a poster of a woman holding up a banner with the line that has offended many Indians. Several prominent Indians, including T.V. Mohandas Pai, a former finance chief of software exporter Infosys, accused Dorsey of 'hate mongering' against Brahmins.[169]  Dolce ...bbana Call Off Shanghai Show in Racism, Sexism Row[170] Over model eating pizza with chopsticks and Gabbana comments (ANSA) — Beijing, November 21 — Dolce ...bbana on Wednesday called off a Shanghai show amid a row over its social-media campaign showing a model attempting to use chopsticks to eat pizza, which Chinese Web users have slammed as racist and sexist, and allegedly derogatory comments about China from Stefano Gabbana. D...ancelled the highly awaited show-event at Shanghai's Expo Centre after the topic got more than 120 million hits on China's version of Twitter, Weibo, including criticism from Memories of a Geisha star Zhang Ziyi. Gabbana was quoted as describing China as a 'foul-smelling, dirty and ignorant mafia' in comments he said were posted by someone who hacked his Instagram account. The controversy arose after a video posted on the Italian fashion brand's page on the Chinese social media site Weibo on Monday showed a Chinese model attempting to use chopsticks to eat a pizza, a cannoli and spaghetti. Weibo users accused the label of trivialising the country's culture and depicting Chinese women in a racist way. The girl was said to have a stereotypical 'naive' appearance with small eyes, and she was described using double entendres. Furthermore, her inability to use the chopsticks was mocked and, when it came to the cannoli, a voiceover asked 'is it too big for you?'. The video for 'The Great Show' was taken down within 24 hours but it had already been shared widely on social media, where the hashtag #BoycottDolce began to circulate. As well as Zhang, other cinema superstars including Li Bingbing and Chen Ku had said they would no longer attend the event. The Italian fashion house complained of hacking attacks regarding the comments attributed to Gabbana. 'Our Instagram account was hacked. And also Stefano Gabbana's account. 'Our legal office is urgently investigating. 'We are very sorry for any suffering caused by these unauthorised posts. 'We have only respect for China and the Chinese people,' said D... Weibo account. At the end of the statement it was announced that The Great Show had been cancelled. On Wednesday Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana issued a statement saying 'what happened today is really regrettable, not only for us, but for all those who worked night and day to give life to this project. 'Our dream was to realise in Shanghai an event that was a tribute to China, that told our story and our vision'.[171]  How American Academia Misleads About China[172] WASHINGTON—U.S. academia is having difficulty giving students and the public at large an honest picture of today's China, according to experts.  'We don't talk about 'Taiwan independence.' We talk about 'the cross-Strait relations.' We don't talk about 'the occupation of Tibet.' We don't call the June 4th Massacre 'massacre.' It is June 4th 'incident,' or something like that,' Link said, during remarks at the 'Mark Palmer Forum: China's Global Challenge to Democratic Freedom,' sponsored by Freedom House at the Hudson Institute on Oct. 24.  When he searched for 'Do the people in China vote?', the answer was, 'Elections in China are based on a hierarchical electoral system, whereby local People's Congresses are directly elected, and all higher levels of People's Congresses up to the National People's Congress, the national legislature, are indirectly elected by the People's Congress of the level immediately below.' In fact, in the elections for the local People's Congresses, individuals can only vote for those the CCP has chosen. In elections for higher offices, the Party controls who is selected. Although there has been talk for decades about instituting local democracy, the Party keeps local elections under strict control. When people search for 'Why did the Great Chinese Famine happen?', the answer is: 'According to the government, and the Chinese Communist Party, the Great Famine was caused by a string of natural disasters. Communist historiography refers to it not as a 'Great Famine,' but as the 'Three Years of Natural Disasters.' There are seeds of truth in this claim.' Link said there were many other similar examples. 'I don't want to blame these idiotic answers on my fellow China scholars,' he said, 'but I think the culture within which we don't tell our students, we don't write our books, we don't talk to the news media in frank, honest terms, allows these spaces to develop and get filled with junk.' Link said: 'Does self-censorship in the scholarly world exist? Not only does it exist, it is everywhere. And there are costs. Ultimately, the costs are to the American public and the world's public.'  Peterson said because of that, not only the Confucius Institutes and Classrooms are under the CCP's censorship, but those who are outside of the Confucius Institutes and Classrooms also feel pressure. They watch what they say in order to not upset the CCP, and they dare not express their concerns. Peterson cited one case that when a person agreed to talk with her about the Confucius Institute, he dared not meet her in his office, or even in the building where he worked.[173]  Inside the Neat Family Homes of Three Accused Terrorists Before Heavily-Armed Police Stormed in and Arrested Them for 'Planning a Massacre' In Melbourne[174] Hanifi Halis, 21, Samed Eriklioglu, 26, and his brother Ertunc Eriklioglu, 30, were arrested on terrorism charges as their family homes were turned upside-down in 3am police raids.[175]  Muslim Leaders Boycott Meeting With Scott Morrison Over His Comments on Bourke Street Terror Attack — Just After the PM Asked Them to Help Track Down Extremists[176] Muslim leaders have refused to meet with Prime Minister Scott Morrison because he demanded they reveal the radicalised 'wolves' in their mosques, following the Melbourne terrorist attack.[177]  'Our Beautiful Flower': Family of the Nine-Month-Old Found Washed Up on a Gold Coast Beach Share a Picture of the Baby With Her Dad Shortly Before Her Death — as Shocking Claims Emerge She May Have Been 'Sacrificed' And Dumped in the Sea[178] A baby girl found dead on a Gold Coast beach was allegedly 'sacrificed' by her father and thrown into the water some 30 kilometres away from where she was discovered.[179]  Smoker Who Killed a Surgeon in a Cowardly One-Punch Attack After He Told Him to Put Out His Cigarette Outside a Hospital is Found Guilty[180] Joseph Esmaili was found guilty of the manslaughter of Melbourne surgeon Patrick Pritzwald-Stegmann on Wednesday.[181]  'That's Not an ISIS Salute': Father of Accused Terrorists Charged With 'Planning a Massacre' Downplays 'Innocent' Muslim Hand Gesture — as Wife Recounts Police Trashing Her Garage Mosque[182] The father of two accused terrorists in Melbourne has denied a family happy snap showing himself and his son displaying a one-fingered salute is the salute of ISIS.[183]  ICIPE Researchers Discover New Species of Edible Cricket in Kenya[184] Researchers have discovered a new species of crickets in Kenya which they say is edible. International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (Icipe) on Wednesday said the cricket can be easily produced in mass for human consumption.[185]  AfD Leader Savages Merkel: Women and Girls Are Now Afraid to Walk the Streets![186] Women and girls are now afraid to walk the streets along for fear of attack. The Alternative for Germany (AfD) parliamentary leader, Alice Weidel, said on Wednesday. In the Bundestag she accused the Chancellor of wrongfully conducting migration policies.[187]  Bulgaria Complains About UN Migration Pact and Closes the Borders[188] After Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Israel have refused to sign the Marrakech Agreement, now Bulgaria complains about the UN Global Migration Compact on Immigration. Specifically, Bulgaria is speeding up their moves to protect themselves as they observe the daily invasion by thousands of illegal immigrants in Greece, from the gateway of Evros.[189]  DHS Says There Are '500 Criminals' In Migrant Caravan[190] During a conference call with reporters on November 19, Department of Homeland Security officials said there are at least '500 criminals' among the migrant caravan that has reached the Mexican side of the San Ysidro border crossing just south of San Diego. The officials said that 'most of the caravan members are not women and children,' but are single adult or teen males with the women and children having been pushed to the front of the caravan in order to receive sympathetic media coverage. Fox News reported that DHS officials said there are about 6,000 people in Tijuana waiting to be processed at the San Ysidro border crossing, with more still arriving.[191]  Did Croatia Play Games and Will it Sign the UN Migration Pact After All?[192] While many Eastern-European countries have made their opinions on the topics of mass migration clear, there are some countries that seem to be playing both sides. An example can be found in Croatia, where the president Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, the prime minister Andrej Plenkovic and other established figures of the political elite have been caught saying one thing to one group of people and the very opposite thing to another group, in regards to their commitments to solving the illegal immigration crisis and the question of the Migration Pact also known as the 'Marrakesh Declaration'.[193]  Hypocritical CNN: Obama Can Bypass Congress on Immigration, Trump Can't[194] On Tuesday, CNN's New Day hosts John Berman and Alisyn Camerota brandished a decision by a California judge that temporarily halted President Trump's recent executive action on asylum. But back in 2012 when it was former President Obama's DACA order on the chopping block, CNN hosts rushed to defend the President's ability to enact immigration policy without Congressional approval. The order by President Trump, which would have required asylum seekers to apply for protection at a designated port of entry, was halted by U.S. District Judge John Tigar, who wrote in part: The rule barring asylum for immigrants who enter the country outside a port of entry irreconcilably conflicts with the INA (The Immigration and Naturalization Act) and the expressed intent of Congress. Whatever the scope of the President's authority, he may not rewrite the immigration laws to impose a condition that Congress has expressly forbidden.' Berman appeared wholly convinced by the Judge's reasoning: 'The judge is merely saying that the executive order infringes on a law passed by Congress And the President unilaterally, by executive order, was trying to restrict [asylum] to ports of entry.'[195]  Immigration Canada Extending Hotel Stay of Asylum Seekers in Toronto[196] Asylum seekers lodged in hotels and motels across the Greater Toronto Area will be staying two to four weeks longer than expected, as federal and municipal officials scramble for a new plan. The hotels were meant to be a temporary solution, crafted under pressure to get asylum seekers out from the local college residences where they were placed for the summer. The federal government originally paid for the hotel rooms until Sept. 30. Now, their bill will extend through at least the first half of October, if not the whole month.[197]  Indigenous People of French Island Now a Minority Due to Mass Illegal Migration[198] The French overseas region of Mayotte has reported that the indigenous Shimaore-speakers of the island have now become a minority due to the rapidly rising number of illegal migrants arriving on the island in recent years. The island, which is located off the coast of Mozambique, is a French department with an MP sitting in the French National Assembly. Mayotte's MP Mansour Kamardine, a member of the conservative Republicans, has sounded the alarm on the situation saying that the island has experienced a four per cent population growth per year due to mass migration, Franceinfo reports.[199]  Italy: MSF Probed, Aquarius Seizure Ordered in Waste Case[200] Medical-aid NGO calls move 'disproportionate and unfounded' (ANSA) — Rome, November 20 — Italian judicial authorities on Tuesday ordered the preventative seizure of the Aquarius migrant-rescue ship in relation to a probe into alleged illegal dumping of waste by medical-aid NGO Mdecins Sans Frontires (MSF — Doctors Without Borders). The ship is currently in Marseilles. The case regards the alleged dumping of 'dangerous and potentially infectious' refuse, including medical materials, as if it were ordinary household waste. Prosecutors suspect that 24,000 kilos of waste was dumped in this way on 44 different occasions. The waste was alleged dumped in 11 ports — Trapani, Pozzallo, Augusta, Catania and Messina in Sicily; Vibo Valentia, Reggio Calabria and Corigliano Calabro in Calabria; Naples and Salerno in Campania; and Brindisi in Puglia. In total, 14 people are under investigation in the 'Borderless' probe conducted by state and finance police and coordinated by Catania prosecutors and 460,000 euros have been seized. 'I was right to stop the NGOs' ships (landing in Italian ports),' Deputy Premier and Interior Minister Matteo Salvini said via Twitter.'Not only did I stop the trafficking of migrants but, according to what has emerged, I stopped the trafficking of refuse too. #portichiusi (#portsclosed)'. MSF said that the Italian judicial authorities' request was a 'disproportionate and unfounded measure, purely aimed at criminalising lifesaving medical-humanitarian action at sea'. 'After two years of defamatory and unfounded allegations of collusion with human traffickers, judicial investigations, and bureaucratic obstacles against our humanitarian work, we are now accused of organised crime aimed at illicit waste trafficking,' said Karline Kleijer, MSF's head of emergencies. The NGO said the in-port operations, including waste management, of its search-and-rescue vessels had always followed standard procedures. The head of the Italian branch of MSF, Gabriele Eminente, said in a press conference Tuesday that, during landings, 'police and healthcare authorities come onboard. It is absurd to say that we were engaged in illegal waste trafficking under the eyes of the authorities, who were there during the 200 landings we managed.' MSF doctor Gianfranco De Maio also lashed out at the judges' claim of alleged risk of infectious diseases spreading due to incorrect waste disposal. 'My professional conduct and that of my colleagues, who work in countries where there is Ebola and cholera, has been attacked,' De Maio said. 'These charges are ridiculous. The World Health Organization uses our guidelines for waste disposal. To think that tuberculosis or hepatitis is transmitted through clothing is absurd.' Catania preliminary investigative judge Carlo Cannella also cited the risk of 'AIDS' through incorrect disposal of clothing and other 'contaminated objects, to which Deborah Gold, chief executive of the National AIDS Trust replied that 'clothing categorically is not, and has never been, an HIV transmission risk'. 'This would have stood out as ridiculous even amongst the misinformation of the 1980s, never mind in 2018,' she added.[201]  Italy: Alleged Nigerian Mafia Gang Busted in Cagliari[202] Several arrests for human and drug trafficking, prostitution (ANSA) — Cagliari, November 21 — Police in Cagliari on Wednesday carried out several arrests and dismantled an alleged criminal ring linked to a Nigerian mafia clan, the 'Supreme Eye Confraternity', investigative sources said. The so-called 'Calypso Nest' gang is accused of human trafficking, exploitation of prostitution and drug dealing. They have also been charged with mafia association, the sources said. The investigation that led to the police operation kicked off in 2017. In all, 21 people were arrested and 36 others placed under investigation, police said. Some 75 kg of drugs were seized. The gang had humanitarian permits to stay in Italy, police said.[203]  Merkel Successor Could Abandon UN Migration Pact[204] Established globalists blame populism Possible successor to Merkel says no to UN migration pact The German Minister for Health, Jens Spahn, wants Germany to withdraw from the UN's controversial migration agreement. Several other representatives of the German ruling party CDU agree with him, reports Deutsche Welle. Spahn, who is one of those proposed as successor to Angela Merkel, wants the issue of the migration agreement to be discussed thoroughly at the CDU Congress in December.[205]  Migrant Violently Rapes Woman a Month After Italy Granted Him Refugee Status[206] Just one month after receiving protected status in Italy from Sicily has been arrested on suspicion of raping a 68-year-old woman. The woman was sunbathing on a beach in Abruzzo in the east of Italy. Saleban Nuur Shaieb, reportedly homeless, age 20, had stripped naked then started publicly masturbating.[207]  More Than 10,000 Elderly Swedes Are Homeless — While Migrants Get Everything Free[208] Recently an exhibition of migrants posing in front of empty tents, was organised to persuade Solna Municipality to give them priority on the social housing waiting list. The exhibition was organised by left-wing activists. Mainstream media appears to have known about it and reported on the migrants' stories and demands for unlimited precedence to apartments. At the same time, a report from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare showsthat Sweden had 10,121 homeless Swedes over the age of 50 last year. The vulnerability is great among them. The risk of being robbed and beaten is imminent. Adolf Arbelius, 61, is one of those who have suffered badly.[209]  'No Compromises': Merkel Launches Passionate Defence of UN Migration Pact[210] Signing the UN migration pact will be 'a win-win situation' for Germany, Angela Merkel has said, attacking concern over the controversial agreement as 'nationalism in its purest form'.[211]  Obama-Appointed Judge Rules Against Trump on Caravan Invasion as Flood of 100's of Migrants Caught Crossing Border[212] Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley Sector apprehended two large groups of Central American migrants who illegally crossed the border. The groups, consisting of nearly 100 family units and unaccompanied minors, surrendered to Border Patrol agents after they illegally entered the U.S. from Mexico in two separate incidents. These people were not even connected to the Central American caravan but were lead by human smugglers to the border! The numbers of illegals crossing are staggering. In the month of October alone, over 50,000 illegals crossed between ports of entry. According to an Obama-appointed San Francisco Federal Judge, these people are allowed to claim asylum in the US even if they didn't go to a port of entry:[213]  Refugees Disastrous for German Welfare State as Almost 50% Are Illiterate, Top Professor Shows[214] The idea that migrants or refugees are needed for maintaining production in western societies has received another blow. The footage below shows that refugees say they want to be engineer or scientist and continue with a professor who says most refugees are highly qualified. But after one minute, another professor, Hans-Werner Sinn, shows with several studies, that a lot of refugees can barely read or write and need tremendous amounts of education to get them to work. Sinn, a top professor and the former President of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research, shows that two-thirds of Syrian graduates in Syria qualify below the threshold of literacy; the ability to read and write. According to the professor in economics Germany should ask the question 'are the right people coming to us?'[215]  Sweden: Sex Assaults Surge Since Migrant Crisis[216] Meanwhile, 70% rise in Swedish men sterilizing themselves Sweden has seen a surge in recorded cases of sex assaults since 2013, with many linking the rise to increasing numbers of migrants entering the country. According to Criminal statistics agency Br, the number of adult women reporting that they had been sexually assaulted rose from 4.7 per cent of the population in 2016, to 6.4 per cent in 2017. 'Between 2006 and 2012, the level was relatively stable, but since 2013, the proportion that claims to be exposed to sexual offences has shown a clear increase,' stated the agency As we previously reported, new figures released in August found that 58 per cent of convicted rapists and 85 per cent of all convicted assault rapists in Sweden were born outside of Europe. In cases where the victim did not know the attacker, the proportion of foreign offenders was more than 80 per cent. Nearly 40 per cent of the convicted rapists are from the Middle East or from Africa, areas of the world from which Sweden has accepted large numbers of migrants in recent years. Meanwhile, Swedish men seeking voluntary vasectomies has risen by 70 per cent — from from 1,430 men in 2013 to 2,470 in 2017. In cities like Stockholm, the number of men sterilizing themselves has doubled over the last five years. [Comment: The fruit of Tavistiock's incremental culture destroying policies run over decades.][217]  Time for a Doctor? Angela Merkel Fully Supports 'Dangerous' UN Migration Pact[218] Despite the opposition from a growing list of concerned states, the soon to be unemployed German Chancellor Merkel supports the controversial UN Global Migration Pact. Unlikely to cause shock she has also called for international efforts to tackle the migration crisis she's created after a number of countries, following the United States and thereafter Hungary's lead in refusing to sign.[219]  Toronto: Migrants Housed in Hotel 'Slaughtered Goats' In Public Bathrooms[220] Other guests complain of threats, sexual harassment ...les of garbage An American visitor who stayed at a hotel in Toronto where hundreds of 'refugees' are being housed claims that animal services had to be called because migrants were slaughtering goats in the public bathrooms.[221]  UK: Fury as Greater Manchester Sees 102% Increase in Asylum Seeking Migrants[222] The North West of England is stuck with seventy per cent of Britain's asylum seekers and local authorities have threatened to pull out of the programme to rehouse the migrants. The Sun revealed that latest figures show there are currently 6,681 supported asylum seekers in Greater Manchester — a 102 per cent increase since 2003.[223]  UN Migration Pact Will Wipe Out German Culture, Alarming Parliament Letter Says[224] An open letter has been published referencing genocide concerning the planned UN Global Compact for Migration. The letter cites fears of a wipeout of German culture. Open letter to the German Parliament concerning the UN migration pact Dear Members of the Bundestag, Germany and Europe are at a crossroads — being or not being!?[225]  Watch: The Dangers of the UN Migration Pact Explained in Two Minutes[226] This German reporter tells exactly what the most important parts of the United Nations Global Compact for Migration are: It is difficult to understand, except that migration is seen as good. Invest two minutes of your time and understand what this society changing pact is about. If you prefer to read check these stories: link 1, link 2.[227]  We Mustn't Flood Germany With Africans, There Are Too Many of Them — African AfD Politician[228] Achille Demagbo, a migrant from Benin and a member of the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, has warned Germany to stop accepting unlimited numbers of African migrants. The 38-year-old Demagbo held a speech on Monday in the city of Magdeburg and received an applause for his performance.[229]  When Muslims Rape European White Women, Whose Fault is it?[230] European women are to blame for being raped by Muslim men. Such is the latest position — the latest apologia — being offered by those dedicated to exonerating undesirable Muslim behavior, particularly in the context of accepting more Muslim migrants into the West. On October 14, seven Muslim migrants raped a teenage German girl in a park, after drugging her at a disco in Freiburg. (At least she survived; in a similar case that occurred a week earlier in Italy, the drugged rape victim was left murdered.) Bernhard Rotzinger, the police chief of Freiburg, responded by saying, 'We cannot offer citizens an all-risk insurance [against crime], but I can advise this: Don't make yourself vulnerable by using alcohol or drugs.' Similarly, after mobs of Muslim migrants sexually assaulted as many as one thousand women on New Year's Eve 2016 in Cologne, Germany, the city's mayor, Henriette Reker, called on the women, the victims — not their male rapists — to make changes: 'The women and young girls have to be more protected in the future so these things don't happen again. This means they should go out and have fun, but they need to be better prepared, especially with the Cologne carnival coming up. For this, we will publish online guidelines that these young women can read through to prepare themselves.' Such advice against alcohol, drugs, and reckless behavior would be more respectable had it not been made under duress. As it is, it is a cop-out. Or, as a November 8 report discussing the aforementioned rape in Freiburg puts it, '[t]he focus on prevention is a good thing, but also shows how German authorities and media barely hold the migrant crisis responsible for the disaster that is unfolding in Germany. Political correctness has caused officials to put the blame for the criminal acts on the women instead of Merkel's guests.'[231]  White House Approves Use of Force, Some Law Enforcement Roles for Border Troops[232] The White House late Tuesday signed a memo allowing troops stationed at the border to engage in some law enforcement roles and use lethal force, if necessary — a move that legal experts have cautioned may run afoul of the Posse Comitatus Act.[233]  Christian Threatens to Sue Over 'Gay Pride Parade'[234] 'I just wanted my child to receive an education, rather than indoctrination' A London primary school is facing the prospect of legal action after a Christian parent formally complained about a 'Proud to be Me' event she claims promoted LGBT lifestyles. Heavers Farm school in South Norwood has strongly denied that it organised a 'gay pride parade' earlier this year, but Izoduwa Adhedo claims her son was forced to take part 'in an event that goes against our Christian beliefs'. Adhedo, whose son has since been withdrawn from the school, was due to meet school governors on Tuesday evening to press a formal complaint Under the Human Rights Act, schools were obliged to respect the rights of parents'religious and philosophical convictions in providing education, he added. Heaver Farm school had run a 'systematic campaign celebrating [LGBT] lifestyles', he said. 'It goes beyond a parade, including children being read to from certain books and posters being put on walls. When you start making that the enterprise of education it becomes proselytising.'[235]  Fruits of College Indoctrination[236] Much of today's incivility and contempt for personal liberty has its roots on college campuses, and most of the uncivil and contemptuous are people with college backgrounds. Let's look at a few highly publicized recent examples of incivility and attacks on free speech. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his wife, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, were accosted and harassed by a deranged left-wing mob as they were leaving a dinner at Georgetown University. Sen. McConnell was harassed by protesters at Reagan National Airport, as well as at several venues in Kentucky. Sen. Ted Cruz and his wife were harassed at a Washington, D.C., restaurant. Afterward, a group called Smash Racism DC wrote: 'No — you can't eat in peace — your politics are an attack on all of us. You're [sic] votes are a death wish. Your votes are hate crimes.' Other members of Congress — such as Andy Harris, Susan Collins, and Rand Paul — have been physically attacked or harassed by leftists. Most recent is the case of Fox News political commentator Tucker Carlson. A leftist group showed up at his house at night, damaging his front door and chanting, 'Tucker Carlson, we will fight! We know where you sleep at night!' 'Racist scumbag, leave town!' [Comment: Many colleges and universities are just communist indoctrination centres.][237]  'God is Not Male or Female': Archbishop of Canterbury Says 'The Father' Cannot be Defined by Human Gender[238] God should not be referred to using a gender because 'our father' was not male or female, according to the Archbishop of Canterbury. The Most Rev Justin Welby has warned human language is inadequate to describe the Christian deity and that despite the use of words such as 'king' and 'lord' — he is not male in the human sense. Other church leaders have called for Christians to avoid labelling God as a 'he'. Some campaigns have pointed out in the Bible there are passages where God provides solace 'as a mother comforts her child' and have begun referring to God as a 'her'. When asked his opinion, the Archbishop told an audience at St Martin-in-theFields in Trafalgar Square that no gender word would be appropriate. He said: 'All human language about God is inadequate and to some degree metaphorical.[239]  Michigan College Cancels 'The Vagina Monologues' Because 'Not All Women Have Vaginas'[240] Leaders at a college in Michigan decided to cancel its production of 'The Vagina Monologues' because it's discriminatory, given 'not all women have vaginas.' The women's resource center at Eastern Michigan University put the kibosh on the famous production since it caters only to women who have the physical anatomy that accompanies the female sex, according to The Ann Arbor News.[241]  The 'Soft' But Real UN World Government Plan[242] The U.N. published a document of almost 15,000 words entitled 'Transforming Our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.' This document is a stream of consciousness of pious platitudes about meeting 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs), and thereby meeting the most pressing needs of humanity. Worldwide rights are briefly mentioned in Article 19 of this 91-article agenda, but rights have been supplanted with needs to which men and women, rich and poor, and Western, African, Asian, European, and Latin American nations can subscribe. Classical divisions between haves and have-nots are pushed aside as inherently limiting. Five of the seventeen goals are about the environment, and environmental issues take center stage because the environment affects all — rich as well as poor, highly developed industrial cultures as well as subsistence, village, agricultural cultures. Using a stream of repetitive platitudes (the repetitive language and lack of concrete examples are part of the siren song of the document), the language of the document attempts to project a unified world vision for governance. The 17 categories of needs provide 'goals for cities, for women, for the poor, and even for life under the water. Absolutely no sphere of human activity is exempt from control by the UN.' Stressing needs, one can see the Marxist influence upon the document and can recall his axiom: 'from each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs.' This writer suggests that this is indeed an agenda for a new world government by 2030. It is a shrewd alternative to the Montreux document of 1947. Lacking a full-fledged taxation system and lacking a standing military, it might seem to fall short of the United World Federalist concept. However, I suggest that this is the 'soft' first stage of government being enacted. Although its focus is on needs rather than 'natural rights' and 'upholding the moral law within a Christian context,' nonetheless, its loose character reminds one of the government of the U.S. under the Articles of Confederation. The states — formerly the 13 colonies — did not have a standing army or navy and did not have federal taxation. The Executive Branch was purposely weak, and the Articles could be amended only by a unanimous vote, and a two-thirds vote of the states — not a simple majority — was required to pass a national law. The states remained the epicenters of authority in the new nation.[243]  There's a Critical Security Hole That Lets Web Pages Hijack Computers. Of Course it's Adobe Flash's Fault[244] Because Adobe does not maintain a fixed patching schedule for Flash Player, this isn't technically considered an out-of-band band-aid. However, the update does come just one week after Adobe pushed out a handful of fixes for Patch Tuesday, including one for an information disclosure vulnerability in Flash Player. That Adobe would post another update just one week after their last patch should underscore that CVE-2018-15981 is a serious enough vulnerability to be a priority fix for users and admins. After installing this latest fix, those who are tired of the constant security threats might also want to consider taking the advice of multiple security experts and developers and at least disable Flash by default if not permanently.[245] [ 1]: / [ 2]: #335073 [ 3]: #335147 [ 4]: #335091 [ 5]: #335049 [ 6]: #335089 [ 7]: #335173 [ 8]: #335109 [ 9]: #335157 [ 10]: #335071 [ 11]: #335045 [ 12]: #335096 [ 13]: #335067 [ 14]: #335155 [ 15]: #335057 [ 16]: #335043 [ 17]: #335161 [ 18]: #335085 [ 19]: #335179 [ 20]: #335169 [ 21]: #335127 [ 22]: #335145 [ 23]: #335100 [ 24]: #335113 [ 25]: #335181 [ 26]: #335139 [ 27]: #335129 [ 28]: #335075 [ 29]: #335131 [ 30]: #335133 [ 31]: #335153 [ 32]: #335083 [ 33]: #335177 [ 34]: #335115 [ 35]: #335151 [ 36]: #335175 [ 37]: #335107 [ 38]: #335171 [ 39]: #335165 [ 40]: #335101 [ 41]: #335030 [ 42]: #335095 [ 43]: #335102 [ 44]: #335065 [ 45]: #335099 [ 46]: #335105 [ 47]: #335038 [ 48]: #335032 [ 49]: #335036 [ 50]: #335034 [ 51]: #335041 [ 52]: #335111 [ 53]: #335121 [ 54]: #335135 [ 55]: #335047 [ 56]: #335137 [ 57]: #335093 [ 58]: #335104 [ 59]: #335163 [ 60]: #335097 [ 61]: #335098 [ 62]: #335069 [ 63]: #335141 [ 64]: #335055 [ 65]: #335167 [ 66]: #335087 [ 67]: #335059 [ 68]: #335063 [ 69]: #335125 [ 70]: #335103 [ 71]: #335119 [ 72]: #335117 [ 73]: #335149 [ 74]: #335123 [ 75]: #335081 [ 76]: #335143 [ 77]: #335053 [ 78]: #335051 [ 79]: #335077 [ 80]: #335159 [ 81]: #335079 [ 82]: #335061 [ 83]:            / [ 84]: #topheadline [ 85]:             [ 86]: #topheadline [ 87]:            / [ 88]: #topheadline [ 89]:             [ 90]: #topheadline [ 91]:            / [ 92]: #topheadline [ 93]:             [ 94]: #topheadline [ 95]:             [ 96]: #topheadline [ 97]:             [ 98]: #topheadline [ 99]:            / [ 100]: #topheadline [ 101]:            / [ 102]: #topheadline [ 103]:             [ 104]: #topheadline [ 105]:            / [ 106]: #topheadline [ 107]:             [ 108]: #topheadline [ 109]:             [ 110]: #topheadline [ 111]:             [ 112]: #topheadline [ 113]:            / [ 114]: #topheadline [ 115]:            / [ 116]: #topheadline [ 117]:             [ 118]: #topheadline [ 119]:             [ 120]: #topheadline [ 121]:             [ 122]: #topheadline [ 123]:             [ 124]: #topheadline [ 125]:             [ 126]: #topheadline [ 127]:             [ 128]: #topheadline [ 129]:             [ 130]: #topheadline [ 131]:             [ 132]: #topheadline [ 133]:             [ 134]: #topheadline [ 135]:             [ 136]: #topheadline [ 137]:             [ 138]: #topheadline [ 139]:             [ 140]: #topheadline [ 141]:             [ 142]: #topheadline [ 143]:             [ 144]: #topheadline [ 145]:             [ 146]: #topheadline [ 147]:             [ 148]: #topheadline [ 149]:             [ 150]: #topheadline [ 151]:             [ 152]: #topheadline [ 153]:             [ 154]: #topheadline [ 155]:             [ 156]: #topheadline [ 157]:             [ 158]: #topheadline [ 159]:             [ 160]: #topheadline [ 161]:             [ 162]: #topheadline [ 163]:             [ 164]:            / [ 165]: #topheadline [ 166]:             [ 167]: #topheadline [ 168]:            / [ 169]: #topheadline [ 170]:             [ 171]: #topheadline [ 172]:             [ 173]: #topheadline [ 174]:             [ 175]: #topheadline [ 176]:             [ 177]: #topheadline [ 178]:             [ 179]: #topheadline [ 180]:             [ 181]: #topheadline [ 182]:             [ 183]: #topheadline [ 184]:             [ 185]: #topheadline [ 186]:             [ 187]: #topheadline [ 188]:             [ 189]: #topheadline [ 190]:             [ 191]: #topheadline [ 192]:             [ 193]: #topheadline [ 194]:             [ 195]: #topheadline [ 196]:             [ 197]: #topheadline [ 198]:             [ 199]: #topheadline [ 200]:             [ 201]: #topheadline [ 202]:             [ 203]: #topheadline [ 204]:            / [ 205]: #topheadline [ 206]:             [ 207]: #topheadline [ 208]:             [ 209]: #topheadline [ 210]:             [ 211]: #topheadline [ 212]:            / [ 213]: #topheadline [ 214]:             [ 215]: #topheadline [ 216]:            / [ 217]: #topheadline [ 218]:             [ 219]: #topheadline [ 220]:            / [ 221]: #topheadline [ 222]:             [ 223]: #topheadline [ 224]:             [ 225]: #topheadline [ 226]:             [ 227]: #topheadline [ 228]:             [ 229]: #topheadline [ 230]:             [ 231]: #topheadline [ 232]:             [ 233]: #topheadline [ 234]:             [ 235]: #topheadline [ 236]:             [ 237]: #topheadline [ 238]:             [ 239]: #topheadline [ 240]:             [ 241]: #topheadline [ 242]:             [ 243]: #topheadline [ 244]:             [ 245]: #topheadline 

Load-Date: November 22, 2018


End of Document
