




Newstex Blogs 
Granite Grok
July 5, 2024 Friday 12:00 PM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 Granite Grok 
Length: 1192 words
Byline: Steve MacDonald
Body


July 5th, 2024 (   - Delivered by   )
One of the justifications for neutering human beings made dysphoric by a relentless cabal of partisans is that it will reduce the odds they might commit suicide. Strangely, these same people never considered how much lower suicidal ideation was in kids before they started inundating them with confusing gender propaganda.
Think about that.
Not long after schools, libraries, and everyone else started badgering children to question a sexuality that many of them barely understood and were not mentally prepared even to recognize, they started killing themselves in increasing numbers because of that. Let's see. Hey you. You are in the wrong body. This disturbing adult-child cartoon porn will help us think we're helping you.
And men in clown makeup and skirts aren't patronizing to womanhood. That's social justice. That can be you, and as soon as we can, we'll put you on dangerous drugs you will have to take for the rest of your life.
Why?
The mental and physical distress these 'advocates' have inculcated might drive them to attempt to end their lives. It is sinister. Confuse kids about something they barely understand. Affirm the confusion with inappropriate over-sexualized media and affirmation. Claim the dysphoria (you created) can be cured with drugs and surgery. Act like you saved their life.
But there's never been solid scientific evidence of that - quite the contrary. Even in the most accepting LGBTQ communities, coping is a serious issue. They still have much higher rates of destructive behavior, including suicidal ideation.
Adding confusing narratives and gender surgery has only made matters worse.

Individuals who underwent gender-affirming surgery had a 12.12-fold higher suicide attempt risk than those who did not (3.47% vs. 0.29%, RR 95% CI 9.20-15.96, p < 0.0001). Compared to the tubal ligation/vasectomy controls, the risk was 5.03-fold higher before propensity matching and remained significant at 4.71-fold after matching (3.50% vs. 0.74%, RR 95% CI 2.46-9.024, p < 0.0001) for the gender affirmation patients with similar results with the pharyngitis controls.
Conclusion
Gender-affirming surgery is significantly associated with elevated suicide attempt risks, underlining the necessity for comprehensive post-procedure psychiatric support.
It is another case of the cure is the disease. You claim to do it to prevent suicide, and you get more of it instead. But the cure isn't more post-operative support. Stop playing mind games with other people's children. We know from other research that if 
From the     
The majority of gender-confused children grow out of that feeling by the time they are fully grown adults, according to a long-term study.
The researchers concluded: 'The results of the current study might help adolescents to realize that it is normal to have some doubts about one's identity and one's gender identity during this age period and that this is also relatively common.'
You are not a dinosaur or a princess or Batman, nor are you the opposite sex or any variation in between. But the black progressive heart wants what it wants. The Public Education Industrial Complex, with the help of its political meat-puppets, has been pushing for clinics in schools-mental health clinics to help them manage the multitude of distress they have deliberately created.
Talk about a bad idea. A government institution created to educate children that is unable to teach them to read and do math is probably less equipped to handle anything more complex, but here we are. And the clinics aren't about mental health, 
A healthcare organization that operates clinics inside Seattle public schools says it can now offer 'gender-affirming' hormone treatment to children, emails from a health center program manager reveal.
The change meant that the group could now give hormone treatments to children, it explained. 'While our School-based Health Centers have long offered a continuum of gender-affirming care services including supportive student counseling, promotion of social identity, and health education, this step will allow us to begin offering families access to important medical interventions including hormone treatments,' it states.
If you thought teachers hiding how they were all calling your child by a different name at school was creepy, what do you think about them transing your kid on site? It's happening.

It has already gone too far while resistance to these so-called acts of gender justice is labeled as discriminatory, bigoted, intolerant, and hateful. Even in the face of growing evidence that gender drugs are harmful and neither prevent nor reduce suicides, the culture appears 
We (Gen-Z) aren't just identifying with and glamorising our mental illnesses. Now we seem to be competing overwho is more mentally ill. Those without autism and ADHD are said to enjoy      
In a world like that, adopting gender dysphoria is easier than putting on a skirt (or removing one). It also gets you a higher position on the victim class totem. Oh yeah, well, I have that and was born in the wrong body, so neh!
Mental illness is a badge of honor while daring to call gender dysphoria a mental illness (DSM-5 says it is) gets you branded a heretic. To say we have a problem is an understatement.
Modernity has made life as easy as it has ever been. But if we stay on our current course, it is going to get a lot harder. Significant portions of our younger generations will be unable to cope - they can barely cope now. And maybe that's what the globalists want. It is, after all, easier to depopulate our supposedly 'crowded' planet if people self-execute. If you neuter them and they live, it's still a win.
I am curious about what we'll do with all the extra therapists when the culling of those made-mentally-weak-masses is complete.
Maybe they can learn to code.
Steve's |  
The post   


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: July 5, 2024


End of Document
