




Newsweek
December 15, 2003,
U.S. Edition


Copyright 2003 Newsweek
Section: COVER STORY: JUSTICE; Pg. 46
Length: 415 words
Byline: By Debra Rosenberg
Highlight: Now that insurance for delivering babies costs so much, the doctor can't practice what he loves most
Body


When Dr. Brian Bachelder moved back to Mt. Gilead, Ohio, to practice family medicine in 1984, he hoped to emulate the country doc who'd treated him as a kid. The old physician had cured the sniffles, delivered babies, monitored chest pain, even taken out appendixes. Now in his own modest storefront office with Norman Rockwell prints on the walls, Bachelder cares for thousands of patients. But in recent years, Bachelder, 49, has watched litigation reshape his practice. Last December, facing malpractice premiums that soared from $12,000 in 2000 to $57,000 in 2003, Bachelder decided to lower his bill by cutting out higher-risk procedures like vasectomies, setting broken bones and delivering babies--even though obstetrics was his favorite part of the practice. Now he glances wistfully at the cluster of baby photos still tacked to a wall in his office. "I miss that terribly," he says.
Today the threat of litigation hangs over nearly every move Bachelder makes, changing the very nature of his relationship with patients. He worries that the slightest mistake could provoke a lawsuit. "Anything less than perfection is malpractice," he says. Even in confronting the most common ailments--headaches or ear infections--Bachelder must consider the possibility of a rare and devastating disease. He often orders expensive tests--not just to rule out the worst, but also to bolster his case before a potential jury. "It can't be just your opinion anymore," he says. A few years ago he installed a computer system that tracks every question he asks a patient--and often prompts him to ask more. It also notes risky patient behavior, like refusing to quit smoking.
Bachelder's fear of lawsuits isn't just theoretical--he's been sued a half-dozen times in his 20-year career. In one case, Bachelder referred a boy with a bladder problem to a urologist. The urologist operated, and the patient subsequently sued; Bachelder was also named in the complaint. He was eventually dropped from the case, but not before his liability insurance paid out $40,000 in legal fees.
Bachelder was the last doctor in the county delivering babies. When one of his patients, Paula Hall, got pregnant earlier this year, she was heartbroken to learn that she'd have to go elsewhere for both her delivery and prenatal care. "I was really looking forward to one doctor all the way through," she says. But in today's "Court TV" climate, that idea is already as quaint as the Norman Rockwell prints on Bachelder's walls.

Load-Date: December 9, 2003


End of Document
