




The Salt Lake Tribune
October 18, 2009 Sunday


Copyright 2009 The Salt Lake Tribune All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; Advice
Length: 338 words
Byline: By Carolyn Hax Advice Columnist
Body


Dear Carolyn » Six months into our marriage, my husband just told me he had a vasectomy several years ago while engaged to a different woman. He has not just been keeping this from me, but actively lying about it throughout our relationship.
He knows I want children, and says he didn't tell me earlier because he panicked every time he imagined what my reaction would be. He was shaking when he told me, and we have not spoken since. I am staying with my parents and rejecting his calls until I figure out how to handle this. I know most vasectomies can be reversed, but what about a lie of that magnitude?
D.C.
Dear D.C. » I'm sorry, that was so cowardly of him. He's made of glass, and not shattering is his top priority. Lies of such stunning magnitude can't be reversed, as you know. The issue is whether you can (1) forgive him; (2) keep loving him; (3) trust him. You really need all three for your marriage to make it.
Please accept one call, if only to say what you're thinking about, and when you expect to be ready to talk.
Dear Carolyn » My experience in relationships has been the less I ask for (and occasionally insist upon), the less I get. My nature is to be flexible, but experience tells me that accommodation either draws narcissists who think it's all about them anyway, or people who aren't that interested in participating to begin with. Where's the balance point?
Anonymous
Dear Anonymous » The point at which it's good to be your normal, accommodating self with others is when you find people who like you, versus like to use you.
That's because when people like you for you, that will include how accommodating you are. People who are using you will like you just for how accommodating you are. How to tell the difference? Those who like you will give back, whereas users just take. For a while they may look the same but time always separates the two. Givers keep giving (because they like you) and users stop (because they were generous only to snag you).
Carolyn Hax's column runs Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.

Load-Date: October 20, 2009


End of Document
