




University Wire
March 19, 2007 Monday


Copyright 2007 The Daily Campus via U-Wire
Section: COLUMN
Length: 1023 words
Byline: By Laura Alix, The Daily Campus; SOURCE: U. Connecticut
Dateline: STORRS, Conn. 
Body


Thursday, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit ruled two to one that the Union Pacific Railroad Company did not discriminate against its female employees by excluding contraceptives from its health coverage plan. In fact, the company's health coverage did not cover any contraceptives at all.
In July 2005, a federal district court in Nebraska had ruled against the company. The plaintiffs were several female employees who used prescription birth control and were unable to have this medication covered by their health plan at work. Various female employees had sued on the grounds of sex discrimination, and their lawsuits were consolidated into a class-action suit. When the federal district court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs, Union Pacific was ordered to cover all prescription contraceptives that were approved by the FDA under its health plan.
The majority opinion in last week's ruling indicated that "Contraception is a treatment that is only indicated prior to pregnancy ... Contraception is not a medical treatment that occurs when or if a woman becomes pregnant; instead contraception prevents pregnancy from even occurring." However, the dissenting Judge Kermit E. Bye wrote, "When one looks at the medical effect of Union Pacific's failure to provide insurance coverage for prescription contraception, the inequality of coverage is clear... This failure only medically affects females, as they bear all of the health consequences of unplanned pregnancies." Ultimately, although the Eighth Circuit ruled that Union Pacific could end its coverage of prescription birth control, the company chose not to. Union Pacific made the right decision there and ought to be commended for doing so.
This is the year 2007. Roe v. Wade, the infamous case that legalized abortion throughout the first trimester, is now 34 years old. Griswold v. Connecticut and Eisenstadt v. Baird, the cases that legalized birth control usage for married and unmarried persons respectively, are even older. Although many individual women may catch flak for whichever decision they make, women are free to have children or to be childfree, to be stay-at-home moms or hard-working career mothers. Abortion, no doubt, stirs up dissent whenever it is mentioned, but today, it seems very strange that contraceptives, which are rarely controversial except among the very religious, could cause any conflict whatsoever. Still, it seems to come as a surprise to learn that some health insurance plans don't even cover prescription birth control. At the very least, it's a surprise for yours truly, who had always assumed that in America, birth control should be no big deal because nobody forces a person to take it, and if anything, the use of prescription birth control is a mark of responsibility.
Yet, Union Pacific is not the only party making the news for this matter. The Oregon state House of Representatives voted 49 to 9 to pass a bill that would require all health insurance plans that cover other prescription drugs to also cover birth control, exempting those plans covered by religious employers. The bill would also require hospitals to inform sexual assault victims of the option of emergency contraceptives and make it available upon request. The problem is that coverage of prescription birth control is still an issue as we march forward into the twenty-first century.
Admittedly, I am unsure as to whether or not I agree with the objection to Union Pacific's exclusion of prescription birth control from its health plan as wrong on the grounds of sex discrimination. Both the majority and dissenting parties make strong points. Union Pacific did not cover contraceptives for women, but it did not cover contraceptives for men either -- unfortunately, men really have no contraceptive options of their own, other than condoms and vasectomy. However, as Judge Bye points out, when contraceptives fail, it is women who bear the brunt of an unplanned pregnancy, and although many caring men may do what they can to either help obtain an abortion or to make their partners more comfortable during pregnancy, it is solely women, ultimately, who suffer through pregnancy.
All health care plans, exempting those provided by religious employers, should cover prescription birth control. There are no valid, secular reasons to oppose birth control use by adults. Birth control is a legitimate medication, taken to prevent an undesirable outcome -- pregnancy -- and a health plan that covers Rogaine, for preventing men's hair loss, and Viagra, for impotence, has no reason to refuse coverage for women's prescription contraceptives. Opponents may counter that Viagra is used to treat a problem, impotence, and that Viagra is needed when something isn't functioning properly. They argue women who choose to have sex should be prepared for pregnancy and that if they don't want to get pregnant, then they just shouldn't have sex. Well, that is hardly a valid defense when arguing that Viagra, and not birth control, should be covered. After all, impotence is only a problem that presents itself because of sex, as is pregnancy. One could argue that if one doesn't want to deal with impotence, then don't have sex! I, however, wouldn't argue that because I believe that any prescription drug approved by the FDA should be covered by health care.
The bottom line is that we really need to get over whatever old and archaic notions may still haunt us regarding the use of birth control. A woman who is actively using birth control to prevent an unwanted pregnancy is being responsible, period. She may take birth control because she knows she cannot handle a child at this point in her life, because she doesn't want another child just yet or maybe because she just doesn't want to be a parent. In any of those cases, she recognizes the risks associated with her behavior and takes the necessary steps to minimize those risks. Although refusing to cover birth control under company health care plans may not necessarily fall under the category of sex discrimination, it is simply foolish not to cover this medication.
(C) 2007 The Daily Campus via U-WIRE

Load-Date: March 19, 2007


End of Document
