




The Long Valley Advocate (Cascade, Idaho)
October 14, 2009


Copyright 2009 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
 All Rights Reserved
SmallTownPapers, Inc.
Copyright 2009 The Long Valley Advocate


This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without express, written consent from 
Length: 297 words
Byline: Jamey McInally, PA-C, Cascade Medical Center
Body


In my last article, a couple months ago ("One man's opinion"), I predicted a bloody war on health care reform.
Well, I actually wrote that a month before it was published. Why? Because I pay attention. Why? Because it is my avocation and livelihood. Why? Because I spend more time trying to dodge insurance industry denials for the patients I have to look in the eye then trying to figure out what's wrong with them.
I won't belabor you with the strings of zeros and commas I researched last time suggesting the fiscal inversion we have become accustomed to.
Here's the bottom line: I'm pissed that I spend over $12,000 a year, to cover three-quarters of my family and all that gets me is more grief at work trying to make it happen for you, my friends, that entrust me with your care.
What is so hard to understand here? Medicine has long ago given up leaches only to pass the practice on to insurance companies that have become quite adept at wrapping them around your neck. In the last article I claimed there would be cries of "Commie Pinko," Well what happened? Much more than even I expected; it is nastier than "Toe Jam"!
And so, in my modest, non-biased, hard-to-so-licit opinion, the $345,000,000 spent by the insurance industry against health care reform since my last article, could have paid for the vasectomies of all the Tea Partiers, and Town Hallers, that are proud to give their prodigy a $24,000-a-year insurance premium increase in the next decade.
If the free and low-cost health care I have offered since I was retrained to practice medicine makes me a "Socialist," then so be it.
"He who studies medicine without books sails an uncharted sea, but he who studies medicine without patients does not go to sea at all." -- Sir William Osier, Canadian Physician, 1849-1919

Load-Date: January 17, 2010


End of Document
