




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
July 6, 2010 Tuesday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2010 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FRONT; Pg. A1
Length: 818 words
Byline: By DOUG ERICKSON , ,  608-252-6149
Body


Pat Hytoff always had health insurance until a divorce last year upended her middle-class lifestyle.
Uninsured, she sought help for high blood pressure this spring at Our Lady of Hope Clinic in Madison, an unusual health care experiment.
Half of the clinic's patients pay a premium for "boutique" service, which then subsidizes free care for the other half of the clientele - people with no insurance.
Now 1 year old, the clinic started off slowly but is gaining momentum and seems to be a viable business model, clinic officials said. The clinic has 110 paying patients, called benefactors, and serves about two dozen uninsured people weekly.
"Those benefactors probably know they're doing a good thing, but I wonder if they realize they are literally saving people's lives," said Hytoff, 63, of Waunakee, who believes the clinic saved her life by diagnosing severe hypertension.
Benefactors needed
The clinic ultimately will need 600 benefactors to be self-sustaining and to pay the salaries of two full-time physicians, said Dr. Michael Kloess, the clinic's president.
But 110 "is a good start" and enough to fund both himself and Dr. Anne Volk Johnson part time, Kloess said. Each works another part-time job in the medical field for now. Volunteers provide nursing and reception desk assistance.
Most benefactors pay $1,200 per year or $2,300 per couple. Each child is another $500, with a maximum of $1,500 annually for children's coverage.
Benefactors get extended doctor time - appointments typically last 30 to 45 minutes - as well as same-day service and round-the-clock access to doctors by phone and e-mail.
Benefactors must maintain high-deductible insurance for expenses outside of a traditional family practice, such as hospitalization and surgery, but otherwise they pay no fees for clinic visits.
A typical day
One day last week at the clinic, benefactor Mary Ann Bulcher arrived for an 11 a.m. appointment. Her chronic back problem had flared up on June 27, a Sunday, so she had called Johnson at 7:40 a.m. on June 28 on Johnson's cell phone and was able to schedule an appointment the same morning.
"It's really nice to have a clinic with such flexibility," said Bulcher, 33, a home health care nurse.
Johnson said the benefactors have been very considerate and often apologetic when they call her at odd hours, "even though that's what we're here for." The intimate doctor-patient relationship means "I don't have to look on a chart necessarily when they call because I already know most things about them," Johnson said.
The same morning brought William Reynolds to the clinic. Reynolds, 50, a student at Madison Area Technical College, said he cannot afford insurance. His sister learned about the clinic by calling the United Way's 211 help line.
"I was totally unprepared for this level of service," said Sandra Reynolds, as she waited for her brother in the clinic's lobby.
Reynolds said she was especially impressed with the professionalism of the receptionist, Michelle Whitfield, a volunteer who also is a nurse in the intensive care unit at St. Mary's Hospital in Madison.
Catholic backdrop
The nonprofit clinic is independent of any formal church affiliation but has the support of the Madison Catholic Diocese.
The Catholic faith of both doctors informs the clinic's operation. A sign says the doctors will not prescribe birth control or refer patients for abortions, vasectomies, tubal ligations or in-vitro fertilization.
Kloess said the clinic satisfies his desire to spend quality time with each patient while also fulfilling his goal of helping the less fortunate.
"The uninsured are starving for medical care, and when they find us, they are so appreciative," he said.
ABOUT THE CLINIC
Our Lady of Hope Clinic, 6425 Odana Road, is in the Olde Towne Office Park on Madison's West Side.
Uninsured people can register for appointments on a walk-in basis at 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. (The clinic is closed Wednesdays and weekends.) On days when the need for services is greater than the capacity to provide care, walk-in patients will be asked to return another day. Uninsured people are asked to bring a letter stating they have been rejected by BadgerCare or Medicaid or are ineligible to apply.
To become a benefactor or for more information, call 608-819-8544 or go to www.ourladyofhope clinic.org .
Health care reform won't erase need for free clinics
Even with the recently passed health care overhaul by Congress, free health clinics still will be needed, said Dr. Michael Kloess of Our Lady of Hope Clinic in Madison.
Most of the substantive changes don't take effect until 2014, and an estimated 24 million U.S.
residents still will lack insurance after that, he said. Also, legal challenges and other obstacles could further delay the implementation of the health insurance exchange program, which is expected to cover millions of currently uninsured residents.

Graphic

 
KYLE McDANIEL State Journal Dr. Michael Kloess works with patient William Reynolds last week at Our Lady of Hope Clinic in Madison. Half of the clinic's patients pay for unlimited visits so that others without health insurance, such as Reynolds, can get free care. Volunteer coordinator Michelle Whitfield, right, teaches new volunteer Allison Dahlgren how to check blood pressure at Our Lady of Hope Clinic. Volunteers provide most of the nursing and reception desk assistance. Dahlgren, a pre-med student at UW-Madison, was finishing her third and final four-hour training shift at the clinic. Michael Kloess

Load-Date: July 7, 2010


End of Document
