




Legal Monitor Worldwide
September 15, 2016 Thursday


Copyright 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 775 words
Body


Gregory County is going to face a lawsuit regarding a murder after more than 30 years. On Monday the Attorneys prepare to appoint hearers who will judge the case of a former police chief charged with killing his fiance.
A man of 64, Russell Bertram of Sioux Falls was accused by the grand jury on September 8, 2015 and charged with first degree murder in the shooting Leonila Stickney to death, then 26, of Bridgewater, in 2009.
Bertram and Stickney went hunting while Stickney was pregnant, in the northwest of Gregory on October 24, 2009 when she was shot in the chest and murdered with a 12 gauge shotgun. At first, the case was considered as an accident but later the investigators reinvestigated the course due to additional evidence.
Bertram and his lawyer continue to suggest that the incident was an accident. They say Stickney pulled the barrel of the shotgun toward her and said, "Kiss me," and the firearm discharged, killing her.
The court forwarded a motive behind the alleged murder based on the fact that Stickney was pregnant. The court reported that Bertram received a vasectomy before the incident and knew Stickneys child was not his. Authorities informed that this led to the crime.
Bertram has considerable past in law enforcement. He served as a police officer in Colome from November 1988 to August 1991, when he became an officer in Parker. He remained in Parker until December 1996, when he was named the new chief of police in Harrisburg, where he remained until May 2004.
The court referred to Bertrams background to notify that he has a good knowledge of firearms and he would not accidently discharge one.
Investigators also questioned a $750,000 life insurance policy taken out on Stickney earlier in 2009, along with a $150,000 accidental death benefit, with Bertram as the beneficiary.
The policy was found by the victims alienated husband David Stickney, who was 66 when the two got married in 2004 in the Philippines after correspondence by mail. Leonila Stickney later moved to South Dakota with her husband.
The marriage did not work out and Stickney was engaged to Bertram before the divorce was executed.
Even though Bertram never married Stickney before her death, he married her younger sister, Melissa del Valle, who filed for a divorce after his arrest.
Del Valle was Bertram`s fourth wife. The state intended to introduce testimony from his three previous wives to describe Bertram`s violent and jealous tendencies, but Judge Kathleen Trandahl determined Bertram`s relationships with his ex-wives were not comparable to his relationship with Stickney. The South Dakota Supreme Court affirmed the decision after prosecutors filed an appeal.
Stickneys comments on Bertram to others will be taken into consideration about his behavior.
The litigation is supposed to begin on Monday with up to two days of voir dire, for which the hearers are selected.
The court will be represented by Assistant Attorneys General Paul Swedlund and Mikal Hanson and Gregory County State`s Attorney Amy Bartling. Bertram will be represented by attorneys Clint Sargent and Michael Butler.
Opening statements will initiate at 1p.m Wednesday at the Gregory County Courthouse in Bruke. According to court reports, three weeks have been kept for the case, with September 30th as the final day. But, lawyers suggest that it will take much less time. Lawyers on both the sides decided not to comment any further.
If Bertram is proved to be the convict he will face a $50,000 fine and a death penalty or life in prison.
South Dakota has recent experience with the death penalty. According to the Unified Judicial System, two convicted murderers, Eric Robert and Donald Moeller, were executed in October 2012. Before that, Elijah Page was executed in July 2007. Prior to Page`s execution, the death penalty hadn`t been used since 1947.
Three men currently stay at death row in South Dakota: Charles Rhines, sentenced on Jan. 29, 1993; Briley Piper, sentenced on Jan. 19, 2001; and Rodney Berget, sentenced on Feb. 6, 2012.
According to Sixth Circuit Court Administrator Heather Covey, there hasn`t been a murder trial in Gregory County in the last 30 years, the full timeframe for which records were available, but a Gregory County jury will be asked to give a verdict in another murder trial later this year, unless the trial is postponed.
Adam Burns of Gregory is accused of second degree murder for the death of his 3 moth old son Levi. Burns is reckoned of shaking Levi on February 25, 2014, which caused the boys death five days later. He is scheduled to be put in to legal procedure from October 24th to November 18th in Bruke. 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

Load-Date: September 16, 2016


End of Document
