




FDA Wire
December 13, 2007 Thursday


Copyright 2007 Data Licensing, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's  personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Data Licensing, LLC's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material.; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from Data Licensing, LLC, so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to Data Licensing as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.
Section: FDA ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Length: 67171 words
Dateline: GAITHERSBURG, MARYLAND 
Body


DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION CENTER FOR DEVICES AND RADIOLOGIC HEALTH, OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY DEVICES PANEL HOLDS A HEARING ON PREMARKET APPROVAL APPLICATION FOR ADIANA TRANSCERVICAL STERILIZATION SYSTEM
DECEMBER 13, 2007
SPEAKERS: MARCELLE CEDARS, M.D., ACTING PANEL CHAIR
DIANA ROMERO, PHD, MA CONSUMER REP.
ELISABETH GEORGE INDUSTRY REP.
PAULA HILLARD, M.D., VOTING MEMBER
HOWARD SHARP, M.D., VOTING MEMBER
RALPH D'AGOSTINO, PH.D., TEMPORARY VOTING MEMBER
MICHAEL DIAMOND, M.D., TEMPORARY VOTING MEMBER
ANN DAVIS, M.D., CONSULTANT
MELISSA GILLIAM, M.D., MPH CONSULTANT
HERBERT PETERSON, M.D., CONSULTANT
KATHLEEN PROPERT, SCD, CONSULTANT
SUSAN RAMIN, M.D., CONSULTANT
NANCY SHARTS-HOPKO, R.N., CONSULTANT
RUSSELL SNYDER, M.D., CONSULTANT
PHILLIP STUBBLEFIELD, M.D., CONSULTANT
RICHARD ZAINO, M.D., CONSULTANT
MICHAEL T. BAILEY, PHD EX. SEC.
ELAINE BLYSKUN, INCOMING EX. SEC.
NANCY BROGDON, FDA
RICHARD KOTZ, FDA
JIPING CHEN, FDA
JERRY WILLETT, M.D., FDA
THIERRY VANCAILLIE, M.D.
TED ANDERSON, M.D.
AMY POLLACK, M.D.
CHARLES CARIGNAN, M.D.
JULIA CAREY-CORRADO, M.D.
[*] CHAIR CEDARS: I would like to call this meeting of the Obstetrics and Gynecologic Devices Panel to order. I am Dr. Marcelle Cedars and the Chair of this panel. I am a reproductive endocrinologist at UCSF.
If you haven't already done so, please sign the attendance sheets, which are on the table by the doors. And if you wish to address the panel during one of the open sessions, please provide your name to Ms. Anne Marie Williams at the registration desk. If you are presenting in any of the open public sessions today and have not previously provided an electronic copy of your presentation to the FDA, please arrange to do so with Ms. Karen Oliver.
Karen, could you stand, please? Thank you.
I note for the record that the voting members present constitute a quorum, as required by 21 CFR Part 14. I would also like to add that the panel participating in the meeting today has received training in the FDA device law and regulations. No one from the public or the press is allowed into the panel area at any time during the break or during the conduct of the meetings.
I would like to remind everyone, if you could, to turn off your cell phones, Blackberries, anything that makes noise, vibrates, or rings at the present time.
Dr. Bailey, the Executive Secretary for Obstetrics and Gynecologic Devices Panel, will give some introductory remarks.
EXEC. SEC. BAILEY: Good morning.
First, I am going to read the conflict of interest statement, "The Food and Drug Administration, FDA, is convening today's meeting of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee under the authority of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, FACA, of 1972.
"With the exception of the industry representative, all members and consultants of the panel are special government employees or regular federal employees from other agencies and are subject to federal conflict of interest laws and regulations.
"The following information on the status of this panel's compliance with federal ethics and conflict of interest laws covered by, but not limited to, those found at in USC, 208 and 712 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act are being provided to participants in today's meeting and to the public.
"FDA has determined that members and consultants of this panel are in compliance with federal ethics and conflict of interest laws. Under 18 USC, 208, Congress has authorized FDA to grant waivers to special government employees who have potential financial conflicts when it is determined that the agency's need for a particular individual's services outweighs his or her potential financial conflict of interest.
"Under 712 of the FD&C Act, Congress has authorized FDA to grant waivers to special government employees and regular government employees with potential financial conflicts when necessary to afford the committee essential expertise.
"Related to the discussion of today's meeting, members and consultants of this panel who are special government employees have been screened for potential financial conflicts of interest of their own as well as those imputed to them, including those of their spouses or minor children and for purposes of 18 USC their employers. These interests may include investments, consulting, expert witness testimony, contracts, grants, CRADAs, teaching, speaking, writing, patents and royalties, and primary employment.
"Today's agenda involves the discussion of a premarket approval application, PMA, for the Adiana Transcervical Sterilization System sponsored by Hologic, Incorporated. The device is indicated to be used as a permanent method for female sterilization.
"This is a particular matters meeting during which specific matters related to the PMA will be discussed. Based on the agenda for today's meeting and all financial interests reported by the panel members and consultants, no conflict of interest waivers have been issued in connection with this meeting.
"A copy of this statement will be available for review at the registration table during this meeting and will be included as a part of the official transcript.
"Elisabeth George is serving as the industry representative, acting on behalf of all related industry, and is employed by Philips Medical Systems.
"We would like to remind members and consultants that if the discussions involve any other products or firms not already on the agenda for which FDA participants have a personal or imputed financial interest, the participants need to exclude themselves from such involvement. And their exclusion will be noted for the record.
"FDA encourages all other participants to advise the panel of any financial relationships that they may have with any firms at issue."
Thank you.
In addition to the conflict of interest statement, I am now going to read the first of two appointment to temporary voting status memos.
"Pursuant to the authority granted under the Medical Devices Advisory Committee charter dated October 27th, 1990 and amended August 18th, 2006, I appoint the following as voting members of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel for the duration of this meeting on December 13th, 2007: Susan Ramin, Herbert Peterson, Russell Snyder, Michael Diamond, Richard Zaino, Ann Davis, Nancy Sharts-Hopko, Phillip Stubblefield, Kathleen Propert, and Ralph D'Agostino.
"For the record, these people are special government employees and/or consultants to this panel or another panel under the Medical Devices Advisory Committee. They have undergone the customary conflict of interest review and have reviewed the material to be considered at this meeting. In addition, I appoint Marcelle Cedars to act as temporary chairperson for the duration of this meeting."
This was signed by Daniel Schultz, M.D., Director, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, on December 7th, 2007.
The second appointment to temporary voting status, "Pursuant to the authority granted under the Medical Devices Advisory Committee charter of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health dated October 27th, 1990 and amended August 18th, 2006, I appoint Melissa Gilliam as a temporary voting member on the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel for the duration of this meeting on December 13th, 2007.
"For the record, Dr. Gilliam serves as a consultant to the Reproductive Health Drugs Advisory Committee of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. She is a special government employee who has undergone the customary conflict of interest review and has reviewed the material to be considered at this meeting. This was signed by Randall Lutter, Ph.D., Deputy Commissioner of Policy, on November 5th, 2007.
Before I turn the meeting back over to Dr. Cedars, here are a few general announcements. Transcripts from today's meetings will be available from Neal Gross and Company. Information on purchasing videos of today's meeting can be found on the table outside of the meeting room. Presenters to the panel who have not already done so should provide FDA with a hard copy of their remarks, including overheads. And, as we stated before, that should go to Karen Oliver.
I would like to remind everyone that members of the public and the press are not permitted around the panel area beyond the speakers' podium. The press contact for today's meetings was Peper Long. I request that reporters wait to speak to FDA officials until after the panel meeting.
I will now pass it back to Dr. Cedars.
CHAIR CEDARS: Good morning, everyone. At this meeting, the panel will be making a recommendation to the Food and Drug Administration on the premarket approval application, PMA, P070022 for the Adiana Transcervical Sterilization System from Hologic, Inc. Before we begin, I would like to ask our panel members, who are generously giving their time today, and other FDA staff seated at this table to introduce themselves. Please state your name, your area of expertise, your position, and affiliation.
If we could start with Dr. Snyder?
DR. SNYDER: There we go. I'm Russell Snyder. I'm the Director of the Division of Gynecology at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, Texas.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: I'm Phillip Stubblefield. I'm professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Boston University Medical Center. I have a longstanding interest in contraception.
DR. ZAINO: I'm Richard Zaino. I'm a gynecologic pathologist and professor of pathology at Penn State Hershey Medical Center in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
DR. RAMIN: Hello. I'm Susan Ramin. I'm the professor and Chair at the Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences at the University of Texas Houston Medical School. And I'm a maternal fetal medicine physician.
DR. DAVIS: I'm Ann Davis. I'm at Tufts Medical School. And my area of expertise is contraception and menstrual disorders.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Ralph D'Agostino, professor and Chair of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Boston University.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: Nancy Sharts-Hopko, Director of the Ph.D. Program in Nursing at Villanova University. And my field is maternal, infant, and women's health.
EXEC. SEC. BLYSKUN: Elaine Blyskun, incoming Executive Secretary for the panel.
EXEC. SEC. BAILEY: Mike Bailey, current Executive Secretary for the Ob-gyn Devices Panel.
DR. SHARP: Howard Sharp, University of Utah. I'm a general and division chief.
DR. PETERSON: Herbert Peterson, ob-gyn and epidemiologist and professor and Chair of the Department of Maternal and Child Health, University of North Carolina and professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
DR. PROPERT: Kathleen Propert. I'm professor of biostatistics, the University of Pennsylvania specializing in clinical trials.
DR. DIAMOND: Michael Diamond. I'm the Associate Chair at Wayne State University of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and also Director of the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility.
DR. GILLIAM: Melissa Gilliam, associate professor at the University of Chicago. I'm the Director of the Section of Family Planning.
DR. HILLARD: Paula Hillard, professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Stanford University Medical Center. I am Director of the Division of Gynecologic Specialties. I do adolescent gynecology, which I sometimes term "preventive obstetrics."
MS. GEORGE: Elisabeth George, Vice President of Quality and Regulatory at Philips Medical Systems.
DR. ROMERO: Diana Romero, associate professor of urban public health at City University of New York and in the Department of Population and Family Health at Columbia University.
MS. BROGDON: Good morning. I'm Nancy Brogdon. I'm not a member of the panel. I am the panel's liaison to FDA, if you will. I'm the Director of the Division of Reproductive Abdominal and Radiological Devices.
CHAIR CEDARS: Next, Colin Pollard, Chief of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Branch, would like to make some introductory remarks to the panel.
Mr. Pollard?
MR. POLLARD: Thank you, Dr. Cedars. My remarks will be very brief.
On behalf of FDA and the review team, whom you'll be hearing from later this morning, I want to welcome you all this morning to help us look at this PMA. I know a lot of you have come from near and far. And we really appreciate all of the work that you do for us. We really do.
I would also like at this time just to publicly acknowledge the help of Dr. Paula Hillard. This is her last meeting here as her four-year term on the panel has finished. As I mentioned to her this morning, we plan to keep her on as a special government employee. And, as you look around the table, you'll see that we tend to bring these people back when we need them.
So, just once again, thank you very much, Dr. Hillard, for all your help over the years. So, with that, Dr. Cedars, you may begin the rest of the agenda.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
We will now proceed with the open public hearing portion of the meeting. Both the Food and Drug Administration and the public believe in a transparent process for information gathering and decision-making.
To ensure such transparency at the open public hearing of the Advisory Committee meeting, the FDA believes that it is important to understand the context of any individual's presentation. For this reason, the FDA encourages you, the open public hearing or industry speaker, at the beginning of your written or oral statement to advise the Committee of any financial responsibility that you may have with the sponsor; its product; and, if known, its direct competitors.
For example, this financial information may include the sponsor's payment of your travel, lodging, or other expenses in connection with your attendance at this meeting. Likewise, the FDA encourages you at the beginning of your statement to advise the Committee if you do not have any financial relationships. If you choose not to address the issue of financial relationships at the beginning of your statement, it will not preclude you from speaking.
Prior to the meeting, we received formal requests to speak during today's public open hearing sessions. Our first speaker is Ms. Susan Wysocki.
Please come forward to the microphone.
We ask that each of the speakers speak clearly into the microphone to allow the transcriptionist to provide accurate record of the meeting.
MS. GALLAGHER: Good morning to the distinguished panel, distinguished panel members, and public. My name is Amy Gallagher. I am actually not Susan Wysocki. She cannot be here today. But I am here representing the National Association of Nurse Practitioners in Women's Health. And NPWH would like to disclose the fact that Hologic, formerly Cytyc, has provided funding in the form of educational grants to the organization in the form of continuing education, in the form of for continuing education purposes.
Established in 1980, the National Association of Nurse Practitioners' mission is to assure the provision of quality health care to women of all ages by nurse practitioners. NPWH is a trusted source of information for nurse practitioner education, practice, and women's health issues. NPWH reaches 35,000 nurse practitioners through our journal, membership, and educational activities.
In the course of their practice, nurse practitioners regularly see and counsel women on the broadest ranges of reproductive health-related issues. Prior to just a few years ago, the only options that women had who desired permanent sterilization had were surgical procedures such as laparoscopy and laparotomy. Because these procedures generally require general anesthesia as well as an abdominal incision, there are complication risks, recovery time, and other issues that need to be considered.
Today's meeting may result in women who chose sterilization as a method of birth control having another viable and effective option for consideration. This is a high priority issue and matter of great concern to NPWH and the women our constituency counsels. NPWH is committed to educating and enabling women to choose from a range of FDA-approved birth control methods.
Adiana represents a new transcervical sterilization technique for women to consider. The PMA before the panel is different from the one approved a few years ago. Unlike the one approved transcervical method that uses a metal device that is left in the fallopian tube, Adiana uses a porous non-biodegradable implant that is placed in the segment of the fallopian tube that extends into the muscle of the uterus. This avoids some complications related to the placement of the device, possible metal allergies, as well as barrier to other non-invasive gynecological procedures that might be needed in the future. NPWH greatly appreciates being granted this opportunity to briefly share our view with the panel members.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
The next speaker is Dr. Barbara Levy.
EXEC. SEC. BAILEY: As Dr. Levy is coming up to the podium, I am going to tell other speakers that we have a timer set on the podium that will be green. When it goes to yellow, that's a two-minute warning. Please try to sum up when you see the yellow light come on.
DR. LEVY: Good morning, distinguished panel, guests, members of the press. My name is Barbara Levy. I am a private practice gynecologist in the Seattle area. I am a past president of the AAGL, the Laparoscopy Association. I am also a clinical consultant for Conceptus. And my travel and expenses have been paid by Conceptus for this meeting.
I want to briefly just talk about three issues with respect to this PMA. And those topics will be on safety, effectiveness, and specifically about physician training for this device. In terms of safety, radiofrequency energy to the Endosalpinx has been something that has been looked at for over 30 years with respect to trying to establish tubal sterilization through the transcervical method.
One of my concerns with this particular device is that, unlike the Essure device that is radio-opaque, this particular device is not. And so detection of perforation may be quite difficult. We found with the Essure device that the only way we really know that perforation has occurred is by looking at flat plates and HSGs and being able to see that the device is improperly located. So detection of perforation and the possibility of radiofrequency application to tissues beyond the serosa of the tube are an issue for me, specifically if this is in the serosa of the uterus; in other words, it's embedded in the uterus. How close are we? And how much energy could be transmitted to bile or something that's in close proximity?
The second is the risk of hyponatremia. Determination of fluid deficit is something that will be important with this device since it is using a hypotonic solution. And the question is whether a fluid management system should be required, in addition to the use of this technology, so that we can assure that there is not too much fluid. The PMA talks about looking at fluid inflow and outflow, but it doesn't say how to do that. So that's an issue for you to discuss.
And then I have a concern about the number of ectopic pregnancies. With two ectopic pregnancies of the ten, what is the mechanism for that? And how is that really happening? In terms of effectiveness, this is just the point estimates put on a slide. The top is Adiana. The middle is the CREST data. And the bottom is Essure. Obviously Adiana and Essure are pivotal trial data, which are significantly different from CREST, which is commercial-setting data.
And my real concern here is what is going to happen in the commercial setting. When you add the confidence intervals, it is true that they are very wide for Adiana, as you would expect with the small number that we have thus far. And they do cross over the CREST data. But, once again, the CREST data are in the commercial setting. They are not in the setting of the very best doctors doing a trial procedure.
So what was the root cause of the pregnancies? That's something we really don't know. The pregnancy at four years is concerning to me. I want to know, how do you determine occlusion when you can't see the device on the HSG and you can't rely on HSG to document tubal occlusion? We know that with the Essure device, we have HSGs that look like the tubes are occluded. And we use device location as the second mechanism for being able to tell us that, in fact, we can rely on the device, so for the panel to determine what short-term pregnancy rate is acceptable for a permanent contraceptive method and how will the rates that we see in the PMA translate into the commercial setting.
Finally, I want to address physician training. I think it's clear from all new devices that didactic and hands-on training is essential, but I want to address the issue of transvaginal ultrasound, localization of the matrix. This matrix is very small. And the skill set of gynecologists throughout the country in transvaginal ultrasonography varies widely.
Also, the equipment that we have in our offices varies widely. Some of it is very effective. Some of it is not so good. And I think that it would be critical to be able to absolutely guarantee that the device is in the proper location. The only way to do that is with transvaginal ultrasound. Similarly, with the number of discrepancies in HSG readings that are reported in the PMA, HSG performance in interpretation is something that would be absolutely critical in physician training.
So, finally, I would like to say that from the standpoint of advocacy for women, it would seem reasonable to expect that any new method of permanent birth control should be at least as effective or must be significantly safer and more easily tolerated than anything currently available, especially over the long term. Thank you very much.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you, Dr. Levy.
Cindy Domecus?
MS. DOMECUS: Distinguished panel, FDA, good morning and thank you for the opportunity to provide a few remarks regarding the pending PMA application for the Adiana system.
My name is Cindy Domecus. And I am a regulatory consultant to Conceptus. So I have a financial interest in the firm. My remarks today are on behalf of Conceptus, who I expect will reimburse me for my travel expenses for this trip. My remarks today are in follow-up to my previously submitted written remarks, which were prepared prior to the posting of the panel background information on Tuesday of this week. As such, my remarks today include some additional points to those covered in my previous written remarks.
I have four main points that I would like to cover briefly in my allotted five minutes.
First, we believe that the labeling for the Adiana system should comply with FDA's contraceptive labeling guidance document, which we interpret to require a comparison of pregnancy rates with the Essure system.
As noted in my written remarks, FDA issued a guidance document with the purpose of ensuring uniform labeling for contraceptive methods so that women can make their contraceptive choices based on an apples-to-apples comparison of the pregnancy rates of the various options. We know that the draft labeling submitted by the applicant includes a uniform contraceptive labeling table, as suggested in FDA's guidance, but does not include information on the Essure pregnancy rates.
Based on the premise of the FDA guidance document, we believe that it is important for women to be provided with a comparison to the Essure system pregnancy rate since it would be the only other approved transcervical sterilization method for patients and physicians to consider.
Second, we believe that the labeling for the Adiana system should require the same screening prior to reliance as performed in the clinical trial. Specifically, patients in the clinical trial underwent two transvaginal ultrasounds and an HSG, which was read by two separate reviewers. It should be noted that there was discrepancy between the two HSG reviewers in greater than 25 percent of cases, resulting in 48 cases in which a repeat or second HSG was requested.
Importantly, the independent reviewers noted four cases of patency that were not identified by the study investigator. Despite this level of rigorous review, the applicant states that three of the ten pregnancies were due to misread HSGs. Since the failure rates for the device were established based on this level of screening rigor, we believe that the commercial labeling for the device should duplicate the clinical trial screening and require two transvaginal ultrasounds and dual HSG review.
Third, we believe that the labeling for the Adiana system should not include unsubstantiated claims about the "natural uterus" or unsubstantiated comparative claims relative to Essure. We are aware of numerous public statements made about the benefits of the "natural uterus" theoretically provided by the Adiana system.
The reference to the natural uterus is presumably in reference to the fact that the Adiana system is designed such that a device does not trail into the uterus, in contrast with the Essure system, which is designed to have a few coils trailing into the uterine cornua for device identification and retention purposes. We have two main points that we would like to share regarding the concept of the natural uterus.
First, as has been the case with the Essure system, any labeling claims regarding compatibility of the Adiana system with IVF, endometrial ablation, or other intrauterine procedures should only permitted once sufficient data have been submitted to and approved by FDA. Reference to the natural uterus and its benefits should not be based on theory alone.
Second, the premise of the value of the natural uterus is presumably based on an assumption that the trailing coils of the Essure system create an unnatural uterus and that such an environment will have a negative impact on pregnancy rates following IVF, for instance. However, the following should be noted.
First, preliminary data from published clinical evaluations of the Essure system in the treatment of hydrosalpinges prior to IVF suggest that the Essure system may not negatively affect IVF success rates and may actually be a less invasive alternative for the treatment of hydrosalpinges in patients seeking such treatment. My previously submitted remarks include references to the published studies.
Second, the Essure labeling states that "Bench and clinical studies demonstrated that "Thermal endometrial ablation of the uterus can be safely and effectively performed with a Gynecare Thermachoice uterine balloon system immediately following Essure microinsert placement." Consequently, use of the Essure system does not prohibit women from undergoing subsequent endometrial ablation.
Third, preliminary data from published clinical evaluations of the Essure system's compatibility with global endometrial ablation procedures for the treatment of menorrhagia suggests the following are compatible with the Essure procedure, either before and/or after Essure microinsert placement: Novasure, Hydrothermoblater, Microwave endometrial ablation, and Thermachoice. Again, my previously submitted written remarks include the references to these studies.
Fourth, we want to note that the draft labeling submitted by the applicant does not include the occurrence of ectopic pregnancy or hyponatremia in the adverse event tables. Since ectopic pregnancy and hyponatremia are among the most serious of the adverse events reported in this study, we believe that both of these adverse events should have the visual prominence to be reflected in the numeric adverse event tables and not just in the narrative.
We thank the FDA and the panel for its consideration of our remarks. We're happy to respond to questions regarding the Essure system data and/or labeling during the meeting if such would be helpful to the panel's deliberations. Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
And the last speaker that notified us ahead of time is Dr. Jordan.
DR. JORDAN: Good morning. My name is Beth Jordan. I'm an internist, formerly of the Mayo Clinic. And I currently serve as the Medical Director of the Association of Reproductive Health Professionals. I have no financial disclosures to announce.
ARHP is a nonprofit medical organization of 11,000 professional members. It has been educating front-line reproductive health providers and their patients since 1963. ARHP physicians itself is the leading source of trusted medical information and education for reproductive and sexual health.
Our executive board and membership is comprised of physicians, nurse practitioners, nurse midwives, physician assistants, researchers, pharmacists, and educators, making ARHP a multidisciplinary association of professionals that comprise the reproductive health care team. We reach this broad range of health care professionals, both in the U.S. and broad, with education, information about reproductive health science, practice, and policy.
ARHP is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education to provide continuing medical education to health care providers through a variety of educational programs, meetings, and publications. We advocate for evidence-based clinical education, provider training, and patient counseling to ensure the best quality patient care and health care outcomes. ARHP also advocates for evidence-based research and supports availability of a wide range of safe, effective, and appropriate new technologies to enhance the health of all women and men.
I'm here today on behalf of our board and membership to ask the Committee to look favorably upon the application of the Adiana Transcervical Sterilization System. Making safe, new, and effective contraceptive technologies available and training providers in these methods is paramount to helping women and men plan their families. ARHP believes that this is critical for the best possible health care and is vital to building a stable, functional health care system in the U.S.
Because everyone's needs are unique, we support the availability of all safe and effective contraceptive options, including reversible and permanent methods. We are pleased with the potential for a new permanent, less invasive contraceptive option in the U.S. given the majority of women in the U.S. choose tubal ligation as their preferred method of pregnancy prevention. As women and their health care providers assess what method of contraception will be most effective for her, they will both benefit from having several safe and effective permanent options available for consideration.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Is there anyone else in the audience who would like to address the panel at the current time?
(No response.)
CHAIR CEDARS: If not, then we will proceed with the agenda. We will now proceed to the sponsor presentation for the Adiana Transcervical Sterilization System. I would like to remind the public observers at this meeting that while this meeting is open for public observation, public attendees may not participate except at the specific request of the panel. We will begin with the sponsor presentation.
MR. SAVAKUS: Good morning, Madam Chairperson, members of the panel, FDA staff, and guests. We are pleased to be here today to present our work on the Adiana Transcervical Sterilization System. My name is Adam Savakus. And I am Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs for Hologic. And I have been working on this project for the last eight years.
I would like to introduce our team to you and then provide an overview of our presentation today.
Next slide.
Perhaps I could take a moment now to clarify the corporate entities that have been involved with the development of this product. You may have noticed these names in your panel package. The development of the Adiana Transcervical Sterilization System began at Adiana, a company which was founded specifically with the goal of developing a nonsurgical alternative to tubal ligation. Most of the information we will discuss today was developed by the team at Adiana.
In March of this year, Adiana was acquired by Cytyc Corporation. Following the filing of this PMA, Cytyc was, in turn, acquired by Hologic Corporation, this in October of 2007. Hologic is the company which is the sponsor of this PMA. However, the product name remains the Adiana Transcervical Sterilization System.
Over the course of the next hour or so, we will cover the following topics.
First, I will provide a brief overview of the development program as well as a description of the Adiana system. Then Dr. Thierry Vancaillie from the Royal Hospital for Women will discuss the mechanism of action and the procedure for the placement of the Adiana matrix. Dr. Ted Anderson from Vanderbilt University will present results of our pivotal clinical study, the EASE trial. Dr. Anderson will be followed by Dr. Amy Pollack, who is now at Columbia University but was previously Chief Medical Officer for Adiana. Dr. Pollack will discuss the medical needs for this device in the context of the risks and benefits unique to this product. Finally, I will return to conclude our presentation and moderate questions and answers.
In addition to our speakers, we have several other people available to answer your questions. These include Dr. Carr-Brendel, formerly principal scientist at Adiana, who had provided our early in-plant development work, including tissue histology; Dr. John Quiring, our biostatistician, who has provided all statistical analyses on the EASE pivotal study; Dr. Charles Carignan, with expertise in the area of low-pressure HSG for evaluating occlusion following transcervical sterilization and a member of our HSG core review team; Dr. Sandra Carson, a member of our Data Safety Committee, who is well-known for her expertise in pregnancy risk; and, finally, Dr. Ralph Richart, a pathologist with expertise in fallopian tube histopathology.
Today we intend to provide you with an overview of the extensive and thorough development program which was undertaken for this device. This has provided us with a clear understanding of the mechanism of action. We will describe the physical action of this device and show that the system is easy for the physician to use and minimally invasive for the patient. We will review the results of the EASE pivotal trial, which have shown the device to be safe and well-tolerated by women with high rates of patient satisfaction and effectiveness that is within the range of other sterilization methods. And, finally, we will show you that this product represents an important option that should be offered to patients in the United States.
The Adiana technology has been under development for over ten years. And it began with the founding of the company in 1997. A comprehensive step-wise development program began with pilot clinical work in late 1998 that was conducted outside the United States. Four years and many studies later, we entered into discussions in early 2002 with FDA over the design of the pivotal EASE clinical study. The EASE pivotal study was submitted as an IDE and approved by FDA, with the first patient enrollment occurring in November of 2002. The last EASE treatment occurred in May of 2005. And, as you will hear more about later, clinical follow-up is ongoing.
Our pre-PMA meeting was held in November of 2006. And the PMA was filed in August of 2007. There is a clear need for new options in contraception. The reality is that, despite the progress that has been made, almost half of the pregnancies in the United States are unintended.
Over their child-bearing years, women's contraceptive needs change as their life circumstances change. And, in fact, the average woman spends over three decades managing her fertility and for a large proportion of that time attempting to avoid pregnancy. During that time, women will juggle efficacy, ease of use, safety, and compliance attributes of the various contraceptive methods. As well during this time period, the average woman will change her reversible contraceptives nine times.
Given that no contraceptive method is perfect for any one woman over the course of her changing life circumstances, additional options are necessary. The Adiana system is indicated for use in women who desire permanent birth control, female sterilization by occlusion of the fallopian tube.
The Adiana system utilizes a unique two-step approach to achieve tubal occlusion and permanent contraception. This approach utilizes the body's natural healing process in a novel way. The first step is the creation of a controlled thermal lesion within the intramural portion of the fallopian tube. This lesion prepares the tube to receive the implant. The second step is the placement of a porous polymer implant directly within this lesion. This allows the body's natural healing response to occlude the tubes by tissue in-growth into the inert scaffolding of the implant.
Here we see the location of the Adiana implants within the uterus. As you can see, the implants are located within the intramural portion of the fallopian tube within the wall of the uterus.
This is important for two reasons. First, it avoids the well-known difficulties encountered in navigating the isthmic portion of the fallopian tube. Secondly, this also ensures that radiofrequency energy, which we use to create the lesion in the fallopian tube is contained within the body of the uterus.
The Adiana system itself is comprised of two components, shown here: The Adiana RF generator on top and the single use disposable Adiana delivery catheter. Dr. Vancaillie will provide more details on the clinical use of the system. I will review the operation of these components. The RF generator is shown here. There is a display, which provides information to the user. A simple menu-driven interface guides the operator through the procedure.
The operator is prompted to connect the catheter; place the catheter into the fallopian tube; deliver RF energy; and, finally, to place the matrix. There is also a position detector array, or PDA, display that indicates when the catheter is in contact with the fallopian tube.
As you will see later on, the PDA consists of four discrete sensors arranged in quadrants around the tip of the catheter. Here the display indicates full contact. It's important to note that the power output of this generator is very low. It's limited to no more than three watts. In actual use, it runs at about one watt of power.
In addition, there are no user-adjustable outputs. The generator controls power and time automatically. In fact, the only user controls of output consist of an RF on, RF off, and a reset button. The only other controls that are present on the generator allow for control of the display contrast and the audible tone volume.
The delivery catheter is used to deliver the matrix hysteroscopically into the fallopian tube. There is a cable which connects the catheter to the generator and a handle, which contains a push button release mechanism. The tip of the catheter includes the RF array as well as the unique position sensor. The implantable Adiana matrix is contained within the tip of the catheter, and it's released by the push button within the handle.
This drawing shows the components at the distal tip of the catheter. A photograph of the tip is inset at the lower right. Moving from the distal tip of the catheter, you see four RF electrode bands. These are arranged in a bipolar configuration, forming a bipolar RF electrode array. There is then a position detector array, the yellow band, which you see, which consists of four sensors arranged in 90-degree segments around the outside of the catheter. Behind that, there is a black marker, which is used to optically place the catheter into the ostium of the fallopian tube.
The Adiana matrix itself is located directly under the RF array. And you can see it through here. Following the creation of the lesion by the RF array, the electrode sheath is retracted. And the matrix, which is held in position by the push rod, is thereby released into the lesion as the sheath is retracted over the matrix. I will show you this in more detail later.
The matrix itself is small. It's approximately three and a half millimeters in length and 1.6 millimeters in diameter. It's about the size of a grain of rice. This photomicrograph at the bottom shows the surface of the matrix. The center of the matrix is a solid core, which is not visualized on the slide. The solid core through the center of the matrix is approximately 400 microns, or four-tenths of a millimeter, in diameter. And this will be a distinct feature to note in our histological images.
Most importantly, however, notice the porous architecture which surrounds the center core. This is shown in the right-hand panel of this slide. This electron micrograph shows the unique trabeculated architecture, which is comprised of cross-linked pores with a relative random pore size and shape within the outer portion of the matrix. These pores, wrapped, if you will, around this solid center core, provide the scaffold into which tissue in-growth occurs, which occludes the fallopian tube.
The best way to understand the system is to see it in use. A hysteroscope is advanced using standard techniques through the cervix. The Adiana catheter is then placed through the working channel of the hysteroscope up through the fallopian tube. The catheter is advanced into the fallopian tube. And you will see the RF bands entering the fallopian tube, the gold PDA sensors, and then the black optical marker.
At this point, the PDA shows tissue contact. And the operator can deliver RF energy. As the bipolar RF electrode array is energized, this heats the tissue. And you can see a slight blanching at the surface of the fallopian tube. At the end of 60 seconds, the button is pressed. And the electrode sheath is retracted, which uncovers the matrix. This is repeated on the contralateral tube. And then over the next few weeks, the wound-healing response results in tissue in-growth and ultimately tubal occlusion.
I would like to now turn to a brief overview of our development studies. Our clinical development program included a broad range of studies, animal and human as well as in vivo and in vitro, which were intended to address specific aspects of the device design or performance. Starting at the top, these early studies have provided important data on the underlying mechanism of action for the Adiana system. These studies led in a step-wise fashion to ultimately culminate in the EASE pivotal trial, which Dr. Anderson will discuss in some detail later.
Let me now turn to provide some additional detail about each of these studies and, more specifically, overview the objectives of each. In the in vitro studies, which were conducted on extirpated uteri, these allowed for development of the Adiana catheter in the radiofrequency array as well as for fine-tuning of the RF generator design and the delivery parameters. Animal fertility studies allowed us to develop an in-growth scoring system that correlated with tubal occlusion and allowed for refinement of the matrix implant.
In particular, animal studies confirmed that high-quality in-growth, which led to tubal occlusion, as assessed by both dye pressure testing and hysterosalpingogram, also provided pregnancy prevention, both in short and long-term analyses. Our peri-hysterectomy studies helped characterize the RF lesion and evaluated matrix placement within the lesion. In this same population, our pre-hysterectomy studies allowed us to evaluate tissue in-growth into the implant as well as to look at tubal occlusion.
And then, finally, as a precursor to undertaking the EASE study, we performed an access study in a relatively normal patient population, this of women seeking tubal ligation. In this study, we were seeking only to assess the ability to place the catheter within the intramural portion of the fallopian tube without lesion nor matrix delivery. These studies provided insight into the mechanism of the Adiana device. Specifically both the peri and pre-hysterectomy studies provided significant insight.
So I will provide a bit more time reviewing these in the following four slides. The objectives, methods, and parameters evaluated in the peri-hysterectomy studies are highlighted here. First, we were seeking to ensure that energy could be safely delivered and to assess the acute device performance.
Patients in the study were treated immediately prior to, on the same day as a scheduled hysterectomy. In a subset of patients within these studies, serosal temperature monitoring was performed to measure the temperature rise at the surface of the uterus. We were primarily interested in lesion formation. Lesion dimensions, both depth and length, we measured. Secondary parameters included access, handling, and matrix delivery.
Results for the peri-hysterectomy study were obtained in 99 tubes from 62 women with no adverse events associated with the procedure. We found that lesion information was optimal at a temperature of 64 degrees with a time of 60 seconds. And we were, therefore, able to evaluate a total of 50 tubes at this specific temperature-time profile. Overall, in this subset of patients, the average maximum lesion depth was only 560 microns, just over half a millimeter.
Histologically, no lesion reached the outer serosal boundary, indicating that RF energy was contained within the uterus. Serosal temperature rise was not a concern based on monitoring in 11 cases. Based on our successful per-hysterectomy studies, we proceeded to the pre-hysterectomy studies with the objective there of determining whether the Adiana system would occlude fallopian tubes. In this study, subjects were treated with the Adiana system 12 weeks prior to their scheduled elective hysterectomy. We were primarily looking at tissue response to the in-growth.
As measured by histological features was a primary endpoint. In addition, we explored tubal occlusion by both retrograde dye pressure test and hysterosalpingogram. We also evaluated patient tolerance to the procedure and matrix retention during this 12-week in-growth period.
Although this protocol was used to evaluate multiple treatment parameters and matrix configurations, a total of 65 tubes were evaluated 64 degrees 60 seconds using the current matrix design. Again, there were no complications with the procedure. Histological results were dramatic at three months. The in-growth within the matrix was fully occupying the pores at the implant, with no evidence of acute inflammation. There was the expected foreign body response with stable fibrous tissue in-growth fully occupying the pores of the matrix with integration of the implant into the tubal wall.
Dr. Vancaillie will now present to you the details of our histological results, which should provide you with a more complete understanding of the mechanism of tissue in growth and tubal occlusion.
DR. VANCAILLIE: Good morning, Madam Chairwoman, members of the panel, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Thierry Vancaillie. I am from Sydney, Australia, where I am the Director of the Department of Endo-Gynecology at the Royal Hospital for Women. I am also a founding member and shareholder of Adiana as well as one of the investigators in the EASE trial. My role today is to discuss the mechanism of action of the Adiana device and to provide a brief demonstration of the procedure itself.
In order to better understand the mechanism of action of the Adiana device, I will briefly describe the biology of biomaterial implants and review some of the extensive histology we have obtained during the course of development of the technology.
The biology of biomaterial implants has been well-studied over the past decades, starting in the early '60s with development of vascular implants, followed later with introduction of soft tissue prosthesis for hernia repair. The vertical axis on the graph indicates the intensity of the event. The horizontal axis is a time line.
The initial response of the host is due to the actual surgical procedure itself and is similar to any acute healing mechanism; whereas, exudate deem of the surrounding tissue, cells such as neutrophils and leukocytes invade the space. This occurs over the course of the first few days. If a biomaterial is put in place, the acute response will give way to a chronic process called granulation tissue.
There is marked neovascularization, which is needed to support the growth of the granulation process. The dominant cell lines now consist of macrophages and fibroblasts. Macrophages will fuse to form foreign body giant cells, which will cover the surface of the biomaterial if it is nondegradable.
This process may take more or less time depending on the size, configuration of the implant, as well as the location in the body and other factors. If there is so-called biocompatibility, then this chronic granulation tissue settles into a state of status quo. A durable fibrous tissue is formed. The neovascularization will settle. There is less cellularity, consisting mainly of fibrocytes. And the extracellular matrix now contains more collagen. Integration of the implant into this fibrous tissue is the expected end result. And this is what we set out to achieve with the Adiana device.
So let us now apply the biology of biomaterials to the Adiana device. The acute healing process is initiated by the delivery of bipolar electrical current, instead of an incision. The biomaterial used is a porous, sponge-like cylindrical implant placed in apposition with the lesion. The device is most commonly referred to by the other speakers as the matrix.
I will demonstrate to you today that we observed a normal biomaterial response, which leads to fibrous integration of the Adiana implant in the tube, which, in turn, results in tubal occlusion. This is what makes the Adiana device unique. Samples for histological analysis were obtained from hysterectomy specimens. This diagram represents a longitudinal section through the cornual region of the uterus. The tubal obstruction in the middle represents a lumen of the fallopian tube with the uterus on the left and the ovary on the right. The Adiana device is located within the intramural portion of the fallopian tube.
The samples are cut in a plane perpendicular to the lumen, so go across sections. The entire intramural portion of the fallopian tube was examined through step sections at 300-micron intervals. This allowed us to examine the fallopian tube distal to as well as proximal to the Adiana device. Samples in the acute lesion studies were stained with NBT, nitroblue tetrazolium, a so-called vital stain which differentiates viable from non-viable tissue through identification of active respiratory enzymes. The samples of the implant studies were stained with classical H & E.
On the alternative steps, serial sections were taken for specific stains, such as, for instance, trichrome and epithelial membrane antigen. The trichrome stain was used to document the presence of features, such as collagen and fibrous tissue. We used several immunohistochemical stains to characterize cell types. EMA is one such stain and is associated with the presence of epithelial cells. Epithelial cells are thought to be linked to the occurrence of fistula and recannulization and, therefore, are an undesirable finding.
During the five-year course of the EASE clinical trial, we obtained specimen at the various time intervals from eight patients who underwent hysterectomy for various reasons not related to the Adiana procedure. This provided us an opportunity to get a glimpse of the long-term histology of the Adiana implant. And we used stains similar to the three-month specimen to analyze these samples.
The image on the right shows a scanning electron micrograph of a cross-section of the Adiana device, very much like we anticipate seeing it on histologic sections. The device is a single piece of silicone. The center is solid, and we call it a core. It is surrounded by a crown of trabeculations and pores. As silicone is translucent, it is difficult to actually see the core in trabeculations of the device in many slides.
This is a one-millimeter-thick tissue slice through a treated tube. It shows a solid core of the device within the center of the tube surrounded by the trabeculations filled with in-growth tissue reaching the core. The higher magnification lets you identify the core through the presence of cutting artifacts. During standard tissue processing using thin slices, much of the material of the device is often washed away.
Therefore, we are placing a representation of the core in the form of a gray circle to facilitate understanding of the images you will see. This specimen was obtained acutely and stained with NBT. In this and all subsequent images, technical details, such as magnification and so on, will be displayed in the upper left-hand corner. We insert the core of the matrix for reference. The NBT stains colors the viable tissue in blue.
The tissue affected by the bipolar electrical current does not stain. And you can see that tissue within the dotted circle. The thermal effects are limited to the area within this dotted circle. All subsequent events are contained within this space. The surrounding tissues are unaffected.
Following clearance of the coagulated tissue, acute healing is initiated. This specimen was obtained at three months post-treatment and stained with H & E. Let's put in place the core for better understanding of the image. This represents an advanced stage of the granulation tissue phase. The host has succeeded in occupying all the pores within the trabeculations of the device.
I am placing a circle of yellow dotted lines around the area of interest. All action has taken place within this area. At a higher magnification, we see a normal foreign body reaction, composed of macrophages, which fuse into foreign body giant cells covering the surface of the device. This tissue response can be described as a fibroblast infiltration into the pores of the device, corresponding to the granulation tissue phase of the biomaterial process. This is, thus, a normal response to biomaterials that are implanted in soft tissue.
At an even greater magnification of the same specimen, vascular structures are identified. These capillaries form the infrastructure to bring in the necessary building materials in our normal part of the granulation tissue response surrounding biomaterials.
This now is a four-year specimen stained with H & E. The tissue response can now be described as a stable fibrous connective tissue, which one would expect to see surrounding nondegradable biocompatible material. Stable tissue in-growth is seen filling the pores of the device and leading to integration of the device within the surrounding tissue.
At a greater magnification, we see the expectant giant cells in contact with the surface of the device. Macrophages and foreign body giant cells are limited to a one to two-cell thickness layer at a tissue material interface. No indication of toxicity or infection was identified in any of the specimens. The images we obtained are the ones we expect to see with biocompatible, nondegradable implants. And these images were observed consistently in all specimens.
Moving the microscope a few millimeters away from the device, we see fully normal tissue architecture. We can comfortably state that surrounding tissue remains unaffected in the process. The trichrome stain underscores the abundance of collagen, which stains low. The in-growth tissue can, therefore, indeed be called fibrous connective tissue.
At a greater magnification, the contrasting red color highlights the presence of the foreign body giant cells and capillaries. These features are again compatible with stable in-growth, leading to integration of the device within the surrounding tissue.
Moving away a few millimeters, this is again obvious that the surrounding tissue remains unaffected. We have particular interest in the presence of epithelial cells within these long-term samples, hence the use of the epithelial membrane antigen stain. Epithelial cells could be considered a marker of potential fistulization and recannulization and, therefore, undesirable.
For reference, I have reinserted the graphic representing a longitudinal section through the fallopian tube. The image on the right shows a section through the tube distal to the Adiana device. The brown color of the EMA stain around the middle of the fallopian tube is obvious.
This image can be considered a control image for the validation of the methodology. The section on the left is taken through the matrix, showing complete absence of staining and, therefore, absence of evidence of the presence of epithelial cells. The same result was obtained consistently in all specimens from these eight hysterectomies. Therefore, it is no evidence of epithelial recannulization by immunohistochemical staining for epithelial membrane antigen.
Allow me at this point to summarize. I can state that we have achieved our goal. The Adiana procedure results in the host response, which is expected for soft tissue implants, granulation tissue is formed and evolves in a stable fibrous in-growth, which integrates the device within the surrounding tissue. This process appears to be stable over time. There is no evidence of fistulization in the long-term specimen. And there's no undesirable chronic inflammation. Therefore, we are confident that the Adiana device results in permanent integration of the device within the tissue, leading to tubal occlusion.
Let us now move to the second part of my presentation, namely the actual clinical procedure. The patient is adequately counseled prior to the procedure. And emphasis is placed on the need for follow-up. In particular, we make sure the patient understands that we need to check the success of the procedure with their hysterosalpingogram and that in the meantime, she needs to use alternative contraception. The best way to appreciate a procedure is to review a video of the actual procedure being performed.
At our institution, hysteroscopy is commonly performed in an office setting. However, we observe all rules with regard to proper preparation of the operative field and equipment. The surgeon applies local anesthesia. While awaiting its effect, the equipment is put together. The patient is coached throughout the procedure by an experienced nurse.
Once the hysteroscope is in the uterine cavity, the Adiana catheter is introduced and aligned with a tubal ostium. The surgeon threads the catheter into the tubal lumen until the position detection array is satisfied the catheter is correctly in place.
In addition, the surgeon checks that the black mark is at the tubal ostium. The surgeon then instructs the assistant to activate the bipolar RF energy. A countdown for 60 seconds follows. While this occurs, the nursing staff prepares the other catheter for the contralateral side. When a display indicates that the delivery of bipolar RF energy is finished, the surgeon presses the button on the handle to place the matrix.
The hysteroscopic view then shows the outer sheet retracting while the push rod keeps the matrix in place. The patient is monitored for 20 minutes or so and is then allowed to return home. I believe this video demonstrates that the procedure is straightforward for a physician trained to perform hysteroscopy. For a patient, the advantages are obvious in that there is no incision, it is office-based and only requires minimal anesthesia.
Let me now introduce Dr. Ted Anderson, who will present the results of the EASE trial.
DR. ANDERSON: Good morning. My name is Dr. Ted Anderson. And I am from Vanderbilt University, -- next slide -- where I am the Director of the Division of Gynecology and Gynecologic Surgery. I was an investigator in the EASE trial. I do have a consulting agreement with Hologic that predates the acquisition of Adiana. I have no financial stake in this company.
You have seen that there is a clear need for additional contraceptive options. And you have also seen a description of the development of the Adiana system, including a very comprehensive development program and a well-characterized mechanism of action that leads to stable tissue in-growth and a matrix leading to tubal occlusion. You have also seen the ease with which this procedure is performed by physicians and the ease with which it is tolerated by patients.
And now I am pleased to present to you the data from the EASE clinical trial. What I intend to show you is that this clinical trial was a robust trial of over 16,000 women-wearing months with a very high success of bilateral placement and a very well-tolerated procedure with very good patient comfort and satisfaction. The efficacy is in the range of other sterilization methods. And there is a very strong safety profile.
This study was conducted under an IDE approval by the FDA as a prospective single-arm clinical study to enroll up to 650 patients at 15 institutions in the U.S. This was a phased roll-out with two requirements.
First, there was an enrollment of 150 patients and a pause to ensure that there were fewer than 2 pregnancies at 200 women months and that the access rate of the tubes was greater than 80 percent.
Additionally, there was an evaluation to demonstrate less than 5 pregnancies at 1,000 women months. These criteria were met. And enrollment continued over an interval of approximately two and a half years. The primary endpoint of this trial was pregnancy prevention at one year. The study was designed for an 80 percent power to demonstrate a pregnancy rate of less than 5 percent, with 95 percent confidence based on an enrollment of 400 per protocol patients with the assumption of a pregnancy rate of 2.5 percent.
Additionally, there were secondary endpoints looking at the device placement rate, looking at the safety of device placement, and wearing and looking at the comfort of device placement and wearing. The inclusion criteria included women of proven fertility between the age of 18 and 45 who were seeking permanent contraception. These women were at risk of becoming pregnant and were willing to rely entirely on the Adiana system for their contraception during the trial. Exclusion criteria excluded those women who had preexisting conditions that might adversely affect the ability to undergo the procedure or that might prevent compliance for long-term follow-up or that might bias our ability to evaluate this post-procedure.
After obtaining informed consent, patients underwent an interview, history, and a physical examination before proceeding to the Adiana procedure. After performing the procedure, patients underwent a three-month waiting period, during which they relied on alternative contraception.
At the end of this three months, patients then underwent a hysterosalpingogram to demonstrate tubal occlusion. Only after tubal occlusion was demonstrated were patients allowed to discontinue alternative contraception, at which point they entered a wearing period of 12 months, leading to the primary endpoint of pregnancy prevention at 12 months. These patients are continuing to be followed through up to five years.
Now, there were 770 patients enrolled. Six hundred, twenty-seven patients were enrolled in the United States at 14 sites. And 143 patients were enrolled outside of the United States, at one site in Mexico and one site in Australia.
Of those patients enrolled, 115 patients were eliminated, either because of screening failure or because of voluntary withdrawal, leaving 655 patients, who ultimately went to hysteroscopy. Of those patients, ten additional patients were excluded from the trial because of intraoperative findings of adenomyosis or intrauterine synechiae or unicornuate uterus or other tubal or other uterine pathology that would exclude them from the trial. This left 645 patients in the intent-to-treat group.
If you look at the baseline characteristics of those patients in this trial, you can see that there was an excellent diversity in the age and ethnic distribution. And, in fact, the age distribution was quite similar to what we saw in the CREST study with a median age very similar.
Of the 645 patients in the intent-to-treat group, 95 percent of patients had successful bilateral placement of the matrix. Of the 34 patients who did not have successful placement, 14 had unilateral placement, and 20 patients had no device placed. In most cases, the failure to place the device was because of uterine anomalies, such as very widely spaced tubes or because of suspected tubal blockage.
You can see here that there was a great geographic diversity in the participants in the trial, but what I would like to call to your attention is the uniformly high bilateral placement success rates, regardless of whether participants in the trial were high-end rollers or low-end rollers.
The procedure is very straightforward. In fact, the mean procedure time was just under 12 minutes, with a standard deviation of just over 7 minutes. This is defined as the time from the introduction of the hysteroscope until the hysteroscope was removed after the placement of both devices. In fact, 90 percent of these procedures were performed in less than 20 minutes.
In keeping with the concept of this being a very straightforward and simple procedure, the mean glycine volume used during the procedure was 1,226 cc with a mean fluid deficit of only 182 cc. During the procedure, about a third of the patients required no sedation, only topical anesthesia. An additional one-fifth of the patients were added an anxiolytic with only minimal sedation. In fact, most of the patients in the study, 53 percent of the procedures, were performed with minimal or no sedation. And, in fact, no patients required intubation or general anesthesia for this procedure.
If we look at procedural adverse events, you can see that about a quarter of patients described cramping and about a quarter of patients described spotting or bleeding during the procedure. The remainder of the events that were reported were relatively minor and infrequent. This chart represents only those moderate and severe events that occurred at a rate of greater than 0.5 percent. And it's not inconsistent with what we might expect from any hysteroscopic procedure. There were no unanticipated serious adverse events.
In fact, there was only one procedure-related serious adverse event, a single case of hyponatremia. This does not appear on the previous chart because it occurred at a rate of less than 0.5 percent. Also, because it was mild hyponatremia with a sodium of 129, this patient responded to Lasix with no short-term or long-term adverse events, adverse sequelae. The majority of adverse events, in fact, were mild, resolving spontaneously in short duration.
Notably, there were no tubal or uterine perforations. There were no injuries related to RF energy application. And there were no injuries related to matrix placement. When asked how patients tolerated this procedure on the day of procedure, 98 percent of women reported favorably. In fact, using a visual analog scale from zero to 100, the mean score of discomfort was only 5.9. Ninety percent of women undergoing the procedure returned to normal activities within a day of the procedure. And 98 percent of women had returned to normal activities within 2 days.
Now, you saw previously that there were 611 successful bilateral placements of the matrix. Of these patients, one patient became pregnant during the waiting period, representing an alternative contraceptive failure. Six hundred and ten patients were then eligible to go to hysterosalpingogram for evaluation of tubal occlusion.
There were 6 patients who were lost or withdrawn, resulting in 604 patients who ultimately had evaluation by hysterosalpingogram at 3 months. Of those 604 patients who had hysterosalpingography performed, 551 patients demonstrated bilateral tubal occlusion. Fifty-three patients had either one or both tubes patent at three months.
Of those patients, there were eight patients who were not reevaluated. Two of these patients were pregnant, became pregnant, again, as a result of an alternative contraceptive failure as they were not relying on the device for contraception at this time. Forty-five patients were then reevaluated at six months per protocol for tubal occlusion. Of those patients, 19 patients now had bilateral tubal occlusion at the end of 6 months. And 26 patients continued to have one or more patent tubes. One of those patients then became pregnant, again, as an alternative contraceptive failure, not relying on the device for sterilization.
So ultimately we had 570 patients of the 604 patients who underwent hysterosalpingogram, 94 percent who were able to rely on this device for contraception and entered the wearing period. This represents 88.4 percent of the patients in the intent-to-great group who were ultimately able to rely on the device for contraception. We had excellent one-year follow-up compliance with 97 percent of the patients in this population evaluated for the primary endpoint, representing over 16,000 women wearing months of wearing as of the date of the date of the cut-off of March 1st in 2007.
Now, if you look at pregnancies in relying patients, during this first year, we saw six pregnancies. All of these cases were reviewed very critically. And, in fact, during that review, we identified three cases of pregnancy in which there was misinterpretation of the HSG and mismanagement of the patient. Because of that, these patients should not have been relying on this device for sterilization. However, there were three failures of undetermined cause in patients in whom we felt the HSG did demonstrate tubal occlusion.
Beyond the primary endpoint, there were three pregnancies reported in year two, no pregnancies in year three, and there has been one pregnancy presented in year four, although this was after the date of cutoff and presented here for your information.
Now, this slide may be different from what you have in your panel pack because it has been updated to reflect data as of November 9th. The failure rate was calculated using life table methods. And you can see here considering all pregnancies in the first year, the cumulative failure rate as 1.07 percent. If we remove those 3 pregnancies that we know were due to misinterpretation of hysterosalpingogram, that cumulative failure rate changes to 0.54 percent. However, using all pregnancies, this still meets the primary efficacy endpoint of less than five percent pregnancies at one year.
Now, if you will look at year two, you can see the cumulative failure rate changes to 1.67 percent. And, again, subtracting those three pregnancies that we know are due to HSG misinterpretation, that becomes 1.14 percent.
Now, let's put that a little into historic perspective. And in doing, we compare this with the historic controls of the CREST study, where pregnancy failure is reported as failure per 1,000 patients. You may recall that the CREST study was a prospective cohort study, multi-center, of over 10,000 women undergoing tubal sterilization with follow-up of 8 to 14 years using a variety of different sterilization methods. And the pregnancy was assessed by cumulative life table probability.
What I would like to show you here is that all of these methods represent highly effective methods of sterilization with pregnancy prevention rates of greater than 98 percent. Now, to put that into a little bit more global perspective, here is a representation of contraceptive methods that are used commonly in the United States and the pregnancy failure per 1,000 of those methods.
And you can see that there is almost an order of magnitude greater failure in these methods. And this is important because it demonstrates that the Adiana system results in sterilization in the same range as other sterilization methods.
And it does so without subjecting the patients to general anesthesia or to an intra-abdominal surgical procedure. If we look at adverse events that were reported during the first year of reliance -- and, again, we're looking at severe events reported at a frequency of greater than .5 percent -- you can see that the relative incidence of report is actually quite low.
If you look at those reports of cramping or dysmenorrhea, we looked at this a little bit more carefully. And what we found is that about 50 percent of the patients who were in this population had previously been relying on birth control pills for their contraception. If you look at patients who had reported bleeding, about 70 percent of these patients had previously been relying on birth control pills for contraception.
So this is not entirely unexpected in any population discontinuing birth control pills. If you look at other systems in the body, you can see that there is a relatively low incidence of adverse events that were reported during the first year of reliance.
Again, there were no unanticipated device-related serious adverse events. There were three device-related adverse events reported, serious adverse events reported. Two of those were ectopic pregnancies.
One was reported in year one that was treated with methotrexate. And one was reported in year two that was treated by salpingectomy. There was one case of an endometrial polyp that was questionably related to the device, and this was adjudicated conservatively by our data safety monitoring board as possibly related. So we report it here for your information. In fact, the majority of adverse events were very mild. They resolved spontaneously in short duration. Notably, there were no allergic or adverse reactions to the matrix. There were no infections related to the matrix.
And there were no matrix removals. If patients were asked after the first week of the procedure how they tolerated this throughout the entire wearing period, there was a very high satisfaction, with 96 percent of patients reporting overall satisfaction throughout the entire study. In fact, 99 percent of patients rated their comfort as good to excellent at all visits after one week. There were no patients reporting the device as intolerable. And there were no requests for matrix removals due to discomfort.
So, in summary, what I have shown you is that this was a very robust study of over 16,000 women-wearing months. There is a very high successful bilateral placement rate of 95 percent. The procedure is very well-tolerated with high patient comfort and satisfaction throughout the entire wearing period, a strong safety profile with 98.9 percent pregnancy prevention at one year. The primary efficacy criteria were met.
And now I would like to introduce Dr. Amy Pollack, who is going to put these data into the context of unmet need and risk benefit.
DR. POLLACK: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and panel members. My name is Amy Pollack. My professional career as an obstetrician-gynecologist has been concentrated in the area of preventive medicine and public health, reproductive health, family planning, and specifically sterilization. I currently hold a faculty position in the Department of Population and Family Health in the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University. I am the former Vice President and Chief Medical Officer of Adiana. And I have a consulting agreement with Hologic.
During the next several minutes, I will review the unmet need for contraceptive options, focusing on the need for sterilization. I will then summarize the risks and benefits of the Adiana system.
Although most of us think sentimentally about pregnancy, in truth, all pregnancy carries some inherent risk to both the mother and the child. When the pregnancy is unintended, the risk is elevated for the mom, a consequence of delayed prenatal care, and for the child in cases of premature birth. In the U.S. today, half of all pregnancies, roughly three million annually, are unintended.
So why are so many pregnancies unintended? The average woman spends over three decades managing her fertility and for the majority of that time attempting to avoid pregnancy. So balancing safety, efficacy, and ease of use while managing sexual relations is not so simple. Unintended pregnancy is the result of the failure to choose and use a contraceptive method or a failure of the contraceptive method itself.
No single contraceptive method is capable of meeting a woman's changing needs throughout her reproductive life. In fact, as we heard, on average, a woman using reversible contraceptive methods changes those methods about nine times during her reproductive years in attempting to match them to her current needs. And because no contraceptive is perfect, providing more options is a critical strategy in the prevention of unintended pregnancy.
This slide lists the most popular contraceptive methods grouped by percentage of users on the left and typical use failure rates on the right. These numbers demonstrate that contraceptive method choice is influenced by all kinds of personal variables: Time, money, convenience, in addition to safety and effectiveness. The less effective methods, shown at the bottom of this slide, were failure rates of 15 to 32 percent require a high degree of motivation by the user. Planning around sexual relations, messy gels, latex versus plastic, issues too familiar to most of us. Despite the inconvenience, about 25 percent of contraceptors choose these methods. In the middle, the hormonal methods change menstrual cycles, for better or for worse. And, well, as we all know, hormones are hormones. The pill is the most commonly used method in the U.S., despite a user or typical failure rate of 8 percent.
In the group at the top, the IUD is considered by many to be the most nearly perfect contraceptive option, with very low failure and very easy reversibility. However, it is chosen by only one to two percent of contracepting women in this country, again demonstrating the influence of women's individual choice.
So our focus today is on sterilization. This is the method chosen by women an couples when childbearing is complete. The hope is to find relief from the concerns of the widely used reversible methods; the inconvenience of interrupting relations and the hassle of continual resupply; unavoidable hormonal or product-related side effects; and, in addition, a greater risk of failure.
The appeal of being a one-time procedure with rare associated long-term side effects has made sterilization the most widely used contraceptive method in the U.S. today. About 700,000 women choose it annually. And overall by age 40, 50 percent of women rely on female sterilization.
While female sterilization procedures have come a long way in terms of safety, concerns remain. Considerable progress was made in the 1970s, when laparoscopy was introduced and women no longer needed a laparotomy, requiring a large abdominal incision for sterilization.
However, while safer, laparoscopic sterilization still carries associated with the procedure itself a certain risk, including general anesthesia. Abdominal entry using a sharp instrument and blind entry into the abdomen to place the laparoscope can puncture large blood vessels, bowel, or bladder.
And, in fact, major complications occur in one to two percent of procedures due to trauma anesthesia, leading to not only morbidity but, although rare, mortality of otherwise healthy young women. Women and their partners are acutely aware of these risks. Just the thought of surgery has been enough to dissuade many women and couples from choosing sterilization. And surveys indicate that many women seeking permanent contraception simply fail at the last minute to show up for their preoperative appointments.
For some women and couples, surgery just seems too risky. And so 500,000 choose vasectomy every year, an outpatient procedure 96 that carries minimal risk and requires only local anesthesia. The introduction of transcervical sterilization offers a safer option for female sterilization by avoiding abdominal entry and general anesthesia. It significantly reduces the risks associated with the procedure and can be performed in the physician's office.
This represents a real change in how both providers and patients consider contraceptive options as women now have their own in-office procedure. Despite having one transcervical method option, more than 90 percent of all female sterilizations are still surgical in the U.S. today. Making additional choices available will enable more women to make more suitable personal choices to prevent pregnancy.
Overall general safety considerations for currently available sterilization approaches or devices include surgical and anesthesia risk; risk of perforation or expulsion; metal allergy, which is an allergy that is increasing in the population because of the increase in decorative body piercing; difficult removal or reversal; and potential interference with future intrauterine procedures. The Adiana system was developed to meet the unmet need for a sterilization method that reduces almost all of these associated risks.
So, with this background in mind, I would like to turn now to summarize the risks and benefits associated with the Adiana Transcervical Sterilization System. As you have heard so far, we believe that the data demonstrate that the Adiana system has a favorable benefit-risk balance.
We recognize only four concerns categorized as risks. And these include, first, the generalizable risk of complications associated with hysteroscopy of roughly one to three percent according to the literature.
However, this is based on more complicated hysteroscopic surgical procedures and includes perforation secondary to cervical dilation and gas embolism, a complication of carbon dioxide, neither of which are relevant to the Adiana procedure. The risk of absorption of distension medium is rare in normal operating conditions and even rarer in cases such as transcervical sterilization, where there is no myometrial trauma.
As you have heard from Dr. Anderson, the clinical experience with Adiana during the EASE trial was consistent with these findings. Out of the 653 procedures during the clinical trial, there was only one procedure-related serious adverse event, that of hyponatremia, as discussed earlier.
Next, we consider the inability to rely on the Adiana system for pregnancy prevention as a non-clinical risk but as a risk, nonetheless. Of note, the proportion of women who progressed to reliance during the EASE trial was 88 percent. This is a level comparable to that of the currently available transcervical method.
Third, the generalizable risk of regret, ranging from 6 percent in women over 35 to 20 percent in younger women, that follows any female sterilization procedure. Although not specific to Adiana, this risk is a consideration to be addressed during patient counseling for all sterilization procedures.
Finally, failure in pregnancy. And I will turn to look at this in more detail.
As you know from the material presented in the panel package and by others today, the one-year pregnancy failure rate of 1.07 percent in the EASE clinical trial met the study's prospective statistical hypothesis.
Secondly, when compared, we found the rate to be within the reported range of the CREST method failures. As Dr. Anderson presented earlier, an analysis of the year two failure rates again showed that the Adiana rate remained within the range of failure rates reported in the CREST study. As of the time of the data cut for the PMA submission, all patients had not completed three years of follow-up. And, thus, a complete analysis of three and four-year results could not be provided today.
It's important to note that the EASE trial met its primary endpoint. And we believe that the detailed analysis that we have performed in a best effort comparing the Adiana one and two-year rates to historical control data show that the Adiana pregnancy prevention rates are within the expected range of other sterilization methods in use today. Whenever there is any tubal manipulation and a subsequent pregnancy, there is an increased risk that pregnancy will be ectopic. This risk is common to all female sterilization methods, including Adiana.
During the EASE trial, there were 2 ectopic pregnancies out of 10 pregnancies among relying women, or 2 out of a total of 15 pregnancies among both relying and non-relying women. Both ectopic pregnancies were detected early and treated successfully without further complications.
For perspective, the literature references suggest 15 to 65 percent of post-sterilization pregnancies are ectopic. The CREST study reported an ectopic pregnancy rate of 33 per 100 pregnancies, or 33 percent, for all methods combined. Due to the small sample size and rare events, no statistically meaningful comparisons can be made between EASE and the CREST data.
However, because Adiana is effective in preventing pregnancy, the absolute risk of ectopic pregnancy when compared to the risk of a fertile, non-contracepting woman is reduced. The risk of ectopic pregnancy for women using the Adiana system appears to be within the expected range reported for other sterilization methods and is also fully and accurately disclosed in the proposed patient materials.
Let me now turn to summarize the benefits of the Adiana system with a focus on its safety, ease of use, and its favorable overall profile. As you heard this morning, the mechanism of action of the Adiana system has been well-characterized by a thorough development program. The matrix is safe, inert, and biocompatible with no metal or hormones to present potential safety issues. This provides a scaffold for stable tissue in-growth to achieve occlusion. The matrix is completely contained within the tube. And no part of it extends into the uterine cavity to interfere with future procedures which require the use of electrical energy. Thus, we see no anatomic or biologically plausible reason for contraindications to future intrauterine procedures.
This was an important objective that guided the development of the Adiana system. As we have seen, the transcervical approach used in the Adiana procedure is among the safest, completely avoiding the risk associated with sharp trocar entry into the abdomen and the risk associated with general anesthesia. These benefits were proven in the EASE trial. Although hysteroscopy is associated with an overall one to three percent risk of complications, the Adiana trial had only one procedure-related serious adverse event out of 653 cases.
Also, there were no cases of perforation, complications resulting from RF treatment or matrix placement, and no infections. Otherwise minor complaints associated with the procedure were of short duration. And the majority resolved spontaneously.
As you heard from Dr. Vancaillie and Dr. Anderson, the Adiana system is also easy to use. And the procedure is easily and quickly learned. Physicians rapidly achieved access and placement success across all sites in the EASE trial, as indicated by the consistency of successful bilateral placement. The procedure was brief, lasting on average about 12 minutes, with over 90 percent of the procedures concluding within 20 minutes. Minimal anesthesia was required for the placement procedure.
And of note, no woman required general anesthesia or intubation. And, from the patient perspective, satisfaction was high with both the procedure and the ease of wearing. The vast majority of women reported that the procedure was well tolerated with low levels of discomfort reported. And most women were able to return to normal activities or work within the same day. Patients also reported high levels of satisfaction and comfort throughout the follow-up wearing period.
In addition to being easy to wear, the Adiana matrix is safe to wear. Through over 16,000 months of wearing, there have been no adverse device reactions reported. In addition, the majority of adverse events reported during the wearing period have been mild and of short duration. Rates are comparable to those reported in women, both of reproductive age and in the general and post-sterilization groups.
So, in summary, how do we balance the benefits and risks of the Adiana system? Let's start by acknowledging that no contraceptive method is perfect. We know that women choose contraceptive methods that fit their own needs and that these needs change over time. Women consider not only protection from pregnancy but practicality, their personal ability to use the method and in an effective way and their own aversion to side effects or safety concerns.
Taken together, this means that on a population basis, the best approach to helping women protect against unintended pregnancy is to provide the broadest range of safe and effective options. Women can then choose among them to best match their needs to the profiles of the products available. The Adiana transcervical system has a strong safety profile, both as it relates to the procedure and to the wearing of the device.
The procedure avoids the risks of abdominal entry and general anesthesia and is well-tolerated by patients. The mechanism of action is well-characterized, resulting in stable tissue occlusion of the fallopian tubes without adverse implant reactions. The primary efficacy endpoint of the clinical trial was met. And Adiana's effectiveness falls within the range of most widely used sterilization methods. And from the physician's perspective, the system is notably easy to learn and use while patients report high levels of satisfaction and comfort with the procedure and wearing.
Finally, the Adiana device does not extend into the uterus. And there are no known contraindications to future intrauterine procedures. Women and couples have far too few choices to limit their future fertility. The Adiana system is a safe and effective contraceptive option. And it is important that it be made available. Mr. Savakus will now return to the podium to close the presentation.
MR. SAVAKUS: Thank you. This concludes our formal presentation for the day. In preparation for this meeting, FDA has proposed six questions for consideration and discussion today.
In the next few minutes, I would like to highlight a few of the key points which we believe will be central to those discussions.
The first question relates to the safety of the Adiana system. The results from the EASE study show a strong safety profile. Overall, the majority of adverse events were mild in nature and resolved rapidly. There were only four serious adverse events, one associated with the procedure and three either definitely or possibly related to the device itself. Given that this study included 645 women with more than 16,000 women-months of reliance, these results are remarkable.
Question two regards effectiveness. As we have heard today, the effectiveness rates demonstrates in the EASE trial in terms of bilateral placement rates, bilateral occlusion rates, and pregnancy prevention rates were high and are clinically acceptable. FDA has asked if the long-term benefits, specifically the one and two-year pregnancy prevention rates, outweigh the device risks. The EASE study demonstrated few risks. The effectiveness rates were within the ranges for other methods. The Adiana system avoids risks as well as patients' concerns over general anesthesia and transabdominal surgery. Patients tolerate the procedure well, had few complaints with device wearing.
And, finally, the Adiana system has minimal impact on the uterus. Given the strong safety profile of the Adiana system, we believe that the benefits outweigh the minimal risks. Although we have not discussed our training program in our presentation, a draft training program was provided in the panel package. We have developed a training program which is based on the training which we used during the EASE pivotal trial investigation. The program utilizes a modular approach with a didactic section, a tabletop hysteroscopic trainer model, and then case proctoring.
As we were evaluating the skills necessary for successfully completing the Adiana procedure, we determined that cannulation of the fallopian tube is the most significant skill which is required. Physicians currently experienced in performing hysteroscopic sterilization are already competent with this skill. And we, therefore, provide a two-track program for proctoring of cases. Physicians with this current skill have the option to receive proctoring by a Hologic trainer. Otherwise, proctoring will be mandatory.
The final component of our training is HSG training. This module will be offered to all physicians being trained in the Adiana procedure but will also be made available to radiologists that may be asked to perform occlusion evaluations. And then, finally, Hologic will provide clinical support via a staffed clinical support help desk, both for the Adiana system procedure as well as for HSG interpretation. Draft labeling has been provided in the panel package.
We anticipate significant interaction with FDA on crafting appropriate patient labeling to reflect FDA's recommendations as well as to address the panel's inputs. We have presented our plan to FDA to continue follow-up on the 625 women within the EASE study cohort who have received at least one implant through 5 years. We plan on updating both the professional and patient labeling with revised annual effectiveness and safety data as this information becomes available.
Of note, this post-approval study proposes to follow patients that may receive a hysterectomy and obtain this tissue at patients' consent for histological analysis. This has been done throughout the EASE IDE study. And we propose to do this throughout the post-approval study.
In conclusion, we believe the data presented here represent valid scientific evidence that gives a reasonable assurance of both the safety and effectiveness of this device, a device which we believe represents an important option that should be made available to women in the United States. We, therefore, respectfully request your recommendation for approval.
This concludes our presentation. Thank you for your attention. We would be happy to answer any questions you may have during the remainder of the day.
And I would also invite you to view samples of the product. Both the catheter and the generator are available at the table behind your seating area. I would ask that if you have any specific questions about the panel that we do that in session, but they are available there for you to look at if you wish. Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: I would like to thank the sponsor for their presentation. And at this time I would like to ask if anyone on the panel has questions for the sponsor, please do remember that the panel may also ask the sponsor questions during the panel deliberations later today. However, if there are extensive questions for the sponsor, we would request that you ask them at this time so the sponsor can be prepared to respond in the afternoon session.
Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Thank you. I want to thank the sponsors for their phenomenal presentation. I do have a couple of questions in terms of the rates. The intent-to-treat population was 645. And then the protocol which you based your analysis on was 554.
For reasons that make sense, you kept throwing out subjects that had pregnancies for different reasons that, somehow or another, corresponded to mistakes or the device not being appropriate. But I think an intent-to-treat analysis we should keep in mind here because I think these rates are going to be much higher if you did an intent-to-treat analysis.
You know, you are talking about people coming back three to six months and then finally being told the device doesn't work for them. Well, once you move into the arena of post-approval, I'm not so sure you're going to have physicians or you can't count on physicians being so careful in terms of giving the okay on it and following when the device has worked.
So I guess it's not necessarily a question but a comment that I think the rates you present are much lower than what we're going to see in practice and much lower than if you actually went back and said, "Let me take a look at this in a more fair intent-to-treat analysis."
There's no other arena I know of where the sponsor has such the luxury of going through. I mean, I would like to think of stent trials, cardiac stent trials, for example, saying, "Anybody who has stenosis we're going to throw out. Anybody who has revasc. we're going to throw out from our consideration. We're only going to take those that are stellar use of the stents. Our rates would look phenomenal. And I think we have to keep in mind that there is a lot of culling that you have discarded in terms of judging these rates.
So, again, the question I think that I'm drawing out is the intent-to-treat analysis, if done, would make these rates much higher. And the efficacy turning into effectiveness in use is going to be much higher. And I would like to just hear some comments on that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Additional? Okay.
Please?
MR. SAVAKUS: Perhaps I can comment on this in a few ways. First of all, pursuant to the protocol, patients were instructed not to rely on our device until they had a documented tubal occlusion by HSG. The pregnancy events that occurred prior to that point in time included failures of alternative birth control. Some of these were in patients with the unilateral placement.
So at the time of the acute implant, they knew that they were not protected. And there was no expectation that there should be a contraceptive action in that particular case. Likewise, patients are counseled that they cannot rely on the device until they have the three-month HSG. And we believe that's an important component, both of the patient labeling as well as our physician training, and something that we will be emphasizing.
CHAIR CEDARS: Additional questions from the panel? Dr. Snyder?
DR. SNYDER: In the summary, you guys discuss the two ectopics and the treatment of them. I am interested in a little bit more detail on the location of the two ectopics. Since efficacy is going to be a major point in the discussion today, I feel a need to understand a little bit more about the 198 cases that had a discrepancy between the initial review and what was culled locally. And if you have any idea, I mean, what the breakdown by radiologists cull versus, you know, gynecologists cull?
Also, I mean, do you have any more specifics on these three misinterpreted HSGs that, you know -- I mean, I am sure you don't have, you know, the actual radiographs, but, I mean, what exactly was misinterpreted?
MR. SAVAKUS: Okay.
CHAIR CEDARS: Excuse me. Just before you respond, I wanted to let the sponsor know that you can answer some of these questions after the lunch break if you choose to.
MR. SAVAKUS: Okay. Why don't I address the questions that I can? And I'm going to ask Dr. Pollack to come up and discuss your question about the ectopic. The misinterpretations of the three HSGs that went on to result in pregnancies were not particularly difficult to understand. And, in fact, we do have a video clip that I can share with you because it's I think somewhat striking when you see these. And I will ask them to pull that up if they can.
And while they're working on that, let me address the prospect or how we did the core lab review. As the trial was proceeding, there were -- and, in fact, we're going to see one of the HSG errors. We recognize that there may indeed be an issue with how these HSG images were being interpreted.
We did have in panel a core review. This core review did not drive the decisions by which patients entered the relying period. In other words, investigators perform the HSGs. Patients went on to rely. The films were sent back to Adiana, where we did a core lab review. The core lab reviewers were blinded to the results of how the patients were being managed. And then we looked at the degree of concordance between the HSG core review, as opposed to the investigator review.
I'm going to have Dr. Carignan since he was one of the core reviewers come up and discuss that. Could I have this image on, please? This shows a video clip of one of the patient pregnancies due to an HSG error. Video on, please. The physician as this is running is paying attention to this cornua. He's pulling on the tenaculum to get some relative motion to separate any features that he sees on HSG that are related to the uterus. And he sees something over here and pans over to that side.
What I would like you to do again is play this. And as you'll notice, his attention is drawn here. And I want you to look here. When he pans over here, he sees some distal dye pooling, but he doesn't see any connection between the uterus and that dye. Unfortunately, in this particular case, the physician didn't have video replay capability.
So this video film was recorded and sent to us. The physician looked at this in real time and never picked up on the dye spill in this patient's left side. We're not getting the full video play here. There we go. So you can see this dye pooling in through here.
I would like to have, actually, Dr. Carignan come up and discuss the core review. And then Dr. Pollack can come up and discuss the ectopic.
DR. CARIGNAN: Good morning. I am Charles Carignan. I am currently the Chief Medical Officer of Novasys Medical. I currently serve as the industry representative on the GI and Urology Devices Panel. And I am the former Vice President and Medical Director of Conceptus during the development of the Essure procedure.
And I am today here as a consultant to Hologic. Just to review what the core lab was asked to do in November of 2005, which was well after, actually, most of the patients were relying on the Adiana procedure. We were asked to do a retrospective review of the HSGs that had been performed. That was largely due to some errors in interpretation, as you just saw, just to ensure that there were not other cases where that was done.
During the development of the EASE protocol, the sponsor focused on performing low-pressure HSGs, which had emerged as a potential issue during the development of Essure, where HSGs were now being used to determine occlusion of devices following an intended occlusion versus using HSGs to detect patency for the means of infertility.
They did not have access at that time to the protocol that was used during the Essure clinical trials to specify documentation of the HSGs as well as performance, which became public at the time that Essure was commercialized.
However, of note, during the retrospective review, I can tell you that the investigators who had also been investigators in the Essure trials, utilized the protocol that was used with Essure and had very well-documented and, therefore, easily interpreted HSGs.
As you could see, there were issues with some sites making use of new technology that allowed digital recording of HSGs in real time, to document them, rather than the more traditional X-ray flat plate images, which is what we were used to and which makes it actually easier to interpret after the performance of the HSG. That certainly resulted in some of the errors. And it also made it difficult for review later. There were a number of images where we had one image to evaluate.
So based on a single image, all you can say is that based on this image, there is occlusion, but without seeing a number of serial images, without seeing clear documentation of the time, that pressure was maintained. It was difficult for us to actually determine that these images adequately reflected an HSG that could determine tubal occlusion.
We evaluated probably on 15 different features of the HSGs. And, you know, as you can imagine, there was some discordance there. We then would adjudicate those to find out whether we thought that they were actually significant issues.
And where we felt that there were significant issues with the HSGs, there simply just was not adequately documented for us to say that you could have documentation of occlusion, the investigators were requested to repeat the HSGs.
Now, keep in mind that the repeats were performed at varying times of effectiveness use at that point because this is done at one point in time in November-December of 2005. So those were then undertaken. And during that process, some of the HSGs that we determined were, in fact, not adequate showed that there were tool patencies at the time of the repeat HSGs. And they were then asked to stop relying on the device. But overwhelmingly the repeat film showed that the investigator had made the correct determination at the time. It just was not adequately documented on the HSGs.
So, therefore, going forward the sponsor will train physicians to perform HSGs using the protocol that's also used for Essure for low-pressure HSGs. Therefore, there won't be confusion in the marketplace between the HSGs being performed for two different procedures. And, to my knowledge, in the commercial experience with Essure, there have not been pregnancies associated with women who have undergone the HSG at three months and had it evaluated, showing bilateral tubal occlusion. So we would expect, then, that we would see similar results with the Adiana procedure.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Pollack?
DR. POLLACK: There were, as we presented today, two ectopic pregnancies in the Adiana trial. The first pregnancy was in year one. That occurred after seven months of reliance. It was a right ectopic pregnancy, was confirmed by ultrasound, was reduced via methotrexate. And the location of the pregnancy was an isthmic pregnancy.
The second ectopic pregnancy, notably ampullary, was at 19 months reliance in the second year. There was an intervention because the patient wanted bilateral tubal ligation. And so she did have an intervention and underwent surgery without any further complications. She was at 13 months relying. Did I say 19 months at the beginning? I meant 13 months. I was reading from a different patient. So that was at 13 months of relying. The patient had an ampullary pregnancy, resolved by salpingectomy.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Zaino, I believe you had a question.
DR. ZAINO: It was adequately answered.
DR. PETERSON: I have a question about the patient with hyponatremia. I noted that the average time to perform this is 11 minutes if I am correct. I think there was a wide range and in some cases went up to 50 minutes. I was just wondering if you had any data on that case of hyponatremia in terms of how long that procedure took and what the fluid deficit was and what type of system you were using to understand the deficit and whether a system was used uniformly throughout the trial.
MR. SAVAKUS: I will have Dr. Anderson come up and address that.
DR. ANDERSON: Slide up, please.
This one case involved a significant outlier from the remainder of the cases that were performed. In fact, this particular case had a 3,000 cc fluid deficit, which is clearly way outside the limits of what anyone would reasonably expect to see or tolerate in a hysteroscopic procedure. General conventions dictate that hysteroscopic surgical procedures would be stopped after a 1,000 cc deficit. No fluid management system was used in this particular case. In fact, fluid management systems were not used in any of the cases that I know of in the EASE trial. If you look at the remainder of the procedures, the fluid deficit was actually remarkably low. And the amount of fluid used was remarkably low.
So I think if we use prudent surveillance that is currently acceptable throughout the industry in operative hysteroscopy of limiting the amount of fluid used, limiting the amount of fluid deficit, this could easily have been avoided.
DR. PETERSON: Just a follow-up question. So without a fluid management system, how was the 3,000 deficit calculated?
DR. ANDERSON: This was calculated based on a measurement, physical measurement, fluid in/fluid out. The amount of bags that were used were three-liter bags. So we knew how much fluid was going on, how much we had to go in. And the amount was measured in a standard such canister.
There, of course, is some variability and error in that, as we all know. And if we were using a procedure that typically were prolonged and typically would occur with a larger fluid deficit, certainly fluid management system would not be unreasonable. I think that, however, if we put appropriate limits on the timing and the fluid used in these techniques, that we could entirely avoid this as a possibility.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I have a couple of follow-up questions and then two other questions as well. First of all, with regard to the patients with ectopics, at the time of their treatment or subsequently, was there reassessment to determine whether there was tubal patency? And if so, was it within a lumen or was it a fistula?
Secondly, to follow up Dr. D'Agostino's comments, I, too, am concerned about the intent-to-treat analysis. We have an abstract that is recently submitted. And despite all the counseling and instructions to patients that in response to his question said were going to be done in the physician training session, we have that also. And in our urban environment, we only have 13 percent of patients coming back for a follow-up HSG period. And so it's very low.
And so I am very much concerned about intent-to-treat analysis and would wonder if you did the cumulative failure rate for the intent-to-treat, what would it be for the study that you just conducted? The other questions that I had were looking at the algorithm of patients that were treated, as I understood it, there were 53 patients at 12 weeks in whom when the HSG was done, there was still tubal patency and 28 patients at 24 weeks. Are there any characteristics of these patients that you have been able to identify that would allow suggestions of who is more at risk for that to happen and for particular emphasis on them?
And, I guess as a corollary, I wonder, could that be related to the inner tubal diameter in these patients? In other words, in those patients who have a larger inner tubal diameter, are those patients more at risk for failures of complete occlusion at the three-month point or even the six-month point? Lastly, the question I wanted to ask was, you showed, I think Dr. Vancaillie showed, a number of slides of the H&E staining of the tubes.
Have you done slides looking at collagen staining to see how much collagen in-growth there is? Because my understanding is that the in-growth that you saw was different than what was seen with the Essure device. And if you have done collagen staining, do you know what type of collagen it was? And did that change over time as you had some of the longer follow-up period with some of the patients who have come for hysterectomies at a later period of time?
DR. ANDERSON: Well, Dr. Diamond, there are several questions there.
DR. DIAMOND: Yes, there were.
(Laughter.)
DR. ANDERSON: I can answer one or two of those questions. And then I would like to defer to others who would be more appropriate to give you answers for the others. There were no clinical features of a patient that would allow us to predict whether they would receive bilateral occlusion or not. So there was nothing that we could say beforehand that would allow us to presume that this patient might have bilateral occlusion or might not.
DR. DIAMOND: So you're going back and trying to assess that and have not been able to identify any?
DR. ANDERSON: Have not been able to identify anything specifically to assess that. And then I agree with your concern about the movement of this technique into public hands and the HSG issue and the patients coming back for HSG.
Certainly, as indicated by Dr. Vancaillie in his clinical experience in Australia and by Adam Savakus in the proposed training module, this is certainly something that is incredibly stressed. It was stressed during the EASE protocol. And it will be stressed in the physician training protocol that patients need to understand that this is really a two-part system.
One part is placement of the device. And the second part is assessment of its occlusion, just as is seen in the Essure. As you know, we as physicians do our very best to counsel patients. In fact, we can be very adamant and strong in counseling patients. And our care partners can be equally as strong in counseling patients.
But in the end, we rely on patients to understand the importance of that. All we can do is tell them that until they have documented tubal occlusion, that they should not rely on this device for pregnancy prevention.
DR. DIAMOND: My hope was that maybe after the lunch break you could give us what the cumulative failure rate would be of the intent-to-treat analysis.
DR. ANDERSON: We will have to see if our statistician has that information. I would like to, then, defer the remainder of these questions to Mr. Savakus.
DR. CARR-BRENDEL: Good morning, panel members and Madam Chairwoman. My name is Victoria Carr-Brendel. I was a principal scientist and former employee of Adiana before the acquisition. My role here is as a consultant to the company.
I would like to address the question. As I understand it, sir, you have asked the question regarding the trichrome and whether or not we have -- or I should say you have asked the question of whether or not we looked for characteristics of in-growth that would be reminiscent of fibrosis or fibrotic response, specifically looking at collagen content.
So I would ask for the slide up and just remind everyone that in the biology of wound healing, it is a tissue healing continuum. And those of us who are practicing biomaterials specialists, we would look at this and say that the granulation tissue would be where you would start seeing collagen content.
The response that you would see, then, if I have the next slide up, is what Dr. Vancaillie showed, which is in four-year tissue analyzed from patient samples obtained from hysterectomy demonstrates that you can see this is a trichrome stain.
Now, we did not perform immunohistological assessment of which type of collagen, but trichrome is a fairly well-accepted staining technique that would demonstrate collagen presence. So when you look at the tissue-healing continuum, we would say we are in an advanced stage of healing that is dictated by the type of biomaterial that was implanted. And we have these four-year or less samples obtained from patients who had hysterectomies where the staining was performed.
DR. DIAMOND: The reason I was asking that question is that usually it's collagen 3, which is deposited early and then over time transitions to collagen 1. And in view of some of the later-term failures in patients who had HSG-confirmed occlusion, could there be something happening with that transitional process where you end up with pores or channels which are not completely still occluded?
DR. CARR-BRENDEL: I think that's an excellent question. I think it's worthy of some speculation. The only data that we have to support this is our long-term preclinical studies that were performed in rabbits as well as these glimpses of the long-term tissue in-growth.
The one point that I would highlight is the epithelial membrane antigen staining, which to me would be the hallmark of the epithelial cells. Of course, we would use that to indicate whether or not there was epithelial fistula formation. And there was no evidence whatsoever of epithelial fistula.
So although you might want to tie it to the type of collagen that's present in the long term, in my viewpoint the more important stain to look for is the actual presence of epithelium as part of a fistula.
So I think it's interesting to try and understand what that mechanism would be over time towards fibrosis and long-term healing, but in the samples that I have assessed and samples that have been assessed by other biomaterials specialists, there's nothing to indicate anything but a standard foreign body response.
DR. DIAMOND: I am not fully knowledgeable about the epithelial staining, but I would think that would only be an issue, as you were saying, with a fistula, not with recannulization, in which case you probably would not be expected to see that.
The rabbit -- and I have done studies with cannulating rabbit horns in fallopian tubes in the past as well. The diameter there I believe is much narrower than the human and, again, raising a question of whether people who have larger diameters may be something where the failures are at 12 weeks or 24 weeks or some of the ones that have the delayed patencies.
DR. CARR-BRENDEL: The nature of recannulization within the fallopian tube, as I'm sure Dr. Zaino could address, one wouldn't expect to have sort of a vacuole through the tube that wouldn't be epithelial lined.
Would you agree, sir?
DR. ZAINO: That's variable. So the answer would be sometimes and sometimes not.
DR. CARR-BRENDEL: So, then, I would just look at the histology samples that we have looked at to determine whether or not there was any indication of change over time and suggest that, at least in what we have looked at, we haven't seen in any. Regarding your question, which I think is also a very good one, with respect to the UTJ and the diameter, the way that we envision this matrix working, by making it silicone rubber, it is delivered in a compressed state. And then it expands.
And we determined these diameters based on both literature and what we had derived empirically from studies that were included in your pre-PMA reading. So it is certainly possible that we undersized the matrix. However, we haven't seen any evidence of that.
DR. DIAMOND: And if I could just ask one other question? The core of your device, and then you have the porous parts. They don't have to be linked. There's some way of making that corrugated appearance without or is it you make the two parts and then attach them together?
DR. CARR-BRENDEL: Yes. So the way that the matrix is made is in one step. The core is linked to the trabeculations of the matrix. And it is our viewpoint that it is these trabeculations and the co-connectivity that leads to this stable in-growth over time. So we think it is a key component.
DR. DIAMOND: And how is it linked?
DR. CARR-BRENDEL: It's linked because --
DR. DIAMOND: How? Is it all part of the same thing or are they linked, you're gluing it together somehow?
DR. CARR-BRENDEL: I'll let Adam Savakus answer this.
MR. SAVAKUS: Sorry. Thank you. The matrix is one continuous piece of silicone rubber. It is cast. It is cast as one piece, slide up. Here are some scanning electron micrographs showing the architecture. But, again, the solid center core is cast along with the trabeculated outer architecture and cured as one piece.
DR. CARR-BRENDEL: Dr. Zaino?
DR. ZAINO: Yes. I have three or four what I hope will be brief questions and answers. In the pre-hysterectomy studies, in some cases, the matrices were found in the wall of the tube. And I'm wondering, do you have any data to suggest that the failure to achieve occlusion in patients is related to extravasation of the matrix beyond the tube?
MR. SAVAKUS: That may very well be one of the causes. It is possible to get a subintimal placement of the matrix. We saw that on occasion in the pre-hysterectomy studies in which we're dealing with disease populations. But, again, this may be an underlying failure mechanism that we see in the clinical study with the HSG failures.
DR. ZAINO: Are there changes that you identified, either in the proximal or distal segments of the fallopian tube, particularly with respect to epithelial proliferation?
MR. SAVAKUS: I'm not sure I understand the question.
DR. ZAINO: We have the segment of the tube that's occluded by the matrix. Proximal to that or distal to that, were there any changes in the fallopian tube?
MR. SAVAKUS: I'm not sure we looked at that in close detail.
CHAIR CEDARS: Perhaps we can address that question after lunch.
MR. SAVAKUS: We can do that. We will have an answer for you.
DR. ZAINO: Okay. A couple of other quick questions. One is, there were six patients, I believe, that had hysterectomies performed much later for other indications.
MR. SAVAKUS: Yes.
DR. ZAINO: Do we have the histologic data for that available for review?
MR. SAVAKUS: The results that Dr. Vancaillie and Dr. Carr-Brendel spoke about today, this is a four-year slide. There is a series of explants out of ten women who received hysterectomies in the EASE population, where it will obtain samples out of eight. And I know those histological slides had been provided to the agency. I do not know if those were in the panel pack. I can determine that.
DR. ZAINO: I don't believe they are.
MR. SAVAKUS: Okay.
DR. ZAINO: I appreciate that. And then, finally, have any animal or human studies been conducted in attempting to reverse or remove the matrix?
MR. SAVAKUS: No.
DR. ZAINO: Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Propert?
DR. PROPERT: I have a couple of questions, both probably to be answered after lunch. One is to echo some of the previous comments about the intention-to-treat. I'm looking forward to seeing clarification of those numbers.
But I actually have a question about the numbers before you defined your intent-to-treat population, that you enrolled 770 people. But by the time you got to the intention-to-treat, it was 645. And it may be that I don't quite understand the definition of enrollment. But a little bit of clarification on how the people dropped out between those two points, particularly the people who are listed as screening failures, would be helpful to me.
MR. SAVAKUS: Sure.
DR. PROPERT: The other question has to do with age. I was really struck by your age distribution, particularly the third of the people who were in your youngest age group.
And so I have a couple of questions about how age related to two things: One, how age was related to the placement failures. And, secondly, what were the ages of the people who became pregnant?
MR. SAVAKUS: We can address these after lunch.
CHAIR CEDARS: And I believe that Dr. Stubblefield had a question.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Yes. You've provided us information about the failures and the shelf-life of the device before it was inserted. But what you have given us are basically numerators with no denominators. For example, 4 cases that failed had had insertion with the device that had been on the shelf 9 to 12 months. But we don't know how many of the patients overall had a device inserted that had been on the shelf 9 to 12 months. And I'm also wondering about the ectopics, how long the device had been on the shelf before placed for those two patients.
MR. SAVAKUS: Okay.
CHAIR CEDARS: If there are no other -- Dr. Davis, if you can ask your question? And then it will be answered after lunch?
DR. DAVIS: I have some questions about information on dislodgement because I noted in your description of doing HSGs, you recommended a pressure-limiting device, although in many settings, those are not readily or oftentimes used. And is there a possibility that some of the failures that Dr. Diamond was speaking about were from later dislodgement of the device under the pressure of the HSG?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Okay.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay. We will now take a short break and resume at 10:35, a 10-minute break. I would like to remind the panel members that they should not discuss this during the break time and also that there are samples of the device behind the panel table, but the sponsor should not come back to that table.
(Whereupon, the foregoing matter went off the record at 10:23 a.m. and went back on the record at 10:43 a.m.)
CHAIR CEDARS: I would like to call this meeting to order. We will now hear the FDA's presentation. The first FDA presenter is Dr. Glenn Bell, the review team leader for this PMA.
DR. BELL: Good morning. My name is Glenn Bell. I am the lead reviewer on this PMA. I would like to begin by introducing the review team for this PMA. This slide and the next three slides provide a list of those that were involved in the review of the PMA.
This slide provides a list of those that contributed to the PMA and also will be speaking this morning.
The review of this PMA Involved expertise from a variety of areas. These areas included histology, statistics, engineering, electrical safety, and software. Others were involved in the review of the biocompatibility, material science, physics, and device sterilization. These individuals were involved in the review of the patient labeling and in setting up inspections of study sites and manufacturing sites.
This is an outline of the FDA's presentation. I will provide an introduction. And then I will discuss the preclinical review. Julia Corrado will discuss the clinical review. Richard Kotz will then cover the statistical review. And then Jiping Chen will conclude our presentation by discussing the epidemiological review.
In my presentation, I will discuss the history of the PMA review and I will provide a brief description of the indications for use and device description. Then I will discuss several changes that were made to the device during and after the pivotal trial. And then I will cover the preclinical review issues.
Let's begin by discussing the history of the FDA review. The pre-IDE was submitted in February of 2002. And the IDE was submitted in July of 2002.
Later that year, in November of 2002, the pivotal trial began. And the last patient was treated in May of 2005. The PMA was submitted in modules or sections. This enabled the review of some of the review of some of the information before the complete submission was prepared.
As you have heard, the PMA was submitted in August of 2007, which brings us to there present. As you have also heard, the device is indicated for women who desire permanent birth control by occlusion of the fallopian tubes. I will briefly go through the device description since the sponsor has already provided a lot of information about the device.
As you have heard, there is a matrix delivery catheter and radiofrequency generator, which composed the device. The matrix is made of silicone, and it is approximately half the size of a grain of rice.
Here is a picture of the delivery catheter. Over here is the electrical connector, a handle, and the tip of the catheter where the matrix is located. The RF, or radiofrequency, generator provides RF energy to the electrodes. And it maintains a temperature of approximately 64 degrees for 60 seconds in the area of the tissue around the electrodes.
All right. I mentioned that there were several changes to the device. One of these changes occurred during the pivotal trial. This was a change to improve the ease of use of the device. The handle was changed from a thumb slide to a push button. The 335 patients used the thumb slide design, and 310 patients used the new design with the push button. It was found that the rate of tubal access was approximately the same for the two devices.
After the pivotal trial was completed, there were several changes made to the device. One was a change to the push rod. As you have heard, the push rod enables the deployment of the matrix from the delivery catheter. And there was also a change in the electrode band spacing. The specification for the distal-most electrode was tightened.
Both of these changes, they decreased the number of matrix release failures. There was one more change. And that was to the foot switch, which actuates the RF generator. This was changed to a pneumatic device to enable it to pass electrical safety requirements. It is believed that none of these changes will affect the safety and effectiveness of this device.
I would now like to discuss the preclinical review issues. I will provide a current status of the preclinical review, which is ongoing. I am going to cover the following topics that are listed there. Many of these correspond to the areas of expertise that you saw in the review team.
In vitro studies were conducted using extirpated uteri. It was found that the epithelial ablation rate varied from about 35 to 100 percent. The lesion length varied from about 1.3 to 8.6 millimeters. And the lesion depth varied from about .3 to .7 millimeters.
The sponsor has indicated that the mechanism of action for tissue in-growth and tubal occlusion does not require complete epithelial ablation. It is unclear whether the variation seen in the epithelial ablation and lesion size may contribute to variations in tissue in-growth and tubal occlusion. Animal studies were conducted using a rabbit model. These studies enabled evaluation of tissue in-growth, tubal occlusion, and pregnancy prevention. These studies also provided tissue for histological analysis.
It was found that the rate of retention for the matrices was over 95 percent. Histological analysis of the tissue showed the presence of fibroblasts, macrophages, giant cells, inflammatory cells, and epithelial cells in extracellular matrix, which is indicative of a foreign body response.
Mechanical testing was conducted on the delivery catheter. This involved a variety of tests, including visual inspection with a microscope, dimensional inspection, as well as, for instance, looking at the insulation on the wires, looking at tip flexibility, and also determining whether the tip of the catheter could withstand the heat that is generated during lesion formation.
Mechanical testing was conducted on the matrix. This testing used simulated tubal contractions. Matrices were inspected for both cracks and tears. And it was found that the cycled versus the non-cycled matrices had approximately the same tensile strength. Electrical safety testing was conducted on the delivery catheter. And it was found that it passed both the dielectric withstand and the leakage current testing.
The RF generator was found to meet a variety of international standards for both electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility. The RF generator includes software. The sponsor provided documentation to support a major level of concern for the software. And it included hazard analysis, software requirement specification, design specification, traceability analysis, as well as verification and validation, which showed that the software performs as it was designed.
Thermal modeling was conducted on the device. This computer model predicted a lesion size of approximately 6.8 millimeters in length and 1.3 millimeters in depth. This model assumes that the small wires in the tip of the catheter do not affect the symmetry of heating.
Dr. Julia Corrado will provide more information on the exact size of the lesions in humans. Biocompatibility testing was conducted on the patient-contacting materials.
These tests included cytotoxicity, irritation, sensitization, system toxicity, and genotoxicity. It was found that the patient-contacting materials passed all of these tests. The delivery catheter is a sterile single-use disposable. It is steam-sterilized. And it was validated to a sterility assurance level of 10-6. The packaging for the delivery catheter has a one-year shelf-life, which is based on burst and seal strength testing.
I would like to conclude my presentation by discussing the shelf-life of the matrix. The sponsor provided documentation to support a one-year shelf-life for the matrix. It was found that the matrix while it's in the delivery catheter is compressed. It gradually re-expands back to its design specifications over the next 24 hours. It is unclear whether this temporary compression of the matrix may lead to dislodgement or displacement of the matrix in the first day after its deployment.
I would like to conclude my presentation by mentioning that there are no outstanding review issues.
And at this point I would like to introduce Dr. Julia Corrado, who will discuss the clinical review. Thank you.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: Thanks, Glenn.
Good morning, everyone. Thank you for being here.
The first thing I wanted to do is say that the FDA review is ongoing. And what we are presenting today is the current status of our review. I also wanted to add that we have not; that is, FDA has not, to date begun a detailed labeling review.
I am going to cover the highlights, what we call the highlights, from the history of transcervical sterilization, provide an overview of the Adiana system, summarize briefly pre-pivotal clinical studies. And then I am going to summarize FDA's review of the pivotal clinical trial; that is, the EASE trial. And Richard Kotz, who is our FDA biostatistician, is going to give his review. And then I am going to make some concluding remarks.
So I thought it was interesting to note that the medical literature on transcervical sterilization goes back to the mid-1800s, where a obviously not hysteroscopically guided but, nevertheless, a transcervical effort at sterilization using nitric acid was attempted. Later, in the Nineteenth Century, cauterization of the ostia was attempted transcervically. In the Twentieth Century, there was an early report of an attempted hysteroscopic sterilization in 1927. Later in the early part of the Twentieth Century, we see a report of a model for what we are looking at now, which is transcervical electrocoagulation followed by hysterosalpingography two weeks post-procedure.
After the mid part of the Twentieth Century, tubal plugs were evaluated. In the mid 1970s, there was a large study of hysteroscopic electrocoagulation with HSG at 12 weeks post-procedure, which is the current paradigm. And that brings us to the Twenty-First Century, where transcervical sterilization has gone from investigational to mainstream clinical practice.
And now I am going to transition into a discussion of the Adiana system. And I am going to reposition myself a little bit to make this easier.
So the Adiana PMA is the second PMA for a transcervical sterilization device that we have presented to the panel. It has a two-part mechanism of action, as you all know. It is a controlled thermal lesion combined with a matrix implant.
The sponsor has already shown you a graphical representation of where the implant sits in the intramural portion of the fallopian tube. And it targets a narrow portion of the tube that ranges between .2 and .5 millimeters in diameter.
So this two-part treatment accomplishes thinning of the epithelium and stimulation of tissue in-growth in and around that matrix. I have to thank Glenn Bell, the lead reviewer, for this photograph. We're all talking about the size of the device and trying to express it in comparison with a grain of rice. And so we thought we would provide this homemade photo just to illustrate exactly how it compares, at least with one particular grain of rice.
So I'm supposed to be talking about clinical studies. So I'm going to start by just briefly summarizing early clinical studies, including one which was called a tubal access study, in which devices were not actually placed. However, the tube was cannulated up to the place where the device would have been deposited. And the success rate in that small study was 93 percent of tubes cannulated. Peri-hysterectomy is an expression that we use to describe treatment performed on the same date as a hysterectomy, as you all know.
And the point of this slide, I apologize for being somewhat repetitive, but it's just to make the point that the average maximum depth of the RF lesion is about a half a millimeter. The average length is about five millimeters. In clinical studies, the percent epithelial ablation was on average 93 percent with plus or minus 7 percent. And the reason we have serosal temperature here is one of FDA's early review issues was a safety issue related to the possibility that the temperature on the serosa would rise as a result of the RF to an unsafe level. And what this study showed was that the peak serosal temperature was 41.7 degrees C. And the mean rise was 1.8 degrees C.
Now I'm going to talk a little bit about pre-hysterectomy studies. These were conducted outside of the U.S. In these studies, hysterectomy was performed approximately 6 to 12 weeks following device placement. The access rates were good, between 87 and 100 percent.
And I also want to just digress and say that there were multiple -- this was sort of a series of studies. Patient tolerance was very good. Fallopian tube occlusion was excellent, 97 percent.
The only two adverse events that we categorize as adverse events were alluded to earlier, and that is in two sections after the uteri were removed, there were matrices impinging the wall of the tube. We don't know whether that was an artifact or not. And the last thing that it's interesting to talk about in the context of the pre-hysterectomy studies is the sponsor's program for scoring the tissue in-growth. At FDA, certainly we are not expert on this, but, nevertheless, I think it would be useful to just characterize how this in-growth scoring system worked for the panel.
So, as we understand it, the in-growth scoring system is a way of giving a score to a thin section. So you take a slice of tissue that includes the matrix. There are three quantitative counts and three graded assessments. The quantitative counts include, as you can see here, closed vascular spaces.
As I understand it, those are blood vessels containing red blood cells, residual epithelial cells, and inflammatory cells. The more subjective or graded assessments cover giant cells, the fibrotic capsule, and tissue necrosis. The scoring ranges from one to four. The higher score corresponds to better in-growth. And the different types of parameters we looked at when I went through the list of six, depending on what you're looking at, the score may increase or decrease.
So, as you get more inflammatory cells, you get fewer points. Points are desirable. The more blood vessels you see with red blood cells, those were awarded more points. And the mean in-growth score for the pivotal pre-hysterectomy study was 2.44 with a range of 1.0 to 3.88.
So the reason that we think it's important is, of course, that the clinical studies that I have described are the prelude for the pivotal clinical trials. So all of the data we got out of the peri and pre-hysterectomy studies form the basis for submitting an IDE for a significant risk study to FDA for the EASE trial.
So before discussing our review of the EASE trial, I guess I just want to review a couple, a few findings. When we received the IDE, we had clinical data on tubal access, on bilateral placement rates, tolerance of the patient to the procedure, in-growth scoring, and tubal occlusion. We did not have any contraceptive effectiveness data.
And, as you heard from Dr. Anderson, the pivotal clinical trial was designed in such a way to have a sequential or phased-in recruitment with a limited initial cohort and with stopping roles. So we built that into the trial because we didn't have the contraceptive, any feasibility data on contraceptive, effectiveness.
So, that having been said, as you all know, this was a single-arm, multi-center trial, international trial enrolling healthy reproductive age women seeking sterilization. And patients were treated between November of 166 2002 and May of 2005. Primary endpoint was pregnancy after one year of reliance. So the statistical hypothesis was built on 12 months of reliance data.
There was also built into the protocol five-year follow-up. There were secondary endpoints, of course. Device placement was one of the secondary endpoints, patient satisfaction and comfort and the safety of device placement and wearing.
Richard Kotz is going to talk more about the biostatistical review, but in general, the statistical hypothesis was that the pregnancy rate at 12 months of reliance would not exceed 5 percent for the upper bound of the 95 percent confidence interval. I also want to mention that there are a lot of endpoints.
There are a lot of outcomes that we think are important that might not have been formally identified as secondary endpoints. And I will be talking about those as well.
So I am not going to spend much time on this because Dr. Anderson has already presented it. Of 770 patients who were interviewed, 645 went to hysteroscopy with attempt at placement of the Adiana devices. On the day of the procedure, there were 611 placement successes, and 604 of those occurred the first attempt. And there were seven repeat attempts.
Of that 611, nominally all of them would have gone on to get a transvaginal ultrasound and an HSG. However, as you can see, there were some exclusions.
One of those subjects became pregnancy during that first three months when she was nominally relying on alternative contraception. And six were lost to follow-up by the time of the 12-week evaluation. So of the 611 successes, a total of 604 went to HSG.
Now, I also want to mention that in this pivotal trial, prior to HSG, the patient had a transvaginal ultrasound. And the purpose of that was to confirm that the matrices were present bilaterally. FDA was initially concerned that the transvaginal ultrasound might not be easily interpretable.
And so we asked for some samples of what these devices look on to the U.S. And the sponsor provided us a number of videos. And we were able to identify the matrix on transvaginal ultrasound on these films without difficulty.
To summarize -- let me just back up for a second and mention that of the 604 who went to HSG, as we have already heard, 53 did not have bilateral occlusion. And of that 53, on second attempt at 24 weeks, an additional 19 had occlusion.
And so the total number of subjects who began what we could consider relying during year one was 570. Obviously everybody begins reliance on a different day. Of those 570, 17 were removed -- that's the best word we could come up with -- for the following reasons. Three were instructed to discontinue reliance. We have heard about some of those already. Two voluntarily withdrew. One subject was terminated. And nominally at the 12 point of reliance time point, 11 had been lost to follow-up. It's my understanding that one of these might have been recovered.
And so there were 553 evaluable for that primary efficacy endpoint. The demographics of the study are as follows. The majority of the subjects were within the 28 to 33-year-old range and slightly smaller percentages were in the younger, 18 to 27, and in the older, 34 to 45-year-old range. Ethnicity is represented also. Seventy-six percent were Caucasian, 7.3 percent were African American, 15.2 percent are Hispanic. And other categories, such as Pacific Islander, constituted the remainder.
On the day of the procedure, analgesia was administered. As shown in this slide, we have already heard that no one required general endotracheal anesthesia. The columns here break out the U.S. from the non-U.S. subjects. And you can see that in the U.S., 57 percent received some intravenous medication or sedation. Outside of the U.S., that number was much smaller.
Outside of the U.S., the majority of subjects were treated with NSAIDs and topical analgesia. In addition to analgesia, other medications used on the day of the procedure were antibiotics, anti-emetics, and anti-cholinergics in the percentages that you see here.
So with respect to procedural success, I am going to apologize for this table. In a way, it's not set up like you might expect. The point is that as you go across the rows, each row should be looked at individually. So row one just tells you how many patients were successes on the first treatment attempt and how many ultimately were successful bilateral placements on the second attempt. The next row shows you bilateral success.
At the first attempt in the U.S. compared to outside the U.S., it's virtually identical. There were in the U.S. eight patients who underwent second attempts. And of those, seven were successful. No device was placed in a total of 21 out of the 645 subjects. With implants, we're always interested in the risk of expulsion.
And what we can tell you is that on transvaginal ultrasound, three matrices were missing at one week post-placement. And two additional ones appear to have been lost at 12 weeks on transvaginal ultrasound.
So I had identified what were formal secondary endpoints, one of which was patient satisfaction. And patients appear to have been very satisfied and to have tolerated the procedure well with minor complaints of pain. And 90 percent who returned to normal activities in less than one day following this procedure.
Dr. Anderson also went through this slide already. And I'm not going to repeat it except to note that the most common day of procedure complaints related to cramping and spotting. The PMA contains a lot of data on adverse events. And we thought that for the panel meeting, it was most relevant to just show these data for the genitourinary system. These don't include the day of the treatment. And Dr. Anderson went through this already and pointed out that changes in bleeding patterns may have been related to changes in type of contraception used.
Other safety outcomes included what we consider to be a serious adverse event. And that was a case of hypervolemia and hyponatremia. Glycine is the recommended distention fluid for the Adiana procedure. There were two ectopic pregnancies among reliant subjects. And I will be talking about them a little bit more in my next slides.
So we have talked about a rate of success of device placement. The success for bilateral placement is around 94 to 95 percent. However, the rate of reliance on the device is somewhat lower than that. It was 85.4 percent after 3 months.
However, after the additional 19 subjects were identified as having occlusion at 24 months and were able to rely, it brings the total reliance rate up to around 88 percent. Some of the panel members, some of you all, have already talked about the importance of follow-up with HSG. And this really makes that point beautifully. You can't count on the fact that you successfully place these devices. This is a patient counseling issue.
The patient must come back and must do her HSG because there is a subset of patients who had successful placement who are not going to have occlusion. And this makes that point. So we consider patient counseling extremely important.
The reason for this slide is as follows. We have been a little bit concerned in talking internally about you. The panel might wonder, why are we bringing this to panel, you know, the statistical hypothesis was met. There were very few serious adverse events. I want to tell you a little bit about the story as to why we decided to do this.
So the first patient was treated, I believe, in 2002. And the first pregnancy in a patient relying on this device was reported to FDA in September of 2004. If we fast forward about a year and a half later, as of February of '06, five pregnancies had been reported among relying subjects.
So although the statistical hypothesis at 12 months of reliance was not in jeopardy, FDA started thinking around that time that it would be a good idea to seek panel input on what you all think is the number of clinically acceptable pregnancies for a sterilization procedure in a given year. There were five pregnancies in this study among women who were not relying on this device for contraception. They had never been counseled that they could discontinue alternate contraception. One occurred in a woman who had successful placement, but it was during the waiting period that she conceived. One patient became pregnant following an acute placement failure. And there were three following a diagnosis of patency on HSG.
So among relying subjects, there were ten pregnancies. And the statistical hypothesis is based on pregnancies during that first year. In that group, of the ten, there are six. So six pregnancies are being counted in calculating the failure rate. During year two, three additional pregnancies occurred. And there was one reported in year four. And, as the company has already disclosed, the database is incomplete for years three, four, and five. Two out of the ten pregnancies were ectopic.
Another note that I want to make here is that, as you will recall, on the day of HSG, transvaginal ultrasound was conducted to confirm that the matrices were present. And they are visible on TVUS. However, TVUS was not required to be performed in the event, in the eventuality of a pregnancy. So of these ten pregnancies, from our review so far, reading the case reports, in one of those cases, there is a comment that at the time of the pregnancy diagnosis, the matrices were still visible on transvaginal ultrasound. But it's my understanding that wasn't a requirement.
So we probably do not know the answer for these pregnancies as to whether matrices were still present. So during the first year of reliance, the women who became pregnant in this study can be described as follows. As we have heard, three were due to errors, arguable. I'm not trying to be judgmental but arguable clinical errors or misinterpretations.
In one case, it's our understanding that HSG was performed using a non-occlusive catheter; that is, an intrauterine insemination catheter was used. In another case, there was failure to identify patency on HSG that seemed pretty clear-cut. There is a third case that is more complicated, but there is a possibility that during performance of HSG, the tube may have been cannulated. So the sponsor may want to comment on that later.
Two of these pregnancies during year one of reliance were intrauterine: one at two and one at six months into reliance. One of the ectopic pregnancies occurred in this group. And when this was first reported to FDA, my recollection is that it was reported as cornual.
So the location of that pregnancy may be a subject for further discussion. I understand it's a bit ambiguous whether it was distal or proximal to the matrix. And this occurred seven months into reliance. Pregnancy during year two. Although the statistical hypothesis is built on year one, obviously for a sterilization device, we're interested in long-term effectiveness. There were two intrauterine pregnancies during year two: one at 18 and one at 19 months into reliance on the device. And there was another ectopic. This occurred at 13 months into reliance. And this was in the ampullar of the two.
From what we know to date of data from year three and year four, we are not aware of any pregnancies during year 3 of reliance, one during year 4 of reliance at month 42.
So the reason for this slide gets to a question that was raised earlier. And it just reflects our initial thinking on FDA's part in terms of are there any risk factors here? Are there any clues as to why the pregnancies occurred in the patients in whom they occurred?
And so we have looked at ethnicity. Eight occurred in the Caucasian demographic group. But, as you all remember, 76 percent of the patients in the study were Caucasian. Two pregnancies occurred in Hispanic women. And I think that they represented 15 percent of the patient population. Under age, you see the number of pregnancies for the different age groups. Five occurred in the youngest group, four in that middle age group. That middle age group represented over 40 percent of all the subjects in the study. And then one occurred in a woman who was, I believe, 40 years old. We looked at body habitus. There was one patient who had a medical history and was obese. Their obstetrical history reflected on average 2.2 vaginal deliveries.
So we are continuing to look at the case reports, including things like chronic medications for unrelated conditions that might plausibly affect the method. However, we have not come up with anything yet that we feel explains why any particular patient might have become pregnant or might have failed this procedure. This slide lists what our thinking is so far in terms of known and potential failure modes. We wanted to share this with you.
Clearly human factors contributed to at least three of these pregnancies: incorrect performance and/or interpretation of HSG. That's unequivocal. We know that. There are other questionable human factors.
One might be how feasible it is to expect someone to hold that catheter stationary during 60 seconds of RF and without any excursions because an excursion of more than half a centimeter is going to be significant. The lesion length is only a half a centimeter. We have absolutely no evidence for that. We're just trying to share our thought process with you and would appreciate your feedback on this. We have also looked at whether the tissue response is adequate.
And one of the possibilities that we have been looking at is, is it possible to dislodge this matrix secondary to physical forces; for example, during the performance of HSG? It's very helpful to know that the HSG that is being performed is a low-pressure HSG. And that is certainly going to be very important if the device is approved. Patient-specific issues.
What do we mean by that? We're thinking, are there any comorbidities? Somebody with severe asthma who may be taking steroids chronically, is there any reason to think that that might affect the tissue in-growth? It's just total speculation on our part, but it reflects our effort to try to understand why these failures occurred.
And so at this time, our biostatistician, Richard Kotz, is going to do his presentation. And then I'm going to follow up with a very short closing remark.
MR. KOTZ: Thank you, Dr. Corrado.
I will now present the statistical design and analysis of the EASE clinical trial for the Adiana contraceptive device. The objective of the trial was to show that the one-year pregnancy rate was less than five percent where the primary endpoint is pregnancy after relying on the device. The secondary endpoints included device placement, rate, satisfaction, comfort, and safety, which Dr. Corrado has already discussed. The trial was originally designed as a single-arm study with up to 500 subjects, of whom at least 400 would reach the one-year evaluation.
As stated above, the study was designed to show that the proportion of subjects getting pregnant at one year was less than five percent. This study was sized using a one-sided test of proportions with a significance level of 5 percent and power of 80 percent and assuming that the true pregnancy rate at one year was 2.5 percent.
Now let us look at the results for the EASE trial. The one-year observed pregnancy rate was 1.1 percent, with an upper one-sided 95 percent confidence bound of 2.1 percent. And, again, this is based on the 570 relying or sterilized patients. This rate is much lower than the five percent. And, thus, we conclude that the one-year pregnancy rate is statistically significantly less than five percent.
We now need to consider the 16 subjects lost to follow-up during the first year, who were shown in an earlier patient accountability slide presented by the sponsor and by Dr. Corrado.
The question is, how many of them would need to have become pregnant in order for the 95 percent confidence bound to exceed 5 percent? Using exact binomial methods, it was calculated that it would require 14 of the 16 subjects to have become pregnant in order for the 95 percent confidence bound to exceed 5 percent. Since this is probably very unlikely, it may be concluded that the sponsor has met their study objective.
This table gives the one- and two-year life table pregnancy proportions and the corresponding upper 95 percent confidence bounds. We have seen the one-year rate in the last slide. The three additional pregnancies that occurred during the second year result in a 2-year cumulative pregnancy proportion of 1.7 percent, with an upper 95 percent confidence bound of 2.9 percent.
Now Dr. Corrado will discuss the panel questions.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: Thanks very much. I'm going to conclude our presentation with, as Richard alluded, a reminder that we're going to be discussing the questions that we have prepared. The first question has to do with safety outcomes. We briefly described day-of-procedure and year one adverse events. And, with that in mind, we will be asking you to comment on whether you think the safety profile of the Adiana device is acceptable. FDA question two has to do with effectiveness.
And in that context, the question is worded to present, you know, the one-year success rate, but I earlier mentioned to you that FDA wants you to go a little bit further in discussing that. And we would like you to give us your thoughts on how many sterilization failures in a given year are clinically acceptable, taking into consideration the nature of the procedure and the risks associated with it. You have heard about the 12-month failure rate. That was the primary endpoint.
And Richard just told you about the two-year cumulative failure rate. And considering the question of how good is good enough, we felt that the panel might wish to consider data from the U.S. collaborative review of sterilization, also known as the CREST study. And you all have a copy of that in the materials that were provided for this meeting. I want to add a couple of caveats, though, and that is to note that any comparison of CREST data with data from the EASE trial is qualitative only. The study, CREST study, was conducted over a decade ago.
And we have an expert here on that study. It is very different in study design, different in technique and device, and different in the subject age profile. So, having said all of that, we still want you to look at it. And I'm going to advance a slide here. A couple of things that I need to say about this slide again is they are rates per 1,000. And what we have here are a combination of excisional. They're all surgical, obviously, but some are excisional. Some use devices, and some use electrical energy to achieve occlusion.
I'm going to advance to year two, CREST life table results, again probabilities per 1,000, and also note that the 2-year rates are cumulative. So when Richard Kotz provided that two-year number to you, it reflects pregnancies that occurred in the EASE trial among relying subjects both during year one and during the second year.
FDA question three gets at the issue of risk-benefit and whether you think that the benefits of this procedure outweigh any risks. FDA question four is also very important. And the issue of training is extremely important. We placed a lot of emphasis on that. I can tell you that after the panel meeting we spend a lot of time looking at labeling and training. And so we really very much want your input on that.
We have really not gotten into a substantive review of the labeling as yet. However, you have got labeling in your panel packs. And we are hoping that you can share some of your ideas on what has been presented so far to help us in our work depending on the outcome of this meeting and FDA's ultimate decision.
Jiping Chen, Dr. Jiping Chen, is our epidemiologist who is going to present a comprehensive overview of the proposed postmarket plan for this device. And she will be speaking as soon as I make one parting remark.
In speaking on behalf of FDA, we all want to acknowledge how grateful we are that members of the public and interested parties take their time to attend these meetings and share their thoughts with us. It is incredibly important to our overall philosophy of just full disclosure and transparent process.
I would like, though, to remind the panel that while deliberating today, we need to remind you that the approvability of this PMA should be made on its own merits on safety and effectiveness. It does not require that you find the effectiveness of this device equal to or better than that of any other device or that it is substantially safer than any other device. You are simply being asked as our Advisory Committee whether the data in this PMA shows safety and effectiveness as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations. That is, the benefits outweigh the risks. And the pivotal clinical trial shows a clinically meaningful result.
And so thanks very much for your attention.
And Dr. Chen will now address the postmarket study.
DR. CHEN: Thanks, Dr. Corrado.
Good morning, distinguished members of the panel and members of the audience. My name is Jiping Chen. And I am one of the epidemiologists in the Division of Postmarket Surveillance in the Office of Surveillance and Biometrics, FDA epidemiologists in the PMA review team. I'm responsible for working with the sponsor for the development of a post-approval study protocol. And we continue to work with the sponsor to develop a protocol that both agency and sponsor can agree on.
Here's an outline of my presentation today. First I will talk about the general principles that were utilized when thinking about the need for and designing post-approval studies. Then I will comment on the rationales for post-market questions that the premarket study was not designed to answer but may be addressed in a post-approval study. Then I will summarize the latest version of the sponsor's proposed post-approval study protocol and our initial assessment of the post-approval study protocol. Finally, I will have some questions for the panel to discuss on the post-approval study if the PMA is approved.
Before we talk about post-approval studies, we would like to clarify a few things. The discussion of a post-approval study prior to a formal recommendation on the approvability of this PMA should not be interpreted to mean FDA is suggesting the panel find the device approvable. The plan to conduct a post-approval study does not decrease the threshold of evidence required to find the device approvable. The premarket data submitted to the agency and discussed today must stand on its own in demonstrating a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness in order for the device to be found approvable.
There are two general principles for post-approval studies. The main objective of conducting post-approval study is to evaluate device performance and potential device-related problems in a broader population over an extended period of time after premarket establishment of reasonable evidence of device safety and effectiveness.
Post-approval studies should not be used to evaluate unresolved issues from the premarket phase that are important to the initial establishment of device safety and effectiveness.
The reasons for conducting post-approval studies are to gather postmarket information, including long-term performance of the device; data on how device performs in the real world setting in a broader patient population that is treated by community-based physicians, as opposed to highly selected patients treated by investigators in clinical trials; evaluation of the effectiveness of training programs for device use; evaluation of device performance in subgroups of patients since clinical trials tend to have limited numbers of patients or no patients at all in certain vulnerable subgroups of the general patient population.
In addition, post-approval studies are needed to monitor diverse events, especially rare diverse events, that were not observed in clinical trials.
Finally, we conduct post-approval studies to address issues and concerns the panel members may have based on their experience and observations. There are at least three important questions that remain to be answered after we have reviewed the Adiana premarket study.
The first question is, what will the real world performance of the device be in the more general population of patients and providers? As I noted in my discussion of general principles for post-approval studies, one of the main reasons for conducting a post-approval study is to evaluate device performance and potential device-related problems that are under actual conditions of use in the postmarket periods.
The relatively selected physicians, clinical sites, and patients that were participating in the clinical trials might defer substantially to those physicians, clinical sites, and patients that use the device in the postmarket period. Such an evaluation has not yet been performed to assess the device safety and effectiveness in the postmarket period.
The second question is, will device show long-term safety and effectiveness postmarket? Although we have a reasonable amount of safety and effectiveness data from the preclinical trials, from the premarket trials, the data provide little assurance of reasonably high effectiveness and long-term safety in the postmarket period.
The third question is, is there a need of a postmarket protocol for explant tissue analysis in the event of hysterectomy? This analysis could provide insight on the long-term safety and effectiveness of this device. It will provide data on how and what the tube looks like after implantation of the device.
This table presents an overview of the sponsor's post-approval study protocol. The sponsor proposed to conduct a prospective, single-armed, multi-center, international observational study with historical controls. The study population consists of 625 women who 6 are age 18 to 45 years old who enrolled in the EASE trial and received at least one Adiana implant.
Five hundred seventy women with confirmed bilateral tubal occlusion that are currently relying on the Adiana system will be followed up for both effectiveness and safety. And 55 women who received Adiana but were not able to rely on will be followed up for safety only. The subjects will be followed up to five years with yearly office visits.
The primary effectiveness endpoint is pregnancy rates during the two, three, four, and five-year follow-up period. The hypothesis of this study is that the 95 percent upper confidence bound of the pregnancy rate is less than three percent, four percent, five percent, and six percent, respectively, for each of the yearly endpoints.
To evaluate device safety during long-term wearing, the sponsor will list 7 relevant adverse events reported during this study and document cost, severity, possible relationship to device, and outcome. All reported adverse events will be summarized by descriptive statistics.
The sponsor listed 14 kinds of anticipated adverse events, including ectopic pregnancy, severe cramping, abnormal vaginal bleeding, uterine or tubal perforation, infection, and allergic reaction. Secondary analysis will be the comparison of the two, three, four, and five-year device effectiveness rates with other pregnancy prevention methods and published in a U.S. collaborative review of sterilization study, the cross-study, and other published studies.
So we received this preliminary protocol from the sponsor about two to three weeks ago. And we continue to work with the sponsor to develop an appropriate post-approval study protocol.
Here is our initial assessment of the protocol.
First, the sponsor considers a standard follow-up of the premarket cohort. This has previously been done with similar devices. However, we would like to hear a discussion on whether there is a need for enrollment of patients treated postmarket if this device gets approved.
Secondly, the sponsor proposed to include historical controls in the post-approval study. The sponsor will compare the pregnancy rates of device recipients in the premarket EASE cohort with that who receive alternative pregnancy methods in the cross-study. Patient comparability in important factors, such as age, in these studies is required to ensure that the interpretation of safety and effectiveness data is valid.
For the premarket trial, the sponsor did an age comparison between the EASE cohort and the CREST study. And the result is 9 shown on this slide. You can see that the EASE cohort had a lower percentage of younger women in the age group of 18 to 27, then the CREST study. For the EASE cohort is 24 percent and for the CREST study is 32 percent. And you also can see that in the CREST study, that all three age groups are roughly equally distributed. Younger age is known to be associated with higher fertility. Therefore, the observed pregnancy rates need to be adjusted for age.
Furthermore, for safety analysis, in the protocol, the sponsor listed 14 anticipated adverse events. And the last of them were observed in the premarket trial. We feel that the list of the safety endpoints needs to be narrowed down so that the long-term safety endpoints can be focused on.
In addition to the adverse event estimates, the confidence intervals of the adverse event estimates need to be calculated.
Finally, in terms of the length of follow-up, the sponsor proposed five-year follow-up of the premarket cohort with yearly office visits. Assessments will include recording vitals, evaluation of patient satisfaction of Adiana procedures, and a pregnancy test if pregnancy is suspected. This is with similar devices.
However, we would like to hear a discussion about the appropriateness of the length of follow-up. Are five years sufficient for evaluating long-term safety and effectiveness of this device considering that this device is meant to be a permanent implant?
So based on sponsor's proposed post-approval study protocol, in our initial assessment, we will be asking the panel members during your afternoon deliberation to discuss whether the proposed protocol is appropriate to adjust device long-term safety and effectiveness and to make recommendations. In terms of population, the sponsor plans to continue follow-up of the premarket cohort. Please discuss whether this is an appropriate population and whether newer in-road cohort is necessary to adjust device long-term safety and effectiveness under general conditions of use.
As to control selection, the sponsor plans to have historical controls in the practical. Please discuss and make a recommendation for the appropriate control group for the post-approval study.
Next, to the length of follow-up, the sponsor proposed a five-year follow-up. Please suggest whether this is appropriate to address device long-term safety and effectiveness.
Finally, explant tissue analysis. We realize that the sponsor did several studies to address device long-term and short-term on tubal reaction after placement of the device. However, the histological analyses were performed at three months after device placement in rabbits and in the pre-hysterectomy study and up to four years in eight women in the premarket EASE trial who underwent hysterectomy.
And also Dr. Diamond mentioned that the collagen tissue in-growth is different from the Essure system. And Dr. D'Agostino mentioned also that there is a need for analysis to analyze the histology of regions distal or proximal to the matrix implants.
So we feel that how the fallopian tube looks like after implantation of the device in terms of the long-term outcome data on the nature and likely permanence of the tissue in-growth is very important for us to have a complete understanding of long-term safety and effectiveness of this device.
Currently there is no postmarket plan or protocol for collecting and analyzing specimens in case of hysterectomies. Although the sponsor mentioned they are waiting to conduct this through the post-approval study period, we would like to ask the panel members to discuss if this needs to be established for all the patients receiving the device post-market or if it is sufficient to do it just for the premarket cohort.
So this concludes my presentation and FDA's presentation this morning. We welcome any questions that you may have. Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: I would like to thank the FDA speakers for their presentation. And at this time I would like to open the floor for panel questions to the FDA. Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Yes. I would like to ask the FDA -- I have a few questions, which I can rattle off and then hopefully get answers. I would like to, for number one, ask the FDA about the intent-to-treat analysis. They presented materials that assumed the per-protocol was the appropriate group to analyze. And we have questions about it. So I would like to have some comments on that.
And I'm worried about the intent-to-treat analysis isn't going to be possible because they're probably having follow-up on the individuals from the 500 versus the 600, whatever the number was.
The second question I have is the study design. I am somewhat baffled by an event rate of five percent being the target value. Why isn't it like one percent for a year? It seems like five percent is very high. And I would like some sort of comment on that. It seems like there is a very easy rate to have.
The other thing is that in terms of the study design, I realize it's a single-armed study. But these individuals who are in the study are probably very well-motivated. I served on both the Fertility Maternal Health Drugs Advisory Committee back in the '80s and the Nonprescription Drug Advisory Committee. When we looked at things like simple spermicides and sponges use, which have these high overall rates that you showed but with a well-motivated group, these tend to have extremely low rates. And so the rates you are producing could have been produced by other methods and so forth. And so I don't really have a way of even judging the values that the sponsor got. And I really would like some comment on that.
And, lastly, the comment that Professor Propert raised earlier about the young people, half the pregnancies are coming from this young group. They don't satisfy the five percent, even within the study. And so how are we going to interpret? And how are we going to deal with that in terms of what the panel deliberation 6 should be about and what the FDA thinks about those rates?
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Sharts-Hopko?
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I would like to add a question that builds on maybe some things that Dr. Corrado said. I have been concerned throughout the morning about whether or not we have any basis for knowing what happens when transcervical sterilization is performed on people with preexisting subclinical infection.
CHAIR CEDARS: Would the FDA like to answer Dr. D'Agostino's question now?
MR. KOTZ: The first question, the studies are designed and as I believe the CREST study also was, the Essure study, to focus on relying patients, patients who are sterilized. So the protocol was written in that manner. So the rates that we did present were based upon sterilized woman.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: But, you know, you are sort of doomed to failure when you go to the actual use of this product, particularly this device. You're going to have, as was mentioned earlier, that you aren't going to have clear delineation and/or application of these sort of rules. And so you know your rates are going to be much higher. Wouldn't you want to get out of the clinical trial some kind of information of that?
MR. KOTZ: Yes. I mean, I do have the rates, either with additional pregnancies during the first year and the rates increased to 1.5 percent or 1.6 percent and the 95 percent upper confidence bound is 2.6 percent. But, as you pointed out, I can't address woman in what is being called the intent-to-treat cohort who may have been lost once they were told that they couldn't rely on the device. So that rate obviously could be larger. We have no way of getting a handle on it. I don't know if we have a way of getting a handle on that.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Are you going to respond also particularly to the younger individuals with the higher rate --
MR. KOTZ: Right.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: -- and also the study design?
MR. KOTZ: I can't address directly the five percent rate that was decided clinically at the time it was set up. I believe this was done many years ago. Okay. This was done many years ago, before we started these trials. We just as far as the young cohort goes, you are correct.
I would like to address one other issue, though. In the CREST study, though the CREST study had an overall rate of approximately a third in each group, each of those devices had a different mix of the three age groups. And I think a couple of those groups even might have reflected the rates that we saw in this study. So we did not age-adjust the rates to reflect the overall CREST study because we are looking at these compared to these other devices.
When we do age-adjust the rates, the rates go up slightly but not that much. I think it goes up less than .1 percent at one year and less than .2 percent at 2 years. I think you had one -- oh. And in all of these studies, the younger age groups do have younger rates.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Just one last comment.
MR. KOTZ: Sure.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: The data are so unstable. You have the power and so forth, which is questionable in the rates. But all they do is remove pregnancies, and the rates drop by 50 percent.
MR. KOTZ: Correct.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I mean, these are very unstable numbers.
MR. KOTZ: Correct. I guess we sized the study this way with --
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: I just wanted to add a couple of more points. Regarding the five percent failure rate, it had to be less than five percent. That was the upper bound of a confidence interval that we agreed on. We had previously during the design of a pivotal trial for a different device consulted with panel members on what observed one-year rate would be kind of the upper limit at where they would feel somewhat comfortable and they would start being less comfortable if it exceeded that rate.
So the number that we got back was around two percent, maybe a little bit more than two percent, observed. And so the five percent is the biostatistical calculation for the upper bound on the confidence interval for a study this size. So that's where that number came from. I think if we had seen a five percent observed pregnancy rate, than we would be having a different conversation.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I think you may have misinterpreted the two percent observed rate. They probably were thinking if you went to the whole population, you would get two percent. And so there's very little margin of error to take a two percent and bring it up to five percent. I mean, they may have done that. I certainly think that the pregnancies in this population could be quite traumatic. They're individuals dealing with sterilization.
MR. POLLARD: I am just going to add one last comment because I don't want to belabor this. You've got the protocol as it was. You've got the hypothesis as it was. It is the same hypothesis that was on the previous PMA. I think, you know, if you use the hindsight retrospectroscope of being 20/20, maybe we would have had something a little bit differently. It didn't come up in the previous PMA review when the panel looked at it, as Julia just noted.
One of the reasons why we're bringing this PMA to the panel is because in this PMA, we are seeing some pregnancies. And part of what we are hoping in the afternoon's discussion will be is to sort of help us sort out where is the point where you start to get worried a little bit. So I think that's probably about as much as we can say about that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Ms. George?
MS. GEORGE: I do have a question. I'm sorry to continue the discussion on the rate, but I did want to try to understand what the difference between the protocol decision, CREST, and then the FDA's own guidance on labeling that was issued in '98 that says that it's .5 percent is the typical use rate for one year of use for female sterilization.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: We'll get back to you on that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Propert?
DR. PROPERT: I was actually confused about, once again to the rates, a comment about the post-approval study, but I don't know if we table that until later in the afternoon.
CHAIR CEDARS: We will discus that this afternoon. Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: It was mentioned during the sponsor's presentation that the slides from some of the patients that had hysterectomies have been given to the FDA. Have you done histological analyses on those? What kind of standing, what sort of analyses have you done? And what has that shown in those evaluations?
DR. WILLETT: I'm Jerry Willett. I'm both an ob-gyn and a pathologist. And I'm in the Center for Drugs, but I consulted on this particular issue.
What I asked for was low-power views and representative high-power views of both H&E and then also on the trichrome stains. And what I saw was in-growth on the low-power views. And then on high-power views, I saw anywhere from mild to moderate fibrotic changes. And I saw a few lymphocytes that were present in addition to some formed by the giant cells.
So I didn't see any pattern where there was a complete disruption of the in-growth that I saw. I would like to comment, though, that in general, histology probably plays a minor role when you compare it to the ultimate endpoint of who gets pregnant because it's very difficult from a preparation standpoint to cut through a tube and then keep all of that matrix material fully present. Now, when the sponsor showed the slide this morning, you only saw bits and pieces of that matrix remaining in those particular slides.
So I don't think you can depend just on slides alone to tell you what the full matrix was in vivo. So we have problems in terms of processing it and looking at the slides, but, as I said before, the in-growth pattern was there, a few lymphocytes, foreign body giant cells, and mild to moderate fibrosis is what I saw on the slides from hysterectomies done remotely from the time of insertion.
DR. DIAMOND: And with the caveats that you just gave about the difficulty, I guess, of keeping the matrix, interpreting that, you did not see obvious, for lack of a better word, lacunae or spaces?
DR. WILLETT: The spaces that I saw appeared to me like they would have had matrix in it. I didn't see anything else to suggest anything else, though. But, again, as I said before, from a practical standpoint, any time that you cut through tissue and you have something else in there that is different from the tissue, I mean, it can move that around a little bit just in the process of cutting.
CHAIR CEDARS: Just before you step away, Dr. Willett, I had a question. Did I understand you correctly? You received --
DR. WILLETT: I received --
CHAIR CEDARS: You received pictures, not tissue slices?
DR. WILLETT: I received photo micrographs that I specifically requested of the patients who had had hysterectomies remotely from the time. But I didn't see glass slides.
CHAIR CEDARS: You didn't see tissue slices?
DR. WILLETT: I didn't see glass slides, no.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: I'm trying to understand the role that matrix expulsion may play. And the slide 43 had 5 cases that were missing on ultrasound. Do you have a denominator for those so we can look at what the rate of expulsion would be?
And how do those five relate to the slide 48, where there is a total of 94 people who were not relying on the device after the HSG? It looks like three of those missing matrices might have been picked up on HSG as well as ultrasound, but are these three of the same five people? Were the five in addition to that? I'm trying to get a sense for the numerator and denominator.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: What I would like to do is defer the exact calculation and exact denominator until after lunch. The data on expulsion, the matrices that we're missing on transvaginal ultrasound, I would have to concede that I have a discrepancy because I am showing 2 that were apparent at the 12-week HSG; whereas, the other slide that you just pointed out suggests that there were 3. So I will talk to the sponsor, and 8 we will try to straighten it out for you during the lunch break.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Ramin?
DR. RAMIN: I have a similar question on that slide 43. So in those five patients who had a missing matrix was another matrix inserted, especially the three that it was missing at one week post-placement. And if so, then do they use the RF energy again?
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: That is a great question. Early on there were repeat treatments. Ultimately we approved a change in the protocol such that repeat treatments were not going to be permitted or within very narrow confines. But I am going to have to defer to the company on this one in terms of whether those patients underwent a second procedure. If it was early, they might have. If it was later in the study, they probably haven't.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Gilliam?
DR. GILLIAM: I have a couple of questions.
The first one, I was interested in the subanalyses on the women who became pregnant. And I appreciate the demographic analyses, but were there additional subanalyses, specifically around device placement, the demonstration of radial pressure around the catheter? Was that demonstrated for all of the women? And were there any differences between the pregnancy at four years versus the earlier pregnancies?
My second question is, what is the denominator for the year three, where there are no pregnancies in year four, where there is one pregnancy? And then I am still having trouble getting my head around these HSGs.
So, first, how were there HSGs that were missed, specifically the one where it was actually a patent tube? How is that missed given the two-tier examination?
And then after there is a discovery that there were some false reads on the HSG, were those only reexamined among the women who got pregnant or were all HSGs reviewed? Because, again, I don't know the denominator for it. There could have actually been a patent tube that was missed.
Is the denominator three or six women became pregnant or were all HSGs reviewed? Because I think the idea of saying that procedure was successful when it is not, that is where the efficacy that you're going to see in a clinical trial versus what you see in the real world is going to break down. And I'm having trouble understanding how secure I should feel about knowing that an HSG actually worked.
CHAIR CEDARS: If we could hold the answers until after the session because we have several other questions?
Dr. Sharp?
MEMBER SHARP: While we are looking at the matrices that were not visualized by ultrasound, I encountered a total of seven being missing if I'm right. I'm just wondering if we could also get the number or the age of those that we're missing.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: In terms of the shelf-life age?
MEMBER SHARP: Yes, the shelf-life age.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I had one other question which relates to the identification of the --
MR. POLLARD: Could I just intervene, just for a moment because I actually think quite a few of these questions are really questions that should be directed to the sponsor. And so I would guess I would ask --I mean, some of those I am hoping the sponsor is taking notes and is prepared to answer some of those questions.
So, really, sort of the focus of this portion should be either specific questions to the reviewers in terms of their review findings or impressions or that kind of thing. And obviously if there are additional questions that need to get directed to the sponsor about the study, you are more than equipped to ask all of those questions as well.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
DR. DIAMOND: Dr. Corrado, when someone from your team gave a discussion about the changes to the device after the pivotal study that was completed, one of the things that was described, as I understood it, was that the fourth ring was brought closer to the others.
So that in my mind, that would mean that when the RF energy was applied, that you would have less of a distance over which you would have thermal injury to the mucosa of the tube. And in that case, although it wasn't for sure how that relates to the degree of fibrosis, I would think that when the fibrosis occurred, that that might decrease that length and, therefore, there may be less thickness that in the future would be affected.
So the comment was then made that you also felt comfortable that that wasn't going to have an effect on the efficacy of the device with tubal occlusion. I was curious what that was based on and what the actual difference in distance was or difference that amount to injury in the tubal mucosa was likely to be.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: The difference in distance is minimal. And, as I understood it, it was more a change in a design specification as compared to an actual physical change. But Glenn Bell may want to comment on that.
DR. BELL: Yes. The fourth or the distal-most electrode, it's still within the original specifications. It's just been tightened up a little bit. And the reason for that movement was just to reduce the incidence of matrix release failures.
So yes, it's still within the original specification. I would have to check the exact dimensions. Actually, the company I'm sure would be very good at telling us exactly what that number was.
CHAIR CEDARS: Perhaps they can address that this afternoon.
Dr. Stubblefield?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: I have a question about the CREST label information that aero using; two questions, actually.
One is I believe Dr. Peterson has a subsequent article that gave us more information about bipolar coagulation, showing that as we got smarter and used three lesions, instead of one, that the failure rate falls quite a bit.
And the other is the mechanical, the new mechanical, clip is in widespread use in the United States now. And there should be comparative data for that. And we shouldn't be just relying on another CREST data that goes way back.
CHAIR CEDARS: And then I just have two questions. If the FDA could look at this, and then we'll answer the remainder of these after the session?
One was my understanding is that the full two-year data is available. And we don't have that. And so I don't think we have that with the full denominator of the 554, at least the full number. So we would want that.
The second issue is back to the intent-to-treat. And I think this is particularly important, as Dr. Diamond said earlier. Thirteen percent of patients came back in one of the studies he is talking about. And while we can try to have training programs for physicians and staff, it's very hard to have training programs for patients. They don't train so well.
So I'm really concerned that an intent-to-treat analysis for something that is a surgical procedure considered permanent sterilization is very different than something that is a nonsurgical procedure or something that involves individual participation. And so I really think the intent-to-treat issues are much more relevant for this type of device and this type of sterilization than for some other issues. Any other burning questions before lunch?
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: Yes.
CHAIR CEDARS: I'm sorry?
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I will say it again. You were distracted with statistics the last time I asked it. I don't know if this is better directed to FDA or to the sponsor, but I am concerned. Do we have any information on what happens when this procedure is done on somebody with preexisting subclinical infection?
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: I can say that although we didn't go through a very long list of inclusion and exclusion criteria, any recent history or acute pelvic infection essentially excluded you from the studies? So whether that was formally evaluated, I would say no. But the sponsor obviously is in a better position.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. We will now break for lunch. We will reconvene in one hour, which means I would like to start promptly at 1:15. Please take any personal belongings you may want at this time. The room will be secured by FDA staff during the lunch break. And you will not be allowed back in until right before the 1:15 time. Panel members will have lunch in the restaurant.
(Whereupon, a luncheon recess was taken at 12:13 p.m. and the meeting resumed at 1:16 p.m.)
CHAIR CEDARS: If people could take their seats, we could start the afternoon session. I would like to start by asking Mr. Pollard to the podium to address the remaining FDA questions.
MR. POLLARD: Yes. Dr. Cedars, we had a very mini pow-wow with the company right after the break and really felt that most of the questions the panel asked were really patient accountability questions that we felt belonged in their domain along with some of the questions that the panel had directed to the company after their presentation. So we have asked them to cover those.
Certainly the panel is entitled after they hear those answers if they have something they want to direct to FDA. We would answer that. There was one question that we felt -- well, there was another question Dr. Diamond had related to the change in the specification for the annular array electrodes, and we're going to let the company go first to explain that change and to see if the panel still has some questions about that.
There was one question, however, that was coming from a number of sources that just had to do with the original trial design related to intent to treat versus per protocol, and I think that's an important question, and I've asked Julia Corrado, our clinical reviewer, to kind of go over with you our thinking in coming up with that trial approach.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: Thanks, Colin.
Well, we've talked about how to phrase and how to communicate our thinking along these lines. We understand your question regarding how the primary effectiveness analysis was conducted and why it wasn't based on an intent to treat analysis.
At FDA we have different types of designs for different types of devices, and some of our devices, indeed, we use an intent to treat approach to calculating whether or not the statistical hypothesis was met. So it was not done with this PMA. We understand the importance of not overestimating effectiveness for this type of device, and I think that the spirit of the question is that we don't want to overestimate effectiveness.
We also acknowledge that performance in a tightly controlled clinical trial is not necessarily reflective of real world experience, and we want to put out device labeling that is going to help physicians and the public decide whether or not they want to have a certain procedure.
So all of that kind of is backdrop. In this new generalization of sterilization technology, the transcervical sterilization, we're in the infancy, I guess, of this new generation and this new century, but it can be said that it's not simply a device that we're looking at. Okay? And in this case we've got a device with a two-part mechanism of action, an RF lesion and a matrix implant, and the principle of operation depends on both of those. So that somewhat complicates what we're looking at.
The other thing is that it's more than a device and a procedure in a particular day. It is a method that includes that day of treatment therapy. It includes a waiting period, and it places responsibility on the patient during that waiting period. It also includes patient counseling in order to communicate the risk of method failure if, indeed, you know, the instructions for use are not followed.
So I'm just trying to set the stage for it's more complicated than a simple device, a simple, one-time treatment of any kind, medical therapy or medical device. With respect to what would it mean for us to do an intent to treat analysis in this case? So instead of the 570 subjects who began relying on the device, we'd be looking at the 645, and those were all the women who went to hysteroscopy, and it's more than that because ten women who went to hysteroscopy didn't even undergo an attempted placement of device. They had some anatomy issue that made it likely that placement would fail.
So you were down to 645 in whom hysteroscopy was undertaken and an attempt was made to place the devices. So if we were going to include all 645, we would end up with a mixture of patients whose characteristics are different, and it would pose some issues in terms of how to describe the result. For example, we'd be including women who had zero or one matrix placed as opposed to two. It would include women who ultimately all of whom were supposed to rely on alternative contraception. Some may have and some may not have.
The whole issue of alternate contraception bring up the question of how effective is the alternate contraception. And it would also include patients who failed the treatment and were told they couldn't rely.
So, again, in that 645, one could argue that in terms of FDA working with the sponsor to develop labeling to communicate what happened in the study, what they can expect and what they must do to try to communicate complicated messages, it's difficult. It doesn't mean it's undoable, but I would just say it's difficult.
So we have felt that the most straightforward way to go about this type of analysis is to just consider the patients who were told to rely on, again, the device with the two-part mechanism, patients who used alternate contraception, who showed up for their HSG and completed the HSG, and that is how this device/method has been designed, and we felt that it was more straightforward for us to agree to a protocol for which the primary endpoint is statistical hypothesis would be evaluated for that patient population as opposed to trying to include everyone in the denominator.
So I hope that that helps at least in terms of our reasons, and obviously I'm sure that the debate will continue. So thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. If there's no other comments from the FDA at this time, we will turn it over to the sponsor, and I believe Mr. Savakus will begin the answering of the questions.
MR. SAVAKUS: Sure. I hope I actually have all of them. Let me begin. I think there was a question regarding screening failures, the difference between the 770 patients enrolled and ultimately the patients that were offered treatment with the device.
Slide up, please.
There were 40 patients that were excluded during the screening process. As you can see here, the reasons were listed. This included uterine pathology, abnormal uterine anatomy, irregular menses. We required, I think as Dr. Anderson mentioned to you, that we required a certain baseline characteristic of the population so that we could draw inferences from the patients, from the results once patients began relying on our device.
Five patients became pregnant after enrollment and prior to using our device. This was a fertile population. We had a requirement that patients be in a monogamous relationship. Two patients were, but then fell out of that relationship, and one patient had a contraindication for surgical sterilization. All patients, if they failed the Adiana placement procedure either due to acute placement failure or HSG failure were offered a surgical sterilization. There were, in addition, patients that simply withdrew from the study.
Slide up.
Seventy-five patients that withdrew consent following enrollment and prior to treatment. Their reasons are listed here. I won't go through that, but that describes the difference between the enrollment and the population that was offered the treatment.
CHAIR CEDARS: Excuse me. May I just ask why you required the patients to be monogamous? Because that may get to the infection question.
MR. SAVAKUS: Actually it was monogamous with a partner that had proven fertility as indicated that this partner had fathered a child, and our feeling was that we wanted patients that were at risk for becoming pregnant, and wanted to insure that we understood what that fertility risk was. So the requirement was a monogamous relationship with a partner with proven fertility.
DR. PROPERT: May I ask a follow-up question as well? Thank you. That's exactly the information I needed. Just a quick question. Approximately how much time passed between enrollment and hysteroscopy, on average?
MR. SAVAKUS: I'm not sure we have that number available. I don't have it off the top of my head. It was quite a variable number. Sometimes it was fairly rapid. Sometimes it would take some period of time. One of the issues that we did come across is that patients needed to have regular menses, and if during the period of time between screening and treatment their menses became irregular and fell outside of our acceptance criteria, it would have delayed their participation in the study until regularity returned and they were able to be treated.
The other question had to do with the age distribution within the bilateral placement failures.
Slide up, please.
There were 34 bilateral placement failures in the population. This shows the breakdown. This, again, uses the same bins, if you will, as we've used in the study, roughly 18 percent, 41 percent and 41 percent.
DR. DIAMOND: I wasn't going to ask you a question, but I think the issue here was what is the percentage of patients that all in those categories, not just the incidence, but the percentage within them, the patients that were in those groups. So is there a high proportion of patients in one age group or another that had this problem?
MR. SAVAKUS: Oh, so essentially this slide divided by the number of patients that are within the 18 to 27 age bin?
DR. DIAMOND: Yes.
MR. SAVAKUS: Sorry. I can have that done fairly easily.
CHAIR CEDARS: If we could let the sponsor answer all of the questions from this morning and then we'll have some discussion thereafter.
MR. SAVAKUS: The next slide had to do with the age of the pregnancies. Slide up, please. This shows the pregnancies during the study and relying patients, and you can see here the age distribution. Predominantly the patients fall in the two younger age bins. There was one patient that falls into the upper age bin. Very good.
There was a question about the shelf life of all matrices used within the study. We do not have that information available to us at this point.
Slide up, please.
We present here information regarding the shelf age, and I again apologize for not having overall shelf age available, and I actually should perhaps discuss shelf age in a moment once we get through this. This shows the pregnancies during year one with a shelf age, and that's measured as the period of time between insertion of the matrix into the catheter during the manufacture to the time when the matrix is delivered.
And next slide. Slide up.
This shows pregnancies in year two and the one pregnancy in year four. And perhaps now I could maybe explain a bit about the shelf age issue. I know this has been highlighted in the panel pack. What we found in doing our shelf life validation studies is that as we move from testing the shelf age of the matrix at six months to a shelf age or a shelf life of one year that matrices that have been stored for one year during the first 24 hours after their release from the catheter didn't fully expand to their complete specified dimensions.
So matrices that were stored for less than six months or up to six months reached that specification immediately upon release from the catheter. It's only matrices that were stored past that point had a differential, if you will, for the first 24 hours in which case they didn't fully expand for that 24 hours. After 24 hours, they were fully expanded, and the difference in expansion was approximately .2 of a millimeter. So about 200 microns.
And I think the question that FDA proposed in that -- and I think we'll get to this -- is what's the impact on matrix retention. What we found is we don't think there was any impact on matrix retention. I think the question, we'll get to this.
Actually, slide up.
We believe if there is an issue with matrix reexpansion, that it would express itself as an issue with matrices lost acutely, again, during the 24 hours immediately after release, and I want to clarify some numbers here that I think might have confused a few of you.
The issue of missing matrices, there were two matrices -- excuse me -- there were five matrices total that were not found at one week. However, two of those were expected to be missing. These were lost or not properly placed initially and seen at one week when the patients came in, and those are the first two cases there. These were acute treatment failures. The other three missing matrices, we had an expectation of seeing these matrices when patients came in for their one-week visit, but did not see them. There were also two matrices that were missing at three months.
When we look at these numbers overall, they represent five matrices out of just over 1,200 matrices, approximately a .4 percent, if you will, loss rate on these matrices. I believe there was a question regarding the hysterectomy histology.
Could I have Assay 7, please? Slide up.
Over the course of the follow-up period in the EASE population, we have requested that patients that have been implanted with an Adiana matrix notify us if they're going to have a hysterectomy, and we have been fortunate enough to have two of those or -- excuse me -- eight of ten reports agree to allow us to retain the implanted tissue and do histological analysis to these.
Next slide. Slide up.
These ten hysterectomies were performed for medical reasons unrelated to the Adiana system procedure. Seven cases, as you can see here menorrhagia is the primary complaint; two cases for dysmenorrhea or 244 pelvic pain; one case had a pre-cancerous lesion of the cervix.
Next slide. I apologize.
This is rather small. This shows the histological assessment as performed by James Anderson at Case Western Reserve University. On these eight samples ranging in time from 17 months, 22, 23, 34, 39, 35, 46, and 48 months after the Adiana procedure, the grading system looked at acute inflammation, chronic inflammation, tissue in-growth, foreign body reaction, fibrous capsule. This is not the same grading system as the Adiana in-growth scoring system that we had used on our pre-hysterectomy development studies. This is Dr. Anderson's assessment.
I actually misspoke, I think, this morning a little bit in that I believe in the panel pack, page 689, you will find the hysterectomy results and histology images from these patients in the panel pack. Color images are provided in there if anybody wishes to look at that. There was a discussion, and I think FDA addressed this somewhat, and that was the question of transvaginal ultrasound and looking specifically at matrix placement in patients that became pregnant. We had nothing in our protocol and no standard practice for identifying matrices in pregnant patients.
As you can imagine, this is a difficult situation for the investigator and the patient, and therefore, we only had an occasional comment about whether or not a matrix was seen, but we did not perform nor collect information on this in a unified fashion. We actually last week had been discussing this with FDA and are endeavoring to look into this, but we have nothing else for you at this time.
I believe the Chair had a question about updated numbers. I apologize for not having this information available in the panel pack.
Slide up, please.
This shows the updated numbers for your life table results with a November 9th, 2007 data update. This shows years one, two, three and four, the number of subjects within or reaching, I should say, those time points, the pregnancy events, the rates, and a 95 percent confidence bound on the pregnancy rate. This is using a life table, as I mentioned, with a log-log transformation on the confidence interval. I'd like to explain a little bit about how pregnancies are reported both to the sponsor and to FDA and made available to you here.
Typically we hear about a pregnancy within 24 hours or sooner in this trial. So the pregnancies that we've heard about in this study are accurate on this slide to this moment in time. What we don't hear about are patients that don't get pregnant. So we have 253 patients who have achieved year three. As of today, December 13th, all of our patients have passed year two. I think it has been mentioned that the last patient achieved or entered the relying period on December 5th of 2005.
So as of today all of those patients have achieved year two, and they are now moving. They are within year three, but they haven't achieved year three. Likewise as we look at year four data, we have 84 patients that have achieved year four, but we have approximately the difference between 84 and 253 who are moving through that year, and for this reason, it's difficult to make projections about what the rate it and what the confidence bound is in these numbers, and that's why we present years one and two here, and again, these are updated numbers.
I think as Dr. Corrado pointed out, you would see here in this chart the number of subjects, 554, has changed from the information in the panel package, and that's because one of the patients who had been lost to follow-up was found.
So patients really are never lost to follow-up. They just haven't been followed yet, and we continued to actively try to follow these patients.
The question about band spacing came up.
Could I have Slide DE-12? Slide up, please.
This was a small change in the distal band space and separation. The band spacing that was originally used is shown on the bottom. This had a nominal spacing of 29,000ths of an inch between the last two bands with a tolerance of 10,000ths of an inch. So that allowed between 19,000ths and 39,000ths on that space. We've actually tightened up the specification on position to a nominal of 24,000ths with a range of plus three, minus two.
So within the range of tolerancing, but smaller on the nominal spec. This does not appreciably change either the RF performance of the device. It does, however, reduce the propensity for the device to fail to release if the push rod were to get caught in that last band, which is the reason we made this change.
Can I have Slide EF-129, please? Just a comment. Slide up, please.
I presented this before. I think there was a question about pregnancies in the younger age group. I apologize. I don't have very much more that in my notes.
There were five pregnancies shown on this slide in patients that fell within the younger age group, and as we know, sterilization failure -- patients in the younger age groups are at higher risk for sterilization failure. So these results are not surprising.
I'm not sure if there was any follow-up questions about this that we needed to get into, but I just wanted to address that. I'd like to ask Dr. Carignan to come up and discuss the core lab and HSG review. I'd like to amplify something that he said earlier, and that is that the core lab process did not begin until patients had already entered the relying period, and the decision and the management process of looking at the HSGs and communicating results to the patients and having the patients enter the relying period had already passed.
So this study was managed by the decision that our investigators made at the time they did their HSG. It was not over-read and then decisions trickled back to the site. I will mention that in a small number of cases we did recommend a repeat, and those patients did leave the relying period, but as a matter of course of how the study was conducted, this did not happen concurrently.
DR. CARIGNAN: Yes, actually can we start with EF-88? Okay. Slide up.
So just to reiterate what Mr. Savakus just said, you know, we were engaged to review all of the HSGs in November 2005, days before the very last patients ended reliance after their HSG. In total we reviewed 734 HSGs from the 605 subjects. There were some patients who had had, as we have mentioned, multiple HSGs done initially.
What we found is that 93.5 percent of the HSGs we felt were adequate to evaluate tubal patency. So based on what we had in front of us, which was either a CD of the live HSG, as I mentioned previously, or the flat plate images, we felt that they were adequate to evaluate. Forty-eight HSGs had aspects to them that we were uncomfortable evaluating and thought that they should be asked to repeat.
At this time, I think it's important to note that we were blinded to which HSGs were actually from patients who had already become pregnant in the trial during that first year. The good news is that we identified them as having problems and then we subsequently found out that they couldn't have a repeat HSG because they had already been out of the trial due to becoming pregnant.
But you know, as we mentioned, this was not used initially to determine which patient should or should not rely. It was all done retrospectively. With the repeat HSGs, there were four instances where there was suspect tubal patency, which originally had been deemed effective for the patients to rely.
So overall, of the 605 patients, we were in agreement in 601 of the cases with what the determination had been previously by the investigator. That doesn't mean that all of them were occluded, but if the investigator had determined previously that it was patent, we also concurred on our evaluation that it was patent and/or occluded. This number does though exclude the patients who had already become pregnant because we weren't able to repeat those films.
If we could now go to EF-87. Slide up.
So on this slide what you can see is this has to do with pregnancies and the HSGs. So as we've said, there were ten pregnancies, three cases that we've shown where clearly the HSGs were misinterpreted; that, you know, we felt really should have easily been identifiable and patients told not to rely. Of these seven other cases, there were actually three of these cases where we felt that there were aspects of the HSG that were also inconclusive.
Unfortunately, by the time we did that some of these patients has already become pregnant. So we couldn't do repeats, which would have probably confirmed that they were, in fact, patent.
But things that we looked at which was either a single image with poor contrast filling of the cornua, a single image whereby there just was absolutely no distension of any magnitude or an image where there was lots of vaginal leakage which then obscured the ability to evaluate the films.
So with that in mind then, there were four cases that, in fact, we did look at the HSGs, felt that they were adequate to evaluate, and based on what we had to evaluate showed that it appeared to be occluded.
I think the other question that came up regarding HSGs was just the concern around motivation to have them, you know, which has been somewhat touched on, and again, I think we have to keep in mind as Dr. Corrado mentioned that this is a method. It's not a one-time procedure. There's a lot of surgical interventions out there that require ongoing patient compliance to use those procedures in a number of therapeutic areas.
It has been successful for the other transcervical method, Assure, having the HSG, but it's also important to note that with vasectomy, it also requires a follow-up exam of a semen analysis done approximately at the same time frame with the same recommendation to utilize alternative contraception during that interval.
So I think that we would all agree that most patients are able to manage that. Most patients have been able to manage with Assure the three month interval of alternative contraception. There are always going to be exceptions, but just as was mentioned about motivation to use less effective methods, yes, certain patients use less effective methods more effectively, but they're highly motivated.
We would expect the same type of motivated patient would then choose to have a transcervical method versus having one of the other cervical methods where it's clearly a one-time procedure that they go in and it's done and they're willing to accept those risks in order to assure that it is complete at that time.
Thank you.
MR. SAVAKUS: Thank you.
I believe there was a question regarding subclinical disease and infection. I'm going to ask Dr. Anderson to get up followed by Dr. Richart.
DR. ANDERSON: We have no direct evidence or no direct studies that look specifically at subclinical infection with the Adiana system, implantation of the matrix, because in the trial those patients were specifically screened. We screened for Chlamydia. We screened for gonorrhea We screened clinically for endometritis So in the trial we did not have those patients that were treated.
Now, that being said, there were certainly a variety of patients in the peri-hysterectomy/pre-hysterectomy studies that were not necessarily screened in the same way, who may have had a variety of different pathologies, and that wasn't controlled for.
That being said, the subclinical infections that you might envision would be something like a chronic endometritis, which is largely a plasma cell response, which we wouldn't really anticipate would have an adverse effect on this particular mechanism. However, I'd like for our gynecologic pathologist to come and speak to the histopathology of that as well.
DR. RICHART: Good afternoon. I'm Ralph Richart. I'm an GYN pathologist at Columbia University, and I am retained by the sponsor to look at histological sections.
First, with respect to inflammation and the interstitial portions of the fallopian tube, the interstitial portions of the fallopian tube are rarely involved in inflammatory process unless it's severe and long lasting. Very little happens in the interstitial portion of the fallopian tube. If you have enough infection so that it would involve the interstitial portion, the patient would probably be clinically ill and would be detectable and would be excluded from the study.
There are four other questions with respect to histology which have been raised. One was when Dr. Willett, who was the FDA's pathologist, was asked about the histology in the eight hysterectomies which were available for study. He said he only looked at the photo micrographs. I looked at all of the glass slides in those cases, and my findings were exactly the same as Dr. Willett's, and I won't detail them further because he has already done so.
There was another question raised with respect to hyperplasia in the fallopian tube. No hyperplasia was seen in the eight hysterectomy cases, nor was hyperplasia seen in the epithelium of the pre-hysterectomy cases which have been described previously. I think hyperplasia would be expected to be rare in the fallopian tube. I can't think of any instances in which we see it as a routine. So it would be a rare event if it occurred.
The other question which was asked had to do with whether there was any data on the distal or proximal portions of the fallopian tube that surrounded the response from the implant.
Slide up, please.
We only have specimens of that type from the pre-hysterectomy studies, and you will see there in step sections starting from the upper left and going across the gradual disappearance of the epithelium, which is the hole in the center of those sections, and in the lower left section you'll see that the tubal lumen was completely replaced by fibrous tissue. This, in fact, occurred in 60 percent of the pre-hysterectomy cases, and one would anticipate that this would be a general rule.
It's difficult because of the plane of the sectioning to identify this in all the sections. The better plane for other purposes would be a longitudinal plane.
Next slide up, please.
And the only data we have on that -- slide up -- is from a prospective study in the rabbit fallopian tube where longitudinal sections were taken, and under those circumstances, the epithelium, in fact, grew up and covered the entire cul-de-sac proximal and distal to the fallopian tube.
I hope I have answered your questions with respect to the histology.
Thank you.
MR. SAVAKUS: I think actually I have one more question here. I'm going to ask Dr. Pollack to come up and discuss the results seen with some methods outside of CREST, specifically the Filshie data.
DR. POLLACK: I think one of the panel members asked about what other comparisons we did to methods more recent than those analyzed and included in the CREST study. We did look at the Filshie clip, and the Filshie clip was approved by the FDA based on pivotal trials that were done in two different studies that were reported by Dominik and Sokal.
Can I have the slide up, please?
Both of these studies are multi-centered, non-U.S. trial studies. They have cumulative sites of I think about nine sites, maybe several more than that. The concerns about these, the study data are presented here. The one-year cumulative failure rate in the Dominik cohort was 1.9 per thousand women at one year, and in the Sokal group was one year cumulative failure rate of 2.5 per thousand.
As noted here in the Dominik study, and this study was done outside of the U.S. based in primarily developing countries, they had a 33 percent loss to follow-up. In those countries in the other study, the Sokal studies, they had an 18 percent follow-up.
Those studies were done in Venezuela, Guatemala, Mexico, Haiti, and the Sokal studies in Panama, Indonesia, Thailand, Mexico, and the Dominican Republic. And the concern about that, just when we looked at these studies, although we're willing to look at our rates in comparison to theirs based on what information we have, it's just that failure in those countries can be devastating to the woman.
And so the likelihood that they manage to gather all of the failures, we're not as assured of that as we would be if it had been a U.S. based study. That said, these are the rates done for comparison. The Hulka clip data is also presented here for your information. The Hulka clip we estimate has about six percent of the marketplace right now is in use. This was included in the Dominik study, was a comparative trial between the Filshie clip and the Hulka clip, and so this presents the one-year cumulative failure rate; also had the same loss to follow-up rate in both groups of the Hulka and Filshie clip.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is the sponsor finished with this portion of the response?
MR. SAVAKUS: I am. I will actually have the information relating to the age distribution for the bilateral placement failures. As we look at this as a proportion of the patients in each of the age groups, we had in the 18 to 27 age group 3.85 percent; 28 to 33, 4.55 percent; and 34 to 45, 7.73. And the denominator is the number of subjects in the age group. The numerator is the number of failures. So it was six failures in the youngest age group with 156 subjects in that youngest age group.
The second age group, 14 failures with 308 patients in that group. And then the last age group, 14 bilateral placement failures with 181 subjects in that group. And I think that completes all of the questions we've been asked.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Are there any other questions that members of the panel have either for the FDA or for the sponsor? Dr. D'Agostino.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: You may have said it, and I'm sorry if I'm not getting it correctly. In the two-year follow-up, you have all of the protocol subjects accounted for?
MR. SAVAKUS: We did not.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: The missing values?
MR. SAVAKUS: No. The numbers that we have for you, and I showed the slide with the -- slide up, please -- the numbers that we have, the patients that we have accounted for is 524, which means that there are some number of patients that have not yet returned for a 24-month follow-up visit. They may not have made their visit yet. As of November 9th we still had a month to go before that last patient qualified, if you will. There may be some subject fallout, but just looking at a calendar, we know as of December 5th all patients have reached that time point and the phone hasn't rang.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: So these rates could go all over the place if they turn out to have a high number of pregnancies.
MR. SAVAKUS: Yes. Our follow-up rate, we had 11 subjects lost out of the 570 that entered the wearing period, just about 1.9 percent lost to follow-up.
CHAIR CEDARS: So I just want to clarify because you made a statement about the pregnancy rates at two years, that you heard within 24 hours of a pregnancy. I want to make sure that I understand you correctly. There wasn't the assumption that those you didn't hear from were not pregnant. You have actually accounted for and all of those 524 have come back at two years and you actually have active assessment on them, no passive assessment.
MR. SAVAKUS: Absolutely correct. These numbers represent active, confirmed assessments. It's the numbers that aren't on here that are hypothetical.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Davis.
DR. DAVIS: I had a question about the potential of the device being dislodged from HSGs and the number of those pregnancies. Were all HSGs with pressure monitoring devices? Because I see you said you recommended that in the protocol, and some clarification on that.
MR. SAVAKUS: Sure. We used a device that limited pressure. It limits pressure to about 200 millimeters of mercury. It's a balloon device that's available in the marketplace for distending veins in vein graph surgery, but it prevents you from pushing too hard on the syringe and over-pressurizing whatever is connected to the other side of the syringe. So this was used as a standard practice in these HSGs.
What we saw in our early development studies, and I think this applies to any tubal sterilization device, is that it is possible to rupture blockages by using too much pressure, and we wanted to make sure that we had a standard method of doing this so that we could be assured of applying enough pressure to adequately challenge the blockage and not too much pressure to create a problem.
What we also found -- I think the question was asked can your HSGs be causing these failures -- all patients obviously has HSGs, and we didn't see HSGs opening up at any significant rate, and in fact, many patients 268 had repeat HSGs as we mentioned with the core review, and we didn't see those opening up.
So we don't believe that there's a process by which HSGs are causing these problems.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Zaino.
DR. ZAINO: Yes, I have a question to the sponsor, and I'm sorry to belabor this, but since the issue of tubal occlusion by HSG is so essential to the performance of this device, I just want to have a clarification if I might.
It seems that there were about 734 adequate HSGs. We were told that there were 198 cases in which the interpretations were discrepant between the primary site investigator and the independent reviewers, but then in the slides that we were just shown it appeared that there were only 48 cases in which there was a request to repeat.
So we were also told that in all but four cases the independent reviewers ultimately confirmed the original conclusion, and I'm having trouble understanding why the reviewers apparently changed their minds on about 150 cases without any additional material, and I'm not sure that that's correct, but that's the way that I understand those figures.
I apologize for the confusion, and I will have Dr. Craven come up if I can't give you a clear answer on this.
During the core review, the materials that were provided to the reviewers consisted of whatever films were collected at the time the HSG was performed.
One of the lessons that we've learned during this process is collecting adequate numbers of films and reviewing those films to insure that the films that you've collected adequately represent what you've just experienced as you perform the HSG is a critical feature to doing an adequate HSG, and as we collected our HSG films from the study, we found that the films that were being offered to the core reviewers sometimes did not adequately tell the whole story.
So in 198 cases there was something about the HSG that was either unclear, incomplete. There was some -- either a reading of equivocal or "I'd like to see more information" or "there's only one film. Are you sure this is okay?"
Those questions were all adjudicated, and at the end of the day once the adjudication process was done, and this is typically between the core reviewers and the physician who performed the study, there were 48 cases in which both felt that we needed to go forward and request another HSG. So that boils down the 198 to the 48 times we repeated the HSG, and in four of those repeats, we had, if you will, reversals.
DR. ZAINO: I'm sorry. Can you clarify? How is adjudication conducted?
MR. SAVAKUS: I'll actually have Dr. Carignan come up and discuss that.
DR. CARIGNAN: Thank you. Let me give you an example of an area where there might have been some discordance between the investigator and/or the reviewers. We may have been presented with a set of films that may have shown one view, and we would look at that one view, and you know, we were almost always reluctant to make a determination on one view because you just don't know what it shows.
So that would have been a case where typically we would have asked to have a repeat film, but in that incidence, if the investigator, for example, had the recorded CD of the full HSG, we would then have the opportunity to actually review the entire procedure on a DVD and evaluate it in that way and, therefore, we could see adequate motion. We could see prolonged distention of the cornua. We could see more filling. So, therefore, we had additional information than we were initially provided with.
There were some instances where we actually -- there were additional films at the investigational site that we didn't have access to during our review. So we got those additional films then sent to us.
Once we went through that list and with the discussion that there was not additional information that could give us a feeling that we could adequately review material to make a determination, that's when we then asked patients or recommended that there be repeat HSGs, despite the fact that many of the investigators obviously felt that they watched it, and it was adequately recommended that it be repeated and adequately documented, and that's what we ended up with with the 48.
Dr. Diamond.
DR. DIAMOND: The slide that Dr. Richart showed us, the sequential damage to the tube, the bottom left which was the one that was showing tubal occlusion, I didn't see the matrix there at all. Was I just missing it or --
MR. SAVAKUS: No, and I think what he was attempting to show is depending upon how -- slide up, please -- what we have here -- actually let me ask for Slide CC-42.
Slide up.
We're taking a slice through the matrix here. You can see here there's a layer of epithelialization on the end of the matrix in this cartoon image, and if this slice plane, if you could imagine stepping this slice plane 300 microns at a time, if we now go back to Slide LE-30, this is just an example of that slice plane occurring through that, if you will, end cap between closed lumen; lumen disappears; closed, closed, begin the matrix, and then to the full body of the matrix. Slide LE-29, please.
Slide up.
It would be as if this tissue was sectioned fortuitously through that plane, and you would see nothing but tissue. If you sectioned here, you'd see some lumen. If you actually sectioned this way, you would see some matrix and coming up this way. In fact, if you sectioned through here, you'd see lumen tissue, matrix, tissue.
DR. DIAMOND: Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Others?
DR. DIAMOND: I had two others actually. The pressure, going back to Dr. Davis' question, the pressure that you used for the HSG of 150 millimeters of mercury, what was the basis for that as opposed to 100 or 200?
MR. SAVAKUS: During our pre-hysterectomy studies, we early on had two series of pre-hysterectomy studies. We had a pilot series and then -- and I apologize for the repetitive Ps in the use of "pivotal" -- we had a pivotal pre-hysterectomy study.
In the pilot studies we were looking at different matrix configurations, different time-temperature profiles, but also fine tuning how we were doing both retrograde pressure assays, looking at tubal occlusion, as well as hysterosalpingograms, and what we found is that instrumenting the fallopian tube and looking at distention of the tube specifically in the retrograde assay where you could see the tube distending, we came up with that pressure. So it was really experimentally derived in the pre-hysterectomy studies.
DR. DIAMOND: Okay, and the last question goes back. I'm just trying to figure out in my own mind why this might be. The numbers that you went back and calculated for us about the failure of the applications, for the young you had 3.85 percent; for the middle aged group, 4.55; and for the older age group, 7.73.
And I calculated pregnancy rates in those groups, and as I calculated, five out of 156 is 3.21; four out of 308 is 1.3; and one out of 181 is 0.55, sort of like the inverse relationship of failure placement and pregnancy establishment. I would have thought they would be more in parallel than exactly the opposite trends.
Any thoughts about that?
MR. SAVAKUS: I think if we looked at risk to sterilization failure in something like the CREST study, I'm going to go off the top of my head here. If the middle age group has a risk factor of one, I think the older age group is .6 and the younger age group is, if I'm correct, 25 percent higher, so 1.25. So even in that study we do see an age relation in risk of sterilization failure. As to why we see a bilateral placement failure that has some variation that seems to trend in that direction I cannot say at this point in time.
DR. DIAMOND: Okay. Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Gilliam.
DR. GILLIAM: This question was asked earlier, but I don't think it was answered. What is the breakdown of who read the HSGs at the investigational site between radiologists versus the site investigator?
MR. SAVAKUS: I apologize for that. I now recall you asking it. By and large, the investigators all read the HSGs. The two exceptions in my mind are sites -- there were two sites, Site 7 and Site 4, that I believe used radiologists to read the X-rays. I think the follow-up question is going to be what were their accuracy rates versus other investigators, and I don't have that information.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay. We do need to move on to the panel questions, but I had one additional question, which is a denominator question. You were talking about the packaging, and that those packaged for greater than six months didn't expand for 24 hours. Of the three where the matrix was missing at one week, do you know what the storage duration was for those patients?
MR. SAVAKUS: Yes, we do. The ages were 4.2 months, 3.6 months, and 2.4 months. These were matrices that were not identified at one week on ultrasound. This excludes two that were misplaced acutely and that we knew that from the acute data.
CHAIR CEDARS: And then one other quick question. In your pre-hysterectomy specimens, two of the 65 the device had punctured the wall of the tube. Given the concern about injury with the radio frequency application, do you think that that rate of two out of 65 is what should be expected as this moves into more general use?
MR. SAVAKUS: Let me first address the issue of RF safety, delivery of RF and how we might interpret a matrix misplacement or an extra tubal matrix location. This would occur after the RF has been delivered. The matrix is then released into the tube.
We purposefully choose to deliver the RF energy within the intramural portion of the fallopian tube. So the device is contained within the uterus. So we're not looking at a perforation that is outside the tubal serosa.
The device actually even when it's placed within the tube isn't outside the uterine body. So this is all within the intramural portion of the fallopian tube.
Specifically looking at the safety of RF energy delivery, the lesion that we generate is very small. It's about half a millimeter in depth. As we've developed the device we've really looked at four mechanisms to keep the RF contained.
First, the catheter itself is rather short. There's only about 14 millimeters between the black mark and the distal tip of the catheter, which helps insure that it's going to be within that interstitial portion. We train physicians to look for the black mark and not to push the catheter past that point. The catheter tip itself has been designed to bend before it will perforate uterine tissue during our in vitro development work. We measured perforation forces, and the tip of the catheter is designed to deflect before that point.
I think I mentioned that the PDA needs to be satisfied so that you need to be within a tubal structure. If you were to perforate outside the uterus, it would be difficult to satisfy all four quadrants and deliver power. And then finally because the lesion is so shallow, we believe that there's a large safety margin in looking at the serosal distances both within the tube and even outside of the tube.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. At this time we're going to focus on the discussion of the FDA questions. Copies of the questions are in your meeting handout, and if we could have the first question on the screen, please.
While they're pulling that slide up, I just wanted to make sure that our consumer rep., Dr. Romero, had a chance to ask any questions or raise issues that she might have.
DR. ROMERO: I think a couple of issues that I have will probably be better considered after we talk.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
DR. ROMERO: Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay. The first question is about safety, and is the safety of this device clinically acceptable. I'd like to have some discussion from the panel.
Dr. Stubblefield.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Well, I can start off by stating the obvious. The lists of problems that we see under the adverse events generally are nothing that's terribly concerning.
There are three patients that we worry about, the one that had the hyponatremia and the two ectopic pregnancies. Those are potentially serious complications. I don't see the other observations as being anything that would limit approval.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Sharp.
MEMBER SHARP: I think in terms of the hyponatremia I was satisfied that the way this occurred was probably outside of the normal bounds of what we would normally do. So if there was some kind of a training emphasis on those who are performing those to make sure that they stay within the limits of what is standard of care, that should take care of that issue in my mind.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Davis.
DR. DAVIS: And I think that's a critical point because it may be that the clinicians-surgeons doing this aren't people that do a large volume of hysteroscopy at the current time. So I think that's critical, too.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. D'Agostino.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: This is one of the situations where we have more data on the adverse events than we do on the efficacy variables. The ectopic pregnancies, I think, are the things that are driving my concerns, and these look quite reasonable in terms of what I've seen, and I've seen a number of these type of studies.
CHAIR CEDARS: In summary, Ms. Brogdon, I believe in regards to question 1 the Panel generally believes that the safety is favorable, the safety profile is favorable. However, there are some concerns about the importance of training with the use of glycine.
MS. BROGDON: Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Are there any more comments or discussion you'd like on that question?
MR. POLLARD: I wouldn't say we wouldn't like any more discussion. I would say the primary purpose of all of this data -- all of this question set is really to sort of give the Panel someplace to sort of kind of move through the data and the PMA and help drive it towards a Panel recommendation.
So I would -- I would say, although from an FDA point of view, we feel the question pretty much speaks for itself, and the discussion is kind of probably as I expected to some degree, in the end I would also have you direct that question to the rest of the Panel and ask if they feel like they've adequately answered that question.
CHAIR CEDARS: Can we go around the table and perhaps start with the consumer rep?
DR. ROMERO: I think I would agree with the statement you just made, that there don't appear to be any safety issues of major concern.
CHAIR CEDARS: And from the industry rep, Ms. George?
MS. GEORGE: I concur as well.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Hillard, any other concerns?
MEMBER HILLARD: No other concerns.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Gilliam?
DR. GILLIAM: No.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I think I would say that when used in experienced hands, and as prescribed with the conduct of the appropriate followup, that it appears safe and within reasonable acceptable limits. The only thing I might have mentioned that hasn't been brought up, which I think warrants effectiveness, is pregnancy occurrence. But that may not be safety.
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, yes, that -- we will discuss effectiveness or efficacy at a different time.
DR. PROPERT: No concerns.
DR. PETERSON: Agree. MEMBER SHARP: I'm in agreement.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I have the same concern about who is allowed to use it and whether or not they use it as directed and as trained. Otherwise, I do not have safety concerns.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I stated my opinion. I don't have any concerns.
DR. DAVIS: The other thing that I would be interested in any Panel members' thoughts on is the possibility of discussion of clinician recognition of corneal pregnancy, which, again, in lack of data -- I mean, we have one out of two, but these patients theoretically would be at greater risk for, and clinician recognition of that issue.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Ramin?
DR. RAMIN: I have no concerns. I believe it's a clinically acceptable safety profile.
DR. ZAINO: I agree with that assessment.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: I agree. But just to amplify a bit on Dr. Davis' point, I think the gynecologists here all realize that corneal pregnancy can be difficult to diagnose, and is more likely to be fatal than other types of ectopic.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Snyder?
DR. SNYDER: I have, in general, no questions about safety. The only thing that -- and I don't recall seeing this in the data -- that just, you know, begs in my mind to be answered is: was there ever a demonstration that purposeful perforation, like in the animal model, would actually prove that you lose that four-point, you know, PDA safety measure. And that's the only question, you know, from a safety thing, because I just -- I get concerned, too, when this gets released out there, you know, perforation, you know -- you know, will occur.
CHAIR CEDARS: Can I ask the sponsor to address that question?
MR. SAVAKUS: I can say that we have not evaluated purposeful perforation and whether or not the PDA is satisfied in any kind of animal model. So we have not evaluated that. This is a design feature and hasn't been evaluated clinically.
CHAIR CEDARS: I think that does raise the issue of the experience of the surgeon who is doing this. So is there any further discussion about the issue raised about corneal pregnancies and ectopic as a safety issue? We have talked about the experience of the surgeon, we have talked about the use of glycine. Are there any specific questions about safety in terms of ectopic or other specific things?
Dr. Snyder?
DR. SNYDER: I just was wondering why glycine -- because when it gets put out in the general population there will be a lot of people who are much more accustomed to using sorbitol, and so we've got no now experience 289 with that. I'm just curious.
CHAIR CEDARS: Can the sponsor address if sorbitol would be acceptable?
DR. DIAMOND: Or mannitol?
CHAIR CEDARS: Or mannitol?
MR. SAVAKUS: The use of glycine is not related to the RF energy delivery. It's related to the use of the PDA. The PDA is used to sense tubal contact, and if you were to place it into saline it would show tubal contact. So we use glycine. We think that sorbitol/mannitol would work, and it would allow the PDA to be used. But during the course of the study we just simply used glycine.
CHAIR CEDARS: But there would not be any stated contraindication to sorbitol or mannitol?
MR. SAVAKUS: We don't think there would be.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: Just one other thought, which is that since the follow-up studies here were done with that pressure transducer at 150 millimeters for mercury, the safety data that we're seeing is based on that. And if that was not used in general clinical practice in the future, that may have different effects as far as blowing out the matrices or other factors.
CHAIR CEDARS: So you're talking about the HSG verification of occlusion.
DR. DIAMOND: Yes.
CHAIR CEDARS: Can you respond to that?
MR. SAVAKUS: We would have -- we would expect to have the same recommendation that a pressure-limiting device be used in the labeling.
CHAIR CEDARS: Given that some sites use radiology and some sites use gynecology, that may be somewhat more difficult in a less controlled environment.
MR. SAVAKUS: And I think one of the things that I mentioned in the -- in our HSG training module, we recognize the fact that radiologists will be doing this procedure and may not be the same person as was trained when they did the Adiana training.
And our concept is to endeavor to ensure that when an Adiana investigator doesn't do his HSG, that he lets the radiologist know that there is a training program and this radiology -- the radiologist would then understand what our labeled needs are, how to interpret the image, and how to properly do it.
CHAIR CEDARS: Any further comments on this safety issue?
(No response.)
So, then, in summary, I think -- oh.
DR. RAMIN: I just have one comment.
CHAIR CEDARS: I'm sorry.
DR. RAMIN: I mean, the only thing about the interpretation with -- you have to take into consideration is outsourcing. So a lot of hospitals use other individuals and other countries to interpret radiologic imaging. So if we can just consider that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
So I think, in summary, there was an overall favorable feeling about the safety of this, but concerns about training, both in terms of training the surgeon with respect to placement of the matrix, as well as the use of glycine or some other mannitol/sorbitol solution, hypotonic solution, and about issues of training for radiology for the performance of the HSG as well as the interpretation of the HSG. Any concerns, comments?
(No response.)
Okay. If we can go on to the second question. Now, this has to do with study effectiveness, and I think this was an area that some of you had more particular concerns. It had to do with the ability to assure bilateral placement, the ability to assure bilateral occlusion, and then, obviously, the primary outcome of pregnancy.
So why don't we start with Dr. Snyder on this.
DR. SNYDER: I'm concerned. You know, clearly it met the pre-defined goal. And I understand that it can't be compared -- I mean, the purpose of this Panel, the purpose of this approval, is not to, you know, compare it to any other, you know, particular device. But, boy, that weighs in on my mind in informed consent process.
CHAIR CEDARS: Are there specific concerns that you believe can be addressed by the company, or should be addressed by the company?
DR. SNYDER: Come back around.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay. Dr. Stubblefield?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Well, I have the same concerns that the efficacy may not be good enough by the comparison to what is available today, and both in contraception -- for example, levonorgesterol-T is not included in the comparative information, which has a very, very low pregnancy rate.
As to what to do about it, we would -- I would feel reassured, when the third year data is available, if you can see that we're not going to be looking at another three cases each year, another .5 percent each year, if it looks -- if it's going to keep going, we add on, we accumulate, .5, .5, .5, that's just certainly not going to be acceptable. So it's possibly remediable by seeing what happens after there's another year of data.
CHAIR CEDARS: Based on the way that this question is worded, if I can slant it a bit, because it gets back to the concern of several of the members of the Panel with respect to intent to treat versus the reliance group, so the issues in terms of bilateral placement and bilateral occlusion get to the intent to treat.
And so if people could also comment with respect to that as we go along, which has to do with overall effectiveness of this as a treatment strategy, because obviously the bottom line is pregnancy, but what's your denominator?
And so in terms of effectiveness of this treatment, I think number 1 and 2 up there need to be included in the discussion as well.
Dr. Zaino?
DR. ZAINO: I view this as another relatively effective option, recognizing the limitations that have been stated already with respect to the less than optimal data with respect to placement, occlusion, and pregnancy. But in looking at safety and efficacy and availability, I think it is clinically acceptable.
CHAIR CEDARS: And, again, we will get to a point of weighing safety risk versus benefit. So we're talking primarily about effectiveness at this point. Thank you.
DR. RAMIN: I believe that it is clinically acceptable for the effectiveness rate given the data that is provided by the sponsor. The only concern I have is the generalizability and what it ultimately will be in the future.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Davis?
DR. DAVIS: I, too, agree that it is a clinically meaningful result and have some of the same concerns of the applicability. I do think -- and many of the people on this Panel have taught me always to look at an ITT analysis, that that may be very helpful for clinicians as they are counseling their patients.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I have always been upset when I hear that the FDA gives advice and then -- then they end up turning around and saying the advice doesn't mean anything, we have a new world today and we should look at different rules.
And I hate to be caught in that situation, but I am caught in that situation. I find it very hard to approve something based on six events. I mean, it's -- the 554 per protocol subjects, and only six events, is very -- I mean, if this was an epidemiological arena, we would say, my God, that you need a certain number of events before you can start talking about feeling comfortable about it.
So I am worried about the design that was approved and the implications of it, and I am worried about the intent to treat and that -- bring up those other two points -- the bilateral placement and the bilateral occlusion. I'm just concerned that the rates we're seeing here won't hold up in actual use because of the number of implications that -- in terms of how this gets used in practice. And so I think that it's important to look at that.
I still -- I understand that this was the primary variable, so let's live with it as the primary variable. But what are the implications looking at an ITT analysis and how that's going to change, so we get a sense of efficacy versus effectiveness?
And then, I think also that the -- given the small numbers we are seeing, we should definitely see what happens to those 30 cases or those 30 subjects in year 2 and get more data.
And, again, it's -- I guess we're not voting at this moment, but just discussing, but should we ask to wait for year 3 where we actually see, are the rates increasing, are they moving up, or are we going to constantly have an incremental piece to it, or are we sort of reaching -- or have we reached a plateau? I think all those issues are important.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I'm comfortable with the effectiveness in general, but I do think we have much discussion about what denominator we're talking about and labeling property.
CHAIR CEDARS: Mr. Sharp?
MEMBER SHARP: I certainly would applaud the sponsor with the hard work and a lot of valuable information. I am concerned about 10 pregnancies. We're not supposed to compare this to other transcervical devices, certainly we did not see pregnancies in the first year with a -- something that would be another alternative we could offer a patient.
So although I am certainly in favor of more minimally invasive options, I am concerned at this point as to where we are. The HSG -- I'm a little bit concerned whether that may just be really a surrogate endpoint. And it's certainly fraught with some difficulties in terms of interpretation and knowing whether that really means the tube is occluded.
So, really, what I'm going on is the real endpoint, which is pregnancy. And I have to think that that 10 is significant. So I would like to see greater numbers, personally.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: I think there are three outstanding issues that have been raised that we had talked about and that are directly related to the questions.
One, bilateral placement in occlusion, the discussion over the last half-hour I think has indicated that the HSG is the measure by which those success rates are determined, and that it in effect is an inherent part of the method, which is addressing the -- we don't have the intent to treat, that in fact the method is the HSG, and that we're to evaluate the data accordingly. It then becomes a fundamental part of the method, which I would think has implications not only for labeling but for the long-term conditions of use, that this would be something that would be virtually chiseled in stone, I would think, in terms of what the method is perceived as being over time.
The second is clinical acceptability, and, you know, it's just hard to go there without saying, "Compared to what?" You know, compared to non-use, it clearly well exceeds that bar. Compared to temporary methods, well, as Dr. Stubblefield was saying, there are some temporary methods that would clearly be, based on our best available information, more effective than this is likely to be, but some that would be clearly less effective.
If we're talking about compared to other sterilization methods, I think that that's a detail discussion that we really haven't completed yet. And I don't think we can until we look at the long-term issues, because it has been noted several times, but it's not really the one-year failure rate that we're interested in, it's what we have and it's the standard -- the Trussell, et al. table, and so on. But if the average age at sterilization is about age 30 in the U.S., then most women will have at least a decade of risk, and many will have several decades at risk.
So it's not really one or two years that we're interested in. It's what is that cumulative rest-of-the-lifetime probability? And, clearly, the sponsor wasn't asked to provide those data, so they can't be held responsible fort hose data. But we have to make assumptions about what those data would look like if we had them, and I think that's the part of the discussion we haven't had that we probably want to have, because we have to make an assumption as a group I think about what the likelihood of failure over time is going to be. And several people have already said, "Well, if it just keeps on coming, that would be a problem."
So I think we've got to decide at this point whether or not we have enough information to determine whether or not that is likely to happen. And that's a challenge.
If we go to the CREST paper that we had in our packet, Table 2 I think is very helpful, because we have the 10-year cumulative probability year by year by year for each of the methods.
And just in brief, with the bipolar technique, the 10-year cumulative probability is almost exactly 10 times the one year. So if this method looked like the bipolar method, then the rate would be 10 times one, or about 10 percent. So if it looks like bipolar, that's what this looks like.
The clip -- just as each of the 10 years has an equal probability of failure for the bipolar, very different for the clip. If it's going to fail, it usually fails in year 1 or year 2. So that would be pretty much -- this 1.67 would be what you would expect around year 10 if it acts more like the clip.
The band is a bit of a mix of those two, and the earlier discussion we had left me wondering whether, given the dual mechanisms of action, it would be most reasonable to expect that it would behave like the bipolar where you've got an injury but it's not a complete injury, and you might get pregnant year after year after year if it hasn't been completely occluded. Or it's more like the clip, where it's either occluded or it's not occluded.
If it's not occluded, you're going to get pregnant early on. And I think we've got to wrestle with that, because 10 percent over 10 years, particularly if a high proportion of these are ectopic, as we might expect them to be, may not be clinically acceptable. On the other hand, two percent might well be. And I think we've got to challenge ourselves with that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Are there any comments or discussion about that important issue?
DR. PROPERT: Yes. Actually, I have a question. It's Dr. Propert over here.
I just got totally confused between -- because sometimes we're presenting things in percentages, and then sometimes per 1,000 cases. So I just wanted to make sure I understood -- in the CREST paper it's per 1,000 cases. We've been looking at percentages today. Don't we need to multiply those by 10, in which case the 10-year rate would I think be 100 percent? But I may just be quite confused. Maybe Dr. D'Agostino can help me out here.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: You know, I was looking at the article and I was saying, "Well, this is useless in terms of me trying to figure out where these numbers per 1,000" -- they say per 1,000, but it looks like they are really percentages that they are reporting in order to make sense. So I think the way it was just laid out is probably the right interpretation. But it doesn't seem to be saying that in the heading of the table, and what have you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: Yes. So the rates that we've been given for this technique is in percent. So year 1 is 1.07 percent, and then the cumulative probability in year 2, which combines the chance of getting pregnant in each year -- and this is going from the handout that we got for the day 1 discussion question, under Effectiveness, Section 2C, Table 3 --
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Our rates are clearly percentages. The question was: what's in the article?
DR. PETERSON: Okay. In the article, that's per thousand.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Yes.
DR. PETERSON: So the 10-year cumulative probability for the bipolar is 24.8 per thousand, which is almost exactly 10 times the 2.3 per thousand rate. So if we just say, okay, the 10-year probability is 10 times the one year, it would be 10 percent for the method we're looking at now.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: The other thing to bring into, you know, our discussion is that's the point estimate, and what have we ruled out in terms of a confidence interval? And it would be much larger than even the 10 percent.
CHAIR CEDARS: If people want to look at page 34 on the executive summary, it does have the number per 1,000 for the Adiana device, and it's about 10, I believe. 10.8 point estimate failure per 1,000 patients at one year.
DR. PETERSON: So I think there's two points. One is the starting point, and for this method at one year it's substantially higher than it is for most other methods when you have the same denominator. And then, the second point is the trends over time. So if you've got two-year data, as we have, is 10 years five times that? Or does it look a lot like that?
And that's the fundamental question I think that we have, because if you start with a higher rate at one year than most of the other methods of sterilization, and you continue proportionately to increase over time, as those methods do, then the cumulative probability over time could get quite high.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond, since you do a lot of work with fibrosis and healing, given the mechanistic action of this matrix, and the radio frequency injury in the matrix, would this be something you would expect is -- it's occluded or it's not? Or would you expect that the efficacy of the occlusionness would change over time?
DR. DIAMOND: Well, with regard to fibrosis in the abdominal cavity, as opposed to the tubal lumen which is where I've done most of my work, once you have fibrosis there it doesn't go away. In fact, over time it tends to increase in severity and density. I don't expect that it would tend to go away.
CHAIR CEDARS: So you would expect that what we see, that we should not continue to get incremental increases.
DR. DIAMOND: Not from the point of view of something happening with the fibrotic process. Now, whether it pulls away from the matrix or --
CHAIR CEDARS: Right.
DR. DIAMOND: -- other issues, I -- that's a different process. But if there's fibrosis there now, and I don't -- assuming it's like the abdominal cavity, which may be a very big assumption, I would think if it's there it will stay there.
CHAIR CEDARS: Any other comments or discussion about the important issue that Dr. Peterson raised?
Dr. Stubblefield?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: The rate that we used is the one for one year that includes the three cases where there was the misreading of the HSG. Is that not correct?
CHAIR CEDARS: Correct.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: So if you want to look at the best possible results, it would be to exclude those three and say that the rate is .5 per year, which obviously at 10 years would give us half as many pregnancies. And whether it's fair to do that, I don't know, but it's nice to put bounds either way on what it might be.
CHAIR CEDARS: That could be the good way to look at it. The other would be that that then makes the rate the same in the first year and the second year without the concept that it's going to stop and get flat at that point. It would make three in year 1 and three in year 2. Okay. Dr. --
DR. ZAINO: I'm going to -- I'm sorry.
CHAIR CEDARS: Yes.
DR. ZAINO: The issue about fibrosis, I completely agree with Dr. Diamond, but the question about whether there is tissue remodeling again has to do with whether or not these materials are truly inert and whether they continue to have a response. And that response may vary in time, and I think ultimately it's no more than a best guess as to what would happen years in the future.
And so that might have more to do with the discussion later about post-market, if it were to come to that. But I think it's important to recognize the difference between the two, and I think you'd agree with that.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: I do.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Propert?
DR. PROPERT: Obviously, I have the same concerns as everyone else. And at the risk of, again, showing my inability to do arithmetic, I was trying to look at this as if I were a patient. What's the chances that I've gone in for this procedure and it's going to be successful in me? And if I calculated this right, before I even start relying on it, I have a 12 percent chance of it -- the procedure having failed.
And then, I go into relying on it to see if it will prevent pregnancy, and that 12 percent comes from the chance of not being able to make the placement, and the chance of the occlusion not occurring. And so if I've done that calculation right, that number seems very high to me. And so I have a major concern about efficacy based on the whole cascade of the three things that have to happen in order to prevent pregnancy.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Diamond, do you have anything in addition?
DR. DIAMOND: I do.
(Laughter.)
First of all, I mean, with the data we presented, I think clearly the sponsor met the goal that was set out by their discussions with the FDA. Using the retrospectoscope, though -- first of all, I'm not a fan of one-armed studies. I think that's a terrible mistake, and here there was a very obvious comparison group, which would have perhaps addressed some of the issues like, are all of the HSG failure reads always in one group or the other, or is there something specific about that?
And another thing about with only one arm -- and I wasn't smart enough to ask the sponsor before -- but we're assuming that all of the successes are due to the placement of this device. I don't know for a fact that some of these couples didn't get divorced, that some of these women didn't go on birth control pills because of dysmenorrhea, other things that they may have done, some of the husbands may have gotten a vasectomy. I don't know whether the sponsor has that data or not. But there may have been successes for reasons above and beyond this, which we're counting as winners for the device, which may be inappropriate. I would -- so that's one thought.
Second thought was I wish that our brethren on the Panel that gave Dr. Corrado the advice several years ago about the five percent and the two percent might have given them different numbers. I would have aimed a little bit more specific, but, again, I don't think we can hold that against the sponsor at this point, if that was what was agreed to based on Panel recommendations years ago.
I would not be in favor -- if and when reports are presented in the package insert, I would not be in favor of excluding the HSG misreads. I think they have to be included in the failure rate of the device, because that's how it was under the best of circumstances. Who knows what it's going to be in general practice?
I also think that for the patients who are going to be trying to make this decision, it would be best that in the future results be presented to them both in the protocol analysis as well as the intent to treat analysis. The person can make their own mind up, at least the people that can understand that, or their physician or their health care provider can explain that to them.
And the group I guess I have the greatest concern about is the younger age group as it was defined here, because, as I said before, I think they have a 3.2 percent failure rate. I don't know what the confidence interval on that will be and whether it would exceed five or not, and whether that may be a function of age as opposed to the device specifically.
Nonetheless, I'm very concerned. Dr. D'Agostino, maybe you could do a quick calculation for us. It was five out of 156, and what would the confidence internals for that --
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Yes. Again, I actually did a little scribble earlier, and I asked the FDA about that. I think in that lower rate, if my calculations are correct, you would exceed, because the sample size was so small. It was something like 130 subjects, so you actually would exceed that five percent. Is that correct? You know, you --
CHAIR CEDARS: Yes.
MR. KOTZ: Correct. I did it on my calculator. It's very much driven by the sample size. And I meant to mention that, and I'm sorry I didn't, when I was going around the table -- that we really -- the group that is probably going to be very active users of the device are the ones where we have very little stability in terms of -- we have no stability, basically, for the whole set of data, but really lack of stability and we're even exceeding the rates that we're talking about in that lower group, that younger group.
DR. DIAMOND: Madam Chairperson, maybe if I could put a question in your mind to ask the group as to whether we want to think about segregating that group from the other groups as we go to make decisions in the future, because we don't have as much data there and as much confidence there as we do in the other two age categories.
CHAIR CEDARS: Noted. Dr. Gilliam?
DR. GILLIAM: I think I look at this maybe a little bit differently in that I don't see that absolute threshold for effectiveness as so important. I think what's in -- because I think once you have those numbers, then a woman can decide, and she can say, "This is too high, and, therefore, this isn't an acceptable method," within bounds. There would be a number you could probably offer to me that I wouldn't say that that's acceptable.
The problem I'm having is that I don't think we know what that number is. This number 6 -- 10, whichever one we're using, I suspect will change. And partially I'm having trouble knowing whether we know the true efficacy of the device. The fact that you needed the two-tier system for the HSG -- and I know I've been perseverating on that -- but it just -- it seems that there were physicians who at the time said it was a successful procedure and it wasn't.
And so I think when it gets into the real world we will not necessarily know who has had a successful procedure. And that pregnancy at four years is also concerning to me, because it means that something is changing over time.
And so while I think women can make very good decisions about what method works for them, based on the numbers, I am concerned that we still don't have the numbers. This may have to do with my strong views on what should go into a post-marketing study, but I think that's really the issue I'm trying to pin down with your numbers.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Hillard?
MEMBER HILLARD: I certainly applaud efforts to have more options available to women for preventing undesired fertility. So I'm quite open to thinking about this device, and it's really interesting to me to think about the matrix composition and the radio frequency and the way that it works.
I have difficulty as I think about describing this to my patients. Many women think about sterilization as a one-time procedure. You come in, you have it done, and it's done. And as I think about describing it to my patients, I am going to say, "You come in and have it done, and then you have a hysterosalpingogram, and then you might need another one" -- and, again, similar to other transcervical sterilization. But I think that's very important as we think about this.
But the other issue that I have a great deal of difficulty in thinking about -- and just -- it's conceptually to me a problem -- has been mentioned before, which is offering a device -- offering a method that is touted as being permanent that has a failure rate that seems to be in the range of other reversible methods.
And that is hard for me to think about, so that's a big deal. And that assumes that I have a number to offer to my patients. And I'm not sure -- as you -- as Dr. Gilliam has mentioned, I'm not sure we do have a number at this point. So I'm concerned about that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Ms. George?
MS. GEORGE: Being the non-clinical person on this group, I'm not going to talk about the clinical efficacy of this. But I do want to kind of remind us of even the definition of effectiveness. It does remind us that it's the labeling, it's the data, it's the training, it's all of those things all rolled together.
And the labeling does include, by FDA requirement, a comparison of all of the different options of birth control -- the sterilization, the reversible as well -- and it's really all of your obligations to educate your patients and give them a good choice, and to make it good data. And the data comparison is all just one year of use.
Now, granted, some of this data is from 1998, so it has been going on a long time. But I think that goes to the post-marketing study aspects, which should be separate, and I also think -- I believe question 4 talks about training and labeling, so that's really where we should be. A lot of these concerns I think that we're bringing up, that's where those types of concerns probably need to be addressed.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. And also, thank you for bringing out -- for those of you on the Panel, the FDA definitions for safety, effectiveness, and valid scientific evidence are included in your packet. So for those of you who haven't reviewed those, you may want to. Thank you for that.
Dr. Romero?
DR. ROMERO: I don't want to repeat a lot of the comments that have been made already, but I would say that those of Drs. Hillard and Gilliam are the ones that I think resonate most with me as a representative for the consumer patients here.
In particular, I think this question around effectiveness and its understanding or its meaning among patients in particular is what's of greatest concern to me. I am very excited doing -- being a public health researcher in reproductive health, very excited about the potential of having another option available for women who are interested in controlling their fertility, and particularly around sterilization.
I think, you know, the demographic data show that the proportion or particular groups of women in the United States who are more likely to opt for sterilization generally sort of overlap with populations of concern, communities of color, poor women, and who not only are looking to control their fertility for the obvious reasons but also who have other sort of social and economic issues that impinge probably more strongly on their ability to control their fertility than maybe more affluent women.
So the prospect of an individual making a decision that they believe is a permanent one, and with the knowledge that all methods of contraception do come with a certain, you know, potential for failure, I think women, you know, understand that. But when making that decision for something that they believe is permanent, and that -- and that decision being made much more likely by women who have socioeconomic challenges, because the data show that that's the case, then the consequences of a failure I think are felt greater by the women who are much more likely to choose sterilization.
So for me that's the big issue. It does go back to exactly what is this number around effectiveness that not only the providers can feel comfortable with, but then also the women can feel comfortable with, because I think of the comment that Dr. Propert made around, you know, a woman who looks at the data and says, "Okay. I know that my chances going in are such that there might be a failure." I don't know -- you know, most women will not necessarily go through that calculus when they are thinking that they are making a decision that is supposed to be a permanent one.
So I know this carries over into the question that you've just pointed out now around what that means for training and communication and labeling and patient information. But it's inextricably connected to where the product is in terms of an understanding of effectiveness, and that's what I'm struggling with.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. I think this is the most critical of the FDA questions for this particular PMA. And so I thank everyone for their comments. I will try to summarize. And, please, once I've done so, if there -- if I've left something critical out, please let me know.
But, Ms. Brogdon, I believe generally that the patient -- the Panel believes that the predefined goals of the study have been met. However, there are primarily three concerns.
One is that the HSG really should be considered part of the procedure, because the reliance time point doesn't really begin until after proof of obstruction or a bilateral occlusion by the HSG. And so concern that the HSG is really part of the procedure and/or part of the method.
The second gets to the issue that I think bothers a lot of people, which is when you're counseling patients -- and this was brought up by Dr. Romero and by Dr. Propert -- the intent to treat really is important, because the patient wants to know if I go down this path, what's the likelihood that I am in fact going to have permanent sterilization? Which is different than, if, if, if, if, then I will have permanent sterilization, because they to make a decision before they undergo the procedure.
So I do think that intent to treat information is very important because that 12 percent that doesn't even make it to an attempt at saying that that method work -- has now already undergone the procedure and an HSG potentially. So there are -- there is time and cost involved with that, so that needs to be -- that's very important.
And then, third, is the generalizability and what will happen when this is in actual use, and what -- and tied to that is the long-term effectiveness of this strategy. So I think those are the -- I do get the issue about age, and we can talk about that with labeling and things, but I feel like just in terms of effectiveness of the device those were the three key areas of concern.
Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Yes. You may have covered it. I think you did cover them all. But there is also the concern that I was trying to say, and I didn't probably say it very well -- the fact that we are basing everything on six events, or 10 events if we go two years, makes the study design extremely important, even forget the intent to treat.
The generalizability for this protocol population depends very much on these individuals. If you just change a couple of individuals in terms of getting pregnant or not pregnant, those 30 individuals you don't know about, the rates could jump all over the place, and so it's -- even if we were to buy the protocol, the generalizability of this data is really suspect -- single-arm study, no comparative group, lots of motivation in these individuals.
So it's really -- the results are very, very much dependent on this group, and it's very bothersome to realize that.
CHAIR CEDARS: I think the concern with that is that that was, in fact, the predefined guidelines that was established with the FDA. So while I think most of the Panel may have some of the same concerns, I --
DR. D'AGOSTINO: It is, right. And this is -- and, you know, it's too bad we wallowed with our wisdom, weren't there at that date. But, you know, the implication of an agreed study hinging on only six events is -- was a mistake.
CHAIR CEDARS: Do you have any other clarification that you need?
MS. BROGDON: No, we have what we need. Thank you, Dr. Cedars.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay. Can we move to question 3? And question 3 has to do with the benefits of the contraceptive effectiveness as evidenced by the one- and two-year pregnancy rates and the clinical benefits of hysteroscopic placement instead of laparoscopic placement.
So this is still -- in our listed questions, this is included in sort of the risk-benefit discussion. So the risk of the one- and two-year pregnancy versus the benefit of being able to have a hysteroscopy alone without a laparoscopy. So a lesser surgical procedure. So rather than going individually, are there people who have comments or concerns about that question?
Dr. Stubblefield?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: So in this question, we can forget about Essure. Is that right?
CHAIR CEDARS: This is a stand-alone --
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Stand-alone.
CHAIR CEDARS: -- decision.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: This versus laparoscopy. Yes. I mean, clearly, this procedure is safer than a laparoscopy. Even though the effectiveness possibly may be greater, the risk --
CHAIR CEDARS: With laparoscopy.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: With laparoscopy, yes.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Snyder?
DR. SNYDER: My answer to this question goes back to what we just spent the most time talking -- it's the effectiveness issue. And the problem is that I don't know exactly how to counsel my patient on what the effectiveness is going to be, because if I knew that number, if this was going to be a stable number, there would be patients that would clearly opt to take on, you know, that known risk to have a -- you know, a non-laparoscopic procedure to do.
So am I making sense? So my problem is is, you know, if this -- if these were known risks, then I'm not -- I mean, if this -- if we had a known effectiveness, I have no trouble with, you know, counseling regarding the risk-benefit ratio. My problem goes back to, do we really have good effectiveness data?
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, if I can summarize, so if the effectiveness of laparoscopic and hysteroscopic techniques were equivalent, then clearly hysteroscopic would be superior. The question is: how much of a loss of effectiveness are you willing to tolerate for the increased benefit of the hysteroscopy versus the laparoscopy? Other comments?
Dr. Hillard?
MEMBER HILLARD: The other piece of this question that I have to think about is if you take the expert laparoscopist and hysteroscopist, and how -- and compare the risks around those two procedures, I think hysteroscopy wins. If you take the average gynecologist or the average resident, and their skills in doing laparoscopy versus hysteroscopy, I think that your equation is a little different. Your risks and benefits are a little bit different. So I think you put that into it as this device becomes available for anybody to do. So I'm not sure where that comes out. It's just a different question.
CHAIR CEDARS: So expertise at the two procedures and -- but some of that is training. And if we move more to hysteroscopy, your residents will be more skilled at hysteroscopy, presumably.
Dr. Stubblefield, are you --
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Oh, I left my light on by mistake. But I certainly would -- (Laughter.) -- I certainly would agree with that. That is changing. I mean, now, you know, there are 16 of the family planning fellowship sites, most of whom are teaching their fellows Essure. So the people that can do hysteroscopic sterilizations is certainly going to be increasing.
CHAIR CEDARS: So if we can -- I'm still, in terms of trying to summarize this for the FDA, don't know that I have enough of a sense what the panel would recommend.
If we can maybe -- Dr. Peterson, since you have experience with the CREST data, do you feel that the risk-benefit ratio is in favor of approval for this device?
DR. PETERSON: I think you've said it well. I think there are -- the difficulty all of us are -- it seems like we're having are two uncertainties.
One is related to the fact that ectopic pregnancy crosses the bound between safety and effectiveness, and we've got an uncertainty about the risk of ectopic pregnancy, because we have an uncertainty about the cumulative probability over time of this method. If it's 10 times one year, there's a lot of ectopics. If it's two times one year, there's not nearly as many ectopics, and the safety issues aren't as steep and disconcerting.
The other uncertainty is about generalizability and the extent to which something that's fairly sophisticated technologically was 10 to 20 years ago for laparoscopy, and clearly the CREST rates reflect an early point of that learning curve, and it's the uncertainty about the generalizability of the hysteroscopic approach today.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Romero, from a consumer perspective, risk-benefit ratio?
DR. ROMERO: I think it would be very difficult at this point to say something conclusive from that perspective, for like a patient to be able to make that decision.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Gilliam?
DR. GILLIAM: Now I'm going to play devil's advocate. But we just went around and said that it was safe, that the risks were very, very few. Now, we don't completely know the benefit, but the majority of women who undergo this procedure will be sterilized.
And even -- considering whatever the sensitivity analysis would be, if we imagine what those numbers could be, still, the vast majority would be sterilized. So if we've said the risk is small, and most people will end up sterilized, will not get pregnant, and will not get an ectopic, then it seems that we should at least be able to state that the ratio looks reasonable.
CHAIR CEDARS: Ms. George, do you have any comments from the industry standpoint?
MS. GEORGE: No.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I believe -- and I know I did when we were talking about the safety, I said that the real issue -- and other people have said it before me -- is in the ectopic pregnancies, which is tied up with the efficacy variable. The safety parameters we looked at were in some sense trivial -- cramps, and things of this nature. The real safety issue is lying -- is a subset of the efficacy variable.
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, it's ectopic, but also perhaps even more so corneal ectopics, as Dr. Davis brought up, which becomes a significant issue.
Dr. Propert?
DR. PROPERT: Yes. I don't know how the other Panel members feel about this, but I'm -- when I see the word "risk," I don't think just about AEs and safety. There's a lot of other things that go into people making these decisions, and I think that needs to be built into the risk as well.
So I'm not -- I don't see this as zero -- it is very close to zero risk in terms of the AEs, excepting the ectopics that we discussed earlier. But in terms of cost and psychological consequences, I don't think we've really addressed those risks at all.
CHAIR CEDARS: So the sense I'm getting from the Panel is that there is some difficulty with a risk-benefit analysis because of the concern about the benefit, and about the effectiveness of this technology and the concern particularly about long-term risk of ectopic if in fact the risk of pregnancies continue to increase, with a significant portion of those pregnancies being ectopics.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I'd like to just add one comment. I think when you talk about the ratio of risk and benefit, it's helpful for me that I did this little division of 645 people were cleared to try the procedure, and 547 of them were not pregnant a year later. That's only 84 percent. I think you have to lay that out, just lay out the numbers.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. I think that gets to the issue we raised last time with the intention to treat in terms of counseling patients on their success rate with this technology.
Ms. Brogdon?
MS. BROGDON: I'd like to mention -- to remind the Panel that we really cannot deal with the issue of cost. I was interested in Dr. Propert's statement about psychological and other risks. Are there others that you would like to point out to us that haven't been considered?
DR. PROPERT: Yes. My question was actually to other members of the Panel who deal with these people on a regular basis. Are there other costs that haven't been discussed? Clinical.
CHAIR CEDARS: Some of those may have to do with issues that I think maybe Dr. Hillard brought up about the -- or Dr. Gilliam -- in terms of the populations for whom permanent sterilization are frequently utilized, and the much higher sort of psychosocial costs of a pregnancy should it occur. Dr. Davis?
DR. DAVIS: I think it's it. We're struggling with benefit-risk in a properly counseled population. We're all saying that in one way or the other. And there certainly are benefits we haven't discussed -- the benefit for the patient that has no one to drive her back home after general anesthesia from a laparoscopic. I mean, each one of these comes -- think about what we really do sitting with a patient.
So there's a lot of benefits which were alluded to by our consumer that come into that counseling that may be a major issue for that particular patient. Counseling -- it's such a broad term, but it's so critical to make this analysis.
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, and if the HSG is considered part of the method, they may not need someone to drive them home after their anesthesia, but they'll need someone to drive them back three months later for their HSG.
Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: Just, I mean, I think all of us understood it, but it's worth being explicit about, that that is a major benefit of the transcervical approach in general is that -- avoiding general anesthesia. And while laparoscopic sterilizations can clearly be done under local anesthesia, by far the most common practice in the U.S. is the use of a general anesthetic, and that actually is the leading cause of death attributable to sterilization in the U.S.
And laparoscopic injuries are rare. There are serious but rare injuries with a laparoscopy that you're not going to have with the transcervical approach. So I think we have all understood that, but it's worth being explicit about it as a benefit for that approach to surgical sterilization.
CHAIR CEDARS: Mr. Pollard?
MR. POLLARD: And maybe it goes without saying, but -- and you had mentioned to the Panel that we do have the definitions of safety and effectiveness in your Panel folder. But I just wanted to mention, because we are talking about this being a device and a procedure, that the definition encompasses both the intended target population, as specified in the labeling, as well as all of the instructions, basically is as used as intended.
So, you know, part of that definition of effectiveness is intended to encompass that whole aspect of it. So when you look at, is it effective, you mean when it's used per the labeling, following all of the instructions, and so forth.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Yes, Ms. George?
MS. GEORGE: One of the comments was made about coming back twice for a doctor's visit. I don't know long an HSG takes, but I thought I understood that it's only about 30 minutes' time that they'd have to be in the doctor's office for the other versus going in for a hysterectomy is usually longer than 30 minutes, and you're out of work for some period of time. And, again, that socioeconomic aspect of people being out of work, being unable to bring -- you know, especially if they're hourly paid, and things like that.
CHAIR CEDARS: So given that this device met the predetermined goal that there is the increased advantage of safety in terms of hysteroscopy versus laparoscopy, as brought about by both Ms. George and Dr. Peterson, would it be reasonable after discussion to say that the benefits in terms of the decrease of those risks outweigh the potential risk of pregnancy and subsequent ectopic pregnancy? Would people feel comfortable with that?
Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: I think it really does come down to the relative certainty about the benefits and the substantial uncertainty about the risk vis-a-vis ectopic pregnancy. And we have to make some assumption about what 343 those risks are likely to be to try to quantify the balance.
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, I think the only data that was predetermined -- and we can talk about potential post-approval surveillance, but that was predetermined -- was one-year pregnancy rate. So I think you would have to make that assessment based on the one-year pregnancy rate. I agree with the comment that you would probably need to include the three where the HSGs were misread, because that may be real world, real time.
But the first year pregnancy rate as a benefit, including outpatient procedure, etcetera, versus the risk of those pregnancies and two ectopics. If there's not a great outpouring of objection, then I think that we would suggest at least five as the rules of the FDA requirements that this would meet the benefits-outweigh-the-risks scenario.
MS. BROGDON: Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: If we could move on to question 4. This question, at least in our packet, has to do with the training plan provided by the sponsor. Is the training plan in the pack? It's in Volume 3.
DR. ZAINO: Page 1006.
MS. BROGDON: I'm sorry?
DR. ZAINO: Page 1006.
CHAIR CEDARS: And we have had some discussion from the Panel -- or, I'm sorry, excuse me -- from the sponsor in terms of their plan for training both in terms of hysteroscopy and placement of the catheter, as well as in terms of HSG, both in terms of the low pressure HSG and interpretation of HSG. We raised specific issues about use of glycine and like products, and need for fluid management monitoring. We had already raised that earlier.
Are there other concerns or issues in terms of the training plan? The training plan also includes the issue we have discussed on several occasions in terms of counseling, in terms of not counting on this as an effective contraception until the HSG confirms bilateral tubal occlusion. So counseling is clearly an important part of the training process as well.
Dr. Snyder?
DR. SNYDER: I would be interested in hearing what other people have to say about this, too. Somebody mentioned earlier that the HSG really is a surrogate measure, you know, of effectiveness. In the training plan, I didn't see, you know, any addressing whether there needs to be an obligatory ultrasound confirmation of the matrix, you know, in addition to, you know, the HSG. I know that was part of the original study, but I don't know if, you know, that plan -- because, you know, that would also be a reason to be --
CHAIR CEDARS: Something more cute.
DR. SNYDER: -- concerned, yes.
CHAIR CEDARS: It would be a shorter timeframe, because you wouldn't need to wait for the fibrosis just to assure that placement -- that both of the matrices were still visible.
Dr. Davis?
DR. DAVIS: The first concern is the one that I've brought up several times about the HSG, because it says here in the guidance on page 1076, "Instructions provided are not intended to replace normal practices, but are provided as a guidance." And they do go on to recommend using some type of pressure distention device. I think that should be required, given that's one of our big concerns, to use one.
I also think that they should have some training on the differential -- it may seem obvious to us all at this table, but it doesn't hurt to put it in labeling about some -- or put it in the instructions, a discussion on presentation of corneal pregnancy, since they are particularly dangerous. Fluid overload you've already mentioned.
And then, the one thing that no one has really discussed, given the high percentage of relatively young patients that are involved, and maybe Dr. Peterson can comment on this, is maybe some -- also some training on trying to target groups that may particularly have regret over their decision.
And then, finally, I think that the counseling material that is made readily available for the clinician to use, so they are going to need training on it, as sad as it is to say, is that we should have some data with the intention to treat group so they can use that as part of their counseling.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: Just looking through this quickly -- and maybe it's here but I just haven't seen it -- since there were patients who were going to have the procedures that were dropped out because of abnormalities found at the time of the hysteroscopy regarding the uterine cavity, I think those ought to be very clearly presented to future practitioners of this procedure. What are those findings that would preclude use -- precluded use in this trial, and, therefore, presumably should preclude use in the future?
CHAIR CEDARS: So that would be something that they would want to address in labeling -- the specific things that should be --
DR. DIAMOND: Well, labeling and I think --
CHAIR CEDARS: -- labeling and training.
DR. DIAMOND: -- it's part of what they would include in the training course also.
CHAIR CEDARS: Yes, Dr. Romero?
DR. ROMERO: I think with regard to the patient counseling component of this it largely focuses on counseling with regard to the procedure itself and logistical aspects of the procedure. And what I would suggest -- I think this is the appropriate place, though, to highlight some of the unique aspects of this permanent form of sterilization, that will -- that differs somewhat from other permanent forms.
So, for instance, the mention to -- for physicians to mention to patients about alternative contraceptive methods, options, etcetera, the -- from the patient's perspective, there is a sense of the risks associated, the potential for failure associated with methods that are patient15 controlled and patient-dependent. And oftentimes, you know, individuals have a really good grasp of that. But, once again, with a permanent method that has some component of failure, like they all do.
I think this would be an opportunity to address that in a very distinctive way that would probably allay many individuals of concerns that patients may go in with greater expectations, not only around its ultimate effectiveness, but also about what's involved, because if they're comparing it to other permanent methods that are less dependent on their continued --
CHAIR CEDARS: Involvement.
DR. ROMERO: -- cooperation and involvement, if you will. So I think the patient counseling component just could be expanded to include that type of content.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Ms. George, from the industry standard?
MS. GEORGE: I think to continue off of what she said, there is the patient information brochure. So maybe that's really -- that brochure needs to be pointed to and really discussed, and that brochure does include a lot of the types of things that she just spoke of.
So that's part of the labeling that they are making available. So I think it really needs to be pointed out in the counseling and maybe again reminded in the physician's training, so that it's really clear, because they have already taken that time to put that together.
CHAIR CEDARS: Yes, I'm sorry.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I think in both the guidance for counseling and in the patient brochure, silly as it may sound, I think there has to be a statement that the -- this system does nothing to prevent against infectious diseases.
CHAIR CEDARS: And they certainly have that in their labeling.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: It isn't in the patient brochure, though.
CHAIR CEDARS: Ah. Thank you. Didn't realize that. Very good point. Yes?
DR. ROMERO: Yes. And I forgot we were also talking about labeling here. I think the contraindication in the labeling around infections has to do with gross genital infection or, you know, sepsis. And I'm just sort of reminded of the question you asked before that pertains to subclinical infection. And if that was an exclusion criterion for the study, what is it that we know or don't know, and why, then, wouldn't that be considered in the labeling?
CHAIR CEDARS: So I did not see that in the labeling, that cultures were required before placement of the device, and yet it was said that that was done as part of the study. So that's a good point, because I didn't realize that. Is that -- I just wanted to ask the sponsor, did I miss that? Is that part of the physician training and labeling, to recommend cultures prior to placement?
MR. SAVAKUS: We screened -- during the clinical study screened for chlamydia and gonorrhea and that was it.
CHAIR CEDARS: Right. No, I know you did during the clinical study. What I'm asking is whether that's advised and recommended as part of your -- either your labeling or your physician training for this when it goes live.
MR. SAVAKUS: We have not considered that yet. We'd be happy to incorporate any Panel feedback on that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Yes, Dr. Stubblefield?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Are we talking about the brochure now, or are we --
CHAIR CEDARS: Let's finish this one first, which is addressing training. And then, we'll -- the next question is about the labeling. They are sort of a bit together, but -- so if I can summarize, I think that overall there was a sense that the training instructions from the sponsor were appropriate, but that there should be additional information about fluid management and additional information in the training manual about counseling for the physician, not just in the patient information but also counseling and the importance of patient involvement in this particular type of sterilization procedure.
And then, I think some issues about target group -- and I think the issue in terms of target group may have to do with both the younger age having higher regret as well as the younger age having a higher pregnancy rate. So I don't know whether that's a counseling issue and people want to talk about that at this point, or whether that's really more labeling in terms of whether we might want to put some specific precaution in terms of the younger age groups.
Dr. Gilliam?
DR. GILLIAM: I think the data on the younger age groups is pretty preliminary, given the numbers. I don't know what becomes a -- or how it would be put in the labeling, but I think the numbers are small and hard to interpret.
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, I think one of the concerns -- and Dr. Diamond was talking about that the placement failure was lower in the younger group, and yet the pregnancy rates are higher, and I suspect that has to do with the fact that the pregnancy rates, background rates, are higher for the younger women. So as you get older, your background rates are lower, so it may -- it may not only be that they are using some other contraception. It may just be that they are infertile based on age alone, and so to me that wasn't so surprising that those went in opposite directions.
Ms. Brogdon?
MS. BROGDON: Dr. Cedars, Dr. Corrado has a question.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: I'm just concerned that before we leave the issue of training that we get some discussion of the point that Dr. Snyder raised regarding transvaginal ultrasound at the time of HSG. That was part of the study. It would help FDA if the Panel would engage that point in terms of us going forward.
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, I think there is actually -- my understanding is what Dr. Snyder was actually suggesting was transvaginal ultrasound much sooner, because the HSG is not for 12 weeks, and that in the study, as I understand it, the ultrasound was one week later to assure that there was bilateral placement. So it's not at the time of -- three weeks later?
DR. SNYDER: We have one week and then three months.
CHAIR CEDARS: One week and then three months. And so there is -- I think there's two issues that were part of the study that I think become relevant for physician education that we need to discuss. One is the ultrasound. Should it be there at week 1? Should it be there at week 12? And, two, the cultures and the search for subclinical infection.
Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: My recommendation was that what was done in the protocol when -- the manner in which the safety and the efficacy data was derived ought to be what would be done in the future. So there should be the cultures, and there ought to be the ultrasounds as well at both times.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Sharp?
MEMBER SHARP: I would argue against having to do the ultrasound. I think it was nice for the study to know if it's there, but I think we also learned that it didn't necessarily correlate, and what you really want to know, if you're really going to do something and you're going to use that, whether it's surrogate or not, you're going to use that HSG, because there is some precedence for doing that now with another study. That that's really what you're looking for in terms of an imaging study.
CHAIR CEDARS: I'm not sure that that's true, and maybe the sponsor can clarify it. But in patients where on ultrasound one week later there were no matrices, those people never got to HSG. Is that correct?
MR. SAVAKUS: They did, because --
CHAIR CEDARS: After replacement.
MR. SAVAKUS: There was a combination. Some of those -- one was repeated at three months, found to be missing. One was immediately retreated. Lack of a matrix does not mean the matrix isn't there. It can also mean the matrix wasn't found. But at the end of the day, all of our decisions about reliance were driven by HSG and not by ultrasound.
CHAIR CEDARS: And because you were having the patients use alternative contraception for those three months anyway, it didn't matter whether you saw the matrix at one week or not?
MR. SAVAKUS: Correct.
MEMBER SHARP: One more thing. I mean, if we're really trying to make this easier for the patient, you know, that's another -- you know, something they have to come in for, have to get billed for that, and I just don't think it makes a difference, if you're really linking the procedure and the HSG as a three- month process.
CHAIR CEDARS: But I do agree with Dr. Diamond, and I'd like information from the rest of the Panel in terms of the cultures, because we're judging safety and safety -- one of the safety issues is with infection, and we're judging that based on the trial in which they did do the cultures.
So is -- Dr. Ramin?
DR. RAMIN: I would agree with requiring cultures and not requiring the ultrasound, but doing the HSG at three months.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I have to say it one more time. Then, what you all are advocating is future use of this device in a way in which we have absolutely no efficacy or safety data.
CHAIR CEDARS: Although their efficacy was based on the HSG at three months.
DR. SNYDER: But you -- if it was just one, that there was at least somebody that was immediately retreated -- you know, had a second attempt at putting the device in, you know, and we don't know if an HSG would have, you know -- in that patient, you know, would have -- you know, because of tubal spasm or whatever, would have, you know -- you know, given us a false positive result. It's --
DR. DIAMOND: It's very unusual for a sponsor to do something like ultrasounds with all of the expenses that are going to be required, to do that as part of a clinical trial in over 600 patients, if there wasn't some value of doing it.
DR. SNYDER: And then -- and the only other, you know, point I'll make is, you know, on -- you know, with the device that's there now, you know, as part of the HSG, there is also radiographic confirmation of placement 361 of the device. So it's still a two-pronged --
CHAIR CEDARS: You're talking about by ultrasound, because I don't think --
DR. SNYDER: No.
CHAIR CEDARS: -- you see the matrix on the HSG.
DR. SNYDER: No, no. I'm talking about, you know, with Essure.
CHAIR CEDARS: Oh. Oh, okay.
DR. SNYDER: You also -- you know, part of that report is seeing, you know, radiopaque, you know.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Romero, do you think coming in -- the extra time for cultures, the extra time for the ultrasound -- in addition to the procedure visit and the HSG visit, are these benefits or are these obstacles for patients?
DR. ROMERO: I think generally what -- again, from the public healths perspective, generally what is taken into account is, first and foremost, what is the most effective and safe approach for patients, and then in that context who is more likely or less likely to make this decision on the basis of their own circumstances.
So, clearly, anything that requires more time, more effort on the part of the individual, is potentially going to be a barrier. But I don't think that should influence the decision as to what should be sort of the medically sound components of making this method available.
So from a public health perspective, you know, oftentimes we will say if individuals have to make multiple trips to their health care provider, and if it's going to increase cost and they have a cost, you know, situation, insurance situation, individuals might be less likely to seek it. But we'll never advocate that the sort of what's considered clinically and medically sound be minimized as a result of that. Then, it's just sort of the public health and the client sort of advocates that will try to find ways to assist them.
So I really don't think that that, you know, should sort of take precedence, but I do because I think I reraised this issue -- I do think that from the study design perspective, if -- you know, measurements, if cultures were taken to assess subclinical, whether there was a presence of subclinical infection, I really don't see how, then, there should be sort of a consideration of not including that in moving forward with the product.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Gilliam?
DR. GILLIAM: I had thought about the ultrasound question, but when I had read the FDA summary, on page 31, they state that it's interesting to note that on ultrasound 598 of 604 subjects had devices visualized bilaterally. And then, when they went on to do the HSG, that fewer -- 551 -- actually had confirmed occlusion, so they warn us against relying on the vaginal ultrasound to confirm occlusion.
So my concern is that we are worried about people following up. I don't want to throw in a test that is not reliable to make people think, "Oh, I'm fine," and they may not show up. I'm also concerned about physician time, physician training. I think it was mentioned earlier how well trained are physicians to locate the device on ultrasound. And so now, are we adding an additional training component? So I don't want to introduce false security or additional obstacles to providing the service.
CHAIR CEDARS: I think the issue about false security is a good one. Dr. Zaino?
DR. ZAINO: Yes. I just would like to speak in support of Dr. Gilliam's comments. With a transvaginal ultrasound that's neither sensitive nor specific with respect to this, it's a tremendous additional burden associated with this, without significant information. And it may distract from the needed requirement of the HSG. I would also like to speak in favor of the absolute requirement for the chlamydia and GC testing, not necessarily by culture but by a sensitive assay.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond, and then we'll try to sum this up.
DR. DIAMOND: I was going to make a couple of points. Number one, I mean, the test for infectious disease can be done at the time a patient is coming in for a preoperative visit. So it doesn't have to be a separate visit. Plus, most surgical procedures that I do, including hysteroscopy, I don't wait three months for that patient to come back to see me. I usually see them a couple of weeks post-operatively, make sure they're doing well. And so the ultrasounds could be done at that point, and it could be done at the time, subsequently, of HSG potentially as well. So it doesn't necessarily have to be additional visits.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay. Thank you. So I think there is general agreement on some assessment for subclinical infectious, cultures, some more sensitive technique. What I feel there is less consensus on is the ultrasound. So if we could maybe have a show of hands of those who are in favor of adding the transvaginal ultrasound and following exactly as the protocol was done.
So, Dr. Snyder, yes. Dr. Stubblefield, no. Dr. Zaino, no. Dr. Ramin, no. Dr. Davis, no. Dr. D'Agostino, yes. Dr. Sharts-Hopko, no. Dr. Sharp, no. Dr. Peterson, no. Dr. Perco - - Propert --
DR. PROPERT: I'll abstain, actually.
CHAIR CEDARS: -- abstain. Dr. Diamond, yes. Dr. Gilliam, no. Dr. Hillard, no.
So we had -- oh, I'm sorry. Yes?
MS. BROGDON: Dr. Cedars, Dr. Corrado has a question about the timing of the ultrasound.
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, I'm not sure that anybody has agreed we should do any ultrasounds. I mean, most of the -- the strongest -- there were only one, two, three, four in favor of ultrasounds from the Panel. So there may not be -- at least unless I am misinterpreting that, there may not be a recommendation for any ultrasounds, much less when it should be done.
MS. BROGDON: Could Dr. Corrado make a comment, please?
CHAIR CEDARS: Please.
DR. CAREY-CORRADO: So as you've heard in the study protocol, there was a transvaginal ultrasound to look for the matrices at one week following the procedure, and at the time of the HSG.
So what we -- I want to make absolutely sure that there isn't any doubt in anyone's mind that even at one week that the Panel is not seeing a benefit of confirming that the matrix is present at one week before asking the subject to rely on alternative contraception and come back in 12 weeks and undergo an HSG. It's an important question. I just want to make sure that there's no confusion about that. There are two different time points that we're talking about.
CHAIR CEDARS: So this is specifically about the ultrasound at one week to confirm the device is present, and, as we discussed that, I would also ask that if the suggestion is that we do do that ultrasound, and the device is not seen, given that there are false negatives, would you -- is the company recommendation then going to be to do a repeat attempt at placement? Because I think you can't. And the issue that I think Dr. Gilliam brought up in terms of, are you giving a false sense of security to the people where you see both matrices who may yet still not have occlusion and still needs to be contracepting in those three months.
Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I was just going to say that the results that we saw in the study with identification at one week represents probably the best there will ever be, because we had a very experienced hysteroscopist with extensive training and expertise as part of the study. And when it gets out into general use, you will have people who are less experienced hysteroscopists and less experienced in cannulating Fallopian tubes -- I presume many of the people doing this study had used other procedures where they cannulized tubes in the past -- and so I would expect that the failure rate is going to be much higher. How much higher, I don't know.
And so I think some sort of early identification is of value to the patient and raises people's -- heightens the practitioner and the patient's realization that there may be -- they really need to look into this and not ignore it.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Sharp?
MEMBER SHARP: So are we sure that ultrasound is really sensitive? And does it make a difference? So if you do an ultrasound, and you don't see something, and you do an HSG and the tubes are blocked, what do you do? I mean, are you assuming that this is tubal spasm, or are you assuming that they're occluded? So I -- I think it makes it a little confusing in terms of the ultrasound.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Snyder, and then perhaps we can ask the sponsor what their recommendations would be.
DR. SNYDER: In the pivotal study, you know, there were a couple episodes -- instances of device non-deployment. I think a couple were recognized immediately, and some were not even recognized until the HSG.
The only way I would think that they -- at three months, the only way they would have recognized that is there was no matrix in there. But, again, when you're out in that -- in the big world, you know, you're going to have more susceptibility to that. I don't know that they're going to be able to answer your question what's the sensitivity, you know, of the test, but, you know, again, my -- my concern is that if there is, you know, not a device there, and if you wait for an HSG at three months, and then you're going to tell the patient to wait another three months for another HSG, if there's no device there, you know, they've just burned six months. I mean, I don't -- I don't know what the recommendation from the manufacturer is going to be, or anything else. But, again, this was part of the study protocol.
CHAIR CEDARS: If the sponsor could address that and, also, what was part of the protocol? If the ultrasound at one week showed no device, what did the study pivotal protocol state should happen?
MR. SAVAKUS: There was no decisions driven by ultrasound. So if the ultrasound at one week showed the matrix wasn't there, the protocol was silent on whether the patient should be retreated or not. We had a few episodes of retreatment as you saw from the presentation. There were eight retreatment attempts.
Some of those were acute, some of those were done at three months, but following discussions with FDA, we've eliminated retreatments from the protocol. We would not recommend patients be retreated with the device. If they've already had RF energy and a matrix attempt in a tube, we would not bring them back for a repeat treatment.
So ultrasound, we don't believe, would be a valuable tool for guiding retreatment decisions. We might consider ultrasound at three months if the HSG is open, so a patient might not wait an additional three months. But given the fact that ultrasound, as it turns out, on the basis of the clinical results was fairly insensitive to missing -- or excuse me -- to open HSGs, we had matrices in place, but we had open HSGs.
So it was not predictive of the HSG results. So it wasn't a valuable tool for all patients for managing their care, but it may be a tool for patients that have an open HSG where you want to discover is it worth waiting enough.
CHAIR CEDARS: Was it helpful in -- was there any predictive ability if you did not see the device at one week? Were any of those not retreated and then had occlusion at three months on HSG? Because that's really the question, is if you already know at one month the device is not there, and then you're wasting the three months. So that would be the question is if there were people who --
MR. SAVAKUS: I will have to look that number up. It's certainly on the order of a handful of patients, two, three, four, if any at all, and I can look that up and check very quickly.
CHAIR CEDARS: Are there additional issues that you wanted raised? So do we want to revisit the ultrasound issue and then there are too -- there was the suggestion of and I think it would be relevant if there are issues where the matrix was not seen at one week and yet tubal occlusion was documented, although one could argue that that was spasm, that might make you more easily eliminate the one week ultrasound and then potentially the option of not everyone gets ultrasounds at three months, but if patency is noted, rather before you choose to wait an additional three months, then look by ultrasound.
So are there any additional comments or discussion about that? Do you have an answer to that question? Four did not have a device present. Did not get a repeat placement.
MR. SAVAKUS: Yes, four patients did not have a matrix seen at one week. Went on to have a matrix seen at three months. And it closed HSG.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay, so there were cases where there was no matrix seen at one week, and yet nothing was done and they did have occlusion, plus minus a matrix seen at three months?
MR. SAVAKUS: Yes.
CHAIR CEDARS: So does that change people's comments, thoughts about ultrasound?
DR. DIAMOND: I'd just like to know the other way around. How many had matrix -- no matrix at one week, who had tubal patency at three months?
CHAIR CEDARS: Oh, I see. But if you're telling everybody to wait three months --
DR. DIAMOND: So how often was it right? There were four in which it was wrong, but how many was it right?
MR. SAVAKUS: I believe I put up that slide. There was three missing matrices at one week that went on to be confirmed missing at HSG.
DR. DIAMOND: So three out of seven then, three out of seven patients?
MR. SAVAKUS: Out of the ones that weren't seen.
DR. DIAMOND: Of the seven patients not seen on ultrasound at one week, three had patency at three months and four did not.
MR. SAVAKUS: Slide up, please? So the three at one week evaluation went on to have patency at three months.
DR. DIAMOND: All three of the ones who had failed visualization at one week, the bottom three in that group, not the q2 amphetamine, the three unknowns, all of them had patency at three months.
MR. SAVAKUS: I think I got lost in the question. I apologize.
CHAIR CEDARS: You just said that there were four that there was nonvisualization of the matrix at week one, had no intervention and then at month three had occlusion.
MR. SAVAKUS: Right, they had a matrix identified at three months and went on to occlude. These are confirmed losses, so these were missing at one week, at three months and open HSG.
CHAIR CEDARS: So can we add these three and those four and say that there were seven where it was not confirmed at one week. They were not retreated, and of those three had confirmed patency and four had occlusion at month three?
MR. SAVAKUS: Yes.
DR. DIAMOND: That is a pretty high predictive rate of who is going to have a failure?
CHAIR CEDARS: Under 50 percent.
MR. SAVAKUS: The other point is that there were 34 -- excuse me, I need to pull the numbers. There are a significant number of patients --
CHAIR CEDARS: Fifty others that had the matrix in place, but had patent tubes.
MR. SAVAKUS: At one week and three months and then went on to have patent tubes.
CHAIR CEDARS: So the question is if you looked at a number needed to treat, we're not supposed to include cost, but if you looked at a number needed to treat for that first ultrasound to pick up those patients, is that something you would recommend for the one week ultrasound?
Particularly, if we hold with what we said earlier which is that the HSG should be part of -- considered part of the procedure. The three-month HSG is to be considered part of the primary procedure. Do we gain anything with the ultrasound at one week? Can we revisit that at least from those who were in favor of the ultrasound?
Dr. Snyder?
DR. SNYDER: Correct me if I'm misinterpreting this, but then there would have been three patients that had they never come back, if they were lost to follow-up, would have not had any method done. I still think they're obligated to follow what the pivotal trial was. If you separated the question, do I think an ultrasound would need to be done if there was tubal patency at three months with an HSG, clearly I'm going to vote for that too. But that -- you know, would I still be in favor of the one week, yes, because of the way this study was designed.
CHAIR CEDARS: Even though the sponsor says that the information gained from that ultrasound was not utilized as part of the trial algorithm?
DR. SNYDER: What I heard the sponsor say is that that was not part of the protocol, but there was at least one deviation from protocol and the patient was immediately retreated. And I don't know if it's just one.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. D'Agostino.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I'm very uncomfortable deviating from the protocol. We're basing efficacy on six events and we're talking about seven things happening here. If we start off by saying well, here's the protocol and let's forget about it, let's forget about some of the features of it because they weren't used, I'm not sure that makes sense because the information was there and we don't really know how it was used in the sense of did they check "I'm ignoring this" and check it off. "I read the procedures. See the results. And I'm just ignoring it."
We don't know really how that went into the actual implementation of the study. You do an interview. You do a test and so forth and it gets used in very different ways by the investigators.
And just to throw it out, I don't understand. I hear what you're saying, but I'm not very comfortable with saying that what was done in the protocol can now be chipped away and next step will be some other procedure that's in the protocol that we don't think is useful. I think they should go and test things. They can do a post-marketing and see what kind of information they get. But to start off saying they should ignore it, the protocol feature I'm very uncomfortable.
CHAIR CEDARS: Ms. Brogdon, if I can cut the debate off, the discussion off a little bit, would the FDA be content with sort of general agreement that prescreening infectious disease testing for subclinical infections should be included in the training, but that we leave unresolved at this point the ultrasound issue, or do you want a definitive --
MS. BROGDON: You don't have to get to a unanimous vote. We've heard the discussion.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay, thank you. So let's move on to the next question then. And the next question has to do with labeling which is intimately involved in what we've been discussing thus far, so are there specific questions from the panel? The labeling is on page 875, 876 is where it really starts.
Yes, Dr. Romero?
DR. ROMERO: I wonder if picking up from the discussion around the method actually being viewed as including components that take us out three months, if that's something that should be discussed here with regards to the labeling?
CHAIR CEDARS: So that the method is -- the method itself, well, it really is the cultures, the method itself; the counseling -- although maybe counseling is before the method. The counseling in terms of using alternative contraception for three months, and the three-month HSG is all part of what should be involved in the labeling because that's all part of the common, single process.
DR. ROMERO: And I have -- this is very conflicted for me because again, I'm sort of very favorably inclined toward the methods of just this and providing women with more options, particularly in nonsurgical form of sterilization, but it's a very different message that a woman will get if she's told by her healthcare provider that the option she's electing sort of for it to be fully completed will take three months, minimally three months as opposed to when a woman walks in the door and is choosing sterilization and feels that after the post-operative period it's done.
So I am very cognizant of how this might present barriers, be perceived as barriers among healthcare providers and clients, but at the same time I think it goes toward the clients, the patients making an informed decision and really knowing that they can't, for instance, not think seriously about having to use alternative contraceptive methods for a three-month period and then have sort of unfortunate consequences from that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. I think I saw -- is there someone?
Dr. Stubblefield.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: A couple of things, continuing on what you were bringing up, Dr. Romero, that some patients at six months, so that really needs to be here for the patient. A small thing, but significant, is that the pregnancy rate chart that is given to the patients needs to be updated. Throw out the old progesterone IUD, put in the new Levonogestrel LT in its place. Throw out Norplant which is not available in the U.S. and put in Implanon and the rates that go with that. And I'm wondering whether or not the patient brochure shouldn't mention ectopic pregnancy as a possibility.
CHAIR CEDARS: I think that's a good point.
Yes, Ms. George?
MS. GEORGE: Your comment about the data, actually, that has to be directed at the FDA because the FDA is the one that has released that guidance that tells all of the manufacturers that that's the table they have to put into their documents. So the manufacturers put in what they're directed to put in, so they don't have a choice right now, but actually I've communicated that to them as well.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Dr. Trussell has updated the tables several times.
CHAIR CEDARS: Additional comments? Dr. Sharp?
DR. SHARP: Were we going to put the Adiana in here in terms of the efficacy rate?
CHAIR CEDARS: It has it on page 890, effectiveness rate as of March. Is that still part of their --
DR. SHARP: I'm just looking at 948, so the patient can see that. Because it just says female sterilization is .5.
CHAIR CEDARS: I think the Adiana needs to be included in the chart and then I think that the issue we raised in terms of labeling, particularly in the patient information, but as well in the doctor information, the issue about what the denominator is because I think the patient in order to be adequately counseled, not only needs to have the information that Dr. Romero raised in terms of the whole process, but also if I embark on this process, what is my chance when I'm finished with this process I will have effective sterilization.
And so that includes those that fail at three months and that would not have been counted in the reliance studies. So I think in terms of informed consent on whether or not to go down this road, that needs to be included in the information. Yes?
DR. SHARP: Could you remind me, are these rates in the table from clinical trials or are they from -- also from actual use data?
CHAIR CEDARS: I think they have typical use and lowest expected. I think they have --
DR. SHARP: The rate we're seeing today is from a clinical trial. If these are more like typical use --
MR. POLLARD: These are -- the table was originally taken and this guidance document dates back to I believe 1998, and so over time this is just a guidance document.
So this is not a requirement, per se, although with PMA- type products, I think every company has adopted some version of this, but back to your original question, it really is a compilation of a variety of different sources, originally coming from contraceptive technology by Hatcher, Stewart, and Trussell, right, thank you. And reflects some controlled clinical trials. It reflects some surveys. There was some judgment made as to the different sources they took for those numbers.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: That was my understanding. The question was rhetorical. I mean we can't put a -- this clinical trial based on six against this data.
CHAIR CEDARS: Yes, Dr. Peterson.
DR. PETERSON: I think it's an important point and the other one is that there's a virtual -- it is a certainty that the cumulative probability over time will exceed the year two rate. So we know for all the other methods of sterilization that year ten is greater than year two and we have one pregnancy already in year four.
So we know that the two-year probability is the lowest estimate. It will ultimately be higher than that and that both patient and provider need to know that it's going to be greater than the two-year estimate.
CHAIR CEDARS: Additional comments?
Dr. Stubblefield?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Shouldn't the S-year data be available to the patient?
CHAIR CEDARS: I don't know what the requirements are in terms of it being in the package insert or the labeling. That would be an FDA question. I would defer that to the FDA.
MS. BROGDON: We don't have an answer to that right now.
CHAIR CEDARS: So I think the specific issues about the labeling are one, that this is seen as a process and not a procedure, and that that process includes screening for subclinical infection. It includes extensive counseling, particularly with respect to the length of the process, as well as the need for alternative contraception, counseling about the procedure, and immediate risks itself, and that the treatment is not considered effective until the three-month HSG. And so that this is a process, really not a procedure that people need to be counseled about.
Secondly, that the success rate needs to fairly state what the success rate is from the time someone embarks on this process, and not just the success rate should bilateral occlusion be documented at three months. And then thirdly, that there specifically be a statement about ectopic risk and particularly in terms of the percentage of the documented pregnancies that are ectopic pregnancies so that patients are aware.
Any additional comments or concerns from the panel? If not, if we can move on to the post-approval study. So if people could comment on the proposed post-approval plan which is primarily to follow the subjects that were enrolled in the pivotal trial out through the completion of years three, four, and five, and if you remember earlier this morning, the FDA did raise the issue about whether or not there should be a requirement that patients who undergo hysterectomy that tissue is obtained.
Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I think the addition of new patients as they come into different settings and so forth is very important. Because we're calling it post-approval doesn't mean that I would have voted for approval.
CHAIR CEDARS: Granted.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: The idea of just following these patients which if they already have a fair amount of history on only I think is run. I think they have to go to a more general settings and recruit patients from -- excuse me, recruit subjects from more general settings that's now following them.
CHAIR CEDARS: So issues of generalizability. Other comments?
Dr. Davis?
DR. DAVIS: I had also a question about how it's going to be labeled or studied post- implementation in terms of other surgical procedures on the uterine cavity such as ablation.
CHAIR CEDARS: In other words, labeling or in terms of follow up of those patients --
DR. DAVIS: No, no, no, but in terms of indication for other procedures or safety of other procedures.
CHAIR CEDARS: Safety, since that's what we're supposed to be following here. Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I would like to see more subjects in the youngest age group.
CHAIR CEDARS: I'm sorry?
DR. DIAMOND: More subjects in the youngest age group.
CHAIR CEDARS: More increased subjects in the youngest age group. Yes, Dr. Zaino.
DR. ZAINO: I think that the sponsor had indicated a desire to follow only for five years and I think in addition I would expand upon not just a broader population, but a longer post-market follow-up at least to ten years. And I do feel strongly that there would be a high degree of desirability in seeing the hysterectomy specimens in those patients who undergo hysterectomy for other reasons at later times so we have some idea of what the actual biology for the process is long term.
CHAIR CEDARS: Ms. Brogdon, are there other specific issues -- okay, I'm sorry. Ms. George?
MS. GEORGE: I guess I have a question for the doctors around the room. How would -- how viable do you feel it is that you actually keep your same patients for ten years to be able to help them collect this data? Because I think that was one of the things we were hearing was is how difficult it is to monitor those patients and if they relocate or if they move on and things like that, to be able to do that monitoring.
There's general monitoring that would go on that the sponsor has to do if a patient goes to a new doctor and there's a problem and they say oh, geez, I had that procedure done. They would find out about it because that's part of the normal adverse event reporting obligation that they have to comply with.
So I'm just curious as to how you would be able to help them maintain a viable ten-year study that obviously this is post-approval, so the assumption would be they'd have significantly more patients over the next eight years.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: You're not suggesting that we should just ignore it, just because it may be hard to follow. I mean we ask sponsors to mount studies that involve 20,000 individuals with long follow up. It's hard to do it, but it's not something that we shouldn't say we do because it's hard to follow subjects.
MS. GEORGE: I'm asking you as the physicians though how easy it is for you to be able to do that because that's really what I'm trying to understand. I think the five-years is a good number for the formal data, but going beyond that --
DR. D'AGOSTINO: So you're not questioning the five years.
MS. GEORGE: No, no, the five years I think should be there. I think it's beyond the five years that I'm wondering how we would go about continuing the formal because hopefully for the sponsor and for patients, we have a significant increase in the number of patients, but they're still going to get the normal MDR reporting or adverse event reporting aspects, whether the patient is with you or not, but I think the challenge would be is for you to be able to maintain that same patient for that full ten-year period.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I've been involved in studies where detectives have been hired to follow them, so you can get at this data. You're not asking minor events. You're asking did you get pregnant and did you have complications, so I think it's feasible. It's not easy, but it's feasible.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: I think we've got two points on the table. One is the group that's in the clinical trial and how the degree to which the two-year experience will reflect the ultimate experience and then the question there is is it five years or ten years? And for some methods, ten looks like two times five, and for others, it doesn't. So unless we know what it's going to look like, there would be an argument for there being some benefit to following it longer the better.
But the other is this issue of generalized ability. I think that that's part of the underlying theme that's -- when we're thinking about approval or not approval, there's this sort of nagging feeling that this was in the best of circumstances and that we really don't have a good sense for what the experience would be like in other circumstances and if the pregnancy rate at two years is two percent and let's say you double that at five or ten years and it's four percent in a clinical trial, would it be ten percent or what would it be in sort of the real world.
And it may not be. It may not be any different from the clinical trial situation, but I think that's part of the concern. But whose responsibility is that? Is that the sponsor's responsibility or is that some other collective responsibility. The CREST study was post- market, etcetera and it wasn't the sponsor's responsibility.
So I don't know how that duty owed is fulfilled, but I think it's inescapable that at some point somebody has to support studies that let us know what this is going to look like when it gets out in the general practice.
CHAIR CEDARS: So you're talking about potentially something like a registry?
DR. PETERSON: Or something. I just think at some point somebody has to make that information available to the public.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Romero?
DR. ROMERO: Along those same lines, I think the question of the data collection over time has, while challenging, is very much within the domain of survey research. And there are not only academic research institutions that sort of make a living of doing that, but also independent professional organizations that the sponsor or researchers or whatever will contract with to do.
So I think the feasibility, it's certainly there. What I was struggling with was where the responsibilities lie, and whether that's with the sponsor or in some other domain.
CHAIR CEDARS: Any other comments? Yes.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: The idea of a registry sponsored by NIH or something, for example, very nice, because there are other procedures. And one of the questions I was going to ask should there be a comparison group going on here and if you had a broader funding so forth or even with the company should they be looking at some other procedures to see what's happening over time with them, registry would certainly allow that to happen.
CHAIR CEDARS: So I think there is certainly support for following the patients currently enrolled for five years. There is a desire to follow not only the patients currently enrolled for a longer period of time, but also because of the concerns about generalizability to potentially consider some options such as a registry or some way to identify patients who undergo this procedure and follow them to see if the effectiveness that was noted in the clinical trial is noted in a more generalizable sample and then also that there is support for obtaining these tissue specimens should patients who are in the pivotal trial undergo a surgical procedure.
Yes?
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: Because this was raised this morning, somebody asked the sponsor if there had been any attempt ever to reverse the procedure. In long-term follow up, that's something you'd want to follow.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Ms. Brogdon?
MS. BROGDON: I think we may have a question about control group. If I could just have a moment to clarify the question.
DR. MARINAC-DABIC: My name is Danica Marinac-Dabic. I'm the Chief of Epidemiology, the unit that's in charge of post-approval studies and monitoring their programs. If the panel recommends the involvement of the new patients' cohort, we also would like to hear your comments about the comparison group because we believe we have a chance to improve the study design if we go with the newly enrolled patients.
CHAIR CEDARS: With the newly enrolled patients, yes. So the question is and I think most people would agree that there really isn't a control group per se because you're not going to compare this with normal conception, but there was a suggestion, I believe by Dr. Stubblefield, about the Levonogestrel IUD, suggestions about Essure. Are there other potential comparators that should be considered by the FDA for this kind of new enrollment policy? Yes, Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: I would say -- I think the word registry has been used. I would conceptualize this, I think, as a new cohort study that you would follow women who expressed a desire for sterilization.
One is going to choose this method and another will choose the other transcervical method and then another will choose another interval laparoscopic sterilization method. I would think that I would compare the like to like instead of the top priority for the comparison regroup would be the other trans-cervical method. And if you had the resources to get a laparoscopic method as well. And if you had even more resources, long-acting intrauterine device.
But I would prioritize the like to like first and then generally, gradually move out the concentric circle to methods that are similar, but different.
But I would look longitudinally, just enroll people at the time of sterilization and follow them. The problem with the registry is that it's difficult to get a sense for risk over time. You get snapshots here and there and you don't even necessarily know the denominators at the point that you get the numerators. So as you know, the best design is going to be to enroll patients into the following carefully over time.
CHAIR CEDARS: Yes?
MS. BROGDON: Thank you.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: The term registry is used in different ways now. Quite often when we talk about registries in this post-approval, post-marketing setting, it's in fact what you're describing, that you're going to a number of settings, a number of physicians, a number of practices, and you're identifying individuals by alternative procedures and then following them. So it's not a registry that if the physician feels like writing out a form, he or she does so.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay, so we are a little bit over time. If Ms. Brogdon has no further issues for us to address from the FDA questions --
MS. BROGDON: No further questions.
CHAIR CEDARS: Why don't we take a very brief ten-minute break, and start at 4:30. (Off the record.)
CHAIR CEDARS: We will now resume the meeting and we will proceed with the second open hearing. Prior to the meeting, we received formal requests to speak during today's open hearing. Our first speaker is actually Mary Jane Gallagher. And please remember to identify yourself and your affiliations and if you have any financial relationship with either the company, Hologic, or any of their known competitors.
MS. GALLAGHER: Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Mary Jane Gallagher, the president and CEO of the National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association. Thank you for inviting me to speak with you this afternoon. And no, I do not have any financial holdings or relationships with the sponsor.
For over 35 years, my organization has been at the forefront of providing reproductive health and family planning services to low-income and uninsured women and men through the Title 10 family planning program. Title 10 provides comprehensive, preventive health services to over five million men and women at 4400 health centers nationwide. Last year alone, Title 10 health centers enabled women to avoid one million unintended pregnancies.
I'm here today in support of the pre-market approval application for the Adiana transcervical sterilization system. We're a strong proponent of women being provided the broadest range of reproductive services and options throughout their reproductive years.
For many women, at some point in this cycle, for health or personal reasons, permanent contraception is the option of choice. In 2005 alone, 2 percent of women and that's just over 95,000 seeking services at Title 10 health centers chose sterilization as their primary method of contraception.
Most women who choose contraception do so immediately after delivering a baby and some studies show that oftentimes these women regret the immediacy of their decision. Offering another option, that is, office- based, could give women the time they need to contemplate their decision, thereby ensuring they chose the best and most appropriate option to meet their like needs.
If approved, Adiana will offer our members and our clients another avenue for an in-office procedure that is safe, requires no general anesthesia, and allows minimal time off from work for both the procedure and the recovery. For many of the women we serve, these are essential and critical factors in the decision making process.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. The next speaker is Dr. Shiarra.
DR. SHIARRA: Dr. Cedars, members of the panel, I'm John Shiarra. I'm a professor of OB/GYN at Northwestern. And for many years I've had an interest in female sterilization. I'd like to make some general background remarks about hysteroscopic sterilization and some comparative comments about the Adiana system.
For purposes of disclosure, I've not been a clinical investigator on this trial, but I have been a member of the Data Safety Monitoring Board for Hologics, so I am familiar with the EASE trial. Hologic has paid my expenses to attend this meeting, but I have no financial interest in the company.
Transcervical sterilization techniques and hysteroscope sterilization have been of serious interest to investigators since the early 1970s. This interest was based on the very successful introduction of laparoscopic sterilization in the 1960s. When I was the director of the Program for Applied Research on Fertility Regulation at the University of Minnesota some 35 years ago, we organized the first international workshop on hysteroscopic sterilization.
At that time there were a variety of procedures that were being introduced to occlude the tubes hysteroscopically, using either electrical energy or mechanical devices. In 1983, ten years after the first workshop, we organized a second workshop to review the progress on transcervical sterilization and suffice it to say, that virtually all of the initial approaches that had been tried had been abandoned by that time due to either problems with safety or with efficacy.
Now the one thing that we learned from the early experience was that in order to have a procedure that was going to be successful, one had to have a tissue ingrowth into a device or had to have scar tissue formation.
Now as clinicians intuitively, we knew that there was a natural model for sterilization and that patients with pelvic inflammatory disease often had inflammation and scar tissue formation and this was the procedure that we were trying to replicate with hysteroscopic sterilization. In the 1980s, we had the overblock procedure and also some trials with methyl cyano acrolated (4:34:19) tissue adhesive, but neither of these procedures achieved much popularity.
It was not until ten years ago when the Essure device entered clinical trials that a hysteroscopically-approach sterilization procedure was clinically viable. And the principle of the Essure device that you all realize is to produce an immediate inflammation and then to allow tissue ingrowth into the dacron fiber core of the device. And this fibrosis causes anchoring of the device and subsequent tubal occlusion and sterilization.
The Adiana system using electro-thermal energy to cause an inflammatory response and then subsequent tissue ingrowth into the plastic matrix is a second interesting and attractive approach for hysteroscopic tubal occlusion. Now it has been noted here many times today that the advantages of hysteroscopic sterilization over laparoscopic sterilization are several.
First of all, hysteroscopic sterilization avoids general anesthesia and the complications thereof. Accordingly, it can be performed in an office setting which is vastly preferable for patients. And secondly, hysteroscopic sterilization avoids both the bowel and the vascular injuries that are associated with trocar insertion for laparoscopic procedures. And also, hysteroscopic sterilization may be the preferred approach for certain patients such as the morbidly obese woman.
Now if the Adiana system is decided to be safe and effective as his being discussed here today, it would give both physicians and patients a second choice for transcervical hysteroscopic sterilization.
Also, I believe there are some theoretical medical advantages to the Adiana system. In particular, there are no metal coils present in the uterus that could interfere with future diagnostic procedures should a patient require such procedures because of abnormal bleeding or other symptoms.
Also, in the rare instance that a patient would require IVF following sterilization, since the uterine cavity is not distorted, the uterine cavity is essentially normal and theoretically would make IVF a safer procedure. So I hope this information is helpful to the Committee, and I thank you for giving me the opportunity to present it.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. And the next speaker is Dr. McCausland.
DR. McCAUSLAND: My name is Dr. Arthur McCausland. I'm an OB/GYN affiliated with the University of California at Davis Medical School. And I have no financial conflict of interest. My goal is to inform the FDA about the potential problem of tubal activation after injury to the interneural or proximal oviduct.
And I'm specifically talking about thermal injury. The first time that tubal activation was noted after tubal injury was in 1916 by Dr. Sampson in an article published, "Post Salpingectomy Endometriosis" and he called in endosalpingiosis. When he did his salpingectomy, he also did a corneal resection which injured the intramural oviduct and he noticed that the tubal epithelium became activated and started invading into the cornual myometrium.
This is a histogram that is showing how this tubal activation is budding out into the corneal myometrium and he thought that this could be a painful lesion. This activated tissue could also grow into adjacent structures such as the bowel.
I first noticed this tubal activation following a laparoscopic tubal coagulation as an etiologic factor of ectopic pregnancy. The ectopic rates after a tubal ligation failure in the older type of tubal was about 12 percent. However, after a laparoscopic tubal ligation failure, the pregnancy rate was 50 percent.
The reason this occurred is that Dr. Palmer from France who first described laparoscopic tubal coagulation wanted the proximal tube coagulator right next to the cornu because he felt it was the easiest part of the tube to see.
This is in contrast to the older tubals that were done in the middle part of the tube. If you injure the proximal oviduct close to the cornu, you end up activating that tissue and this can cause uteral perineal fistula and the sperm can get out and fertilize an ovum in the fimbriated end.
However, if you injure the middle part of the tube, you don't see any tubal activation, you just see fibrosis. So if you looked at the pathology and the distal part of the tube that's further than two centimeters out from the cornu, you'll see a normal fibrosis and scar-down.
However, if you injure the proximal oviduct within two centimeters of the tube, you can get tubal epithelium and you can see how it is starting to invade into the mesial cell banks. If you injure the tube right next to the cornu, you activate the intramural oviduct and you can see how the tubal epithelium is growing up into the cornu myometrium and also we see endometrial type tissue activation.
That's the reason we call it endosalpingeal blastosis instead of endosalpingeosis. Here you can see where it's both tubal and endometrial epithelium. If you injure the intramural oviduct and the intra-uterine cavity side, up near the tubal ostia, you can also activate the tube on that side. We call this post ablation cornual endosalpingeal blastosis.
And the first case that we found was that with this was a 33-year-old gravida 2 para 2 who had a laparoscopic tubal in October '94 and her pelvis was noted to be normal. In January '95, she had a Rollerball ablation for 416 menorrhagia. She was amenorrheic for six months and then developed increasing left-lower quadrant pain. In December '99, she had an MRI with a left cornual hematometra. This was successfully drained, however, it recurred and she ended up having a hysterectomy at which time not only a cornual hematometra was found, but also PACE.
So this is a Sagittal MRI showing the cornual hematometra and after the total ablation, the myometrial walls have a tendency to grow together to block blood. And not only did we find this cornual hematometra, but where the tubal ostia was injured, we found this activated tubal epithelium growing into the cornual myometrium through the serosa and into the bowel. And the pathology again showed both tubal and endometrial epithelium, making the diagnosis of endosalpingeal blastosis.
So we feel that the FDA should make sure that tubal activation is not problematic after thermal injury from hysteroscopic sterilization and requests serial cornual sections on any hysterectomy specimen being done three to four years after the procedure to see if endosalpingeal blastosis is present and determine if this is a painful lesion. It takes two to four years to develop, so it would have to be a post-market requirement.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. At this time, I'd like to ask if anyone else from the audience would like to address the panel? If so, if you would come to the podium and again, please give your name, affiliation, and any financial relationship you have with the company or its competitors.
DR. STABINSKI: Thank you. My name is Dr. Seth Stabinski. I'm a former medical director of Adiana. They're not paying for me to be here. I have no affiliation with them or anyone else at this time.
I would just like to quickly comment about what Dr. McCausland just said and I thought that was really a very interesting presentation, but I think we really don't know that end of one about whether the Rollerball caused that or not.
But more concerning to me was Dr. Diamond's comments. Again, as much as I respect him and appreciate his incredible knowledge in this area, I'm really concerned about the idea of segregating the younger age group here.
First of all, the younger age group in this, the way that the age groups were determined for both the Essure study and this was looking at what CREST had done. CREST was done years and years and years ago. We sterilized patients perhaps at much younger ages back then where people were done with their families at much younger ages back then. I asked all the gynecologists sitting around the table right now how many of you would sterilize a 24-year-old or a 23-year-old or a 22-year-old?
The youngest age group in the group -- I think we're incredibly lucky to have data from CREST to have data from Adiana, to have data from Essure that tells us that yes, the risk is a little higher for women that are younger to have tubal ligation.
But please don't put the burden on industry or please don't put the burden on industry or me as a potential investigator down the road to be recruiting patients who are under 25 years old for a sterilization. I think that borders on -- really, that borders on the immoral, I think. We're talking about patients who are still very young. There's regret. And I think to try to gather that kind of data is absolutely not -- we have enough data on that age group.
That's really all I wanted to say on that.
The only other thing I would comment on is Dr. Romero made the comment that poor people are making -- I don't want to misquote you, but that poor people are often using sterilization much more than others and I think we heard from Ms. Gallagher that -- I spend about half my time working for Planned Parenthood. The other half of my time I'm a hysteroscopic gynecologist. That's all I do in my office in San Jose.
And in my experience with Planned Parenthood, I can tell you that I see on a daily basis maybe five patients, six patients a day who are para 6, para 5, 39 years old. We have a program in California that will pay for them to be sterilized and they absolutely are terrified of going to the hospital and have a laparoscopic tubal.
I think the other point is is that the reason why it seems like people are taking more advantage of it is because there are 400,000 vasectomies every year done in the United States. those vasectomies are done because we as gynecologists tell our patients it's cheaper, safer, more effective to have a vasectomy than it is to have a tubal ligation or their wives are telling them, "it's your turn."
But anyway, now there's available, Essure is available now, a well-accepted method being used more and more and Adiana, hopefully, is going to come to market and be available as well, and I think that only benefits the patient population that's out there, as well as me as a customer buying these products from manufacturers to have more than one out there. So I'm very hopeful that FDA will find favorably on this PMA.
And also, really, please don't do anything about younger patients. I think we've got enough data on them and there's too much regret in that group already. Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Is there anyone else who is interested in speaking? Yes.
MS. DOMICUS: Cindy Domicus with the Conceptus again. I promise to be brief.
Although I appreciate and understand the earlier comments that the data in this PMA has to stand alone, throughout the presentations all day today there have been numerous comparisons of the Adiana failure rates to -- the failure rates in the CREST study, the failure rates of the Hulka clip and the failure rates of the Filshie clip. There's also been comparisons of the safety of hysteroscopic approaches, laparoscopic approaches.
What has been noticeably absent though is comparison of the failure rates of Adiana as compared to the Essure system and this is surprising to us because it would seem that the Essure system be the most relevant comparison to make for two reason.
One is only transcervical sterilization as it is approved by the FDA and two, the study designs that were evaluated both these devices were virtually identical. And so it would seem like the data sets would be the most comparable.
And for that reason I'd like to reiterate my comments earlier today that the labeling for the device should include a comparison of the efficacy rates with Essure especially in all the discussion today about the sensitivities around patient counseling and the need to make sure that patients are aware of the risks and benefits of all their alternatives.
And also, to Dr. Chen's question about what is an appropriate control group for the post- approval study. Again, I would offer Essure as at least one of the control groups to be considered and note that we have all of our Phase 2 and pivotal trial patients have been followed through four years of follow-up and a portion of them have been followed for five years, so there's definitely long-term data to which to compare. And for the record, the failure rate all the way through four years in the subset of patients for five years remains at zero for the Essure system.
Second point is in regards to post-approval studies. The Essure PMA was approved in November 2002. We had two conditions of approval studies. One was to complete the already planned five-year follow up in the Phase 2 and pivotal trials and the other though was to conduct a study of placement rates in newly trained positions and the sample size capacity was 800 patients. So that's not been proposed for the Adiana device and we don't know why that would be different for them.
Third, the applicant this morning said that their draft labeling includes the Essure HSG protocol and because of that they would expect to have good pregnancy rates in a commercial setting.
I wanted to point out there are two main aspects to the HSG protocol. One is showing tubal occlusion, but the second is showing satisfactory device location which is possible with the Essure device because it's radiopaque. The Adiana device is not radiopaque and therefore you cannot look at satisfactory device location on HSG, and therefore, the Essure HSG protocol cannot be fully duplicated for the Adiana device. As such, we would think that requiring the two transvaginal just sounds redundant in the clinical trials to be a minimal requirement.
And last, there's been a lot of discussion today about the statistical hypothesis that was approved in the IDE and whether or not that was appropriate. I can tell you that the Essure pivotal trial IDE also had the same statistical hypothesis and I imagine that the Adiana trial just replicated that. At the time we made the risk-benefit justification to FDA though for that failure rate, it was based on the fact that there was no non-incisional methods of tubal sterilization available to patients.
Now that the Essure PMA has been approved five years ago, the landscape has changed, and therefore we think it's acceptable for the failure rates are to be affected as a result of that landscape change.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to address the panel? If not, we will proceed with the FDA and sponsor's summations. Are there any further comments or clarifications from the FDA? If not, are there any further comments or clarification from the sponsor? And if I could please ask that you limit your comments to ten minutes.
MR. SAVAKUS: Easily. Thank you for your time today and the discussions. Your input has been very helpful to us. In particular, your guidance on counseling has sharpened our recognition that this is an important aspect of our commercial efforts and we appreciate the need both in terms of patient labeling as well as for our physician training program.
In regards to the post-market studies, we do agree that continued follow up of the current EASE cohort is necessary. We will continue to collect data throughout this follow up period regarding explant tissue and histology and histological analysis.
We will also look to extend the follow up period in the trial although recognizing that patients have only been consented to five years and we will make this offer to patients, but we cannot be assured of their participation. We will also explore, as Ms. Domicus just mentioned, explore with FDA the design of a post-market study such as was required for Essure.
This study sought to evaluate 45 newly trained physicians enrolling 800 patients in the trial. This was to evaluate real-world performance, as well as to evaluate their physician-training program. We believe that the safety and effectiveness of the Adiana system has been established and we respectfully asked for your approval recommendation.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. We are now ready to vote on the panel's recommendation to the FDA for this PMA. Dr. Bailey will now read the panel recommendation options for pre-market approval applications.
Dr. Bailey?
EXEC. SEC. BAILEY: The medical device and amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended by the Safe and Medical Device Act of 1990, allows the Food and Drug Administration to obtain a recommendation from an expert advisory panel on designated medical device pre-market approval applications that are filed with the Agency. The PMA must stand on its own merits and your recommendation must be supported by safety and effectiveness data in the application or by applicable, publicly-available information.
The definition of safety, effectiveness, and valid scientific evidence are as follows: Safety. There is a reasonable assurance that a device is safe when it can be determined based upon valid scientific evidence that the probably benefits to health from the use of the device or its intended uses and conditions of use when a company by adequate directions and warnings against unsafe use outweigh any probable risks. Effectiveness.
There is a reasonable assurance that the device is effective when it can be determined, based upon valid, scientific evidence that a significant portion of the target population, the use of the device for its intended uses and conditions of use, when accompanied by an adequate directions for use and warnings against unsafe use, will provide clinically-significant results.
Valid scientific evidence is evidence from well-controlled investigations, partially controlled studies, studies in objective trials without matched controls, well- documented case histories conducted by qualified experts and reports of significant human experience with a marketed device from which it can fairly and responsibly be concluded by qualified experts that there is reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of a device under its conditions or use. Isolated case reports random experience reports lacking sufficient details to permit scientific evaluation and unsubstantiated opinions are not regarded was valid, scientific evidence to show safety or effectiveness.
The recommendation options for the vote are as follows: Approval. If there are no conditions attached. Approval With Conditions. The panel may recommend that the PMA may be found approvable subject to specified conditions such as physician or patient education, labeling changes, or further analysis of existing data.
Prior to voting, all of the conditions should be discussed by the panel. Not approvable. The panel may recommend that the PMA is not approval if the data do not provide a reasonable assurance that the device is safe or the data do not provide reasonable assurance that the device is effective under the conditions of use prescribed, recommended or suggested in the proposed labeling.
Following the voting, the chair will ask each panel member to present a brief statement outlining the reasons for his or her vote.
Dr. Cedars?
CHAIR CEDARS: Are there any questions from the panel about the voting options before I ask for a main motion for this PMA?
Yes, Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: This is a clarification about the conditions. It sounded like in terms of additional information from what was just read that it's restricted to additional analyses of existing data, but it also sounded like from the speaker from the floor that there was a condition in the approval of a similar device for additional data to be collected. Is it -- I'm just trying to see what conditions -- are conditions.
CHAIR CEDARS: If I could defer that to Ms. Brogdon and have her respond to that, please?
MS. BROGDON: A viable condition of approval would be a post-approval study, but -- and another viable condition would be analysis of data that's already been gathered, a re- analysis, but if you're requesting new data before a marketing decision could be made, then that would be subject to not approval of recommendation.
CHAIR CEDARS: Any additional questions from the panel? And if the panel can refer to the flow chart with respect to voting. Is there a motion for either approval, approval with conditions, or nonapproval from the panel?
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I move approval with conditions.
DR. ZAINO: Second.
CHAIR CEDARS: So there's a first motion and a second for approval with conditions. Is there any discussion on that motion, on the main motion, not the specific conditions, but the main motion of approval with conditions? If not --
DR. DIAMOND: I think you have to go the other way around, you discuss the conditions before we can vote on whether we would vote to approval with conditions.
MS. BROGDON: That's true. You need to -- you can discuss the main motion, but you also then would need to add on the conditions before a final vote. But could you say into the record who made the motion and who seconded, please?
CHAIR CEDARS: I'm sorry. Dr. Sharts-Hopko made the motion for approvable with conditions, and Dr. Zaino seconded the motion. It was moved that the PMA be approved with conditions. Please refer to the yellow portion of the voting procedure flow chart.
Remember, we are voting on the conditions of approval for this PMA application as it stands. We must first recommend a condition. The condition must then be seconded. Then there will be discussion regarding the recommended condition as it was worded.
There will then be a vote on that condition. If that condition is approved, it will be the first condition to the main motion, approvable with conditions and we will then move on with new conditions and a repeat of this process until no new conditions are brought to the front.
Finally, we approve -- we will vote to approve Adiana transcervical sterilization system with all the conditions we have just approved by a majority vote.
Does anyone wish to recommend a condition?
Dr. Stubblefield?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: I would recommend as a condition the beginning and carrying out of the post-marketing study that we've heard about.
CHAIR CEDARS: Could you please be more specific in terms of which post-marketing study that would be?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: The one that was presented to us by the company that we then modified.
CHAIR CEDARS: So to follow the subjects for five years?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Five years.
CHAIR CEDARS: And the explant or just to follow the subjects for five years for clinical outcome?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Follow for five years for clinical outcome.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there a second for that motion?
DR. DAVIS: Second.
CHAIR CEDARS: Second by Dr. Davis. Is there any discussion on the first condition?
Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Are we not asking the sponsor to recruit new subjects? Is that part of -- I just want to make sure I'm -- I thought they said they were going to train 45 physicians or whatever the number was.
CHAIR CEDARS: That may be a second condition, but for the first condition -- I think this is for each individual condition.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I thought it was presented what the sponsor suggested. The sponsor didn't suggest just following.
CHAIR CEDARS: We were going to start with the condition as specified by Dr. Stubblefield.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I thought I heard the sponsor say they were willing to consider looking at - - following these patients for longer than five years. They would do it for five years, but they were willing to look and try to do it for longer and I would think that would be desirable, if it was possible.
CHAIR CEDARS: I guess the question would be desirable, if possible, is not much of a condition because it has a lot of flexibility.
DR. DIAMOND: Then I would like to see them follow up for ten years instead of five.
CHAIR CEDARS: So that would be a new motion because the motion on the table is to follow the current patients for five years for clinical outcome.
DR. DIAMOND: So I'm arguing against the current motion as it's now stated.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Zaino?
DR. ZAINO: Question for clarification. It was my understanding that this sponsor had originally designed a five-year follow-up with office visits. So I'm unclear that this motion actually represents any alteration from what was proposed by the sponsors?
CHAIR CEDARS: Mr. Pollard?
MR. POLLARD: Yes, I was just going to clarify with respect to both of those last two comments. You could, as a matter of course in a discussion of that first condition amend that condition.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay.
MR. POLLARD: So that at the end when you vote on that first condition, it might wind up being a little bit different than the initial, but ultimately you would vote on that condition before you move to the next condition.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay, so can we talk about post-approval studies and I think that there was going to be a plan for follow up for five years, so there's been a suggestion that we increase that to ten years.
Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: My suggestion is that there also be new subjects recruited in the post-marketing study.
CHAIR CEDARS: And then there was a suggestion that there be recruitment of new subjects in a post-marketing study and as Dr. Stubblefield presented the motion, we would need his concurrence for acceptance of those changes.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: I'm willing to concur. The question about feasibility, is this doable? Extending the study to ten years, adding new subjects, all of that costs money.
CHAIR CEDARS: Can you restate --
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Is that a reasonable request?
CHAIR CEDARS: Can you restate a motion or would you like to withdraw that motion and have another motion on the table for discussion?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Okay, I'll withdraw the motion.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: Actually, I have to withdraw the motion because I made it.
CHAIR CEDARS: Oh, you made it. I'm sorry.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I'm willing to do that.
DR. YUSTEIN: Dr. Cedars, this is Aron Yustein, Deputy Office Director for the Office of Device Evaluation.
What you have right now on the table is a motion made by Dr. Stubblefield that either one of two things has to happen -- so either Nancy has to withdraw that or you have to vote on it right now. You can vote on it and vote it down as a group in which case then you can go on to another one, but she has to make a decision to withdraw and amend it or if she's not going to do that, you have to vote on that motion.
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I'm willing to withdraw it.
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Hers was the approval with conditions.
CHAIR CEDARS: So Dr. Stubblefield has the motion of the --
DR. YUSTEIN: That's what I thought. Dr. Stubblefield made the motion for a condition of approval studies. So he either needs to amend it, withdraw it and amend it, or you need to vote on as he proposed it which was a five-year follow up of the patients, correct?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: I think I'll withdraw it at this time.
DR. YUSTEIN: And then if you're going to make a new one that needs to be seconded then.
CHAIR CEDARS: Correct. So if there a motion for condition?
Dr. Diamond.
DR. DIAMOND: I would make the recommendation that one of the conditions be that we ask the sponsor to work with the FDA to come up with a plan for a 10-year follow up for the patients already involved in the pivotal trial.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there a second for that motion?
Dr. Ramin?
DR. RAMIN: Second.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there any discussion? Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Would you accept also recruiting new --
DR. DIAMOND: I actually would prefer to make that a second motion after this one, rather than --
CHAIR CEDARS: So can we vote on the motion, on the condition that the post-surveillance study include a 10-year follow up of the currently enrolled patients? Show of hands for approval of that motion? Just that one condition because we have to vote for each condition. (Unanimous.)
So Dr. Snyder, Dr. Stubblefield, Dr. Zaino, Dr. Ramin, Dr. Davis, Dr. D'Agostino, Dr. Sharts-Hopko, Dr. Sharp, Dr. Peterson, Dr. Propert, Dr. Diamond, Dr. Gilliam, and Dr. Hillard. So it's unanimous in favor of the first condition. Is there now a motion for another condition?
Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: That the PAS also include new subjects.
CHAIR CEDARS: Would you give any further information?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Well, there was a suggestion being made about -- I don't have it down, but about a number of positions and recruiting new subjects. I believe it was brought up by the sponsor, so following that.
CHAIR CEDARS: So as discussed by the sponsor of a follow up of training and --
DR. D'AGOSTINO: And recruitment of new subjects or mainly for the generalized -- well, that physicians can be trained to do it and the generalizability to a broader population.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there a second of that motion?
DR. GILLIAM: Second.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Gilliam. Any discussion?
Dr. Snyder?
DR. SNYDER: Don't we need to be specific? I mean what they already agreed to was 45 newly trained certified whatever physicians with 800 patients.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: What I thought we were saying is what the sponsor actually had presented.
CHAIR CEDARS: So 45 subjects, 45 new physicians, not previously enrolled in the pivotal trial with 800 new subjects. Are you changing your motion?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: No, I didn't recall exactly what the sponsor had suggested and I was really saying the motion was what the sponsor had said they would do.
CHAIR CEDARS: Any other discussion?
Dr. Zaino?
DR. ZAINO: Just a question. How long a follow up is that?
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I thought it was still part of the -- it would be part of the 10-year structure.
CHAIR CEDARS: This would be new enrollment.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Right.
CHAIR CEDARS: So the clock would be different.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Yes, exactly, but I would follow with the ten years.
CHAIR CEDARS: So ten years for the newly enrolled participants.
Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: I think we've got two things that we're working with. One, it sounded like with -- I think one was a speaker from the floor from another device talking about what they were required to do for post-market surveillance, and I'm not sure what we were hearing from the sponsor about what they had proposed to do.
But I think what we were hearing was there was a placement rate study which would not involve on-going follow-up. It would be new positions being trained and then an assessment for whether or not there was adequate placement without follow up of those patients, so I think we need to first clarify which. Because one would be the same study that's being done, replicated with a whole new population not from the same centers, an effectiveness study.
But I think what was proposed was not that, that it was to train new physicians and the outcome was not pregnancy rates over time, but a placement rate initially.
CHAIR CEDARS: Ms. Brogdon?
MS. BROGDON: Would it be helpful if we tried to summarize what it is the sponsor has proposed to do?
CHAIR CEDARS: Yes.
DR. CHEN: So the sponsor can correct me if I summarize it wrong. So I think they mentioned that they will collect, they will keep doing the pre-market EASE trial to follow them and to do the explanted tissue from the patients who are undergoing the hysterectomy. They also would like to do the extended follow up maybe go to ten years, but they're not quite sure. They cannot guarantee this length of follow up at this moment.
In addition to that, they will also work with FDA to determine the exact design of the post-approval study and they probably mention another study designed from another company. They mention about they were enrolled 45 newly certified physicians with about 800 patients to determine the real world experience of this device. I think that's what they said.
CHAIR CEDARS: Can we clarify what experience is because I think there's a difference between experience in placement and occlusion of the tubes and experience in terms of effectiveness.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: My understanding was this was that the experience was the pregnancy and that's what -- the motion I really want to make sure is being made.
DR. CHEN: I think during my presentation I mentioned that in the clinical trial, the physicians are highly selected, I mean relatively selected as compared to the physicians in the real world. Basically, they're community-based. And also patients also are selected.
So we would like to know just in general use what the situation will be and I think you mentioned the placement rates. I think this device is a little bit different than the Essure. I think the Essure system they want to do the placement rate analysis because this placement might be not as high as this device.
Adiana has a much higher placement rate than Essure. Anybody can correct me if I'm wrong.
CHAIR CEDARS: So I think that -- no, I'm sorry. I think that the motion that's currently on the table is for new subjects, 800 subjects, newly enrolled, follow up to pregnancy is the motion that's currently on the table. Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: The other thing I thought I heard also was about the pathology for anyone who has hysteric base.
CHAIR CEDARS: Which is part of the original cohort, so that -- the first motion, the first condition was that the original data would be followed, extended to 10 years. This is a second condition which is a new group of subjects, and the motion currently on the floor is that that the outcome would be pregnancy. Ms. Brogdon, did you have something to say?
MS. BROGDON: Our epidemiologists have a couple of questions. It's not our place right now to point out concerns, but if there are questions of clarification we can ask those.
DR. MARINAC-DABIC: This is just to clarify. First of all, I'd like to know based on what you base the sample size and the 45 physicians and 800 patients, because in the case of Essure, we had a different objective for the study for the biological placement. Here, we are concerned about the pregnancy rate. So making the recommendation that it's just based on what the sponsor, either sponsor proposed, I don't think that's what they're looking for.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I'd like to suggest a friendly amendment to Dr. D'Agostino's motion which would be that we specify that we'd want the study to be done and what we would want the study endpoint to be, but we'd leave to FDA and sponsor to figure out what the actual numbers of physicians and subjects involved would be.
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Accepted.
CHAIR CEDARS: May I ask a question of the FDA which is one of the issues of approvable with conditions was not requiring additional data. And so this appears to me very close to being a new study looking at effectiveness.
MS. BROGDON: A viable condition of approval is to do a new prospective, post-approval study. You're obligated to ensure that you have sufficient data pre-market to make the recommendation of approval.
DR. YUSTEIN: If the data you are looking for you think needs to be done before it can be approved, then that doesn't qualify for a post-approval study. Anything that you're recommending as a post-approval study you're saying that -- you're comfortable with a pre- market data and that information can be collected post-marketing and wouldn't influence your pre-market decision.
CHAIR CEDARS: So you can request for a new patient as long as you feel like your data is based on existing data. DR. YUSTEIN: Right, and that you wouldn't need that information to make a pre-market approval decision.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. D'Agostino, would you accept --
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Well, the line we are going down is approvable with conditions and I'm talking about any device, any drug you want to get a sense of effectiveness, as opposed to efficacy and we oftentimes make decisions based on clinical trials on efficacy and after that we ask let's see what happens in the real world. It's in that setting that I'm making my suggestion.
CHAIR CEDARS: So given Dr. Diamond's friendly amendment, would you like to restate your motion?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I accepted the friendly amendment to the amendment.
CHAIR CEDARS: So if I can restate the motion, is the motion on the table that there be a post-approval study that looks at recruitment of new patients and follow up with an endpoint of pregnancy and that FDA is involved in the design of that study? Is that clear? I just want to make sure that that is, in fact, the way that Dr. D'Agostino would like his amendment?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Yes, it is.
CHAIR CEDARS: Can we have a second to that modified amendment or modified motion?
DR. DIAMOND: New physicians and new patients.
CHAIR CEDARS: New physicians and new patients. Yes, thank you. So is there a second? Dr. Diamond is a second. Any discussion? If not, we'll now vote on the second condition. All in favor, please raise your hand. Dr. Snyder, yes; Dr. Stubblefield, yes; Dr. Zaino, yes; Dr. Ramin, yes; Dr. Davis, yes; Dr. D'Agostino, yes; Dr. Sharts-Hopko, yes; Dr. Sharp, yes; Dr. Peterson, yes; Dr. Diamond, yes; Dr. Gilliam, yes; Dr. Hillard, yes. All opposed to the condition? There are none. All abstentions? Dr. Propert. (Unanimous, with Dr. Propert abstaining.)
So that condition passes favorably. Are there any other motions for additional conditions?
Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: This I guess is a question. Within our prior motions has that included the idea of doing the infectious disease testing and the pressure monitoring of the HSG or do we need to make that a separate motion, how the product, what the labeling for the product would be?
CHAIR CEDARS: Ms. Brogdon, can you address that? Do we -- we discussed with you issues of labeling. Do we need to include those as conditions?
MS. BROGDON: You may, if you wish. We've heard your discussion, but if you feel strongly enough about certain of those, then you can certainly make a condition. That's up to the panel.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: They've heard it. I'm happy with that.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Zaino?
DR. ZAINO: I'd like to move for an amendment that would require a post-market protocol for explant analysis in the event of hysterectomy in those patients enrolled in the current study.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there a second to that motion?
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: Second.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Sharts-Hopko. Any discussion? If not, we'll now vote on the third condition. All in favor, please raise your hand? Dr. Snyder, yes; Dr. Stubblefield, yes; Dr. Zaino, yes; Dr. Ramin, yes; Dr. Davis, yes; Dr. D'Agostino, yes; Dr. Sharts-Hopko, yes; Dr. Sharp, yes; Dr. Peterson, yes; Dr. Propert, yes; Dr. Diamond, yes; Dr. Gilliam, yes; Dr. Hillard, yes. (Unanimous.) Is there another motion for a fourth condition? Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: Yes. I would like to add as a condition that the company be asked to do a perforation study as described earlier where there's an intentional perforation and then applying energy and looking at the effects so we know whether the machine will work in those situations or shut off like it's supposed to and effects on the tissue.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there a second for that motion?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: Second. Dr. Stubblefield is the second. Any discussion?
Dr. Sharp?
DR. SHARP: So if the -- if it doesn't work, and it's already been approved, what do we do then?
DR. DIAMOND: I think in that situation, FDA would either ask that to be put into the labeling or would ask the sponsor to modify how their device works, the electronics of it so that it would shut off which is what it's supposed to do as I understand it.
CHAIR CEDARS: Any further discussion?
Dr. Peterson, did you have a question about this?
DR. PETERSON: An intentional perforation, I just wasn't sure how it was done.
CHAIR CEDARS: Are you talking about an animal model or a pre-hysterectomy human model? Could you clarify that?
DR. DIAMOND: I guess I'd be happy with either one. I was thinking more animal, but I'm happy with either one if FDA and the sponsor would decide.
CHAIR CEDARS: Any further discussion? If not, we'll vote on the fourth condition. All in favor of the fourth condition which is a perforation study, please raise your hand. I'm sorry, before the vote, I'm sorry, Dr. Zaino.
DR. ZAINO: Just as clarification, I guess I feel very strongly that there's a very significant difference between doing the study in animals and as a pre-hysterectomy study and I would strongly oppose on in favor of the other. Can we have a clarification and limit this, I hope, to animals.
DR. DIAMOND: Which one would you prefer?
DR. ZAINO: An animal study. I consider it more ethical.
CHAIR CEDARS: Animal study.
DR. DIAMOND: Animal is fine.
CHAIR CEDARS: Okay, so this is a perforation study in an animal model to assess damage and risk of injury. All in favor, please raise your hand? Dr. Snyder, yes; Dr. Stubblefield, yes; Dr. Zaino, yes; Dr. Ramin, yes; Dr. Davis, yes; Dr. D'Agostino, yes; Dr. Sharts-Hopko, yes; Dr. Peterson, yes; Dr. Diamond, yes; Dr. Gilliam, yes; Dr. Hillard, yes. All those opposed? 461 Dr. Sharp opposed. All those abstaining? Dr. Propert. (Vote is 9-1-1). Is there a motion for another condition? Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: It may have already been included, but if not, that the labeling for patient provider reflect the noted uncertainty regarding the long-term effect and is pending the effect on the studies.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there a second?
MEMBER HILLARD: Second.
CHAIR CEDARS: Dr. Hillard. any discussion of a motion regarding labeling with respect to effectiveness, long-term effectiveness?
Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: Not so much in terms of the labeling, but we had spent a lot of time talking about intention to treat. I was presuming that we didn't have to bring that up here, that the FDA heard that and would have that discussion, okay, then I have nothing to add.
CHAIR CEDARS: We heard it. Dr. Davis, was that your comment?
Yes, Ms. George?
MS. GEORGE: I just wanted to point out that there is something in the labeling about on page 949 it actually says that it is newer than other procedures and so it hasn't been studied in many women or for a long period of time. So it already is in their labeling in the patient brochure.
CHAIR CEDARS: So would that satisfy you, Dr. Peterson? Page 949, right in the middle of the page. I didn't know if that addressed what you were referring to.
DR. PETERSON: It's getting there. I don't know if the comment from the FDA was that they really don't need a condition and they've got it or not, but I think that if there's a point estimate that's stated that there needs to be something appended to that point estimate that indicates that uncertainty about the long-term risk, as opposed to just the statement like it has been studied.
CHAIR CEDARS: Ms. Brogdon, can you clarify if the FDA understands the concerns with respect to that issue or if we need to vote on it as a motion?
MS. BROGDON: It's really up to the panel. We've heard your concerns, but if you feel strongly about this and want to make it part of the conditions of approval, you can certainly do that.
CHAIR CEDARS: So the motion stands and has been seconded. Any further discussion? Then if we could call a vote on being more specific in the labeling, about the uncertainty of long-term effectiveness. All in favor, please raise your hand. Dr. Snyder, yes; Dr. Stubblefield, yes; Dr. Zaino, yes; Dr. Ramin, yes; Dr. Davis, yes; Dr. D'Agostino, yes; Dr. Sharts-Hopko, yes; Dr. Sharp, yes; Dr. Peterson, yes; Dr. Propert, yes; Dr. Diamond, yes; Dr. Gilliam, yes; Dr. Hillard, (Unanimous.) Is there a motion for another condition? Dr. Gilliam?
DR. GILLIAM: I'd like to propose that the post-marketing study contain an active control group preferably of women electing sterilization.
CHAIR CEDARS: Of women electing sterilization to compare. So any kind of sterilization procedure?
DR. GILLIAM: Preferably transcervical sterilization, but any sterilization.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there a second?
If not, is there another motion? Yes, Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: I was just wondering if that wasn't in the first motion already, that the design was going to be worked out with the FDA's epidemiologists.
CHAIR CEDARS: Well, the second condition was that a new study was proposed and that included new physicians, enrollment of new subjects, looking at effectiveness, with pregnancy as an outcome, but it was not specifically specified what the comparator was or whether there was a comparator at all and whether this was just as outcome. So --
DR. PETERSON: Then I would just ask for guidance about how explicit you want us to be about the methodology.
DR. MARINAC-DABIC: Very quickly, that the comparison group is needed would be sufficient for us.
CHAIR CEDARS: So do we need to amend the second?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: If you want me to amend my motion, I certainly would add that. I was presuming from the discussion that there would be a comparison group.
CHAIR CEDARS: Why don't we make it a new motion and then the FDA can put those together. So it's been moved and seconded that the new study have some comparator and we would leave it to the FDA to identify that. Is that the way people understand it? Any further discussion? If not, can we vote on this condition? All in favor, please raise your hand.
MS. BROGDON: Excuse me, did that motion have a second?
CHAIR CEDARS: It did. Dr. Peterson seconded it.
MS. BROGDON: Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: All in favor? Dr. Snyder, Dr. Stubblefield, Dr. Zaino, Dr. Ramin, Dr. Davis, Dr. D'Agostino, Dr. Sharts- Hopko, Dr. Sharp, Dr. Peterson, Dr. Diamond, Dr. Gilliam, Dr. Hillard, All those opposed? Any abstains? Dr. Propert. (Vote 12-0-1.) Is there a motion for another condition? Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: In view of the failure to meet the primary endpoint for the youngest age group, although it wasn't certainly stratified as such, I would recommend that the approval be limited to those individuals 28 years of age and older which is the cutoff for the second age group, the beginning of the second age group.
CHAIR CEDARS: Is there a second for that motion, for that condition? If not, then that motion fails. Is there a motion for another condition? Dr. Davis?
DR. DAVIS: I need some guidance on this. The issue we discussed on several occasions of the cornual pregnancy, has that been heard and will that be incorporated or do we need to place that into a motion in terms of the labeling?
CHAIR CEDARS: We've heard your comments. Any further conditions? Not hearing any, it's been moved and seconded that Hologic, Inc. for Adiana transcervical system be approved with conditions and the panel has voted on them.
We now need to vote on the main motion and just to reiterate the conditions as I have them, number one is that the existing patients be followed out for ten years.
Number two is that there be a new study with new physicians with pregnancy as an outcome.
Number three is that there be a study of the tissue explants for those patients who undergo subsequent surgery that are enrolled in the 469 current study.
Number four is a perforation study to look at safety with an animal model.
Number five is that the labeling be modified to more strongly identify the uncertainty of long-term effectiveness.
Number six is that the post- approval study include some comparator group who is also undergoing elective sterilization and number -- that was it.
So those six.
So we'll now vote on the main motion, and with a show of hands, please indicate if you concur with the recommendation that the above- named PMA be approvable with conditions.
So if I can have a show of hands of those who are in support of this motion? Dr. Stubblefield, Dr. Zaino, Dr. Ramin, Dr. Davis, Dr. D'Agostino, Dr. Sharts-Hopko, Dr. Peterson, Dr. Diamond, Dr. Gilliam, Dr. Hillard, All those opposed? Dr. Snyder, Dr. Sharp, Dr. Propert. (10-3-0)
The motion carries. It is the recommendation of the panel to the FDA that the Hologic, Inc. PMA application P070022 for the Adiana transcervical sterilization system be approved with the previously voted-upon conditions.
I now ask each panel member to state the reason for his or her vote and we'll start with Dr. Snyder.
DR. SNYDER: I voted no. First of all, I think this is an exciting technique and I'd like to predict that year three data is going to look great, based on the fact that there's only been one failure out at year four. It would help me resolve the six versus three issue at year one.
But I voted no because I think we're like one year too short on the data. And I think Dr. Peterson brought this up earlier. We just don't know which way the data is going to go. Is it going to be six, three, you know, and then onesies and twosies out over the next ten years or is it going to be six, three, five, you know and so forth.
And so I would -- and as much as I want to have another transcervical sterilization device out there, I mean I waited 25 years in my career to have some permanent sterilization method for my patients that would come even close to the risk benefit profile of a vasectomy. So I'm eagerly awaiting this. I want this to work, but when I made my final decision when I saw the final data at year two and it just -- and then at year three, very few patients have entered that, year four, very few have entered that. And I just think if at least from my standpoint it's a little bit premature to really know what that efficacy data is.
Thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Stubblefield?
DR. STUBBLEFIELD: I voted yes. I have most of the same concerns that Dr. Snyder raised and the panel does too. I'm feeling that all the conditions that we tacked on address those concerns and it's reasonable to vote as we did.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. Zaino?
DR. ZAINO: I voted in support of approval with conditions because I think there's valid scientific evidence to support the safety and efficacy of a device with certain specifications as we address and I think that there's the absolute need for the post-market investigations that we require and with that I'm comfortable with that vote.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Ramin?
DR. RAMIN: I voted to approve with conditions. I think the sponsor provided the evidence that the device is safe and effective based on the predetermined one-year pregnancy rate and I think the conditions in the post-marketing will answer the concerns that we have.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. Davis?
DR. DAVIS: I agree with that. I voted yes. I do think that there were clinically meaningful results, but I think the condition on the effectiveness issue was the tipping point for me.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. D'Agostino?
DR. D'AGOSTINO: I also voted yes. I think the sponsors carried out a very nice study, did an extremely careful study. I wish for more clarity in terms -- not clarity, but for the front-end discussion. I would have wanted to have a different event rate looked at and maybe powered in a different way, but they did what they were asked to do and the concerns that I still have about the long-term effectiveness, the generalizability of the data and so forth will be quite well handled by the approval studies.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. Sharts-Hopko?
DR. SHARTS-HOPKO: I voted yes with conditions. I strongly support the development of viable contraceptive options for women, particularly permanent solutions to their contraceptive needs that are less invasive than what we have historically had and potentially more convenient. I share the concerns others have expressed about long-term effectiveness and safety in the real world.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. Sharp?
DR. SHARP: I voted against. To me, there's still unresolved issues in terms of efficacy. I don't know how it will pan out over the next few years. I'm very hopeful that it will pan out to be a great device. I am not comfortable unleashing it on the general population yet. In my view, post-market studies should not be used to be used when there are unresolved issues, so that's why I voted no.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you. Dr. Peterson?
DR. PETERSON: I share all the sentiments already expressed. I think the challenge for many of us has just been expressed by Howard. I mean it's sort of where do you fall out, given uncertainty? What do you do in the absence of evidence?
And my hope is that in approving this and the responsibilities that we're all collectively taking about this uncertainty that we will all share in the responsibility for a finger on the pulse monitoring of this and if there is a big surprise and it's not nearly as effective as we thought, if there's an early warning, it sounded loudly and clearly.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. Propert?
DR. PROPERT: I voted no, although I agree with what everyone on the panel has just said. I am assured of its safety. I certainly understand the importance, but I just can't get past the uncertainty which for me, could lead to some very high failure rates and I just think more data is needed.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. Diamond?
DR. DIAMOND: I voted in favor. I share many of the same thoughts and concerns that have been voiced already. I also share the concern about the youngest age group, but that stratification was not pre-specified by the FDA and the company did meet the pre-specified points for efficacy and I don't believe in moving the bar after the fact. So I thought it was very appropriate to vote in favor.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. Gilliam?
DR. GILLIAM: I voted in favor with conditions for a very similar reason. I think the company met the specifications that were asked. I do have a lot of concerns with what was asked in the way that the original studies were designed, but again I think after the fact we cannot change that. On the other hand, I think the post-marketing studies are potentially well designed and will give us good information.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Dr. Hillard?
DR. HILLARD: I voted that the device is approval with conditions, again, for all of the reasons that everyone has stated. I'm cautiously optimistic and I hope that the finger on the pulse will prove this optimism as warranted.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
If I could ask Elizabeth George as our industry rep. for comments?
MS. GEORGE: I think everything that all of you guys have brought up has been very valuable. I think one of the things I'm hoping for that the FDA can help us with is as you probably figured out creating these studies are very, very difficult. They're very time consuming.
We want -- manufacturers always do want to make sure that they have the most safe and the most effective products and the studies are designed many, many years earlier than we come here to present them, so that's always a challenge.
And everything is a constant moving and I think that that's going to be one of the challenges that the sponsors are going to have over the next five years and actually it's going to be probably longer to try to get all the data and I think that -- I know that the FDA is working diligently working with global harmonization around the world to try to get harmonized techniques to ensure that we can leverage a lot more of this data because many of the manufacturers do get their devices out in other countries today faster. And they may actually have a lot of data elsewhere that we're not able to leverage in this meeting.
So I -- and I learned a lot listening to you guys. And I have to go to the medical dictionary every time I go through these things, so thank you.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
And Dr. Romero as the consumer representative.
DR. ROMERO: I think it is very exciting that there's a potential for having this new method on the market, but I think the difficulties that this panel confronted today in coming to this decision are only going to be sort of of another order of magnitude for individual women trying to make a decision.
And so my only I guess additional comment to the conditions that were discussed by the voting members here is slight disappointment that for the condition that concerned labeling that while it was really important that it addressed the uncertainty around long-term effectiveness, that a component wasn't included in that that had to do with sort of the particular nature of this intervention being one more of a process or a method and not just a one-time event.
And so to the extent that that can be considered in the labeling, I know we spoke to it already, but it's not part of the conditions and I just would like to reiterate that women really need to know that this method should not be considered fully complete until minimally three months time.
CHAIR CEDARS: Thank you.
Ms. Brogdon, did you want to address that?
MS. BROGDON: Yes, we've heard that comment and we go through the patient information booklets very carefully, so we will deal with that issue.
CHAIR CEDARS: In concluding, I'd like to thank the panel and the public forum speakers. I think it's very obvious that this device, as well as a desire to give good care for women, and allow women to have more choices has been very thoughtful.
And so I very much thank the panel for their participation and their active discussion. I'd also like to thank the sponsor for giving us a significant amount of data and being responsive to our questions and to the FDA for its thoroughness as well as clarification on some of the issues and
I'll leave by asking Ms. Brogdon if she has any concluding comments?
MS. BROGDON: Thank you. I would just like to thank all the panel members for your expertise and your articulate discussions of the issues and your energy in reviewing all of this material and coming to these meetings so thank you for your public service.
CHAIR CEDARS: Day one of this meeting of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel is now adjourned.

Load-Date: March 20, 2008


End of Document
