




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
December 16, 2001 Sunday Spokane Edition


Copyright 2001 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: IN LIFE; HEALTH NOTES; Pg.F8; COLUMN
Length: 498 words
Byline: Carla K. Johnson, Staff writer
Body


While her husband, Thomas, recovered from surgery at Holy Family Hospital,
 Chewelah resident Minda McCain avoided both motel bills and a 90-mile
 round-trip drive.
 She stayed at Holy Family House, a newly remodeled, two-bedroom facility
 now available for families of out-of-town patients.
 Families pay only $10 a day to stay at the residence, a short walk from the
 hospital.
''Without it, I don't know what we'd do," Minda McCain said.
 The hospital had owned the duplex and rented it out. When a recent renter
 moved, the time looked right to put one half of the duplex to new use.
 Holy Family Foundation raised $44,000 for remodeling with its annual La
 Fete dinner dance and auction, said foundation Associate Director Joanne
 Watts.
 Kaiser Aluminum managers donated time, ripping off old roofing, removing
 the garage door and taking up carpet and flooring.
 The residence, which opened in September, has a washer and dryer, fully
 equipped kitchen, cable TV and VCR, and housekeeping services once a week.
 It replaces a much smaller apartment that had been used for the same
 purpose.
 ''It's a place for refuge," Watts said.
 Family planning
 A Washington state family planning program that began in July has enrolled
 more than 26,000 people during its first five months, helping them avoid
 unintended pregnancies.
 The program, called Take Charge, is open to both men and women whose family
 income is at or below 200 percent of the federal poverty level and whose
 current health insurance does not cover full family planning benefits.
 A single person making $17,184 a year, for example, would be eligible. A
 family of four with a household income of $35,304 also would qualify.
 Anyone who believes he or she may be eligible can call the state's family
 planning hotline toll free at (800) 770-4334 to locate a Take Charge provider.
 Covered services include annual exams, family planning education, and
 contraceptive methods ranging from birth-control pills to IUDs and emergency
 contraception.
 Over-the-counter products such as condoms and contraceptive creams also are
 covered, as are sterilization procedures, including vasectomies and tubal
 ligations.
 The Take Charge program is part of a national effort to reduce unintended
 pregnancies. More than 50 percent of the pregnancies that occur in Washington
 each year are unintended, studies show.
 In addition, unintended pregnancies represent a heavy burden on the state's
 budget. Births that begin as unintended pregnancies represent an estimated
 $100 million annual cost for Medicaid.
 Winter heart health
 People with coronary heart disease often suffer chest pain or discomfort,
 called angina pectoris, when they're in cold weather. Some studies suggest
 harsh winter weather may increase a person's risk of heart attack due to
 overexertion.
 The American Heart Association warns people to avoid sudden exertion
 outdoors in cold weather. Lifting a shovel full of snow or even walking
 through heavy, wet snow or snow drifts can strain a person's heart.

Notes

Carla K. Johnson can be reached at (509) 459-5148 or by e-mail at .  

Load-Date: December 19, 2001


End of Document
