




Inside Vandy: Vanderbilt University
March 24, 2014 Monday


University Wire
Copyright 2014 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: LIFE; Pg. 1
Length: 385 words
Body


Viktoria Hallikr is the executive producer of VTV's longest running show: SexRx. She is expanding SexRx's presence by creating an interactive sex column for InsideVandy.
I am a March Madness widow.
Around this time of year, college basketball takes over people's lives. March Madness is in full swing - TVs are set up to go between CBS, TNT, TBS, and Tru TV and anyone with a bracket is checking constantly to see just how badly an upset screwed them over. People who don't watch college basketball are left at the wayside.
But what does this do to relationships?
College basketball fans are avidly watching game after game while time with their significant others becomes a secondary priority. The Twitter hashtag "MarchMadnessWidow" has people wondering, "Is there room for me AND college hoops in his life...?" College is a time when relationships are especially fragile, and so putting in a 3-weekend hiatus can cause some serious damage, especially if a couple can't find some sort of compromise. Personally, I'm not a big fan of basketball, but I have found that submitting a bracket (which is doing surprisingly well) has given me some incentive to watch the games. On top of that, my boyfriend and I have come to the agreement that we won't have the TV on basketball all the time, but rather we will just watch the last 5-10 minutes. Thanks to this, I'm not left out in the cold and he gets sports time. Junior David Holmes has also found that this kind of compromise works well. He said his girlfriend "watched a lot of (games) with me and sometimes I'm forced to not watch them and go outside, but that's what you do when you're in a relationship."
Some people just can't come to terms with missing any games, so they will go far to make sure that they have an acceptable excuse to participate in the March Madness mayhem. According to CNN, one major clinic in Ohio reported that they usually perform about 50% more vasectomies before and during the basketball tournament. I don't think people in college will be using this as an excuse just yet, but it does show that sometimes compromise must be a bit harder.  In that case, I really hope you have some other hobby for three weekends...
Let us know what you think by taking our poll and calling in to VTV's SexRx going live at 9:30 p.m. every Tuesday night!

Load-Date: January 18, 2018


End of Document
