




adweek.com
November 2, 2021 Tuesday


Copyright 2021 Adweek LLC. All Rights Reserved.


Section: NEWS; TAG
Length: 348 words
Byline: Shannon Miller
Body


McDonald's is celebrating the 40th anniversary of its popular seasonal sandwich, the McRib, in a couple different ways this year. 
The first came in the form of an NFT, an exclusive digital rendering of the famous sandwich that the brand began releasing in limited quantities on Nov. 1. The second was a more traditional celebration in the form of a special toast: a gin-based McRib-inspired drink. 
As many would likely guess, longtime gin connoisseur and company owner Ryan Reynolds was the go-to bartender for such an occasion. 
Today, Reynolds released a minute-long instructional video for the Aviation Gin Riblet, which he refers to as "the Bloody Mary's hotter cousin." The unusual drink is meant to complement the limited menu item's barbecue tang.
"To celebrate the return of America's favorite rib-shaped sandwich, I've invented the perfect glass-shaped cocktail to go with it," he informs the viewer from his sleek bar setup. From there, he mixes a rather simple drink that includes tomato juice, barbecue sauce, lemon and, of course, gin. For those feeling festive, Reynolds recommends garnishing the drink with a cocktail onion or pickle. 
The video ends with a relatable plea from Reynolds for McDonald's to also bring back Grimace, the iconic McDonaldland character, which was retired in 2003. In response, the brand tweeted a close-up photo of the departed purple figure. 
This isn't the first special occasion the Deadpool actor has christened with a custom concoction. For Father's Day this year, he and the creative agency he founded, Maximum Effort, released a video for the Vasectomy, a gin-based cocktail made with cranberry and lemon juices and tonic water. For that, the brand also teamed with Sourced Cocktails for a kit based on the drink.
For this straightforward cocktail, fans don't have to wait for a special kit to give the rib-like beverage a try. Those who are curious can just check out the easy recipe below and try it for themselves.
Aviation Gin Riblet recipe:
* 4 ounces tomato juice
* .5 ounces barbecue sauce
* Squeeze lemon
* 1.5 ounces Aviation American Gin

Load-Date: August 26, 2024


End of Document
