




O, The Oprah Magazine
February 1, 2011


Copyright 2011 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: SPECIAL; Pg. 146; Vol. 12
Length: 7178 words
Body


The Creation Myth
Somewhere along the way, many of us came to believe that we're no good at drawing, we stink at playing the piano, and our imaginations just aren't very imaginative. After all, not everyone is the creative type, right? Wrong. Peggy Orenstein reports.
My daughter, Daisy, was thrilled last fall when she was placed in a second-grade class with a special concentration on science and math. I pasted on my best Enthusiastic Mom smile as she chattered about baking-soda volcanoes and lemon-powered batteries, but inside I was roiling. Math? Science? What about her love of writing, drawing, composing music? That school was going to suck the creativity right out of her! They'd turn her into one of those people who talks in a monotone about things no one else can understand! Or worse: They'd somehow turn her into me.
For as long as I can remember, I've been haunted by the conviction that I am not a creative person. True, I'm a writer, but not the kind who relies on her boundless imagination to make things up. I'm the knitter who's lost without a pattern, the longtime piano student who was never able to improvise. I can't even doodle without hyperventilating; I fear drawing the way other people fear heights. Creativity, like red hair, always seemed to be one of those things you either had or you didn't. Clearly I didn't.
Maybe you know what I mean. According to James C. Kaufman, an associate professor of psychology at California State University at San Bernardino and author of Creativity 101, a majority of Americans don't consider themselves the creative "type." This wouldn't be a big deal if the self-assessment didn't tend to become self-fulfilling, but it does: We think we're not creative, so we don't cultivate our creative potential and-voilà!-we're not creative. In recent years, that cycle seems to have become a spiral: Americans' scores on the Torrance Tests of Creative Thinking, a 90-minute series of visual and verbal tasks administered by a psychologist, have plummeted since 1990.
No one can fully explain the decline; too much TV, texting, googling? Whatever the culprit, experts in the emerging field of creativity studies-a broad array of psychologists, educators, and neuroscientists-would like us to chuck the have-it-or-don't mentality and start recognizing creativity as basic to human development, as elemental as reading or counting. Creativity can be squelched, these experts say, but if we take the time to better understand what it is and how it works, it can also be fostered and enhanced.
Which is good news, because it turns out that the creative impulse is crucial to psychological health. A 2007 study of Hurricane Katrina survivors found that those who scored higher on two measures of creativity-originality and flexibility-coped with the crisis better. In a study of amateur female musicians, higher levels of creativity correlated with lower levels of stress. And Mark Runco, PhD, editor of the Creativity Research Journal, has found that for many people the ability to imagine potential obstacles to a goal and generate a range of solutions-hallmarks of creative intelligence-predicts both overall well-being and more satisfying personal relationships. (Inflexible thinking, on the other hand, is associated with depression.) Meanwhile, cultural trendspotters like Daniel Pink have argued that it will be the creative, not the meek, who inherit the Earth-at least in the coming decades-as flexibility, innovation, and aesthetic flair become the go-to traits in business and politics. There's even evidence that creative people have more sex.
SCHOLARS DEFINE CREATIVITY as the production of something both novel and appropriate. (That latter condition is important from a research perspective: "If anything new qualifies as creative, then the term loses its meaning," Kaufman says. "Suppose the person you hired to repave your driveway covered it with salami-that would be original, surely, but inappropriate." Similarly, an innovative design for a bridge would not pass muster if, once constructed, it collapsed.)
By this definition, almost any human endeavor has the potential to be creative. Which brings us to step one in claiming our creativity: becoming more expansive in our own definition of the term.
So many people operate under the default assumption that creativity is the sole province of the arts. I, it appears, am one of those people. Intellectually, I know it's wrong to think this way. I'm well aware of Einstein, Curie, Gates-not to mention Temple Grandin, James (Mr. vacuum cleaner) Dyson, and the creatively self-amputating guy James Franco played in 127 Hours. Heck, there's even Daisy and her baking-soda volcanoes.
In my defense, it's only recently-in the last century or so-that anyone acknowledged creativity extending beyond the arts. The Victorians applied the term primarily to painting; the ancient Greeks, to poetry. For all we know, future generations may consider our own parameters equally quaint. In the decade since advances in imaging technology have allowed researchers to precisely track the way our brains process creative tasks, it's become clear, for example, that we were mistaken in thinking creativity resides in a single area of the brain. Brain scans of people engaged in different types of creative tasks-visual and verbal problem-solving, artistic performance involving music-reveal that many brain areas are involved. Moreover, domains such as the arts, science, and leadership appear to harness various types of creativity, each drawing on different sets of mental abilities. "It's a very optimistic finding," says Oshin Vartanian, PhD, a cognitive neuroscientist at the University of Toronto, "because we now see that creativity can be exhibited in many different ways."
So I will try to resist my fine-arts bias. While I'm at it-and this is step two, if you're counting-I'll try to let go of the notion that immortality is the one true measure of creative achievement. The Edisons and Picassos of the world are what Ron Beghetto, an associate professor of educational studies at the University of Oregon, calls Big-C creators: people whose ideas changed everything. If that's your standard for success, basically you're screwed. "You put yourself in the shadow of a giant," Beghetto says, "and it makes you think, Well, I'm not that and never could be." In which case, the only logical thing for you to do is quit.
Even the dream of making a living at your creative work, or simply reaching a professional level-what those in the field call Pro-C (and the rest of us call Etsy)-can be self-defeating. And unnecessary. Because it turns out that the creativity that enriches our life and confers all those feel-good benefits is something far humbler: everyday, or little-c creativity. We're not talking anything revolutionary here. Little-c is the school science project comparing frogs' responses to heavy metal music and show tunes. It's combining ingredients in a new way to surprise your dinner guests, or developing a new skills drill while coaching your kid's soccer team. Everyone, says Kaufman, has the capacity for little-c creativity. Rather than a rare gift, it's more akin to kindness or compassion-an innate human trait. It's something we're born with, and naturally draw upon, until something, somewhere, goes awry.
FOR YEARS I'VE KEPT a dog-eared copy of an old Lynda Barry comic taped to a wall in my office. The first panel shows one of the artist's iconic, primitively penned women hunched over her desk with a cup of coffee, pencil poised in midstroke. Two thought bubbles hover over her head: "Is this good?" and "Does this suck?" "I'm not sure when these two questions became the only two questions I had about my work," Barry writes beneath the image. "I just know I'd stopped enjoying it and instead began to dread it."
As the strip unfolds, Barry describes the easy pleasure she took as a child in drawing and storytelling ("Look out! It's Dracula! What's that smell? He's pooping! And the mummy is pooping back! But it's lava!"). It didn't seem special, she recalls: "Every kid I knew could do it."
That's because children are naturally driven to understand their world. They live by that incessant, creativity-inspiring "why?" Why does the grass grow? Why is the sky blue? Why can't I fly? And to answer these questions, they experiment, imagine, and explore. Their minds are free to wander and to wonder.
Then, usually around the time they enter school, that loopiness disappears. They begin to compare their work to others'. Will they be judged as better ("Is this good?") or worse ("Does this suck?")? Suddenly there are right and wrong answers. Expressing their own tentative understanding of an idea becomes less important than figuring out what the teacher makes of it. Beghetto, who studies the ways in which early experience influences creativity later in life, found that by first or second grade, students realize that "the game of school requires replacing the question 'Why?' with 'What do you want me to do and how do you want me to do it?'"
In his work with teachers and older students, Beghetto found that most had vivid memories (from both inside and outside the classroom) of what he called creative mortification, a term so evocative I will carry it with me to my grave. "They were moments when people were developing their experience in something-music, sports, science-and were having a personally meaningful insight, which is the catalyst of creativity," he told me. "But when they shared that insight, they received a too-harsh evaluation. And once they'd experienced that moment of shame, they often stopped doing what they'd loved."
In rapid succession I recalled my beloved kindergarten teacher putting my drawing of the solar system into what was obviously the "bad" pile; being repeatedly, negatively compared to my musically gifted brother; being mocked for wrong answers as one of the few girls in eighth-grade accelerated math.
So, step three in claiming our creativity: realizing that we're actually reclaiming it, that it was always, rightfully, ours to begin with.
But let's be clear: The response to creative mortification should not be to reject criticism altogether, or to overpraise middling work. Rather, for both children and adults, experts advocate shifting our idea of critique from evaluation to exploration: asking questions about process, identifying what works, wondering what can be improved. Those suggestions, by the way, eased my mind about Daisy's future creativity; her school promotes open-ended learning and rejects grades for teacher-written progress reports. And I had to admit that her imagination didn't seem to be suffering from her math/science placement. She was as enthusiastic as ever about churning out poetry and hand-drawn comic books. (Though, for better or worse, no lava-pooping vampires yet.)
The point of little-c creativity is to express and challenge yourself, to make meaning, to enhance your life. It's not about being the best at something, but about becoming better than you are. And as you tinker with your poem, or work on your rendition of "I Dreamed a Dream," you might even change your brain: Rex Jung, PhD, a neuropsychologist at the University of New Mexico, has found that people who consistently engage in creative activities become better and faster at marshaling the brain's creative networks. In other words, the more you are, the more you will be.
I HAD NEVER REALLY considered where and how my punishing ideas about my own creativity-about myself-had formed. But as I spoke to scientists and researchers, I started to feel surprisingly liberated. Still, I couldn't shake the question: Supposing I, like everyone, was creative-exactly how creative was I?
I convinced Kaufman to give me a series of tests to find out. He started with some classic Torrance-style questions ("In three minutes, how many uses for an egg carton can you think of?"). I also took a personality inventory to gauge, among other things, my openness to new experiences (creative people score high). I completed the Remote Associates Test, in which you come up with the one word that links three others (eagle was the answer for bald screech emblem). In three minutes, I wrote a haiku with a science fiction theme. And though it made me sweat, I even agreed to draw a picture.
When Kaufman looked at my drawing, he said, "Well, I don't mean to be rude. " But instead of hearing those words and deciding that I was a failure, I did something far more creative: I shrugged. So I had a block when it came to drawing-so what? The test had confirmed that I was creative in other ways: as a writer and a thinker. I was clever, curious, and, yes, open to new experiences.
I wondered whether, now that I had a more realistic sense of my strengths and weaknesses, I could wear them both a little more lightly-and worry less about my daughter's as well. Maybe I could even treat creativity the way I do bowling. Bowling, after all, is one of the rare things in life it's okay to be spectacularly lousy at-which gives you the freedom simply to play. You cheer the strikes, you laugh at the gutter balls. Sure, you could ask yourself, "Am I good?" or "Do I suck?" Or you could just give it a roll and see what happens.
The Inspiration: After she was laid off as a Seattle city planner, Erin Paysse was looking for fun at-home projects when an iPhone box caught her eye. "If you took the plastic tray that held the phone and flipped it upside down, it looked just like a camera," says Paysse, a self-confessed arts-and-design geek who tooled with that box until she'd made a working 35mm pinhole camera out of it. Her next picture-taking device was constructed from a cigar box; later she scooped out pages from vintage hardbacks and used the covers as camera fodder. As Paysse's stack of book-cameras grew, she started posting some of them on the online crafter's paradise Etsy for around $200 each; in less than a month, her creations caught the attention of Anthropologie, which ordered up a batch. Now, Paysse says, "I have to figure out what to make from all these leftover pages."              -Jessica Silvester 
The Inspiration: Marc Sickel runs a children's gym where he sees a lot of Nintendo-induced hypnosis. "Parents can't drag their kids away from video games," says the founder of Fitness for Health in Rockville, Maryland. "I thought there had to be a way to tap into that obsession"-especially if it could help children with special needs. Sickel reached out to the makers of a machine used to sharpen the reaction time of Formula One racecar drivers and adapted the device as an interactive game for kids with autism and attention disorders. Standing in front of a wall of flashing disks, gamers reach up, down, and across their bodies to shut off the lights in quick succession. "The machine aims to help kids become better visual planners," says Lance Clawson, MD, a psychiatrist who specializes in children with autism and ADHD. "They learn how to scan their environment-focusing on information they need and filtering out what they don't-and decide how to respond. So when, for example, someone reaches out to shake hands, the kid can figure out what to do."  -Jessica Stockton Clancy 
Four Packs of Clay, 50 Pounds of Brazilian Crystal, One Dried Sea Fan, and a Hall & Oates Record
A day in the life of Renaissance woman Anna Rabinowicz.
By Katie Arnold-Ratliff
At the small worktable in Anna Rabinowicz's sunny Manhattan office, smooth slices of agate-some as small as coins, others as big as dinner plates, in swirling shades of sapphire, rust, and olive-mingle with wrist-thick hunks of faceted crystal, three knobby yellow gourds, and a dried version of Anna's latest muse.
"A neat thing about sea fans," says Anna, 39, who is wearing silver sea-fan-shaped earrings, "is how they move." She imitates the meshlike creature's undulations with her hand. "They're at the whim of the current; they get their nutrients from whatever happens to pass through." She lifts the stainless steel colander/fruit bowl she recently designed based on her sea fan research, its sides veined with silver tendrils. If a sea fan mated with a Rolex, this would be the result.
I'm spending today dipping a toe into the ocean of Anna's creative output-and the colander is just one of the creatures in a vast and lively sea. The woman draws, sews, sculpts, and dreams things up as naturally as the rest of us breathe. For her company, RabLabs, she designs coasters, clocks, and picture frames from those pieces of agate, along with handblown-glass napkin rings, amethyst bottle stoppers, and lacquered wooden boxes-and at home, her creative juices just keep on flowing. Over eight hours with Anna, I'll discover that her default thought process works like this:
That [sea fan, kangaroo, hunk of quartz, sequined fabric] is fascinating. I must learn all about it and then make something!
Next comes studying, sketching, model-making, and finally, the finished product-which might be anything from a letter opener to a medical device to a fetching new cape.
When I arrived this morning at Anna's apartment, she told me that a full day lay ahead: We'd go shopping for supplies to create a prototype of a new RabLabs bowl (a mission that would require walking about 40 city blocks), we'd have searching discussions about creativity, and we'd get our hands really dirty. Hey, who ever said innovating was a cakewalk? "I tell my students, 'If it's easy to create, someone has probably already created it,'" says Anna, who teaches product design at Parsons The New School for Design. "Work through the setbacks, and you can make things no one else has."
Like the unique items in Anna's home, for example. The light fixture that resembles an upside-down red umbrella. The key ring of plastic doodads she assembled for her 1-year-old, Talia, to teethe on. ("Her body is telling her to bite. She must bite! So I give her these, to keep her from biting me.") The little cloth squares she sewed for Talia and her 3-year-old brother, Izzy, to sleep with-they're soft and worn, and hand-embroidered with trees and abstract whorls and the babies' initials. "I cut them from my husband's old T-shirts," says Anna, whose husband, Aden Fine, is a lawyer for the ACLU. Even Anna's home is an Anna original: Three years ago, she and Aden bought a dim studio in a former sewing factory, then gut-renovated the space into a snug two-bedroom nest, with floor-to-ceiling windows and a kitchen bedecked in vintage red tiles.
Anna's mother, Lisa, arrives to take Talia to baby dance class just as Anna is describing her collaborations with New York's Hospital for Special Surgery. "My dad made surgical instruments," says Anna, who has helped create an artificial knee and an assistive device for people recovering from elbow surgery. "He was a pediatric ophthalmologist and surgeon. He taught me how to sew and solder."
"She has her father's hand-eye coordination," Lisa chimes in. "And such fine-motor control."
"Thank you," Anna says, looking moved. She pulls out her sewing kit from the 1890s-her father, who died in 2001, bought it at an antiques market. "Look at all these crazy needles," she says. There are thick needles, teeny needles, needles that look like fish hooks. "I sew by hand," she tells me, "so the project will be imbued with my love."
After Lisa and Talia depart, Anna and I go on a coffee run. I ask her about Stanford's Joint Program in Design-where she was the third-ever person to
graduate with both an MFA in design and an MS in engineering. For her thesis, she traveled to Australia, enticed kangaroos to bounce on treadmills while she tracked their motion using high-speed video, and created chairs that mimic their movements. "A kangaroo uses its tail like a third leg, leaning on it to push off for the next hop," Anna explains. When you sit in her kangaroo chair, it reclines on its curved tail and gently bounces forward-like a movie theater seat only much more fun.
While I'm still processing the concept of marsupial furniture, Anna is already onto the business at hand: buying materials for the RabLabs bowl prototype. She's envisioning a ceramic vessel encrusted with crystal-like formations-sort of an inside-out geode. She'll make the mock-up with real crystal, using clay to affix the stones to a steel mixing bowl, then create a mold of the whole piece, which she'll use to cast the ceramic version. Beneath her desk, wrapped in Portuguese newspaper, is 50 pounds of Brazilian crystal waiting for its shot at glory.
To find the right steel bowl, we visit a baking shop. The place is packed ceiling-high with little objects that light up all kinds of circuits in Anna's mind: shiny pastry tips ("These could be molds for crystal-covered salt and pepper shakers"), cardboard cake bases laminated in gold paper ("We'll use this as a work surface-the gold feels auspicious"), and an accordion squeeze bottle ("I don't know why, but I need this"). On the way out, Anna marvels at pouches of red, brown, and yellow goo-pastry filling, it turns out-and decides it's lunchtime.
As she eats her chicken-chermoula sandwich, bought from a food truck on Fifth Avenue, Anna says, "There's this book called I Stink!"
"I stink?"
"It's about a garbage truck that adores gross stuff," she says, "like dog poop and fish heads. Izzy laughed and laughed when my husband read it to him, because it's a bit mischievous. Kids have to follow so many rules, but a book like I Stink! lets them be vicariously rascally without breaking the rules. Designing is like that. The rule is that the object has to perform its function. But within that rule, you can do anything-the object can be witty or silly or weird."
We nod, considering this.
"You stink," I say.
Anna smiles. "I stink!"
After lunch, we head downtown to buy clay from the art supply store-though Anna beelines for the gift wrap and letterpress stationery ("This is paper geek heaven!"). In the pen aisle, she laments that her favorite model, the Pilot Razor Point II, has been unavailable for the past year. In its place she's been using pens her Korean students brought her from their visits home. She puts a squat, gray felt-tip to a sheet of paper, moving her arm as decisively as a symphony conductor. "That's what's called an emotive line," she says. In the way a jagged line might suggest turmoil and a squiggle could evoke confusion, Anna's ascending swoop reads joie de vivre. Then she draws a guy with big curly hair.
Back at the office, she puts on Hall & Oates's "Kiss on My List" and lays out the gold work surface, the gray clay, and translucent columns of crystal in sizes ranging from raspberry to cucumber. We begin cocooning the bowl with clay for the crystals to smoosh into, as I explain that I'm much too impatient to be good at making things. "I'm always rushing to finish," I tell her. "I don't have it in me to keep refining until it's perfect."
Looking at the prototype, it seems I've proven myself right: One side is stunning, and the other side is mine. Anna has anchored two eight-inch columns of quartz in the clay surrounding the bowl and is now accentuating them with smaller satellite crystals. She's edging the place where the clay meets the rock into a kind of cuticle to the crystal's nail. If you squint, you can envision the final product: an improbable, precious thing, plucked from the Earth and yet made by a human hand.
Anna turns the cardboard and considers my work. She adds more cuticles, tweaks the angles of the crystals, and carves where I've over-clayed. But for all her refining, what I've contributed-my inter-crystal spacing, rim-smoothing, and reinforced clay base-remains. It's just been gently Anna-fied. "This is really interesting work!" she says, seeming to sense my hunger for praise. Anna likes to say that a designer must understand human need: Check.
A designer must also find creative potential in what's around her, and Anna does-in bouncing kangaroos and ratty T-shirts and charmless studio apartments. Think of her as a human sea fan, open to the myriad unknown things riding the current, which she uses to make the world a little more fascinating, and a little more Anna, than it would otherwise be.
7 WAYS TO SPARK YOUR CREATIVITY
Instant inspiration, courtesy of designer Anna Rabinowicz.
1.Read Not a Box, by Antoinette Portis. A rabbit sits in a cardboard box and uses his imagination to transform it into a racecar, a mountain, a robot. The lesson? "Anything can be anything," Anna says.
2. Go outside. Nature informs most of Anna's designs: "A pinecone, a caterpillar, some gnarled gourds from a pumpkin patch-the natural world is full of bizarre, beautiful stuff."
3. Start a collection. Curating your own little exhibit of similar objects makes you more attuned to what's special about each one. "Try to figure out why the designers made the choices they did, and you'll get a peek into their creative process," Anna says. "I collect toothbrushes. They have to do something very specific-and it's not a very exciting something-but their simplicity is an opportunity for imaginative design."
4.Touch stuff. Everywhere Anna goes, she picks up objects she sees. "I get acquainted with a thing's thing-ness. I experience it with my hands, not just my eyes."
5.Travel solo. "Once in a while, go somewhere alone," says Anna. "It's much easier to experience everything around you and to cover lots of ground. I decided to be a designer at the top of the Antoni Gaudí cathedral in Barcelona, because I was so moved by the architecture." But you don't necessarily have to cross an ocean. "You can get inspired by traveling practically anywhere, as long as you're open to what you see."
6. Go analog. "Don't check your e-mail when you're creating," Anna says. "Nothing earth-shattering is going to happen in an hour or two."
7. Grab every opportunity. Hosting a group of friends? Make party favors. Received a gift? Write a handwritten note. "If you're having dinner at home tonight," Anna says, "why not make something you never made before?"
Carla BOUTIN-FOSTER
The Listener
No Paintbrush Necessary
For these four ingenious people,creativity isn't just about making art. It's about using whatever they've got in front of them-liquid nitrogen, rap lyrics, a frozen pond in an abandoned lot-to do something really cool.
CARLA BOUTIN-FOSTER, MD, had hit a wall. In the spring of 2007, she was leading a weekly series of safe-sex talks with middle school girls in Brooklyn. But the students kept leaving to "use the bathroom"-and not coming back. After week three,the doctor had an idea: Follow them.
"I found the girls in the cafeteria, listening to rap songs about drugs and sex," she recalls. For the next class, Boutin-Foster brought a stereo. "I asked them, 'When 50 Cent says, Find me in da club, bottle full of bub I'm into having sex, I ain't into making love-what can that lead to?'" The girls were suddenly interested. They talked about safe sex and STDs, behavior and consequences. The conversation led to a pilot program to teach disease prevention through rap at an East Harlem school.
Boutin-Foster, 42, is the director of the Comprehensive Center of Excellence in Disparities Research and Community Engagement (CEDREC) at Weill Cornell Medical College, which works to improve healthcare in underserved neighborhoods of New York City; in one CEDREC project, a medical van tours barbershops offering free on-site diabetes and blood pressure screenings. The daughter of Haitian immigrants ("Mom would buy secondhand shoes and pin brooches on top-she was creative"), she is fluent not only in hip-hop slang but in the poetry of scripture-which comes in handy when she leads health workshops at churches. "The Bible doesn't say, 'Thou shalt not smoke,' but First Corinthians says, 'I will not be mastered by anything.' So we discuss ways not to be mastered by cigarettes and junk food."
For Boutin-Foster, being creative means being receptive. "It's about listening and following and finding a common language," she says. "And sometimes it helps to hit a wall."  -Kimberly Hiss
Michelle KHINE
The Reinventor
WHEN MICHELLE KHINE throws a dinner party, dessert might be cake wrapped in electroluminescent wires, or homemade coconut ice cream frozen instantly in a bowl of liquid nitrogen. "Growing up, I was a nerdy kid who loved to experiment in the kitchen," says Khine, 34, whose mom-a chemist-taught her how to cook.
It's fitting, then, that Khine's kitchen provided the stage for the niftiest feat of her career. She had just landed a research job at the brand-new University of California campus at Merced, which was little more than a construction site. She'd intended to work with microfluidic chips-silicon circuits that scientists want to develop into bedside tests for diseases-but she didn't have a lab. Puttering around her kitchen one day, she remembered her favorite childhood toy: Shrinky Dinks, the sheets of plastic that kids decorate with paint, pens, or colored pencils, then bake. After a trip to a crafts store and with the help of a laser printer and a toaster oven, Khine created her own Shrinky Dink "lab on a chip": an improbably viable alternative to high-grade silicon devices made with multimillion-dollar equipment. She later developed Shrinky Dink-based tools for culturing stem cells to grow new heart tissue, and hopes her chips will someday be used in supercheap diagnostic tests for patients in the developing world.
"I try to think about things very simply," says Khine, now an assistant professor at UC Irvine. "When my students get stuck, I tell them to stop making things complicated and pare it down to first principles." For Khine, getting unstuck means taking a break-preferably in the company of her petite black Labrador mix, whom her students have nicknamed MicroLab. "My best inspiration and ideas come when I'm walking the dog or driving or taking a shower," she says. "If I let a problem simmer long enough, something clicks." -Aaron Rowe 
The inspiration: Producing a brick, which requires mining clay or shale, then firing it in a kiln at thousand-degree temperatures, leaves a heck of a carbon footprint. "All to make something that can't compare to the structural efficiency of a simple seashell," says architect Ginger Krieg Dosier, who, as a little girl in Alabama, was obsessed with collecting shells. Dosier resolved to channel the genius of nature into a greener building block: Consulting chemists and microbiologists, she began harvesting bricks in a laboratory by mixing sand with a solution of bacteria and other compounds, which crystallize and cohere into a block as rigid as cement and as tawny as the desert. A professor at the American University of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates, Dosier hopes her seashell-inspired bricks can someday replace their old-school counterparts en masse, slashing annual carbon emissions by hundreds of millions of tons.  -Rebecca Tuhus-Dubrow
Jane SUJEN BOCK
The Justice Seeker
SITTING AMONG THE law books in Jane Sujen Bock's Manhattan office is a plastic bag full of paint chips: a keepsake from a successful case, and proof of an inventive legal mind at work. In 2002, Bock, an attorney with the Homeless Rights Project of the Legal Aid Society, learned that the city was using the Bronx House of Detention as a homeless shelter. "The ventilation was horrible, and kids were having asthma attacks," she says. "Not to mention the emotional damage to children who were being told that this"-living in a jail-"was what they were worth."
Bock could have built a case for relocating the kids, which would have taken years to wind through the court system. But she wanted a solution now. She visited the jail and, suspecting that the facility wasn't up to code, peeled a few flakes off the walls. Sure enough, tests revealed that the place was coated in lead paint; within weeks, hundreds of families had been moved to safer, more humane shelters-and the story had hit the front page of The New York Times.
"Traditional legal tactics often don't work well for poor people," says Bock, 51, one of just two lawyers tasked with helping 10,000 homeless families in New York City. "They're up against massive bureaucracies, and the court system is very slow." So Bock recruits pro bono advocates to push for legislation; she tips off the press to injustices and brings clients to testify at city council hearings; she's even been known to shadow vans transporting homeless families to collect affidavits about inadequate shelters. Her enterprising approach means that, on any given day, Bock is not just a lawyer but a social worker, detective, community activist, and building inspector-in addition to being a mother of two with a deep empathy for her clients. "I see homeless mothers who are being so creative in trying to provide for their children when they have lost their jobs, or have been battered, or have had their ceilings fall down on their heads," she says. "I'll do whatever I can to give these kids a chance." The proof is in the plastic bag.  -Raha Naddaf
James GRIFFIOEN
The Super-Dad
MY WIFE WORKS while I stay home and take care of our two young children, plus Wendell, an energetic bird dog we rescued from the streets of Detroit. He loves to run but had to settle for meandering walks with short-legged toddlers until it hit me: I could build a dog wagon. With a flathead screwdriver and a lot of trial and error, I transformed our old jogging stroller into a sleek two-seat sulky. Now when Wendell hears me jangle the harness I built from old leather belts, he leaps into the air and bolts to the door-he can't wait to pull those kids from the farmers' market to the riverfront, and we travel at a pace that thrills us all.
I am not an engineer or any kind of craftsman. I'm a guy whose kids-and possibly his dog-still believe he can do anything. When I left my job as a corporate litigator four years ago, it was a promise to my children: I may not be able to buy you as many things, but you will know your father. We moved from tony San Francisco to downtown Detroit, where there aren't as many stores or things to do. We have to make our own fun.
So when we noticed a few inches of water had frozen in a deserted lot, we grabbed our ice skates and made it our own private rink. When my 5-year-old daughter became obsessed with ancient Egypt, we cut pizza boxes into pyramids and turned our living room into the Giza plateau. When my 2-year-old son wanted to be RoboCop for Halloween, we raided the recycling bin for detergent bottles and milk jugs and painted them metallic gray. I pieced his mask together from an old bike helmet and a wash bucket. We hit the streets in search of evildoers and commiserated with real Detroit cops who let my son sit behind the wheel of a real police car.
Creativity rubs off. Not long ago, my daughter asked me to build her a horse, and I made sure she was part of every step of the process that didn't involve power tools. She designed and helped craft her scrap-plywood Pegasus from the first sketches to the last coat of stain. Something that existed only in her imagination became a toy she could ride. Every project we finish feels like the fulfillment of a promise, though it's not the things we create that matter-it's the time we spend creating things together.  -James Griffioen
The inspiration: When veterinarian Louise Murray told her husband, a fire department captain, about her concept for a free sterilization program for pit bulls-a "Pit-y Party," with flyers designed as "invitations"-"he and the guys at the station burst out laughing," recalls Murray, who runs the ASPCA's Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital in New York City. Realizing she'd stumbled across the perfect focus group-tough guys who weren't exactly eager to emasculate their dogs-Murray kept brainstorming. The fellows finally gave her the thumbs-up on the military-themed "Operation Pit" (slogan: "We're looking for a few good dogs"), which includes free vaccinations, plus camo-print bandannas and "honorable discharge" papers for participating dogs (pit bulls account for almost two-thirds of dogs in NYC shelters). One of the firemen even lent his voice to the appointment hotline. In the program's first six months, the hospital spayed, neutered, or provided vasectomies for more than 200 pits: a hundredfold increase over the previous six-month period.  -J.S.
THE Un-QUIZ
Show Us Your Creativity!
From 2002 to 2009, writer and filmmaker Miranda July and artist Harrell Fletcher maintained a Web site called Learning to Love You More, where they posted creative assignments ("Draw a constellation from someone's freckles"; "Make the saddest song") to inspire people to see the world in new ways. Thousands of participants sent in their responses, which were posted on the site and published as a book (Learning to Love You More). The complete archive later became part of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art's permanent collection (it can be seen at .) This month we asked July to contribute a special Learning to Love You More-inspired project for O readers-five fanciful prompts meant to spark your imagination and illustrate a curious paradox: the surprising freedom to be found in working within creative constraints. So get out your camera and your sketch pad (whether it's a paper version or our exclusive drawing application, SketchBook O, available free in the iTunes app store for a limited time), and then share your imaginative output in our gallery on            ..
1 WRITE A CAPTION FOR A MISLEADING PICTURE.
Do you ever look at an old photo of yourself and think about what really happened just before, or during, or after the picture was taken? Maybe you were hugging a man you were actually ambivalent about, and later that night you had an argument that made you realize you needed to leave him. Or maybe the person taking the photo was someone you secretly loved-and, to hide your feelings, you turned away with a pretend look of annoyance. Look through your old photos and find one that doesn't tell the whole story. Write the truthful caption for it, changing the names if need be. The caption may be of any length.
DOCUMENTATION: Scan or upload the photo and give it a typed caption. 
2 REENACT SOMETHING YOU DO EVERY DAY, IN REVERSE.
There are so many actions you do daily in the exact same way: taking vitamins, making coffee, doing laundry, walking to your mailbox. Now choose one of these things and do it in reverse, as if it were a movie playing backward. (In fact, you might want to record yourself doing the task and then rewind the footage to see how it looks.) Suddenly this familiar task becomes a strange, exotic dance. Make sure you don't pick an action whose reverse is really just another familiar action-for example, the reverse of putting on your jacket might look like taking off your jacket.
DOCUMENTATION: Video yourself doing the task in reverse; blow us away with your precision. The video should be less than 30 seconds long. 
3 TAKE A FAMILY PORTRAIT UNDER THE TABLE.
This one is simple. Next time you and your family are all seated around the dinner table, get your camera, turn on the flash, get under the table, and take a picture of all the legs. If your family members start doing funny things with their legs, tell them to stop, or wait until they do; the idea is to record the legs in their natural state. If you want your own legs in the picture, too, then you'll have to use a self-timer, or do it at a restaurant and ask a waiter, nicely.
DOCUMENTATION: Scan or upload the photo and give it a typed caption identifying the legs (for example, "From left: my uncle, my husband, my daughter, me").
4 DESIGNATE A PLACE FOR SOMETHING THAT NEEDS A PLACE.
Some feelings, fears, hopes, and moods don't get the time and space they deserve because we're too busy to attend to them. Then when we finally have some time, it's much easier to spend it online or watching TV. It might help to designate an actual place, almost like a parking space, for these elusive things. Make a sign out of cardboard or wood. Use paint or a serious black marker. Now think hard about what exactly this thing is that needs space. It's important to get the wording exactly right. Here are some examples:
THIS SPACE IS DESIGNATED FOR SADNESS. 
THIS SPACE IS DESIGNATED FOR THE MYSTERIOUS SINKING SENSATION I HAVE AFTER I TALK TO BRETT ON THE PHONE.
THIS SPACE IS DESIGNATED FOR THINKING ABOUT WHAT IS MISSING.
The sign should be straightforward, with no decoration. Put it up wherever you want-in your bedroom or kitchen, or perhaps in a public place such as your bus stop.
DOCUMENTATION: Photograph the sign in place.
5 DRAW THEIR HAIR.
Think about the people who stirred you up last year-the ones who enraged you, made you feel lustful, brought out your tenderness, and so on. Now think of their hair. Using the SketchBook O app or a piece of white paper, draw just the hair of each of these people. Draw carefully, using a picture as a reference if you have one, and notice the details. The hair should float on the page, with no face or body or head attached. Under each hair drawing, write the feeling elicited by the person with this hair; for example, "Made me deeply ashamed" or "Made me want to punch something." You can do as many hair drawings as you want, but they should all be on the same page, in a row or rows. There should be nothing else on the page-no decorations or names-just the hair and the captions. Use color, or not-whatever you prefer.
DOCUMENTATION: If you're using the SketchBook O app, save your hair drawings. If you're using paper, scan the page of drawings.
UPLOAD YOUR ORIGINAL WORK AT OPRAH.COM/CREATIVITY UNTIL MARCH 11, 2011.
Credits
SET DESIGN: CHARLIE WELCH AT JED ROOT INC. FASHION STYLIST: JENNIFER HITZGES AT JED ROOT INC. HAIR: BRENT LAVETT USING SHU UEMURA ART OF HAIR. MAKEUP: LEA SIEGEL FOR FORD ARTISTS FOR SMASHBOX COSMETICS. PP.146-147, ON CHILDREN, FROM LEFT: SHIRT, 77 KIDS. SKIRT, TIGHTS, J.CREW. BOOTS, HUNTER. HEADBAND, J.CREW. TOP, 77 KIDS. SHOES, VIVIENNE WESTWOOD ANGLOMANIA + MINI MELISSA. SWEATER AND PANTS, J.CREW. TIE, CHILDREN'S PLACE. LONG-SLEEVED SHIRT, LANDS' END. SHORT-SLEEVED SHIRT, CHILDREN'S PLACE. PANTS, J.CREW. P.149, GIRL WITH TUBA: CARDIGAN, SHIRT, AND SKIRT, J.CREW. PINHOLE CAMERAS: ANTHROPOLOGIE. P.150, BATAK: COURTESY OF BATAK.COM. P.151, ON RABINOWICZ: DRESS, MAXMARA. NECKLACE, RING, AND BELT, ANNA RABINOWICZ FOR RABLABS. SHOES, ANN TAYLOR. P.153, ON BOUTIN-FOSTER: DRESS, MAGASCHONI. EARRINGS, ALEXIS BITTAR. NECKLACE, TALBOTS. SHOES, STUART WEITZMAN. P.154, ON KHINE: NECKLACE AND SHOES, ANN TAYLOR. P.155, BRICK: COURTESY OF GINGER KRIEG-DOSIER. P.156, ON BOCK: JACKET, BURBERRY. DRESS, RALPH LAUREN. BANGLES, ALEXIS BITTAR. SHOES, TALBOTS. P.157 ON GRIFFIOEN: CARDIGAN, CLUB MONACO. SHIRT, J.CREW. JEANS, IMOGENE + WILLIE. P.158, OPERATION PIT: COURTESY OF ASPCA. JULY: AUTUMN DE WILDE.
PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM ABRANOWICZ
ILLUSTRATIONS BY OKSANA BADRAK

Load-Date: March 31, 2011


End of Document
