




The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)
June 4, 2009 Thursday


Copyright 2009 The New Mexican
Section: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. C-1
Length: 498 words
Byline: THE NEW MEXICAN
Body


In brief
Hospital: False
alarm over form
Christus St. Vincent Regional Medical Center says physicians shouldn't be concerned about language in a draft document distributed to physicians who are renegotiating their contracts.
Spokesman Arturo Delgado said Wednesday that Santa Fe's only general hospital doesn't intend to require doctors to sign off on ethical and religious directives for Catholic health care that prohibit abortion, contraceptive counseling, fertility treatments, elective tubal ligations, vasectomies and euthanasia.
A template that Christus uses in its wholly owned facilities specifies that physicians comply with the "doctrinal and moral tradition of the Roman Catholic Church." Under the partnership between Christus and St. Vincent, however, that language was never intended to be in their final contract, Delgado said.
About 50 doctors are paid by St. Vincent, including some with large local practices, and are covered by contracts. Delgado said he did not know how many are currently renewing contracts but that the hospital's medical staff office is making sure that they understand that this language in the template does not apply to them. Future contracts will be based on the agreements currently being negotiated, and not on what is used elsewhere, he added.
Builder files bankruptcy petition
A builder who defaulted on bank loans and left more than half a
dozen unfinished houses in Las Campanas last fall has filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy.
According to federal bankruptcy court documents, William Kalinowski and his wife, Andrea Kalinowski, claimed in their May 22 filing that they had no more than $50,000 in assets and between $10 million and $50 million worth of debt.
Those figures are much higher than the $3 million figure Kalinowski gave The New Mexican when he was interviewed in March.
Kalinowski -- who owned Barranca Builders and several other construction companies -- closed up shop last fall, owing local subcontractors hundreds of thousands of dollars for work they had performed on the unfinished homes in the upscale subdivision northwest of Santa Fe.
Free family movie night Saturday
Families will able to bring blankets and picnic baskets for a free Saturday night showing of the movie E.T. The Extraterrestrial in Santa Fe's Railyard Park.
Organizers say the movie will be shown on a 20-foot by 11-foot inflatable screen with an ultrabright projector and theater-quality sound. Classic Warner Bros. cartoons, courtesy of Santa Fe's Chuck Jones Gallery, will start the night. The show will begin after sunset, around 8:15 p.m.
The event is being organized by Jamie Lenfestey's Fan Man Productions with support from The McCune Foundation, Sydney and Andrew Davis and anonymous donors.
On June 21, Father's Day, there will be a Louisiana-style dance party at the Railyard, also free, from 4 to 8 p.m. That event will have food vendors on site and feature Feufollet and Zydeco Grammy nominee Cedric Watson as well as Santa Fe's Gumbo Project.
The New Mexican

Graphic

 
See pdf's for exact rendition, caption, graphics and photographer info.

Load-Date: June 5, 2009


End of Document
