




Newsweek.com
February 14, 2025 Friday 3:29 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 571 words
Byline: Maria Morava
Highlight: Newsweek spoke to a therapist about how the couple can navigate the uncertainty that comes with such a shocking revelation.
Body


A 56-year-old man turned to  for advice after a shocking pregnancy test.
In the , he explained that his wife of 25 years had showed him a positive pregnancy test—despite the fact that he had a vasectomy 15 years ago. Since it was published, the post has received 21,000 upvotes and nearly 2,000 comments from users offering words of support and helpful information.
Newsweek spoke to Evon Inyang, a licensed associate marriage and family therapist and the founder of ForwardUsCounseling.com, about the situation and the concerns around trust that might emerge from an unexpected pregnancy.
The original poster (OP) shared on Reddit that he was "freaking...out in my head."
"This happened an hour ago and it's just weird," he wrote.
The OP explained that  shortly after the birth of his twins. When his 50-year-old wife revealed the unexpected pregnancy, she was understandably distressed.
"She's freaking out about the pregnancy and the fact that I've ," the OP wrote.
Despite his internal panic, he remained supportive: "I'm saying I'm fine," he wrote. "I really can't even think of a single time she has a chance to screw around."
Determined to find answers, OP scheduled an appointment with a urologist while his wife made one with her doctor.
While a situation like this could easily lead to accusations, Redditors overwhelmingly sided with OP's wife, arguing that if she had been unfaithful, she wouldn't have been so forthcoming.
"Here's my two little cents, if she was cheating on you and found out she was pregnant you wouldn't be the person she'd tell, just saying," one commenter wrote.
Another agreed: "I can't imagine if she was cheating, she'd tell you right away that she was pregnant, she'd probably make a secret doctor's appointment, and if she was pregnant, probably abort it," they wrote. "I would have to agree with everyone else on this thread and say it's probably a false positive! Either that or the vasectomy didn't work and y'all are having ."
A therapist weighs in
The situation raised questions about trust—not because the OP suspected his wife, but because it challenged his understanding of his own body.
"This kind of shock hits like a lightning bolt!" Inyang told Newsweek. "One moment, life feels predictable, the next, everything feels like it's up for debate."
According to her, doubt can creep in even in the strongest relationships, simply because "reality itself feels shaky and uncertain." She said that it's crucial to communicate with vulnerability rather than suspicion.
"Leading with accusations? That's gasoline on the already ignited fire," she said. Instead, she suggested an approach like, "This is throwing me for a loop. I trust you, and I also don't understand how this is happening. I need your help making sense of it."
The physiological response to such a shock—racing thoughts, a pounding heart, and fast breathing—can also contribute to anxiety, she added. To manage it, she recommended grounding techniques to the OP like deep breathing, movement, and reminding himself, "We don't have all the information and facts yet."
Ultimately, the OP and his wife remained on the same team, seeking medical answers together. As Inyang said, "Big surprises like this don't just test the foundation and trust; they test how a couple navigates uncertainty together."
Newsweek reached out to u/manchvegasnomore for comment via Reddit.


Graphic

 
A woman looks at a positive pregnancy
Andrii Zastrozhnov/Getty Images
A woman looks at a positive pregnancy test.

Load-Date: February 14, 2025


End of Document
