




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
March 13, 2015 Friday


Copyright 2015 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: C; Pg. 6
Length: 374 words
Byline: BARBARA RODRIGUEZ The Associated Press
Body


DES MOINES - A bill that would require a woman in Iowa to have an ultrasound and be offered an image and description of it before she has an abortion advanced in the House on Thursday after several hours of debate, though it's unlikely the legislation will advance in the Senate.
The House voted 57-39 along mostly party lines in support of the bill, which would require a physician to perform an ultrasound or face fines.
It's doubtful the Democratic-controlled Senate will advance the legislation, but the issue generated a lengthy debate in the Republican-led House, which included several procedural breaks. There was strong opposition from Democrats, who introduced dozens of proposed changes to the legislation.
One proposed change would have exempted the requirement in cases of a medical emergency or if the pregnancy was the result of sexual abuse or incest. At least one amendment, aimed at making a point, would have required certain procedures for a man undergoing a vasectomy.
"This bill is a good step toward the goal of protecting all innocent, unborn children," said Rep. Sandy Salmon, R-Janesville. "It will demonstrate that as Iowans we don't want to put our faith in death, but rather put our faith in life."
Rep. Abby Finkenauer, D-Dubuque, called the legislation an "embarrassment."
"This bill asks 100 state legislators to legislate as if they were medical doctors, which by the way, none of us are. I cannot believe that in the year 2015, we are still having this debate."
Legislation involving abortion has come up in previous sessions with little success. While this one's prospects in the Senate are questionable, Rep. Walt Rogers - a Cedar Falls Republican who's the bill's sponsor - said he remained hopeful.
"This bill sets dangerous precedence by interfering with doctor-patient relationships, by not trusting a woman to make decisions about her own health care, and to begin the process of codifying standards of care in medical procedures," said Rep. Beth Wessel-Kroeschell, D-Ames. "Lawmakers are not qualified to act as physicians."
Rep. Joel Fry, R-Osceola, who managed the bill on the floor, disagreed with that assessment. He also earlier received approval to change the bill's description of fetus to "unborn child."

Load-Date: March 13, 2015


End of Document
