




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
April 9, 2000, Sunday,
CITY EDITION


Copyright 2000 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: LIFE,
Length: 522 words
Byline: D.L. Stewart
Body


TWENTY-FIVE YEARS have flown by as if they were a mere quarter of a century.
After 10 years of writing sports articles, I wrote my first general column for April 8, 1975. Unlike the sports articles, which had carried only my byline, a photo of me also appeared with the column. The first reader reaction came in the mail two days later.
"Dear Sir: I often wondered why your articles were uncouth, boorish, common and vulgar. Now it's clear. God, are you ugly."
Apparently I never got any better-looking.
So after a year of equally flattering feedback, including some that came on toilet paper, I sought the counsel of Erma Bombeck.
"There are only two things you can safely make fun of," she assured me. "Yourself and Adolph Hitler."
As usual, Erma was right. My readers, I would discover, loved to laugh. But not necessarily at themselves.
I heard from doctors who thought it was hysterically funny when I made fun of attorneys and from attorneys who chuckled when I made fun of doctors. But, more often, I heard from doctors who thought it was incredibly trite when I made fun of doctors and from attorneys who threatened lawsuits when I made fun of attorneys.
Ask any columnist and he or she will tell you that negative reactions like those just roll off our backs. But that's because most columnists are notorious liars. Which may be why they are columnists in the first place.
The truth is, most columnists are quivering blobs of insecure aspic. If 1,000 letters come in and 999 of them are complimentary, we only will remember the one that begins: "Dear So-called Columnist."
After approximately 3,600 columns, two reactions stand out.
One was from a reader in Kettering, who was upset by a column about my teen-age sons arguing over a pair of boxer shorts.
"If I were your wife," she wrote, "I would clobber you with a frying pan."
Although I don't have time to respond to every angry reader, I made an exception for her.
"If you were my wife," I replied, "I would clobber myself with a frying pan."
The other went to the editor after a column I wrote about getting a vasectomy. The column did not, I should point out, include photos.
"When D.L. Stewart wrote about his vasectomy," the woman informed him, "he cut his throat."
I never replied to that one, although I have been deeply concerned ever since about the woman's understanding of human anatomy.
Despite my best efforts to never again offend any reader, I'm still struggling.
Just last month I wrote a column that inexplicably gave some readers the impression that the Dr. Laura show was not my favorite radio program. I'm not sure why. Maybe it was the part where I wrote that, if her show came on my car radio, I would open the car door and hurl myself out into the oncoming traffic.
That afternoon there was a message on my answering machine.
"Hey, D.L., please don't tease us . . . if only you would hurl yourself out into traffic."
Maybe the next 25 years will be better.
* D.L. Stewart's column appears Tuesday, Friday and Sunday in the Life section. Contact him at 225-2439 or
e-mail . His talk show airs on WHIO-AM (1290) from 5-7 p.m. Monday through Friday.  

Load-Date: April 11, 2000


End of Document
