




hollywoodreporter.com
December 15, 2017 Friday


Copyright 2017 Prometheus Global Media, LLC All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; TAG
Length: 946 words
Byline: Katherine Schaffstall
Body


James Corden returned to & nbsp;The Late Late Show & nbsp;on Thursday (Dec. 14) after two days off while his wife Julia gave birth to a baby girl.
The host called the past 48 hours a whirlwind, and caught the audience up on his experiences from the past few days.
"Over the weekend my wife started experiencing some sort of pain in her stomach. We checked it out, but we thought it had gone away," said Corden. "So we went in for a routine checkup on Tuesday and suddenly the doctor turned to us and said, 'Oh no, this is probably happening today.'"
After explaining his initial shock, he said, "It ’s a really terrible thing if you ’ in a room and your wife is eight and a half months pregnant and the doctor is talking to her about very serious things about giving birth and there ’s really no easy way to bring up the fact that you have to tape a show that day," he said. "Take my word for it. You can ’ say that without sounding like a dick."
"So I did what I always do in my life in a time of crisis, I called Harry Styles," Corden said of the musician filling in for him on Tuesday (Dec. 12) night ’s episode. "And God bless him. He was good enough to fill in for me. When I spoke to him I said, 'Harry, I need a favor. Our show tapes in three hours. Is there any way you can jump in and host the show for me?' and he was incredibly nervous." Corden then offered to fill in for Styles the next time he can ’ make it to a concert. "He said, 'James, that won ’ be necessary.'"
Bryan Cranston stepped in to take over the role of host on Wednesday ’s (Dec. 13) episode. After praising his turn as host, Corden stated, "Needless to say, we will not be having him back."
Corden reflected on the nerve-wracking experience in the hospital. "Finally, the doctor came in and he said to us, 'Don ’ worry. It looks like Roy Moore is gonna lose.'"
Because the baby came early, Corden and his wife Julia have yet to give their daughter a name. Following the birth, Corden described the emotional moment in which he and his wife were crying and the doctor asked for a name. "I don ’ know why I said it. I looked at the doctor and I said, 'We ’ gonna call her Beyonce.'" He continued, "My wife did not think that was funny. Especially after a nurse &hellip; then the nurse went to the other side of the room and started filling out a form with the name Beyonce." Corden stopped the nurse by stating, "Excuse me. There is only one Beyonce."
After thanking the audience for supporting his family during the exciting time, he said, "If anyone out there is wondering what to get me for Christmas, a vasectomy would be wonderful."
Later in the episode, Corden recapped the highs and lows of 2017. The host mentioned moments like Sean Spicer lying about the number of people in attendance at Trump ’s inauguration, the women ’s march, the solar eclipse, the release of Hillary Clinton ’s book What Happened & nbsp;and O.J. Simpson ’s release from prison. "I know we all thought 2016 was bad, but 2017 has been kind of the worst," he said.
"We fought about statues, read tweets about fake news, United Airlines dragged a man off a plane, avocado toast photos drove us insane," Corden quickly said. "Betsy DeVos was met with great boos, a BBC toddler interrupted the news, an opioid crisis, the fight against ISIS, California ’s on fire, Michael Flynn was a liar."
"Bad men had to answer for their awful behavior," Corden said as photos of Harvey Weinstein, Charlie Rose, Kevin Spacey, Louis C.K. and Matt Lauer appeared onscreen. "Brave women spoke out and became our true saviors. So thanks to the silence-breakers who let us know how many men in 2017 were the absolute worst."
"But the year in pop culture wasn ’ all bad. It ’s nice to remember the good times we had," he said. Corden mentioned La La Land, the popularity of Luis Fonsi ’s Despacito, Salt Bae, Kendrick Lamar ’s latest album Damn, fidget spinners and George Clooney ’s new role as a father. "Stranger Things 2 had everyone bingeing, while guys wearing rompers had everyone cringing. Serena gave birth, Beyonce had twins, Khloe and Kylie also maybe want in," he said of the Kardashian sisters & amp;#39; pregnancies that have yet to be confirmed.
Corden then recapped the year in the Trump administration. "Sean Spicer was fired, Scaramucci was hired, Reince Priebus retired, Scaramucci was fired, Steve Bannon was canned, John Kelly was bland. All jobs at the mercy of two tiny hands," he said. "And the best part of this year is when we were treated to 11 sweet minutes when Trump ’s tweets were deleted."
"Pennywise the clown scared us It-less, Bitcoin had us going 'What even is this?,' the iPhone 10 recognized our faces, the Astros ran around the bases," Corden summarized. The host mentioned other highlights like the films Get Out, Wonder Woman and Thor: Ragnarok.
"Blake Shelton was the sexiest man alive, but what about someone who sings when he drives?," asked Corden as a photo-shopped image of him as People Magazine ’s Sexiest Man Alive appeared on screen. "The old James can ’ make it to the phone right now. Why? Because he lost to Blake Shelton and 2017 is dead."
The host also detailed some of the more hopeful aspects of 2017. "We still got Obamas and a Young Pope. Australian gay couples can get legally married, an actress from Suits is engaged to Prince Harry," he said.
Corden concluded the year ’s summary with some advice. "It ’s 2017. There ’s nothing to fear. As long as you vote in the midterms next year," he said.

Load-Date: May 3, 2018


End of Document
