




Salt Lake Tribune (Utah)
December 10, 2000, Sunday


Copyright 2000 The Salt Lake Tribune
Section: Final; Pg. F4
Length: 843 words
Byline: JUDY MAGID
Body


Utah tenor Michael Ballam could have added "Let It Snow! Let It Snow! Let It Snow!" to his Abravanel Hall concert medley Nov. 15 because the weather "outside" was unexpectedly frightful, drenching many of the 1,100 guests arriving to celebrate the 125th anniversary of Jones Waldo Holbrook & McDonough law firm.
Consider: Only 976 had coats to check.
Once inside, the scene was delightful with guests mingling amid a bountiful spread of food, drink and memories.
The law firm counts its beginnings from 1875 with firm founder Joseph Lafayette Rawlins, Utah's first full-term senator. Joseph S. Jones' name was added to the firm in 1939; Harold R. Waldo and Donald B. Holbrook joined the firm in the mid-1950s, with Roger J. McDonough joining in 1959. The firm became Jones Waldo Holbrook & McDonough on Dec. 31, 1966.
Firm president Ronny and Lindsay Cutshall were among the first to brave the winter blasts and were joined by Board Chairman Glen and Terri Watkins, newly appointed Third District Judge Randall and Susan Skanchy and Michael Ballam. George and Charlotte Pratt chatted with friends along with Paul and Susan Harman, Keven and Susan Rowe, Andy and Debbie Stone, Marci Rechtenbach and Susan Peterson, Valerie and Michael Starkweather, Rick and Sherrie Knuth, Jeff and Carla Shields and Onie Grosshans.
Marjorie Jones, widow of Joseph S. Jones, arrived with son Roger Jones and got a big buss from Don Holbrook. Ilse Wightman and Helen and James Nor-berg checked coats while Ronald Wightman parked the car. Mexican consul Anacelia Perez de Mayer and Eugene Mayer attended, as did Robert Adams, Jim Lewis, George and Mary Ann Mantes, Lewis Francis and Dana Costello, Lisa Jones and Bruce Reading, Margaret Robinson, Betty Holbrook, Elly Muth, Katie Dixon, Frank and Pat Pignanelli, Sharon Jameson, Frank Pignanelli Jr., Jennette Criddle, Sheila Beckstead, David and Lana Mills and Lynn Kellner.
Gloria and John Lemke were there along with Steve and Barbara Dirks, Joanne Edwards, Thomas Valle, Jon and Penniann Schumann, Greg and Jan Thorpe, Alice Steiner, Elizabeth Haslam, David and Sharon Sonnenreich, Sidney and Mary Baucom, Jathan Janove, Randon and Gayle Wilson, former Gov. Cal and Lucybeth Rampton, Michael and Vicki O'Brien, Deno and Lisa Himonas, James Lowrie and Lesley DuTemple, Don and Doris Gale, Craig and Charis Mariger and Jerry and Anne Holyoak.
Ski and Snowboard Winter Ball
Members and friends of the U.S. Ski and Snowboard Team gathered Nov. 3 in the Grand Summit Hotel at The Canyons in Park City for the Utah Ski and Snowboard Winter Ball. (The weather was chilly, and winter did not seem far away.) Once inside, after a significant wait for the mandatory valet parking, guests flowed about the lobby and side rooms to place bids on silent auction items with a decided slopeside theme: ski passes, ski clothes, ski gear, ski vacations, and photos and other items signed by members, past and present, of the U.S. Ski Team.
Among those in the throng were Para-Olympian Chris Waddell, recently returned from successful competition in the Summer Paralympic Games in Sydney; Ricky Bower, Alex Shaffer, downhiller Ehlias Louis, Jill Adler and Emily Cook.
Others on hand were Michael Hargis, Greg Barrett, Jessica Ochs, Amy Basmajian, Kara McMahon and Sally Jo Beck.
Jeff Mann was there, as were Karen Marriott, John McMillian, Shelley Osterlough and Andy Clurman. Liz Antaya was among the volunteers. Louis and Jane LeBar attended, as did Brandon Hobbs and Kit Olpin.
Hosting the ball were Ron Crosby, Mark DeWald, Lisa Catanzaro, Raelene Davis, Sandy Dickinson, Carole Duh and Faye Ivory. Also, Hilary Lindh, Jeff Mann Jr., Alex Natt, Ginger Reis and Ted Simons.
Reid School
The Reid School auction packed The Point restaurant at the new Huntsman Cancer Institute at the University of Utah to raise money for a school broadcast studio on Nov. 9.
Before dinner, party-goers browsed the items up for silent auction, run by Hawk Mendenhall.
Among the items were day spa visits, a football autographed by Steve Young, Jazz tickets and a vasectomy.
Journalist Maggie St. Claire spoke about the benefit of the media for society. Local entrepreneur Gary Crocker handled the microphone on the value of education.
The dinner was an event for the entire family. Parents, grandparents, children and babies filled out the guests. At the end of the night, when the guests finished off their bananas foster, Reid School teachers assisted auctioneer Richard D. O'Keef with the live auction.
Party-goers bid on resort trips, artwork created by Reid School students and a chance to meet the University of Utah basketball team.
Mark Eaton served as master of ceremonies for the night.
Before guests and contributors wandered into the snowy night, Reid School ended the evening with a raffle.
Near the end of the evening, event Co-chair Jana Ward finally had a chance to sit down with her husband, Curtis, to enjoy her meal and the auction.
Buddies Kris Luchs and Rebecca Landau took the opportunity to chat up the evening and take in the items up for sale.
Jesus Lopez Jr.

Graphic

 
Left, James and Helen Norberg, Ilse and Ronald Wightman at Jones Waldo Holbrook & McDonough anniversary party.; Left, Gloria Lemke, John Lemke, Steve Kirks and Barbara Dirks celebrate with Jones Waldo Holbrook & McDonough.; Ski Ball photos by Margie Miller: Emily Cook, left, Ehlias Louis and Jessica Ochs at the US Ski and Snowboard Ball.; Kara McMahon, left, and Sally Jo Beck at the reception at the Grand Summit Hotel for the Winter Ball.; Michael Hargis, left, Jill Adler and Greg Barrett at the Ski Ball.

Load-Date: December 10, 2000


End of Document
