





Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)
January 14, 2000, Friday,
CITY EDITION


Copyright 2000 The Richmond Times Dispatch
Section: AREA/STATE,; GENERAL ASSEMBLY 2000
Length: 981 words
Byline: Michael Hardy, Jeff E. Schapiro And Pamela Stallsmith; Times-Dispatch Staff Writers; Call Hardy at (804) 649-6810, Schapiro at (804) 649-6814 or; Stallsmith at (804) 649-6746 or e-mail:; ; ,  or; ,     
Body


A separate state holiday honoring Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. looks like a legislative winner for Gov. Jim Gilmore, even though the Republican hasn't figured out the proposal's details and cost.
Democrats and Republicans embraced the highly symbolic proposal, but perhaps the heartiest endorsement came from the creator of the current King holiday, former Gov. L. Douglas Wilder.
"It's good as well as overdue," said Wilder, whom Gilmore briefed before going public with the proposal in his State of the Commonwealth message Wednesday night.
During the 1984 General Assembly session, Wilder, as a Democratic senator from Richmond, won a holiday for King. The martyred civil rights leader, however, had to share it with one for Confederate icons Robert E. Lee and Thomas J. "Stonewall" Jackson.
This year, the combined holiday will be observed Monday.
Separate holidays "show more diversity by saying that Virginia can honor one person on one day and, on the next, honor someone who is perceived as diametrically opposed to the first," said Wilder, the nation's first elected black governor.
Walter S. Felton Jr., Gilmore's chief of policy, said the administration still is gathering information on the costs and implications of adding the proposed new state holiday, which would shut down the government for the day. Currently, there are about 10 such holidays.
The administration is expected to have a report ready sometime next week.
Another African-American politician, Del. Kenneth R. Melvin, D-Portsmouth, was asked whether Gilmore's proposal was merely an effort to pry black votes from Democrats.  "Hell, yes!" Melvin said. "I still very much appreciate the symbolism."
Melvin went on to credit the governor for deft politics. "Jim Gilmore has kicked Democrats' butt. [Former Gov.] George Allen came at us with some very tough rhetoric but was ham-handed in execution. Jim Gilmore has really diminished our numbers."
Gilmore's surprise proposal dominated the headlines yesterday. But as the buzz faded on the King proposal, talk among lawmakers turned to concerns such as transportation, abortion, health care, and election and judicial reform.
Sen. Martin E. Williams, R-Newport News, the new chairman of the Senate Transportation Committee, said that he believes Gilmore is open to changes in his road plan but that the onus was on legislators to bankroll it without raising taxes.
"I don't think he's wed to FOUND_BAD_CHARACTERmy way or the highway,'*" Williams said.
Sen. W. Roscoe Reynolds, D-Henry, said his tobacco-producing region should be the primary beneficiary of any road improvements financed with dollars from the national cigarette settlement. Tobacco dollars make up a large part of Gilmore's $ 2.5 billion transportation plan.
"If you're going to use tobacco-settlement money for roads, they ought to be roads in Southside and Southwest Virginia, not Northern Virginia," Reynolds said.
Gilmore's renewed call that women must wait 24 hours before having an abortion - a cause he unsuccessfully pushed last year - will once again prove to be emotional.
Opponents of the proposed waiting period call it an insult to women.
"It is definitely singling out one procedure," said Del. Viola O. Baskerville, D-Richmond. "No one is singling out a 24-hour waiting period for a vasectomy."
Requiring voters to present identification at the polls - also touted by Gilmore in his speech - promises to raise hackles among legislators. A similar bill cleared the assembly last year but was derailed last fall in court by Democrats.
Del. John A. Rollison III, R-Prince William, applauded Gilmore's electoral-reform plan. The governor wants to allow registration by party and to designate on ballots the party affiliation of candidates for state offices.
"They are a common-sense effort to make government better and more accessible," he said. "The Democrats have consistently and unanimously opposed efforts to put party affiliation on the ballot."
But Del. Robert S. Bloxom, R-Accomack, expressed reservations. "A lot of us are concerned about them," he said, referring to the labels. "It's better how a person is received and recognized in his community or district than to use party labels."
Del. Barnie K. Day, D-Patrick, said forcing voters to show identification "inhibits participation in the democratic process rather than enhance it because it becomes another obstacle to citizens casting their votes free and unfettered."
Many lawmakers were surprised that Gilmore, who has promised to reform the state's ailing mental-health system, included only $ 36 million in his budget for services for the disabled. Most of the cash was earmarked to deal with Medicare shortcomings this fiscal year.
"I see the legislature adding to it appreciably," said Del. Anne G. Rhodes, R-Richmond.
She emphasized that the new Republican majority in the General Assembly must deliver on reforms Republicans have talked about for years, including a more open and broader process for selecting judges.
"We better step up to the plate and do something," Rhodes said.
Democrats decried the lack of any mention of health-care reform in Gilmore's speech, an issue they vow to pursue this session.
Last year, Democrats tried and failed to enact sweeping protections with a Patients' Bill of Rights, which fell victim to election-year politics. Issues this session likely will include holding health-maintenance organizations accountable if patients are denied treatment and letting patients pick their own doctors.
With the narrow split in numbers - 52 Republicans, 47 Democrats and one independent who organizes with the GOP - regional divisions may crop up more often than partisan ones.
" .*.*. We will see and have to guard against more issues being resolved on a regional basis," said Del. Leo C. Wardrup Jr., R-Virginia Beach, the chairman of the House GOP Caucus. "Regional decisions can be as bad as partisan politics."

Load-Date: January 15, 2000


End of Document
