




The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)
September 22, 2008 Monday


Copyright 2008 Dolan Media Newswires All Rights Reserved
Length: 4152 words
Body


Professional Responsibility
Reprimand
BOTTOM LINE: Attorney reprimanded for depositing personal funds in his trust account.
CASE: Attorney Grievance Commission v. Taylor, No. 14, September Term, 2007 (filed Sept. 4, 2008) (Judges Bell, Harrell, Battaglia, Greene, Murphy, Eldridge (retired, specially assigned) & RAKER (retired, specially assigned)). RecordFax No. 08-0904-20, 27 pages.
FACTS: Michael Taylor, a member of the Maryland Bar, worked as legal counsel to the Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and Regulation (DLLR). During that period, Taylor maintained a very limited private practice out of his home.
 In connection with his private practice, Taylor maintained a trust account at Bank of America, which was opened to handle the settlement of a client’s lawsuit. From time to time, he would deposit money in the account to cover the bank fees, but no other client’s funds were deposited in the account.
 Taylor subsequently attempted to pay his office phone bill from the trust account in question, but there were insufficient funds in the account to cover the transaction. The transaction was covered, however, by a subsequent deposit from Taylor into the trust account. Thereafter, the trust account was closed.
 Bank of America notified Bar Counsel that Taylor’s account was overdrawn. Bar Counsel then sent letters to Taylor requesting a written response to the overdrafts in the trust account, but Taylor did not respond until several months later. His letter explained that he had a stroke in 2004, that he was discontinuing his law practice, and that his failure to respond in a timely manner was due to his health problems.
 Bar Counsel received a report of an overdraft on Taylor’s attorney trust account. After an investigation, Bar Counsel determined that the Taylor had violated the following Rules of Professional Conduct: Rule 1.15 Safekeeping Property, Rule 8.1 Bar Admission and Disciplinary Matter, and Rule 8.4 Misconduct.
 In addition to the overdrawn funds, Taylor had a complaint filed against him by Jerry Mathis. In May 2003, Taylor represented Mathis concerning a dispute with a business associate, Mr. Hargrove. Taylor met with Mathis and developed a strategy for the case, which was memorialized in a letter to opposing counsel. Among other things, Taylor and Mathis agreed that Mathis would put all of Hargrove’s commissions in an interest-bearing account and provide a regular accounting of the funds. A copy of the letter and the retainer agreement were hand-delivered to Mathis.
 Mathis never put the funds in an interest-bearing account, however, despite the fact that Hargrove’s attorney routinely forwarded the commission checks to Mathis through Taylor. Taylor filed the appropriate pleadings and a motion for default judgment was denied, and an answer and counterclaim were filed.
 Thereafter, Mathis signed Taylor’s retainer agreement and paid $2,000.00, but failed to cooperate with Taylor in responding to discovery.
  Taylor then determined that the case was too much for him to handle.   He recommended two other attorneys and a paralegal to Mathis. A meeting was arranged and Mathis agreed to hire another attorney, Mr. Frison, to handle the litigation. Since that attorney was not licensed in Maryland, however, Taylor stayed on as local counsel.
 There came a time when Taylor and Frison had a difference of opinion concerning the strategy of the case. Mathis agreed with Frison’s approach, and Taylor sought to withdraw from the case.
 The trial proceeded without the Taylor’s participation and Mathis was not successful. Taylor’s appearance was never stricken from the case, and when Frison sued Mathis for attorney fees, Taylor was brought in as a third party.
 While the court found in favor of Frison and dismissed the suit against Taylor, a complaint with Bar Counsel was subsequently filed.
 The Attorney Grievance Commission filed a petition for disciplinary action against Taylor, alleging multiple violations of the MRPC. The Commission additionally charged Taylor with violating Md. Rule 16-607, commingling of funds in violation of Md. Rule 16-607.
 The Court of Appeals referred the case to the circuit court, which held an evidentiary hearing, and concluded that the Commission had not produced sufficient evidence for it to find that the Taylor had violated the statute or the MRPC.
 The Commission appealed to the Court of Appeals, which found that Taylor did violation the MRPC, and that a reprimand was the appropriate sanction.
LAW: Taylor conceded on appeal that he violated MRPC 1.15 by depositing personal funds into the trust account in excess of the amount needed to cover bank charges. His use of the attorney trust account to pay an office phone bill and his subsequent deposit to cover the overdraft were clear violations of that rule.
 A trust account may not be used for personal purposes, even if client funds are not in the account. An attorney violates the rule if an account denominated as a trust account is used for personal matters, even if the attorney no longer intends to use it for trust purposes. Attorney Griev. Comm. v. Webster, 348 Md. 662, 677 (1998).
  Taylor’s use of the attorney trust account also potentially violated Md. Rule 16-607, even if no client funds were in the account. The account, designated as an attorney trust account, constituted a holding out to the world that the monies contained in the account were not subject to attachment and were beyond the reach of any creditors.
  Taylor additionally violated MRPC 8.1 when he failed to respond to five letters from Bar Counsel, although he did ultimately respond by phone. Belated cooperation with Bar Counsel did not excuse Taylor’s failure to respond to the previous five letters sent by Bar Counsel. Attorney Grievance v. Fezell, 361 Md. 234, 253 (2000).  
  The Court noted that “the practice of law carries with it special responsibilities of self-regulation, and attorney cooperation with disciplinary authorities is of the utmost importance to the success of the process and the integrity of the profession. ” Id. at 255.
 In the instant case, that Bar Counsel’s efforts led ultimately to a response could not wholly excuse Taylor’s repeated failures to reply in a timely manner. The hearing judge found that Bar Counsel had sent four letters to Taylor before Taylor replied in an incomplete fashion nearly three months after Bar Counsel’s initial letter.
 It was clear, however, that in finding that Bar Counsel failed to establish a violation of Rule 8.1, the hearing judge was at least influenced by Taylor’s mental state at the time of the investigation into his conduct.
  Accordingly, the Court granted Bar Counsel’s exceptions.
 
COMMENTARY: In light of the totality of the circumstances, the Court found that a reprimand was the appropriate sanction.
  There was no allegation here of misappropriation or commingling of client funds. Taylor’s misuse of the attorney trust account occurred at a time when he was intending to close his practice. Although Taylor failed to make timely responses to Bar Counsel’s requests for information, the hearing judge found that he ultimately “responded thoroughly and openly. ” He was mentally depressed and was not functioning normally.  
  Additionally, the absence of a selfish or dishonest motive was a mitigating factor. Taylor had no prior disciplinary record, and his conduct neither was dishonest nor in any way resulted in actual harm to any client.
PRACTICE TIPS: The Court’s aim in attorney grievance cases is to protect the public and the public’s confidence in the legal profession rather than to punish the attorney. The Court also seeks to deter other lawyers from violating the Rules of Professional Conduct. Id.
Torts
Products liability
BOTTOM LINE: A drug manufacturer did not owe a duty to a victim to warn the driver of a vehicle that struck and killed the victim of the dangers allegedly associated with the drugs the driver was taking.
CASE: Gourdine v. Crews, No. 134, September Term, 2007 (filed Sept. 4, 2008) (Judges Bell, Harrell, BATTAGLIA, Greene, Eldridge (retired, specially assigned) & Wilner (retired, specially assigned) (Judge Raker (retired, specially assigned), concurring). RecordFax No. 8-0904-21, 45 pages.
FACTS: On Feb. 25, 2002, Ellen Crews took a combination of Humalog, a quick-acting form of insulin taken with meals, and Humulin N (or Humulin NPH), a medication designed to supply a constant source of insulin to the body, both of which were manufactured by Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly), and prescribed by Ms. Crews’ doctor.  
  Shortly thereafter, while driving from Baltimore to College Park, Crews hit an automobile driven by Isaac Gourdine. The force of the collision caused Mr. Gourdine’s car to leave the highway and crash into a tractor-trailer, leaving him with a fatal head wound.
 Mary Gourdine, the wife of Gourdine, individually, and as Personal Representative of the Estate of her husband, and as Next Friend of Monica J. Gourdine and Lamar T. Gourdine, their two children, filed a complaint for wrongful death and survival in circuit court against Lilly. Gourdine contended that, at the time of the accident, Crews suffered a hypoglycemic reaction and experienced a “blackout” causing her to lose control of her vehicle.
 Count one of Gourdine’s complaint alleged strict liability in tort for sale of a misbranded drug with false and misleading advertising and labeling. In count two, alleging negligent failure to warn of dangers associated with the use of the drug Humalog as directed, Gourdine alleged that Lilly breached its duty by failing to warn consumers that a high percentage of Type I diabetics were at greatly-increased risk of drug-induced hypoglycemia, neuroglycopenia and drowsiness at mid-day. In Count three, Gourdine alleged conscious misrepresentation and fraud. ”
 Lilly filed a motion for summary judgment, which the circuit court granted.
 After the intermediate appellate court affirmed the circuit court’s grant of summary judgment, the Court of Appeals granted certiorari, and also affirmed.
LAW: In Counts one and two (negligence and strict liability), Gourdine alleged that Lilly owed a duty to Mr. Gourdine to warn Crews about the risks of the combination of Humalog and Humulin N.
 “The negligence count of a products liability claim comports with longstanding common law tort principles,” Nissen Corp. v. Miller, 323 Md. 613, 619 (1991), and the injured party must allege “(1) that the defendant was under a duty to protect the plaintiff from injury, (2) that the defendant breached that duty, (3) that the plaintiff suffered actual injury or loss, and (4) that the loss or injury proximately resulted from the defendant’s breach of the duty. ” Doe v. Pharmacia & Upjohn Co., Inc., 388 Md. 407, 414 (2005); see also Dehn v. Edgecombe, 384 Md. 606, 619 (2005).
 The Court of Appeals recognized that duty to warn can undergird a negligence case in Twombley v. Fuller Brush Co., 221 Md. 476 (1960), a product liability action against a supplier of spot remover, and later refined the concept in Moran v. Faberge, Inc., 273 Md. 538, 543-44 (1975). The Court, in Moran, also adopted §388 of the Restatement (Second) of Torts (1965), “Chattel Known to be Dangerous for Intended Use,” as “a general principle in the duty to warn area. ” Moran, 273 Md. at 543-44.  
 In Moran, a products liability action against a cologne manufacturer alleging negligent failure to warn of concealed dangers, the Court of Appeals recognized a framework for analysis in negligent failure to warn cases: “Based on this negligence law we think that in the products liability domain a duty to warn is imposed on a manufacturer if the item it produces has an inherent and hidden danger about which the producer knows, or should know, could be a substantial factor in bringing injury to an individual or his property when the manufacturer’s product comes near to or in contact with the elements which are present normally in the environment where the product can reasonably be expected to be brought or used. ” Id. at 552.
 That framework substantially mirrors that of a strict liability action, which was defined in Phipps v. General Motors Corp., 278 Md. 337, 341 (1976). In Phipps, the Court of Appeals adopted §402A of the Restatement (Second) of Torts (1965), Special Liability of Seller of Product for Physical Harm to User or Consumer, and summarized the elements of an action in strict liability. The Court ruled that it must be established that “(1) the product was in defective condition at the time that it left the possession or control of the seller, (2) that it was unreasonably dangerous to the user or consumer, (3) that the defect was a cause of the injuries, and (4) that the product was expected to and did reach the consumer without substantial change in its condition. ” Id. at 344.
 However, in an action founded on strict liability in tort, as opposed to a traditional negligence action, the plaintiff need not prove any specific act of negligence on the part of the seller. The relevant inquiry in a strict liability action focuses not on the conduct of the manufacturer but rather on the product itself. Id.
 In Owens-Illinois, Inc. v. Zenobia, 325 Md. 420, 601 A.2d 633 (1992), the Court of Appeals addressed the issue of whether the seller’s knowledge of a defect, or lack thereof, would affect liability. The Court noted that most courts addressing the issue require knowledge of defect, as elucidated in Comment j of the Restatement §402A. “Consequently, in a failure to warn case governed by the Restatement §402A and Comment j, negligence concepts to some extent have been grafted onto strict liability. In such cases, a majority of courts hold that an element of knowledge or ‘state of the art’ evidence is directly pertinent to a cause of action under §402A of the Restatement (Second) of Torts, and liability is no longer entirely ‘strict. ’“ Id. at 433-35.
 Therefore, negligence concepts and those of strict liability have “morphed together” in failure to warn cases. See ACandS, Inc. v. Asner, 344 Md. 155, 168 (1996). Duty, thus, is an essential element of both negligence and strict liability causes of action for failure to warn.
 Here, Gourdine argued that it was foreseeable for Lilly that Crews, concededly suffering an adverse reaction to the medications, would cause injury and death to third persons while she was operating a motor vehicle, when she had not been adequately warned about the dangers that allegedly were associated with the specified medications, and that such foreseeability created a duty to Mr. Gourdine.
 “Where the failure to exercise due care creates risks of personal injury, ‘the principal determinant of duty becomes foreseeability. ’ In determining whether a duty exists, ‘it is important to consider the policy reasons supporting a cause of action in negligence’. ” Patton v. USA Rugby, 381 Md. 627, 635-36 (2004). The purpose is to “discourage or encourage specific types of behavior by one party to the benefit of another party. While foreseeability is often considered among the most important of these factors, its existence alone does not suffice to establish a duty under Maryland law. ” Id.; see also Remsburg v. Montgomery, 376 Md. 568, 583 (2003).
 Duty requires a close or direct effect of the tortfeasor’s conduct on the injured party. “As a practical matter, legal responsibility must be limited to those causes which are so closely connected with the result and of such significance that the law is justified in imposing liability. That limitation is to some extent associated with the nature and degree of the connection in fact between the defendant’s acts and the events of which the plaintiff complains. ” Dehn, 384 Md. at 626, quoting Prosser and Keeton on the Law of Torts, at § 41.
 In Dehn, the Court of Appeals considered whether a physician owed a duty to a patient’s wife, who became pregnant following the patient’s failed vasectomy, when the wife was not the doctor’s patient and did not have any contact with the doctor. The wife asserted that a duty was owed by the physician to the wife because it was foreseeable that negligence in the execution and post-surgical follow -up of her husband’s vasectomy would result in her pregnancy.
 The Court stated that foreseeability alone was not sufficient to establish a duty, as well as the fact that the wife could not have relied on the doctor’s advice and instructions to her husband because the doctor had not performed the vasectomy or provided post-operative care and the doctor had never met the wife prior to trial. The Court concluded that under the circumstances of the case, the doctor did not owe a duty of care to the wife. Id. at 626-27.
 Here, there was no direct connection between Lilly’s warnings, or the alleged lack thereof, and Mr. Gourdine’s injury. In fact, there was no contact between Lilly and Mr. Gourdine whatsoever. To impose the requested duty from Lilly to Mr. Gourdine would expand traditional tort concepts beyond manageable bounds, because such duty could apply to all individuals who could have been affected by Crews after her ingestion of the drugs.
 Gourdine asserted, nevertheless, that Lilly’s liability was analogous to a car manufacturer’s liability for injuries to an innocent bystander resulting from a product defect, citing Valk Manufacturing Co. v. Rangaswamy, 74 Md. App. 304 (1988), rev’d on other grounds sub nom, Montgomery County v. Valk Manufacturing Co., 317 Md. 185 (1989).
 In Valk Manufacturing, Dr. Rangaswamy died as a result of an automobile accident in which he was struck by a dump truck on which a snow plow hitch arm protruded unsafely. The doctor’s widow and minor child filed suit against the manufacturer of the snowplow hitch alleging negligence and strict liability for “defective design. ” A jury awarded the plaintiffs $2,500,000 on the strict liability count, and the Court of Special Appeals affirmed the award.
 Addressing whether the plaintiffs could recover under the theory of strict liability in tort as a “bystander,” the Court of Special Appeals noted that “[m]ost jurisdictions, when called upon to do so, have extended the strict liability doctrine to provide relief for bystanders…’to put the strict liability on the same footing as negligence, as to all foreseeable injuries’. ” Id. at 322 quoting Prosser and Keeton on the Law of Torts at §100. As a result, the intermediate appellate court was persuaded that “the all-important concept of legal duty” should allow recovery for strict liability to a third-party bystander. Id. at 322.
 In that case, however, the defective product was directly involved in the accident and caused the decedent’s injury. Here, by contrast, there was no direct connection between the drugs and accompanying warnings and the decedent. Therefore, although there may be circumstances where foreseeability alone gives rise to liability to a third party because of policy reasons, this was not the case. Lilly did not owe a duty to Mr. Gourdine.
 Gourdine alternatively argued that the duty between Lilly and Mr. Gourdine was prescribed by statute and referred to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), 21 U.S.C. §321, which prohibits drug manufacturers from placing a misbranded product into interstate commerce.
 A duty may be established by statute “‘when the plaintiff is a member of the class of persons the statute was designed to protect and the injury was of the type the statute was designed to prevent. ’” Pendleton v. State, 398 Md. 447, 461 (2007), quoting Remsburg, 376 Md. at 584. Furthermore, the statute must “set forth mandatory acts clearly for the protection of a particular class of persons rather than the public as a whole. ” Id.
 In Horridge v. St. Mary’s County Dept. of Soc. Services, 382 Md. 170, 182 (2004), the Court of Appeals considered whether the Department of Social Services (DSS) statute created a duty to a child who had been the subject of many reported child abuse incidents. FL §5-706, required DSS, promptly after receiving a report of child abuse, to make a “thorough investigation” in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the child.
DSS contended that the governing statute imposed upon it a duty to the public at large, and not to a particular class of individuals. The Court rejected this argument, recognizing that the statutory duties imposed “are far more specific and focused,” and that “the statute makes clear in several places that the sole and specific objective of the requirement is the protection of a specific class of children — those identified in or identifiable from specific reports made to DSS and those also found in the home or in the care or custody of the alleged abuser. This is not an obligation that runs to everyone in general and no one in particular. ” Id. at 189-90.
 By contrast, in Muthukumarana v. Montgomery County, 370 Md. 447, 499-500 (2002), the Court determined that the statutory duty imposed on 911 operators and supervisors to protect “the safety and well-being of the citizens of Maryland” was owed to the public at large rather than to an individual citizen. See also Lamb v. Hopkins, 303 Md. 236, 253 (1985).
 Here, Gourdine nevertheless alluded to the Act’s prohibition of the placement of misbranded products into interstate commerce by drug manufacturers. See 21 U.S.C. §331(a)-(b); 21 U.S.C. §352(a). She also referred to several federal regulations prohibiting misleading advertising and requiring certain information to be disclosed. See 21 C.F.R. §201.56(b).
 Those statutes and regulations, however, were framed to protect the public in general, see United States v. An Article of Drug, Bacto-Unidisk, 394 U.S. 784, 798 (1969), and a statutory obligation which “runs to everyone in general and no one in particular” cannot impose a duty between two parties. Horridge, 382 Md. at 190.
 Therefore, there was no statutory basis which supported the imposition of duty on Lilly to Mr. Gourdine.
COMMENTARY: Gourdine also asserted a claim based in fraud, alleging that Lilly knowingly published untrue statements about the dangers and risks associated with Humalog and Humulin N, that Ms. Crews and her physician relied on these misrepresentations, resulting in the accident that killed Mr. Gourdine.
 To prevail on a claim for fraud, a plaintiff must show (1) that the defendant made a false representation to the plaintiff, (2) that its falsity was either known to the defendant or that the representation was made with reckless indifference as to its truth, (3) that the misrepresentation was made for the purpose of defrauding the plaintiff, (4) that the plaintiff relied on the misrepresentation and had the right to rely on it, and (5) that the plaintiff suffered compensable injury resulting from the misrepresentation. See Maryland Env’t Trust v. Gaynor, 370 Md. 89, 97 (2002). Each of those elements must be proven by clear and convincing evidence. Id.
 Clearly, in order to sustain a cause of action based on fraud or deceit, the defendant must have made a false representation to the person defrauded. Hoffman v. Stamper, 385 Md. 1, 867 A.2d 276 (2005).
 In Bachrach v. Washington United Cooperative, Inc., 181 Md. 315, 29 A.2d 822 (1943), a corporation filed suit to set aside a foreclosure sale on the ground of fraud, alleging that the mortgagee’s assignee acted with malice to harm the corporation. The Court of Appeals rejected the corporation’s arguments and dismissed the complaint, stating that “[w]here the loss to the complaining party was not caused by any breach of legal or equitable duty, it is damnum absque injuria…[or] [l]oss or harm that is incurred from something other than a wrongful act and occasions no legal remedy. ” Id. at 323.
 Lilly did not owe a duty to Mr. Gourdine; moreover, Mr. Gourdine was not a party to the alleged misrepresentations made by Lilly to Crews. As a result, the circuit court did not err in entering summary judgment in Lilly’s favor on the fraud claim.
CONCURRENCE: The concurrence joined the majority opinion that there was no duty of care owed to Mr. Gourdine by Lilly, but wrote separately to state that, in addition to the majority’s reasoning, it would have adopted the “learned intermediary” doctrine in Maryland.
PRACTICE TIPS: The duty analyses of the trial court and the Court of Special Appeals both relied on the “learned intermediary” doctrine to determine that Lilly did not owe a duty to Mr. Gourdine.
 The “learned intermediary” doctrine “imposes on a manufacturer of prescription drugs or devices a duty to give adequate warnings to physicians, dentists, and other licensed health care professionals, including nurses, who may prescribe these products. Under the doctrine, a manufacturer which has adequately warned the physician, in almost every circumstance, has no duty to warn a patient. ” 2 Woodside, III, Drug Product Liability Section 14.02[2] (2002).

Load-Date: September 23, 2008


End of Document
