




St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
January 21, 2005 Friday 2 Late Tampa Edition


Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
Section: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B; Newspaper
Length: 647 words
Series: POLITICAL JUNKIE
Body


Hillsborough school superintendent Earl Lennard is not saying for sure if he is planning a run for political office after his summer retirement.
But already, the 62-year-old school boss sounds a lot like a politician.
When asked if a political campaign is on the horizon, Lennard says: "I'm superintendent of schools until June 30, 2005. I'm still giving thought to anything I'll do next."
Speculation has Lennard positioning himself to run for Republican Sen. Tom Lee's seat. Lennard and plenty of others. Lee, a Brandon home builder first elected in 1996, is now serving as Senate president, and will leave office in 2006.
Lennard, again, would not say other than to admit that running is "an option."
And what about the buzz that he may change his lifelong party affiliation from Democrat to Republican?
"I will continue to align with the political party that suits my own convictions and outlook.
"I would not do anything that goes against my convictions."
Hmmm.
Oh, well, Lennard would not be breaking new ground if he switched from the Democrats to the GOP. Lee did the same thing, and former Sen. Malcolm Beard, the man Lee replaced, made the switch before him.  
Time will tell Lennard's plans once he steps down as Hillsborough's superintendent after nine years.
"There's a good possibility," Lennard says, "I'll just go home and fish."
NO TALKING: They may have advanced educational degrees. They may give commissioners advice on politically charged issues, sometimes in tense public meetings. They may appear in courtrooms in cases that put public dollars at risk.
But County Attorney Renee Lee says the lawyers on her staff can no longer talk to reporters. At least not without talking to her first.
In a departure from past county practices, as well as rules in place throughout the rest of County Center, reporters can no longer call assistant county attorneys directly. Well, they can, but the attorneys can't answer any questions.
Previously, an attorney could take calls from reporters. Typically, the lawyer would let the boss know afterward if he or she thought it involved a politically charged issue Lee would want to know is looming.
Now reporters have to call Lee's aide, who will call Lee, who will call the attorney who actually knows the information, who then may call the reporter. It doesn't matter if the question is just the proper spelling of someone's name.
Lee says it's not that she doesn't trust her attorneys. She just doesn't want to be blindsided. Reporters are often calling when there's a perceived problem. And she wants to know if there's a problem before it gets in the paper.
"It's about me," Lee said. "I want to know the issue and what the problem is with the case that would cause the newspaper to be interested in the first place."
Oftentimes, though, governmental figures adopt such policies so they have time to massage a response to their benefit.
:(  
LOBBYING THE LEGE: Hillsborough commissioners appeared before the county's legislative delegation during the lunch hour Wednesday to state their group position on several spending issues.
Afterward, Commissioner Ronda Storms exercised a moment of personal privilege to make her own request of the group.
Citing newspaper stories about the Illinois Supreme Court allowing a woman late last year to regain custody of a 3-year-old child despite her role in the death of another of her children. The horrific death of that child, 2-year-old Bradley McGee, took place in Lakeland in 1989 and led to reforms of Florida's welfare system.
Storms said the court's ruling should prompt another reform: Allowing courts to order tubal-ligation or vasectomies for adults who abuse children, so that they can't produce more children. The legislators on hand offered no comment.
 
Staff writer Melanie Ave contributed to this report. Got a tip for political junkie? Contact Bill Varian at 226-3387 or .  

Load-Date: January 21, 2005


End of Document
