




The Tampa Tribune (Florida)
July 31, 2001, Tuesday,
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2001 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
Section: NATION/WORLD,
Length: 1121 words
Body


Panther Recovery Plan
Regarding the article titled "Return of the Panther," appearing in The Tampa Tribune on Friday July 20, and the chances of establishing populations of breeding panthers outside of South Florida:
South Florida's isolated population of panthers that once roamed the entire Southeastern United States still faces extinction because of other threats. Translocation of Florida panthers to establish populations in the animal's historic range is necessary to ensure its long-term survival. This can and will be achieved, despite any negative views on the 1993-1995 north Florida Reintroduction Feasibility Study that used Texas cougars, not Florida panthers, and in which captive-raised, not wild, cougars were the cause for concern in six out of eight cases of depredation on domestic and exotic livestock.
South Florida's panther population is growing beyond its habitat capacity. These panthers, which are now being hit and killed by cars, can be used in population re-establishment. They are solitary, are active mainly between dusk and dawn, and will rarely encounter humans because they prefer wilderness to concrete. There is no quick fix to panther recovery, though public awareness and accurate knowledge of the Florida panther are key to its survival.
For more information visit the Florida Panther Society online at  and visit the state's official panther education Web site at . 
KAREN C. HILL
High Springs
The writer is vice president of The Florida Panther Society Inc.

Smile For The Cameras
Consider the following personal experience: Twenty years ago I lived in a small town and taught in a community some 15 miles away. One morning I coasted to work on gas fumes. Not wanting to be late for work, I delayed getting gas until that afternoon. The young man filling my tank kept giving me curious looks and finally approached me. "Excuse me, Ma'am, but if you don't mind my asking, where have you been to drive out a full tank since I gassed you up this morning?" It took me five minutes to convince him I had been three blocks away teaching his boss's daughter. He then said, "Well, you have a twin. And what's more, she's driving the same kind of car you have!" The same thing happened two weeks later at another location.
I wonder if my "twin" had a criminal record?
Tampa is a lot bigger than Stony Point, N.C.
LINDA SITTON
Tampa

Breaking Our Laws
Regarding the article "Immigrants Resent Proposed Rights For Mexicans" (Nation/World, July 26):
I resent any special treatment of illegal immigrants also, and I am a U.S.-born citizen.
Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in Miami, was quoted saying, "Mexicans are certainly deserving of an amnesty of some kind, but it's extremely divisive to give benefits to one group and not another."
As far as I am concerned, there is only one thing that illegal aliens from any country deserve, and that is rapid deportation with no chance of ever returning. These people have violated our laws by crossing our borders and in many cases add to their criminal activity by obtaining false identification cards and false Social Security cards to keep from being caught and deported.
President Bush and other government officials should be stopping the illegal immigration, not making it easier.
ROBERT J. GOAD
Tampa

Statistics And Policy
I am a resident of Temple Terrace and have lived here since 1993. I like the way that Temple Terrace gets things done.
I am at a loss, however, about the new policy establishing the denial of new employment to job applicants who smoke.
The Surgeon General's Report of 1983 showed that there are links with the smoking of tobacco and lung cancer, some oral cancers and nasal cancers. The report also shows that a white male pipe smoker lives two years longer than a nonsmoker.
The best-guess explanation that I have heard is that the breathing rhythms that give the best "smoke" of a bowl of pipe tobacco are the same as the rhythms of relaxed breathing. Pipe smoking is relaxing and reduces some of the stresses of life.
Statistically, it would make more sense to hire white male pipe smokers.
KENNETH D. ALBRITTON
Temple Terrace

Stealing From Taxpayers
This is to take exception to the editorial opinion of The Tampa Tribune regarding David Oakley, who sired nine children by four different women (Nation/World, July 18).
The writer of that opinion seems to think that Justice Ann Walsh Bradley was right when she said that a man has a right to bear and beget children. First, men do not bear children. Second, a man has a right to sire as many children as he wants, so long as he is able, and intends, to support those children; otherwise, no!
Any man who sires children out of wedlock, with no intention of supporting and caring for those children, knows that the American taxpayers will be forced to spend their hard-earned money to support his offspring, and that constitutes theft, which is a felony.
No man has the right, either constitutionally or otherwise, to steal from his fellow citizens, regardless of which method he uses or which government agency he uses to collect the money. Had I been the Wisconsin judge, I would have given Oakley the choice of imprisonment or vasectomy.
W.S. KURTZ
Sebring

Using His Network
The inane comments of several readers criticizing the president's use of his father, the former president, to place a phone call on his behalf to a foreign head of state has prompted me to respond (Letters, July 25 and 26).
I'm certain that if I were president and my father a former president, I'd unabashedly call on him frequently. Have the troubled readers ever heard of the concepts of mentoring and networking so often practiced in the business world? Asking the advice of a retired top executive in one's field or seeking out other business associates who have a connection to those with whom one is negotiating are both common practices.
I wonder if the concerned readers voiced similar shock and outrage when President Clinton called on former President Carter for advice? Were they overtaken with fits of hand-wringing when he asked Jimmy Carter to head up the administration's attempt at ending the hostilities that had broken out in Haiti? Perhaps these troubled readers should relax until such time as George W. Bush actually gives his father such an assignment or at least until Pam Iorio installs a touch screen voting system so they can successfully vote for a Democrat to replace him.
DWAYNE KEITH
Valrico

Missing "The Dinette Set'
Regarding "The Dinette Set" by Julie Larson:
The daily Tribune discontinued "The Dinette Set" cartoon, and I wish to complain about the loss.
I looked forward each day to this cartoon.
E. DRAYCOTT
Tampa

Notes

LETTERS

Load-Date: August 1, 2001


End of Document
