




Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)
February 22, 2014 Saturday
State Edition


Copyright 2014 Richmond Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-06
Length: 1873 words
Body


We are duty-bound to switch to renewables
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
In his Commentary column, "Embrace America's energy renaissance," William O'Keefe points out that the nonrenewable energy sector is growing at exponential rates, despite President Obama's efforts to encourage renewable energy. However, his column glosses over one point relating to the president's policy: It is the duty of elected officials, especially at the federal level, to make decisions concerning the future of the country.
While oil and gasoline industries are making record profits, it does not mean they are the most sustainable options for our growing energy needs. It is an infallible truth that burning carbon contributes to climate change and that there is a limited supply of those resources underneath our feet. So maybe growth in renewable energy is slow, but if the president's policies haven't been working perhaps we have a duty to make this change ourselves on state, local and consumer levels.
Amanda Eisenhour.
Alexandria.
She's not crazy about these officials
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
And here's yet another judge who decides what should be law rather than the lawmakers who are duly elected and the people who vote. One federal judge has decided to ignore the voters.
The attorney general is acting like our president by deciding which laws he will uphold. Mark Herring took an oath to uphold the laws of Virginia and has already failed. Sadly, I'm not surprised. The rule seems to be, say whatever it takes to get elected and then do as you please.
Children do much better in a family with a mother and a father. This has been shown by social science. This letter will not do any good, but at least I can say I don't agree with this judge's decision and I don't like our new attorney general's actions.
Wanda Gresko.
Montpelier.
Same-sex marriage sare just the beginning
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
With the election of the most recent leadership in Richmond, the pace down the slippery slope to the loss of long-established societal norms has very much accelerated. With homosexual marriage, some of us are asking what's next. We know that there will be surprises. Behaviors not yet dreamed of will be offered up as just more lifestyle choices.
Of course we know what is next: polygamy. And after we have accepted that, can our relationships with children or animals be far behind? If one objects, he or she will be silenced by being called many names. You will be asked what right you have to tell others who, how many or what they can love or deny them the right to marry whatever they love. Some may think this a real leap, but just three years ago our president was opposed to homosexual relationships. He has since rolled over, accepted them and now champions their cause.
I hope there are enough concerned people who will try to reverse the trend. Good people must stand up and be counted in opposition. If politicians think there is an extra vote to be had, they will compromise even basic human values. Unless you are willing to accept men married to multiple partners or animals or children, please stand against this terrible thing being done to our state and nation. Stand now. One day you may find yourself persecuted for speaking outside the box.
R. E. Bartley.
Petersburg.
Virginia already had a process to change laws
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
Regardless of one's personal views on the definition of marriage, Virginians should be very concerned about several issues. Our state's attorney general, Mark Herring, took the unprecedented step of siding with the plaintiffs against the Virginia Constitution he took an oath to uphold just last month. One judge ignored the will of more than a million Virginia voters who passed an amendment by more than 57 percent in 2006.
Should Virginia's voters have a say in this issue? Shouldn't our attorney general uphold the state's constitution? What other laws will one judge and the attorney general decide to bypass or ignore?
Virginia has laws and a process for changing those laws if desired -- and Virginians should be able to vote on them.
Victor Gardner.
Richmond.
So should we stone adulterers, too?
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
A recent letter quoted from the Bible to condemn homosexuality as being against God's teaching. The verse referenced is Romans 1:27, and warns the readers (the Romans) against various immoral and unclean practices. If we follow that logic, why don't we have to follow everything stated in the Bible?
There are many commandments exhorting believers to both accomplish certain things and to reject others. There is much written about unclean people and lepers and their treatment. It's pretty grim reading and I don't think much of it would pass current medical treatment or ethics.
Read Matthew 10 and what it says about marriage. Jesus preaches that "what God has joined together let no man put asunder" and further elucidates on this by saying that whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery. And woe unto him who commits adultery! Leviticus 20:10 clearly says that if a man commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, both of them shall be put to death! That's going to be a tough one to enforce. There are many, many more similar, but culturally unacceptable, tenets.
Personally, I am going to stick with a further exhortation from St. Paul, also from his letter to the Romans, advising the Christian not to judge: "Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of
God ... "
Cherry-picking Bible verses to back up your beliefs is a tricky business. Believe what you want, and let others do the same. That's the way America works. It's why our Founding Fathers came here and ensured our right to be treated equally under the law.
Beth Jeffress.
Midlothian.
What about marriages of infertile couples?
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
Letter-writer Joseph Messier says: "Marriage is a union of sacrificial love between a man and a woman made before God for the purpose of bringing forth life. Everything else falls short."
Then may I say that the marriage ban needs to expand to include infertile men or women (there will, of course, be testing prior to the marriage), couples who choose to be childless, senior citizens who are no longer able to produce children, men who have had vasectomies, women who have had hysterectomies, and so on?
It seems to me that much of the U.S. would fall short based on his statement.
Sue Howells.
Richmond.
It's time for Queally to go
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
I am a 1986 graduate of the University of Richmond, and was in the same freshman class as Paul Queally, subject of the front-page story "Trustee's joke puts UR in awkward spot."
Over the years, Queally has donated an estimated $20 million to the University of Richmond, and has his name on various buildings. I, on the other hand, have my name on a single brick at UR, courtesy of a $250 donation that I made many years ago. Accordingly, I am pretty sure where the school administration rates my opinions when compared to his.
Being a trustee at UR is an honor -- not a right -- and Queally has lost the privilege of being a trustee. At this time, I ask that Queally do the honorable thing and simply resign. If he will not resign, then the school should take the necessary steps to remove him from the board. Anything less deserves a public and open forum in which Queally and the board can address the situation with students, faculty and alumni.
As an alum, I am thankful for Queally's support and dedication to our alma mater and I hope that he continues in the future. But he does not deserve to be a trustee any longer.
Tracy Jones.
Richmond.
When will Washington see the light?
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
This country is in serious trouble and it seems that government leaders either don't see it or are more concerned about being re-elected. We supposedly elect leaders for their intelligence, although most get elected because of their party affiliation or ability to campaign. Once they are elected, they follow their party leaders without much thought to how their votes will affect their constituents or the country. Obamacare is an example of this.
Another example is the budget ceiling recently passed by Democrats and Republicans. The Democrats passed it because their leader wanted it and Republicans because they don't want to rock the boat and not get re-elected. We understand their reasons but isn't it time to think about our country and take a stand for the long run? What happens when the interest rates increase -- how much will our interest payments increase? Congress seems to think there is no tomorrow. How long will they kick the can down the road? This is still the greatest country that has ever been but how much longer can we continue being the greatest when we owe so much to so many? We hand-out borrowed money like candy and many of the recipients don't even like or respect us. They just want more.
Years ago I worked with a young man who felt just like our leaders do now. As long as he could borrow money, he was doing great. But the borrowing finally came to an end. One day he made a profound statement: "I can't borrow myself out of debt." My friend finally saw the light. I keep thinking that one day Congress and the president will see the light but I am oh-so-tired of waiting. How about you?
Al Martin.
Goochland.
Reconstruction was a dark, dismal time
Editor, Times-Dispatch:
The basic premise of the recent editorial on Reconstruction, "Richmond as beacon," is that, after Confederate armies surrendered, the people of the South should have stood by, idly and supinely, and let the victorious side do whatever it wanted, regardless of how it was accomplished. Forget about the plague of carpetbaggers, scalawags and other rogues that descended on the devastated region. Forget about the imposition of military authority and protracted Federal troop occupation. Forget about the baseness and incompetency of Reconstruction state legislatures, which -- due to exclusion of individuals respected by the majority and favoritism toward those who were not -- were infested with uneducated, corrupt and unscrupulous politicians beloved by the North.
The "righteous cause the Union fought to defend" actually was the squalid concept of a coercive Union, hypocritically espoused by most people of the North, even though less than a century beforehand they ardently supported secession from the British Empire. The misstated assertion about the "South's successful attempt to change the outcome of the Civil War" is absurd on its face because the unchanged result from the war was that the South lost its bid for independence.
The jaundiced view of those in the South whose families were impacted adversely by the draconian Reconstruction policies perpetrated by the North can be characterized as "pernicious" only to those -- like Abraham Lincoln and proponents of the modern leviathan state of which he was chief patron -- believing the ends justify the means.
It is a great pity that your editor does not have the high degree of perception enjoyed by writers in the predecessor paper, Daily Dispatch, excerpts of which from 150 years ago are reprinted daily in the Times-Dispatch.
Robert H. Lamb.
Richmond.

Notes

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Copyright © 2014, The Richmond Times-Dispatch and may not be republished without permission. E-mail 

Load-Date: February 25, 2014


End of Document
