




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
July 3, 2022 Sunday
MAIN Edition


Copyright 2022 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: E; Pg. 002
Length: 1515 words
Body


INTERPRETING THE SECOND AMENDMENT
If one reads the full text of the Second Amendment, it states:
"A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed."
Mr. Frank Watson ("Some limits, reasonable ones, needed on firearms," June 1) and too many in our society have interpreted the Constitution to individual gun rights.
My interpretation of our Founding Fathers is that bearing arms is applied to a militia to protect state rights. The fact that there has been over 230 mass shootings in 2022 and we continue to do nothing is a travesty of justice. If the federal government remains unwilling to act, I urge Washington state to join seven other states and D.C. in banning assault weapons. It is beyond time to stop the massacre of children and other innocents.
LOUISE CHADEZ
SPOKANE
SEND MUSKETS TO UKRAINE
I have seen several letters lately saying that current interpretations of the Second Amendment are not relevant because the colonists "only had muskets." Well, so did the British. As far as self-defense and protection against tyranny, all parties were equally equipped.
The same is somewhat true today, criminals and law-abiding citizens are pretty much matched for armaments. Despite the left's ranting about "assault weapons," national armies, including our own, use automatic weapons rather than the look alike semiautomatic rifles that gun grabbers are so frightened of.
The need to defend against a tyrannical government has not changed since the founding of our country. If we are put in the position of resisting an out-of-control regime, foreign or domestic, an AR-15 will be better than nothing. Are we sending muskets to Ukraine?
DAVID GLASS
SPOKANE
DANGEROUS DRIVING
I agree with Georgine Glatt and her position that senior drivers are not the problem with traffic. I share her experiences with being tailgated, cut off, treated rudely and endangered. If I was asked the biggest danger on our roads today, I would vehemently say, "Texting and driving."
An observant person can see cars weave, speed up, slow down, weave again and fail to signal, only to often discover a driver looking into their lap as they text and drive. Were it my decision, the penalties for texting and driving would be as severe as those for drinking and driving. DOT data supports my position.
Finally, so that we might get some ire up among the readers, here are the cars to look out for the most: Dodge pickups, Toyota pickups, all Hyundai models, all Subaru models. The first two are of special note because they are often piloted by young males, the most dangerous demographic on the road for generations, as the DOT and insurance industries are well aware.
Now that they can text and drive after stopping off for happy hour, the roads need even more 80-year-olds to keep things safe.
PAUL COZART
SPOKANE
ANTI-CHOICE BLINDERS
Why are those cheering the death of rights to control our own bodies unable to see that forcing women to carry to term unwanted children is just as offensive to us pro-choice folks as it would be to anti-choice reactionaries for us to force wealthy suburban Republican housewives to have unwanted abortions?
Religious fundamentalism has blinded its fervent adherents, so-called Christians, to the principled core of Christianity: treating others as you would want to be treated, especially others whose beliefs are different.
We'll never succeed with gentle, patient persuasion in convincing rabidly anti-choice dogma devotees that their passions are decidedly un-Christian, however.
Instead, the solution to the Supreme Court's ongoing contempt for progressive ideals is extracting the problem's root: an institution, the U.S. Senate, originally designed to be inherently anti-democratic with members elected NOT based on population, strictly two per-state so less populous, slave holding states perpetuated inordinate power compared to more populous, more urban nonslavery states.
Only after tiny population states like Wyoming no longer have the same Senate clout as states with 80 or 90 times as many residents, like California, will lasting justice, equity and peace arrive in the U.S.
It's profoundly sad that it'll take a nearly impossible-to-pass constitutional amendment to undo ongoing damage inflicted by slave-holding Founding Fathers.
Until then, expect uncountable back alley abortion-related deaths and continued mass murders via firearms. Along with continued efforts by far-right politicized Supreme Court justices like Clarence Thomas restricting personal privacy rights, including access to contraceptives, lovemaking preferences and marriage equality.
ROB ETHINGTON
SPOKANE
NEWS TO ME
I have certainly learned a lot about the points of view concerning Roe v. Wade the last few weeks. After all these years, I thought Roe v. Wade was two ways to get across the Potomac River.
STAN HUGHES
SPOKANE VALLEY
ABORTION
In response to the article on Teresa Van Camp ("The people, the protests: Spokane abortion protester didn't think she'd live to see change," June 26) I do not accept that a woman cannot see a physician to get a safe abortion. I do not accept that any woman should be required to carry a pregnancy to term, disregarding her own choice. Who better than the woman seeking an abortion knows what is best for herself? Who has the least authority to counter that woman's decision? Van Camp's notes that the next step should be to overrule Washington state's abortion protection. She notes that "the responsibility is going back to each woman in each state." How odd that she believes women should be allowed to change the law but not to have the ability to determine her own decisions as to pregnancy.
I have no objection to Van Camp's own views on abortion. I have a very strong objection to her attempts to deny women the right to follow their own views and make what is a difficult decision based on their own beliefs. Her religion is her own. Her Bible asks us to do unto others, it does not ask us to force our own views onto others. Her Bible that states that the span of life is from first breath to last.
SANDRA CHRISTENSEN
SPOKANE
ROE V. WADE OR MALE VS. FEMALE?
Nobody has a right to tell me what to do with my body except me!
1. If a female is raped by any man and it results in a pregnancy, the rapist deserves a life sentence in prison. No ifs, ands or buts. Because that is what she has. Police checking all known rapists in the area is totally ludicrous.
2. The same punishment should be mandatory for any man who rapes a child.
3. A woman cannot make a child by herself, so it should be a law that any man who fathers a child, including consensual sex without a condom, is financially responsible for that child to adulthood.
If you are truly pro-life, bring responsibility back into the equation.
JACKIE MOORE
SPOKANE
MY CHOICE
This is a message from a repentant and forgiven, post-abortive woman: Finally, in 2022 the Supreme Court recognizes there is no constitutional right to destroy an innocent human being who is in the wrong place (womb) at the wrong time (personally inconvenient), no matter how tiny. Now what? Support mychoicespokane.org.
PENNY LANCASTER
SPOKANE
ABORTION RIGHTS
Our country has gone nuts. Whatever happened to couples preventing pregnancy? We've had the birth control pill for 50 years. If you don't want another child, start taking the pill. I did. Or what about the husband or boyfriend? They are equally responsible. Men, get a vasectomy. Then we wouldn't have to have all this opposition. Come on, people, let's pull our country together and not divide it with another issue.
JANET LAUNHARDT
COEUR D'ALENE
ABORTION IN ROMANIA
Republicans would do well to study what happens when a country outlaws abortion. Romania comes to mind. When communist Ceausescu came to power, he outlawed abortions to increase the Romanian population. It worked at first, but there were unintended consequences. Women found ways to end unwanted pregnancies by any means possible. An estimated 10,000 poor women died from illegal and self-induced abortions. Women who could afford to found safer means to abort their pregnancies, so no one really knows how many abortions there were.
Later, when women who were forced to bear babies they couldn't or wouldn't raise, the number of abandoned babies increased exponentially. Some of us remember pictures of overcrowded squalid Romanian orphanages where undernourished abandoned babies were crowded into filthy cribs with almost no human contact. A generation of Romanians was affected. When Ceausescu was overthrown and executed, choice was one of the first rights restored.
Idaho's welfare system is already desperate for foster families. Imagine what will happen when more unwanted children flood the system.
ELISABETH RATCLIFF
GARDEN CITY, IDAHO
ROE V. WADE
Which body just handed down the abortion ruling overturning 50 years of U.S. precedent?
Why, it was our "Supretense Court?"
We aspire to law, but all we can muster is politics. Conservatives hate big government. So now they make it small enough to fit in the uterus.
JIM KANE
REARDAN, WASH.

Load-Date: July 6, 2022


End of Document
