




St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
November 15, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION


Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
Section: EDITORIAL, Pg. B6
Length: 1355 words
Body

 
Misunderstood motives in Mideast
The Nov. 9 editorial about Palestinian youths who succumb to the myths of sacrificing their lives for their homeland paints a one-sided picture.
Let us not turn our attention away from the fact that Israeli soldiers are using helicopter gunships and tanks on these "kids." In the much publicized fighting in Ramallah, an investigation by the international human rights group Human Rights Watch found that the Israeli Defense Forces excessively used "lethal force against unarmed Palestinian demonstrators who posed no imminent danger of death or serious injury to security forces or to others, and indiscriminate use of force in responding to situations involving gunfire from the Palestinian side. . . . They made significantly little use of tear gas, even when evidence suggests that tear gas was more effective in dispersing protesters."
Although there are children who have misconceived visions of grandeur, we must not forget that this battle is being fought from two fronts. The editorial portrays this conflict as the fault of the Palestinian families and society. The real issue is that when a people have become so socially, politically and economically marginalized, the Israelis necessarily are creating an environment of despair.
These kids who are "sneaking into the streets to battle Israeli soldiers with guns," are just that, kids. They are surrounded by a fully funded, armed military force. Are you trying to marginalize the deaths of the almost 200 Palestinians by saying that they are all mischievous kids whose parents and societies should have taught them better?
I wonder if you would look at the civil rights movement of the 1960s and blame all of the African-American "kids" who were "sneaking away" to battle with the Southern white police force. Do you think that their parents and societies should have stopped them from getting themselves into "trouble" for something that they believed in? I see no difference here.
 
Arsalan Iftikhar
Executive Director, St. Louis Chapter Council on American Islamic Relations
 
St. Louis
The Nov. 9 editorial attempted to explain why Palestinian boys are willing to die for their country, as they believe they will gain their reward in eternal paradise. It does not however, give reasons as to why Israeli soldiers shoot these kids, but only blames the soldiers as having bloody hands, especially if they know that these kids are being used as political pawns.
Is a soldier not justified in killing if he is defending his life? Is a rock from a minor, any less deadly than a rock from an older person?
How does a soldier discriminate between a child killer or an adult killer if the attackers are together in one big group? Are not child killers in this country seen and tried as adults sometimes, especially if their intent is to kill without provocation?
Giving explanations for one side, but not for the other, has the implication that the one side has a reason but the other side has not. This gives the impression that the writer is subtly blaming the Israelis as it implies that they should know better than to kill children!
 
Laraine Silberstein
 
Olivette
Even though I am neither Palestinian nor Arab, I was disturbed by the deprecatory manner in which the Nov. 9 editorial treated Arab culture and its religious values.
The editorial discusses the religious "myth" of a martyr inheriting 72 virgins in paradise, and how such "myths" are inciting Palestinian children to fight Israeli soldiers. My interactions with Palestinians, Arabs and Muslims in general indicate that their daily actions are motivated by concerns other than lust for 72 "mythical" virgins in the afterlife! Nevertheless, many Western writers and critics remain obsessed with this "myth" and argue that these religious "myths" provide an adequate explanation for individual conduct in Arab and Islamic societies.
Inherent in this argument is the prejudice that afflicts many superficial Western observers: that the Eastern cultures remain mired in religion and tradition, with people still guided in their daily lives by mythology and superstition. Such a simplistic view of the values and ethics in other cultures demonstrates an inability to rise above ethnocentric and parochial viewpoints to truly comprehend and appreciate the complexity of human experience in other societies.
The editorial goes too far when it implies that by glorifying martyrd om, the Arab culture is fueling suicidal rage in children against the Israelis. Surely, you would not suggest that by teaching Biblical tales and prophecies (or should I say "myths"?), the Jewish culture is encouraging Israeli occupation and expropriation of Palestinian land, the harsh treatment of Palestinians and the denial of their legitimate claim to their homeland?
 
Haroon Taqi
 
Ballwin
In better days, I always remembered this quote from the late great prime minister of Israel, Golda Meir, who responded in an interview during the 1967 war: "When peace comes, we will perhaps in time, be able to forgive the Arabs for killing our sons, but it will be harder for us to forgive them for having forced us to kill their sons."
 
Why can't the women be in charge?
 
Selma Silverman Kahan
 
Creve Coeur
 
----------------------------------------
 
Nation's wounds could be difficult to heal
 
Disgust. Anger. Frustration. Hope. Confidence.
These are but a few of the emotions I have experienced over the past few days. However, the emotion that has me the most concerned is fear.
I fear that these two men who have fallen into the trap of partisan politics cannot rise above it to accept what may well be a flawed election.
I fear that by continuing the rancor, Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore will contribute to the undermining of the democratic process prescribed in the Constitution.
I fear that, if this animosity continues, the country will be wounded so deeply it will take decades for us to come together in a positive manner.
Would that these two could swallow their pride, no matter what the outcome of this election recount may eventually be, in order to work for the country instead of themselves.
Let's allow this fragile, amazing system to overcome spin, self-interest and partisanship and enable our democracy to flourish for another 212 years.
Grow up, boys. This thing is bigger than both of you. Are you men enough to accept it?
 
Marty Henry
 
Lake Saint Louis
Why vote at all? It has become a sterile, unfulfilling responsibility. Voting is as effective as post-vasectomy procreation. It's time to give America relief from this task. It's time to let the truly virile members of our society perform the task. I propose that only lawyers vote.
They will inevitably decide the presidential contest anyway. Why not save millions of hard-working Americans the frustration associated with voting?
I say we end the charade of sterile Americans purporting to elect a lea der and turn it over to the true decision makers: members of the American Bar Association.
 
Jim Cobb
 
St. Louis
The headline on the Nov. 10 letters read, "Will lawyers decide the presidency?" As a lawyer, I believe that headline did a great disservice not only to lawyers but to the general population as well.
This country's founding fathers established the judicial branch of government as an equal source of power, of and for the people, with the executive and legislative branches. The various state constitutions mirror this three-part system of government.
Any person who has a grievance can use the judicial system to resolve the dispute. In Florida, the aggrieved parties are individuals and groups who believe they were disenfranchised. When a state or federal judge agrees to hear their cases, lawyers are hired to process the claims and defenses. The judicial system will make the ultimate determination of the claims.
Regardless of the outcome, we will have a newly elected president. Our system will go on.
Lawyers are simply legal technicians, agents for the aggrieved voters or the election districts. Lawyers aren't deciding. The voters, subject to state and federal law, decide who is going to be our president.
 
Pat Callahan
 
Trenton, Ill.

Load-Date: November 15, 2000


End of Document
