




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
February 25, 2001, Sunday,
CITY EDITION


Copyright 2001 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: OPED,; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; LETTERS
Length: 1001 words
Body


How would we have felt Monday morning if an article read, "Due to a rule change in golf allowing players to play at will and hit when ready, not when the green or fairway is clear, Tiger Woods died after being hit in the head while standing over a putt. The rule change was effected to speed up the game and add drama for spectators, thus boosting advertising"?
Dale Earnhardt is dead because NASCAR wanted more lead changes, tighter groups and more incidents. NASCAR had signed a big TV deal and thought it needed to add World Wrestling Federation-style drama.
The best tribute to Mr. Earnhardt would be for the governing body of NASCAR to review the idea that 30-plus cars going more than 180 mph inches apart at full throttle next to concrete walls on a track surface equivalent to a rural road in an ice storm is what racing is about. Real race fans will accept impact-absorbing wall material, gravel infield areas analogous to those used in Formula One racing and increased downforce to allow the drivers to steer the cars.
Formula One cleaned up its act after Ayrton Senna - its Dale Earnhardt - was killed a few years ago. It has lost none of its fan base or popularity.
A safer NASCAR with Dale Earnhardt would have had more appeal than what it has now without him.
 
Andrew F. Clark Tipp City
 
Racing fans can bring pressure for increased safety
The behind-the-scenes buzz in motor-sports circles this week has been a stampede to safety. This may be a positive outcome of Dale Earnhardt's sad death. There is much activity in technology to make the sport safer. However, fans and the public in general should realize that risk, an essential fact of life, cannot be eliminated.
I spent a considerable amount of time Tuesday discussing issues to write about in bringing the technologies to the track. My retirement from engineering has led to free-lance writing in motor-sports technology.
Unfortunately, there is always strong resistance to improved safety. It costs money, doesn't add to performance and assaults the sensibilities of macho drivers.
Fans can help overcome the resistance by letting sanctioning bodies, track owners, sponsors and drivers know they will not accept putting their heroes at unnecessary risk. Well-researched technologies need to be implemented as soon as they become available. Letters and e-mails can have a great effect.
In the next few months of soul-searching, sincere attempts to do the right thing, excuses and efforts to avoid doing anything, the folks who support the sport can have a big impact. Don't hold back, fans.
Paul Lane Jr. Miamisburg
 
Accusations shouldn't accompany mourning
Re the death of NASCAR racer Dale Earnhardt:
We shake our heads. We ask "why?" And we are drawn to point accusing fingers at other drivers, at NASCAR's decision not to mandate use of the HANS device - all in an attempt to try to explain what our emotional selves cannot accept.
A driver, a man, has died. He died doing what he loved, in the way he loved to compete. This was an accident. It was not caused by a driver, NASCAR or God.
If God played any role, it was to release Mr. Earnhardt from a broken body that could not be mended to the point of providing any quality of life. Mr. Earnhardt's spirit will remain with his family and friends, and we must all remember that he is just fine where he is right now.
Jeri Neidhard Centerville
 
Abortion no answer to conserving world resources
The writer of the Feb. 12 letter to the editor, "Bush's first official action has potential for great harm," was very much in error. First, our planet's resources, primarily food, are far more plentiful than the letter writer realizes.
In actuality, the starvation occurring in many Third World countries is due to tyrannical and oppressive leaders who have learned that starvation is an effective means of keeping the populace submissive. Politics, not overpopulation, is the etiology of most of the world's hunger.
Second, President George W. Bush's executive action prohibiting funding to overseas family-planning centers targets only abortions and nothing else.
Every abortion costs several hundred dollars, either to the patient or to the government funding such procedures. Also, there are notable costs associated with postoperative care, such as medications for pain, infections, excessive bleeding, etc. Doing this for each and every unwanted pregnancy taxes the "resources" pool and does not come across as being the best method for combating unwanted pregnancies in a frugal and responsible way.
In contrast, vasectomies and fallopian tube-tying don't merely prevent single unwanted pregnancies - as single abortions do - but prevent scores of unwanted pregnancies. These procedures, when compared to abortions, are by far the better value.
I support a person's right to reproductive choice, with the exception of abortions. So does Bush. He has not prohibited funding for overseas vasectomies or fallopian tube-tying.
If the letter writer is so adamant about not depleting our resources, she should applaud Bush's action to limit excessive and unnecessary spending.
Vicki Earls
New Lebanon
 
Bush ends wimpy U.S. foreign policy on Iraq
Bill Clinton's Iraq foreign policy: Keep on asking that nice, forthright, trustworthy gentleman, Saddam Hussein, if he would, pretty please, allow his illegal weapons sites to be inspected - the sites he protects with the bodies of Iraqi women and children.
George W. Bush's Iraq foreign policy: Send Saddam a signal that the United States and her true allies will not be pushed to the wall, and there is an end to what has been for eight years our own wimpiness.
Rebecca J. Conn Germantown
WE WELCOME YOUR LETTERS Letters should have a signature, home address and daytime phone number for verification. Letters of fewer than 200 words are preferred; all are subject to editing.
Because of volume, unpublished letters to the editor cannot be acknowledged.
LETTERS ADDRESS Dayton Daily News, P.O. Box 1287, Dayton, Ohio 45401-1287. Fax 225-7302. E-mail:   

Graphic

 
PHOTO: RICK SILVA/ASSOCIATED PRESS BILL AND KATHY LEDBETTER of Fort Pierce, Fla., sign a section of the bodywork from one of Dale Earnhardt's cars during a memorial service Thursday in Fort Pierce.

Load-Date: February 26, 2001


End of Document
