




Bismarck Tribune (North Dakota)
September 15, 2003, Monday,
METRO EDITION


Copyright 2003 The Bismarck Tribune,  a division of Lee Enterprises, Inc.
Length: 1103 words
Body


All the facts support the president
 By CRAIG S. PERRY
 Bismarck
 Here is a short fact sheet that totally debunks the rhetoric and disinformation of the left regarding the war on terrorism.
 As I see it, Sept. 11, 2001, happened. It's a fact that terrorists declared war on America. And it's a fact that those in charge of fighting terrorism have the right to choose whom to hit first, when and how.
Afghanistan was and is a terrorist nation. Saudi Arabia is a terrorist nation. Syria is a terrorist nation. The triangle of evil -- Iran, Iraq and North Korea -- are terrorist nations. Saddam Hussein and PLO President Arafat were and are bosom buddies. Both are masters of terrorism. Even liberals know that Saddam supplied money and arms to the PLO to support homicide bombers and their families.
 It's also a fact that the whole world believed that Saddam had weapons of mass destruction. After many chances to account for them, he steadfastly refused. It's a fact that both President Bush and Secretary of State Powell went to the United Nations seeking support, but were denied by many nations.
 It's a fact that the French and Germans had financial dealings with Saddam and didn't want their precious investments thwarted. It's a fact that they undermined our efforts at the United Nations and still do. But it's also a fact that many nations stood with us. Hence, the 'unilateralist' argument doesn't hold water. Regardless, we have a right to defend ourselves.
 It's a fact that, from the very beginning, Bush, Powell, Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, Gen. Franks and others said that this war would be a long one -- not weeks or months, but years. It's a fact that the major combat is over. Our aircraft carriers for the most part have accomplished their missions in Iraq.
 It's a fact that terrorists -- composed of many groups in some 60 countries -- are out to destroy America. It's a fact they could succeed. And removing the shoes of 80-year-old white women isn't going to stop them. It's a fact that President Bush made clear to the world that if you're a terrorist or a nation that financially supports or harbors terrorists we will seek you out and destroy you. And on our timetable, not yours.
 Nearly 100 percent of the U.S. Congress agreed. And so did most of America.
 It's a fact that no one knows the final cost of this war. But, in my opinion, the cost of not fighting this war would be much greater. Freedom is not free. And it's a fact that a nation divided against itself will not stand.
 I sure wish the left, including the many Democrats running for president would get the message.
 Not enough mouths
 By PASCHAL SCHMIDT
 Bismarck
 I recently read an article in Dakota Catholic Action by Al Gustin, 'I fear modern agriculture is losing its soul.'
 Gustin says that in the 1990s, 45 of North Dakota's 53 counties lost population. I come from Emmons County. In the 1960s and '70s, there were approximately 15,000 people in Emmons County. Now there are about 6,000.
 Why are we losing population in our counties? The answer is simple: the pill, IUDs, vasectomies, tubal ligation and abortion. Men and women have decided to become God and, rather than conforming to the will of God and bringing children into the world, they have decided to go contrary to the will of God and use contraception and abortion.
 To survive, farmers have to have consumers. The more consumers, the more demand for farm products. Since 1973, we have had approximately 42 million babies killed by abortion. How many loaves of bread and gallons of milk can you sell to 42 million dead babies? The answer is, none.
 For agriculture to survive, we need to conform to God's will and bring more consumers (babies) into the world. We need to enact laws and prosecute those women and abortion doctors who choose to kill their babies.
 Murder is murder, whether inside or outside the womb. Thou shalt not kill.
 Heartless to disown the dying
 By CHRISTINA KINDEL
 Bismarck
 On your Sept. 8 Life page, in a piece called 'The day the crying started,' Katie Kawalski calls herself 'strong' for disowning the fading life of her once-beloved grandmother and for ignoring, even hating, her mother's grief.
 Is it strength to disown one's grandmother and to hate one's own mother for mourning that loss?
 My own family has had to face a similar situation over the past two years, as one of my grandmothers suffers the debilitating effects of a stroke and possibly Alzheimer's disease. My grandmother is fading before my eyes, but I have never thought of her as the 'old woman.'
 Rather, I have had to dig for new sources of strength and courage as I watch her slip from my family, while continuing to love her, never doubting for a moment that she is still my grandmother. I have watched my mom deal with the slow onset of grief in realizing that her mother is no longer a constant in her life, even as she assumes the role of caregiver.
 I have already begun to grieve the loss of my grandmother, not only in knowing she will someday be gone for good but in seeing her strength and her life fade. In addition to grieving, however, I have learned some valuable lessons.
 While watching our society at large become increasingly accepting of the idea that life is only as valuable as the contributions it makes, I have learned that people like my grandmother, although unable to give what they once did, are still able to teach us. They teach us what some may call a deeper kind of love -- not by demanding it, but by simply needing it.
 This is love that says, 'I love you because of who you are, and who you have been to me, not because of what your body or your mind is able to do for me today. I love you because of the life you have given me. Even though you may not always remember me, or my name, I owe so much of who I am to you. Because of that, I will not only continue to love you but to honor you.'
 The writer of 'The day the crying started' is not the stronger person -- not in the sense she claims. I believe she, too, is grieving, but is also in denial.
 Yes, it is painful to watch the slow death of someone we love. However, my grandmother is more than the sum of properly functioning body parts. She is a soul, a spirit; and, although her body can no longer give proper expression or service to herself or to her family, she is no less my grandmother and no less deserving of my love and my respect.
 When I am with her, I still know her for who she is and always has been -- a gentle spirit reminding me of the life and relationship we share as grandmother and granddaughter.
 (The writer is executive director of the North Dakota Family Alliance. -- Editor)

Load-Date: September 18, 2003


End of Document
