




 Philadelphia Inquirer
July 1, 2005 Friday MONTCO EDITION


Copyright 2005 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC  All Rights Reserved


Section: COMMUNITY VOICES; Pg. B02
Length: 681 words
Body


Large animal feeding operations are a threat to public health and not just because they emit toxic gases and odors ("Smell of compost is spoiling the air in Southern Chester County," June 23). They also increase the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, prematurely eroding the effectiveness of lifesaving antibiotics to treat potentially deadly human diseases.
Antibiotics that are important in human medicine, such as penicillin and tetracycline, are added to animal feed, not to treat illness, but to promote slightly faster growth and to compensate for unhealthy conditions on industrial-scale farms. This practice spurs the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria that can contaminate the air, earth and water surrounding these facilities. The rise of antibiotic-resistant bacteria has reduced the effectiveness of antibiotics that doctors rely upon to treat human illness.
That's why the American Academy of Pediatrics, Pennsylvania State Nurses Association, and Penn Future are among the many health, agriculture and other groups that have endorsed the federal Preservation of Antibiotics for Medical Treatment Act (Senate Bill 742/House Resolution 2562). This common-sense bill would phase out the practice of using medically important antibiotics as feed additives for livestock and poultry and help to preserve their effectiveness to treat human illnesses.
Jan Jarrett
Vice President
PennFuture
Harrisburg
Enough is enough
RE: Gerald K. McOscar's "Saving foster children from good intent," June 28:
Constant reproduction must be stopped so that the foster care for children would not be needed. How about this for a solution?
Two people have a child. Thereafter, the father, whom we usually never even speak about, should be forced to 1) go to a sperm bank; 2) have an immediate vasectomy; and 3) have a follow-up appointment with the urologist to ensure that he is sterile.
Then when he is deemed responsible, he can withdraw his sperm and have another child. This is especially important since physically a man can father a child almost constantly with several different women, creating a nightmare morally and financially for everyone.
After the first child, the mother should also be sterilized - having her eggs frozen - and when proven responsible, she can have another child. One would prove himself or herself responsible by caring for and supporting that one child for at least five years.
All of this could be done on the tab of taxpayers and it would still less expensive and put at risk far fewer children, who often become a lifetime responsibility because of the mental and physical conditions that usually occur.
Forced sterilization with the option to prove oneself is infinitely less barbaric than bringing children into this world who will only suffer.
Linda Sheridan
Middletown,
Bucks County
  
Right to be heard
Patrick Daniel O'Neill's June 28 letter ("No to referenda") plays semantics, contending voters don't need an Act 72 referendum because we already have "referenda" in the form of elections.
Yes, every couple years the two parties trot out lineups of insiders, granting us the privilege of choosing the lesser of evils. Relying on a few dubious autobiographical lines, the best we can often hope to do is pick the merely mediocre over the utterly incompetent or corrupt - hardly "representatives whom we trust," as O'Neill claims. Meanwhile, nonresident teachers and other employees pack budget meetings to heckle residents daring to suggest spending restraints.
Years ago, Haverford Township voters wisely rejected a big new high school; doomsayers predicted declines in educational quality and property values. Go price houses there today. Of course, voters can't write budgets, but referenda would at least enable us to limit crushing tax increases. And yes, there should be referenda at all levels of government.
O'Neill is no doubt "an involved voter and parent" because the sky's the limit when it comes to his children, no matter the burden to us all. Can't afford the tax hikes? No problem - just move!
Dave Campbell
Bristol Township

Load-Date: July 1, 2005


End of Document
