




 
TEXAS MONTHLY
February 2023


Copyright 2023 TEXAS MONTHLY, INC. All Rights Reserved
Section: POLITICS + HISTORY; Pg. 107
Length: 277 words
Byline: Christopher Hooks
Body


IF IT'S TRUE that the lieutenant governor runs Texas, then only six men have run the state since Texas Monthly's first issue came out, and two have arguably been more consequential than the rest. The legendary Bill Hobby took the reins once held by his father in January 1973 and served until 1991. Dan Patrick assumed control of the Texas Senate in 2015 and recently won the opportunity to manhandle it until at least 2027. It can sometimes feel like Texas politics has gotten blander, and while that's true in some ways-fewer margarita machines in the Capitol, for one-Patrick is ensuring the "lite guv" remains the state's character in chief.
ORIGIN STORY
Patrician family, old money, Houston dynasty. Rice University, math nerd, naval intelligence officer. Native son of Baltimore, born Dannie Scott Goeb. TV sportscaster, sports bar owner, right-wing talk radio host. Once had a vasectomy on air.
CALL TO SERVICE
Followed his parents into public service. Started as Texas Senate parliamentarian. Rose to policy jobs in the Legislature and the Johnson White House.
Found Jesus behind the Tropicana casino in Las Vegas. Won a Senate seat by promising to tackle illegal immigration, which he said was flooding the state with "polio and leprosy."
KEY ISSUES
Long-standing, deep support of public education.
Forced a 2017 special session to address who could use which toilets.
INSPIRATIONAL QUOTE
On the necessity of education reform: "Texas can no longer depend on resources that come out the ground-it must depend on ideas that come out educated minds."
On his opposition to COVID-19 restrictions that might slow the economy: "There are more important things than living."

Graphic

 
Picture 1, BILL HOBBY
Picture 2, ORIGIN STORY

Load-Date: February 10, 2023


End of Document
