




St. Joseph News-Press (Missouri)
January 13, 2015 Tuesday


Copyright 2015 St. Joseph News-Press
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: LIFESTYLE
Length: 751 words
Byline: Jena Sauber, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.
Body


Jan. 13--Later this year, urologic experts and academic physicians from all over the world will convene in Beijing, China, to discuss cutting-edge technology and knowledge in the field. One man there will be from St. Joseph.
"They have many expert speakers that are going to give talks in areas they are quite strong in," says Dr. Mike Kozminski of Phoenix Urology of Saint Joseph. "It will be a good exchange, an educational exchange."
Dr. Kozminski, a board-certified urologist, was invited by the Chinese medical community to give a presentation on laparoscopic technologies, as well as to co-chair the session, at the first annual World Congress of Urology in China in early August.
"It's exciting," Dr. Kozminski says. "It's a very nice honor to be asked."
Urologists are specially trained in the male and female urinary tract systems, as well as male reproductive organs. Dr. Kozminski performs surgeries and commonly treats conditions including prostate disease, bladder and kidney cancer and urinary tract infections and issues in pediatric urology.
Less than 1.5 percent of medical school graduates in the nation each year are urologists. Dr. Kozminski first thought he wanted to be a general surgeon and exclusively perform operations until he did a rotation in urology his third year of medical school at the University of Michigan.
"When you go into medicine, you have pre-conceived ideas of 'I want to do this,' or 'I want to do that,'" Dr. Kozminski says. "What happens is, you'll typically bump into people along the way that you really like and will impress you in some way, or you'll really like the way they are taking care of people. ... That's how I got into urology."
Ultimately, urology allows him to both perform surgeries and see patients in the clinic, he says. Approximately 40 percent of his patients are female, although he sees male patients for issues such as prostate diseases, vasectomies and infertility, in addition to urologic conditions. He also returns to the University of Michigan once a month to teach current students.
"Urology gives you a really good mix where you have people in the clinic. ... I see men, I see women. I see older folks, I see younger folks. I see children," Dr. Kozminski says. "There is a lot of variety in urology."
World Congress
His invitation to the World Congress of Urology was based on his extensive experience with the laparoscopic procedure, Dr. Kozminski says. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, he trained people from more than 30 states in the procedure, and also has given presentations in Europe and Asia on the topic, as well as published several articles.
Urological laparoscopic surgery involves using a small camera to look inside the body and performing the operation through very small cuts in the body. It is a fairly common procedure, and Dr. Kozminski estimates he has performed several thousand during his career.
"People sometimes call it 'Band-Aid surgery,'" he says. "It's real surgery, but it's more difficult to do some of those procedures laparoscopically than it is to do with a scalpel where you might open someone up to do surgery."
The three-day Beijing conference will be his second time in China. He previously visited the country with his wife on vacation. This time, he says, will be all business. He hopes to bring back knowledge, as well as share it.
"The meeting is going to be a very exciting meeting," Dr. Kozminski says. "There will be a lot of high-level people discussing important issues, cultural interchange, from not only North Americans and the Chinese, but there also will be Europeans, probably Africans and South Americans. There is a lot of potential gain for everyone."
Rewarding career
In the day-to-day practice as a urologist, Dr. Kozminski says it's helping patients identify and solve their medical issues that is the most rewarding part of his job.
Although he didn't envision himself in the field when he started medical school more than two decades ago, it is the right place for him, Dr. Kozminski says.
"It was the farthest thing from any thought that I ever thought when I started medical school," he says. "I can say, 25 years later, I'm really glad that I picked the career that I did. Not a lot of people can say that."
Jena Sauber can be reached
at 
Follow her on Twitter: @SJNPSauber.
___ (c)2015 the St. Joseph News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) Visit the St. Joseph News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) at  Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC

Load-Date: January 13, 2015


End of Document
