




University Wire
January 17, 2002


Copyright 2002 Daily Illini via U-Wire
Length: 582 words
Byline: By Joan Wagner, Daily Illini
Dateline: Champaign, Ill.
Body


University of Illinois researchers might have discovered a viable option for male contraception, which someday could pass the primary responsibility of preventing pregnancy from women to men.
Rex Hess, professor of veterinary biosciences and director of the Training Program in Endocrine, Developmental and Reproductive Toxicology, and his colleagues studied the effect of estrogen on male fertility and published their findings in the Nov. 20 issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Science.
"Men are more interested in taking responsibility for contraception," Hess said of recent study results. "It's approximately a $ 10 billion market and has huge potential. I think men in China and India, for example, would be interested because of population issues."
U. Illinois
Estrogen regulates fluid in the male reproductive system, Hess said. There are two estrogen receptors, alpha and beta, and blocking the alpha receptor inhibits fluid reabsorption and causes infertility.
Sodium protein is essential to fluid reabsorption because it makes semen more fertile as it travels through the system. Hess said the study found estrogen plays a role in the transport of gene material in the physiological reproductive process.
The study, conducted on mice, found blocking the estrogen receptor did not allow the sodium transfer to occur, and semen was "diluted" and "maturation was inhibited" in its travel from the testes to the epididymis, where sperm is stored and matures, Hess said.
Because sperm potency is reduced by blocking estrogen receptors, researchers believe a form of male contraception is possible. The blockage of estrogen receptors as contraception appears to be safe because it does not affect important male hormones such as androgen or testosterone, Hess said. And side effects such as reduced libido and risk of prostate cancer are not an issue with estrogen blockage.
Research on the implications of this study are ongoing, Hess said. Two specific areas research might target are providing more contraceptive options for humans and helping control booming animal populations, such as deer.
"It could keep animal populations in check without killing, by making the animal temporarily infertile," Hess said.
Kim Rice, sexual health and peer education coordinator at McKinley Health Center, said the possibility of male contraception is good because it would provide more options to prevent pregnancy.
"I always think having many contraceptive options are good, and it's worth having if people are interested and it's available," Rice said.
Rice also said she thought older men who are not looking to conceive but do not want a vasectomy might be most receptive to the idea of male contraceptives, noting cost and administrative form of the contraception are factors to consider.
"I'm not sure how men would take it," Rice said. "We've kind of socialized ourselves into thinking that contraception is primarily a woman's responsibility."
Craig Mitchell, junior in LAS, is receptive to the idea of male contraceptives as long as it did not have side effects. He thought men in committed relationships would be most likely to use male contraception.
"I think it would have to take convincing from their partners because I don't think a lot of guys would take their own initiative, especially if they're not in a relationship," Mitchell said. "It's a good option, though, and contraception should be a dual responsibility."
(C) 2002 Daily Illini via U-WIRE

Load-Date: January 17, 2002


End of Document
