







Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)
August 5, 2002, Monday, Metro Edition


Copyright 2002 Star Tribune
Section: NEWS; MALL OF AMERICA // 10 YEARS LATER; Pg. 1A
Length: 1497 words
Byline: Dee DePass; Staff Writer
Body


6 a.m.
     Early morning, and the mall sleeps. A security guard trudges toward the glass doors on the West side, his steady tread the only sound in the vacant, dim corridor. He unlocks the doors, then strolls on, walking his beat past the stores, art gallery, school, clinic and bank, like any cop on any beat in any town.
6:15 a.m.
     Barb Sarazin and Delores Armitage bolt through the doors. They speed-walk down West Market Street, pass the shuttered jewelry carts, hang a left at Macy's and disappear.
     Along the way, they wave to Jean Sverdrup, whose 75-year-old feet ache from her new orthotics. She walks slowly, and only on carpeting.
   About 3,000 people walk the mall each year. After six years of early-morning laps, this group has grown close. They swap gossip, trade birthday cards and gather for coffee at Cinnabon.
7:15 a.m.
      Near W114, a man in a cherry picker zips up two stories to slap a wayward floodlight back into place. One flight up, another worker polishes the motionless escalators until they gleam. A third man glides terra-cotta paint onto planters.
     Maintaining the illusion of freshness is a critical trick for this 10-year-old terrarium. The bubble might be aging, but it still draws shoppers who drop $860 million each year. It employs a good number of folks _ it takes 11,000 people to care for and run this little city and its 520 stores, 60 restaurants, seven nightclubs, aquarium, theme park, post office, university, high school, clinic and day-care center. On any given day they'll watch dozens of children, feed 3,000 sea creatures, water 30,000 plants.
     Charles Walkers, 47, has worked all night but is briskly scooting a tile-scrubbing machine along West Market's second floor. Close on his heels, his sleepy trainee, Ryan Webb, 21, pushes a mop cart.
     Walkers is fired up, describing the mall with enthusiasm as a "hell-ified idea." But it's Webb's first overnight shift and his 26th hour on his feet. "I'm tired," is all he can manage.
8 a.m.
     The second-floor overlook exposes the mall's heart _ Camp Snoopy, where the Mighty Axe and the Treetop Tumbler sleep under a seven-acre skylight, now glowing with morning sunlight. Below, shopkeepers in the Kemps Ice Cream store and the Betty Crocker Bakery roll up their gates.
10 a.m.
     Ride lights flash on and streams of parents with wide-eyed children flow into the park. It's rush hour, when the Ferris wheel twirls and the water logs and roller coaster shuttle their first runs. By the Rotunda, a greeter in a wheelchair helps four visitors squinting at the directory. The "You are here" arrow shows them to be dead center on East Broadway, the long stretch that separates Bloomingdale's at one end, from Sears at the other.
10:30 a.m.
     Cecilia Littlejohn pushes a four-seat stroller out of the New Horizon Day Care Center, heading toward the playground _ the Lego Imagination Center.
     As the children lunge for tables of Lego blocks, Littlejohn scoops up her son, Quincy, and tickles his belly. "You just turned 2 yesterday, didn't you?" she coos.
    Her job at New Horizon's center gives her time with her own children, a paycheck, and discounted day care. But it also keeps her hopping. She hands Quincy to a co-worker and sprints after one of her charges _ a 4-year-old who is making a break for Camp Snoopy.
12:15 p.m.
     A boy in the third-floor eatery clasps his hands to his ears when the five-member Camp Snoopy band blasts horns and drums in a rowdy rendition of "Great Balls of Fire." His mother, oblivious, navigates his stroller past crowded tables in search of a seat. She nearly collides with a couple holding loaded trays and scanning the room, in vain, for a chair.
      In this city, aggressive taxis are replaced by darting people. Pollution rises in the form of noisy chatter and the fragrance of fried food.
     The line for Panda Express Chinese Food stretches 20 feet to the seating area, where a barefoot Dalton Tumberg Pulver, 3, shoves french fries into his mouth.
1:50 p.m.
     In Quello Clinic, Ann Fritz says she has been in so much pain she hasn't eaten in days. She's scheduled for gallbladder surgery on Monday and is here for her pre-surgery exam.
      "Everything hurts," she tells the nurse. "But I'm dying for a cheeseburger."
     Medical assistant Tanya McNulty measures her weight and height and notes that her blood pressure is high _ 136 over 96.
    Fritz, 39, is happy the clinic's doctor could fit her in; her own clinic was booked. "I think people forget about this clinic," she said. "There's never any waiting."
     Quello Clinic performs 4,700 mammograms each year. Doctors have also done 13 vasectomies so far this year. The procedure takes about an hour _ just about the right amount of time for wives to go shopping.
3 p.m.
     "Pachelbel's Canon in D" spills into the third-floor Chapel of Love as Kelly Burgeson of Hallsville, Mo., glides up the aisle in a satin ivory gown. She takes her place beside Ed Miller, her love of seven years.
     Silk flowers adorn the walls. White pews gleam. Burgeson's teenaged daughters, Nicole and Britney, wipe away tears as the minister asks those thrilling words, "Will you, Kelly, have Ed to be your husband. . . ."
     It feels like church _ until a peek through glass doors reveals two gawking shoppers. "Oh, there's a wedding going on," says a woman, who loops her motorized wheel chair around for another look.
     The happy couple light their unity candle, sweetly kiss.
     The bride slips into the changing room and emerges minutes later in shorts and sneakers, veil and bouquet. Shoppers smile. It's the mall's third wedding of the day.
4 p.m.
     In the basement at Underwater World, it's time for the octopus' mid-afternoon snack. Anne and Mike Zdrodowski from Cadillac, Mich., perch their children, Noah, 3, and Sarah, 6, on their shoulders to watch K.G.'s feeding. Their older son, Joshua, 8, squeezes to the front of the tank to get a good view.
     "On average, each arm has 240 suckers. She is very strong and can hang onto me," says feeder Lisa Murtaugh. As she speaks, one of K.G.'s seven suckered tentacles slithers from the tank and wraps tightly around her wrist and forearm.
     Pop! Pop! _ Pop! Pop! Pop!
     Sucker by sucker, Murtaugh snaps the 20-pound creature off of her arm and keeps talking.
7 p.m.
    A couple sip wine in the window of the California Cafe, where linens have been spread and small candles now glow. It's evening, though it's hard to tell in the windowless, clockless mall. But the rhythm of movement takes on a late-in-the-day feel as tables begin filling up at the white-cloth restaurants.
7:15 p.m.
     Weighed down with bags and bundles, Sandy Hall, Linda Mandery and Donna Hontz from upstate New York shuffle into PostMark America to mail their purchases home.
     Fast friends for 30 years, they've just laughed through "Divine Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood" in the mall's theater, where their bags took up more than a fair share of seats.
     Hall tosses her purchases into a box for mailing: sheets, a Garrison Keillor book and two cardboard children's books.
     This trip was just a hope 18 months ago. "When Sandy had brain surgery a year and a half ago, she said to us that if she lived through it she wanted to go to the Mall of America," Hontz says. "I never even heard of the place."
     But once here, they made the most of it.
     "I got my suit at Macy's," says Mandery, modeling an aqua pant suit. Hontz sifts through four bags to show off her new treasures: a nail buffer, bathing suits and shoes.
     Hall digs into the purse she just bought at Wilson Leather. "I threw my other one away. Now I can't find anything," she says, digging deeper.
8:30 p.m.
    Three sets of parents with strollers and children have had enough. Tired and sticky, they limp out to the parking lot as young men in saggy pants gallop in. With restless energy, six boys trip over one another on their way to the East Side to prowl the arcades, bowling and virtual NASCAR Racing.
9 p.m.
      The cries of overstimulated children have quieted. More shoppers sit in restaurants than roam the halls.
     On their way to an Adam Sandler flick, Alex Erickson, 21, stops for money at the ATM outside Highland Bank as his date, Melissa Jones, waits.
9:50 p.m.
     Three families finish their burgers in the South Food Court, surrounded by tables already stacked with chairs for the night. At Sbarro and Steak and Potatoes, workers mop, mop, mop.
      A vacuum buzzes in the distance as the screams from Camp Snoopy grow fainter.
11:30 p.m.
     Ten dancers shimmy under purple lights at America's Original Sports Bar. Wearing a net veil, bride-to-be Jeanelle Soland, 24, offers strangers blow pops, condoms and life savers from a giant bouquet.
1 a.m.
     The hum of Charles Walkers' floor scrubber rattles through the corridors. "You been at the mall all this time?" he says. "I'd say it's time to go home."
.
    _ Dee DePass is at .  

Graphic

 
ILLUSTRATION; PHOTO

Load-Date: August 6, 2002


End of Document
