




The Bismarck Tribune
January 20, 2014 Monday


Copyright 2014 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises All Rights Reserved
Section: WIRE; Pg. 2A
Length: 291 words
Body


RENO, Nev. (AP) - An 88-year-old man shot and critically wounded a woman Sunday at a Nevada hospital, authorities said.
Carson City Sheriff Ken Furlong said William Dresser was arrested after firing one shot at the woman with a handgun at Carson Tahoe Regional Medical Center in Carson City. No other injuries were reported. The woman was a patient in a third-floor room at the time of the 11:30 a.m. shooting.
Furlong said they were in a domestic relationship but declined to elaborate. The woman's identity and age were not immediately released.
The woman's injuries are life-threatening and she was transferred to Renown Regional Medical Center in Reno, Furlong said. A preliminary investigation indicates the man came specifically to the hospital to shoot the woman.
, the sheriff added.
The Carson City hospital issued a statement saying the shooting was "a targeted situation" that prompted a two-hour lockdown of the facility.
Hospital security personnel and state Department of Corrections officials at the scene quickly detained the man until sheriff's deputies arrived.
A woman who answered a phone call at a listing for a William Dresser in nearby Minden said she was too busy to talk Sunday afternoon.
Dresser has no known prior criminal history in the Carson City area, Furlong said.
The shooting comes about a month after a gunman walked into a medical facility next to the Reno hospital and killed one doctor and shot another before committing suicide.
Alan Oliver Frazier, 51, made it clear in a suicide note that he was targeting physicians at Urology Nevada in the Dec. 17 attack.
Frazier complained of pain and fatigue for years in an Internet chat room and to neighbors- symptoms he blamed on a botched vasectomy that the center disputes.

Load-Date: January 21, 2014


End of Document
