




St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
December 4, 2016 Sunday
THIRD EDITION


Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Length: 391 words
Body


Manley, Charles B., MD Charles B. Manley, MD, 83, passed away peacefully in St. Louis, MO Monday evening, November 21, 2016. Devoted husband of Kimberly Perry; loving father of Ben Manley of New York, NY, Anne Manley of Severna Park, MD, and Bill Manley of Lafayette, CO; loving father-in-law of Vicki Kurtz, Rob Petrie, and Robyn Manley; doting grandfather of Rhys Manley, Clara and Helen Petrie, and Parker Manley. Beloved family member and friend to many including long time secretary Marty Kraatz and nurse Debbie Juhl. 
Charles Manley was born in Tulsa, OK, on June 12, 1933, and graduated from high school in Springfield, MO where his father was principal. He obtained his B.A. and M.D. degrees from the University of Missouri and after serving in the Air Force, completed his residency in urology at Washington University and Barnes Hospital. Dr. Manley joined the faculty of the Division of Urology at Washington University School of Medicine in 1967. Initially he pursued diverse research topics ranging from vasectomy to the striated muscle of the prostate. In 1975, he became the first director of Pediatric Urology at St. Louis Children's Hospital, and over the next two decades was a pioneer in the field and inspired residents with his clinical acumen, kindness, compassion and love of teaching. Upon his retirement in 1997, a visiting professorship in Pediatric Urology was established in his honor by contributions from his trainees. Dr. Manley was an active volunteer in the Unitarian church. He enjoyed bike riding, writing poetry (self-publishing a book titled Dogged Doggerel<U>)</U>, singing, playing chess (which he took up as a mid-life hobby), and traveling. Dr. Manley was a man of energy, generosity, integrity, and quiet good humor. Services: His life will be celebrated with friends and family in a memorial service at the First Unitarian Church of St. Louis, 5007 Waterman Blvd., St. Louis, MO on Tuesday, December 27, at 3:00 p.m. A reception will follow in the Fellowship Hall of the Church. Memorial contributions may be made to the Charles B. Manley Visiting Professorship Fund in the Division of Urology at Washington University School of Medicine, to the First Unitarian Church of St. Louis, to the St. Louis American Parkinsons Disease Association, or to a charity of ones choice. A SERVICE OF THE LUPTON CHAPEL

Load-Date: December 4, 2016


End of Document
