




Portland Press Herald (Maine)
December 20, 2009 Sunday
FINAL Edition


Copyright 2009 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: SCENE & HEARD; Pg. D10; Social Graces
Length: 761 words
Byline: Giselle Goodman Staff Writer
Body


Getting through the Maine Mall this time of year is no laughing matter. Unless, of course, you stop by comedian Bob Marley's kiosk.
And should you spy Maine's jolliest elf, get ready to laugh your Bean boots off when you see him, in spite of yourself.
If your name is Tyler, like Tyler Blanchard from Sanford, you'll become ''Ty-lah'' when Marley signs your CD. If you are a 5-year-old, like Allie Nichols, Marley will ask if you are a member of the ''Upta Camp Stickah Club.'' And then, when you shyly shake your head, he will give you an ''Upta Camp'' bumpah stickah for free.
''They-ah,'' he'll say in perfect Bob Marley Maine-ish. ''Now you ahh.''
He'll ask you if you want to ''de-swine'' as he points out the location of the hand sanitizer. He'll tell you he only shops at ''Assistant Coach'' when you step out of the store which bears the latter name and is located near where his kiosk is anchored. He'll open the plastic wrapped around your CD with a ''Maine Ceedee Open-ah,'' also know as a bottle opener.
None of it will be staged. Or rehearsed. Because, truly, the reason he's there is to see you and tell you some jokes.
Marley doesn't have to be at the mall this Christmas season. As they say in the business, Marley has made it - big time.
He's been on Comedy Central. He has his own Wikipedia page. He has performed for big causes (a Chris Farley benefit, for example), and with big names, like Dennis Leary, Norm McDonald and David Spade. He plays to audiences of thousands. He has a starring role in a cult film and in its sequel, ''Boondock Saint II All Saints Day'' (now in theaters), in which he worked with fellow Mainer Judd Nelson and Willem Dafoe.
But his heart, and his comedic soul, belongs to the people of Maine.
''Every December I'm out here a lot ... because it's great to see people,'' he said. (Despite the fact that he would also be just as happy hanging out at his home in Falmouth with his wife and three little kids).
Most of the time, he said, people who approach him at the mall just want to have their picture taken with him. Or they want his autograph. Lots of times, they want to have him talk to somebody on the other end of a cell phone, like a cousin in Arizona.
Because Marley actually enjoys talking with his fans, what visitors to the kiosk really end up with is a free comedy show.
I'm talking original, on-the-spot, live-action material.
Burt and Liz Labelle from Biddeford know exactly what I mean. They were shopping at the mall on Thursday and saw the kiosk. They were looking over the ''Upta Camp'' hoodies when Burt ''heard this familiar voice coming from behind me.'' And there was Marley.
What did they talk about?
Minivans.
The peels of laughter bounced off the skylights as Marley kept it coming in his signature ''Maine-ish'' tongue.
''Everybody who drives a minivan looks like they've been gassed with complacency. The guy who sold us the thing goes, 'It's got a lot of great options, automatic doors that open up.' I go, yeah, well, Walmart's got automatic doors too, but I don't wanna shop there. I go 'What's the other option? Comes with a vasectomy? 'Cuz I don't even feel like a man anymore.' "
After spending a good 15 minutes or so at the kiosk, the Labelles walked away quite satisfied indeed.
Nancy Monarch didn't even have to hear him talk to get a giggle.
''I can't even look at him without laughing,'' she said.
Born Robert Cochrane Marley Jr. to a local family, Marley grew up in Portland and graduated from Deering High School in 1985.
When somebody comes up and calls him ''Bobby'' and asks how ''Mah-sha'' is doing (his mother, Marcia Marley, who often tends the kiosk for him), it's a safe bet they've known about him a lot longer than most of his other fans.
That's why Tom Murphy of Portland stopped by on Thursday. He was one of Bobby's teachers at Deering.
Asked what he remembers about Bobby as a high school student, Murphy said: ''He was never a problem. It was the best seven years of your life, right Bobby?''
To which Marley replied with hearty laughter of his own.
Don't feel left out. You haven't missed your opportunity. Marley will be there at the mall telling jokes most every day until Christmas. Just like the other guy with the merry dimples.
He won't be dressed in fur from his head to his foot. He'll be wearing an ''Upta Camp'' hoodie.
He doesn't have a broad face or a round little belly. He makes funny faces sure to shake your bowlful of jelly.
And if you need a Maine Ceedee Open-ah, he'll be there to help.
Staff Writer Giselle Goodman can be reached at 791-6382 or at:


Graphic

 
Giselle Goodman/Staff Writer
Comedian Bob Marley (a-yuh, that's him on the left), enjoys some Hickory Farms treats (he's done a shtick on Hickory Farms) from Angela Cook of Portland and Rachel Stevenson of Winthrop.
Giselle Goodman photos/Staff Writer
Tyler Blanchard and Nicole Clark, Bob Marley fans from Sanford, dropped by for a bit of Maine humor.
Joanne and Michael Leckbee are from Bowdoin, to which Marley replied in his Maine-speak, ''That's a wicked nice school you got the-yah.''

Load-Date: December 22, 2009


End of Document
