




Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
January 17, 2023 Tuesday 12:48 PM EST


Copyright 2023 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 547 words
Byline: Dane Enerio
Body


Jan 17, 2023( International Business Times News: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 KEY POINTS 
 A U.K. teacher, 44, groomed and had unprotected sex with a teenage student The man received a 12-month jail sentence that was delayed by two years A pre-sentence report concluded that the teacher posed a low risk of reoffending For more breaking global news visit IBTimes.com[1] 
A private school teacher in the United Kingdom who groomed a student and had sex with the teenager has avoided jail time, according to reports. 
Ian Featherstone received a suspended 12-month jail sentence after he pleaded guilty to two counts of sexual activity with a child while in a position of trust, the Derby Telegraph[2] reported. 
The 44-year-old teacher at Abbotsholme School in Uttoxeter, England, had unprotected sex with a student diagnosed with autism, the Derby Crown Court heard. 
He also exchanged sexualized messages and intimate photographs with the teen. 
Their relationship was reportedly discovered when the victim confided to a teacher about the situation. 
"[Featherstone] deliberately used a particular social media account because he was still married. The relationship turned physical, and he did not use a condom because he's had a vasectomy, he was clearly aware what he was doing was wrong," prosecutor Julian Lynch told the court. 
Meanwhile, Judge Shaun Smith called Featherstone's behavior "a massive breach of trust," adding that there was "absolutely no excuse for it" since the victim "was on the spectrum." 
"You are highly regarded by former students, you have done charity work and you clearly excelled as a teacher. But it was your job as a teacher that led to this offense," the magistrate said. 
Barrister Laura Coton, mitigating for her client, noted that a pre-sentence report concluded Featherstone posed a low risk of reoffending. 
"He has a 14-year career as a teacher, a career he loved. He has two children with his now ex-wife to whom he was married for 14 years and was in a relationship with for 20 years," Coton said. 
Featherstone, who is now living at his parents' address in Busby, Leicester, described his offense as "a massive mistake he never wants to repeat," according to his lawyer. 
"He has lost his career, his marriage and full contact with his children and has lost the respect of his colleagues. He is obviously incredibly embarrassed," Coton claimed. 
Featherstone was placed on the sex offenders list for 10 years, and he was required to attend a 45-day sex offender awareness program and 55 rehabilitation sessions with the probation service. 
Featherstone was also ordered to carry out 200 hours of unpaid work. 
Commenting on the case, a spokesperson for Abbotsholme School told Derbyshire Live that they were "appalled" by Featherstone's actions. 
"Behavior like this has no place in a school... We are providing all support necessary to any student who requires it and hope that today brings some form of closure for the victim," the school, which claimed it "acted quickly" in response to the allegations, said. 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 17, 2023


End of Document
