




College Heights Herald: Western Kentucky University
December 10, 2020 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2020 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 343 words
Body


Meghan Trainor has turned her gestational diabetes diagnosis into "a game".
The 26-year-old pop star - who is currently preparing for the arrival of a baby boy - has revealed she's adopted a competitive approach to gestational diabetes, which can cause high blood sugar that can affect the baby's health.
She explained: "I just watch what I eat now. I write everything now.
"I check my blood. And we're good now. I've been crushing it. It's like a game for me and I'm winning. It's nice to know we're both healthy."
Meghan also revealed she's enjoying the experience of being pregnant during quarantine.
She told 'The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon': "It was great not traveling, and if I felt sick, I was like, 'Well, at least I'm home and doing interviews like this.' I was so lucky for that."
More from this section
Natalie afraid of her own sexuality
Harry Styles approached to play Boy George in biopic
Ronan Keating thinks 'it's time' for vasectomy
On the other hand, Meghan recently confessed she's "scared" about giving birth without her mother by her side.
The 'All About That Bass' hitmaker - who married actor Daryl Sabara in 2018 - is really worried that her mother Kelli won't be allowed in the room when she gives birth due to coronavirus restrictions.
She said: "Some appointments my husband got to go to and some he didn't. But those appointments, the doctors were very nice to me and set up a FaceTime ... I'm scared of birth and, like, not being able to have my mom in the room. 'Cause, like, they can barely let your husband in the room, but I'm like, 'But I need my momma ... I just need my head rubs.'"
In the short term, Meghan is looking forward to her birthday and Christmas.
She shared: "A lot of people feel bad for me because my birthday's December 22 but it was always the best for me.
"Not only did I get Christmas, I also got my birthday. In my world it was the best month of all time. You would get let out of school. I was like, 'I truly won'. I'm so lucky that I was born on this day."
This article originally ran on celebretainment.com.

Load-Date: December 11, 2020


End of Document
