




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, WI)
September 8, 2000, Friday,
ALL EDITIONS


Copyright 2000 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
Section: Click/Daybreak,
Length: 555 words
Byline: Tom Alesia Wisconsin State Journal
Body


They considered naming it Madison Man, Just For Men, Area Male or Gentlemen of Wisconsin.
''We liked 'Just For Men' originally,'' said Pat O'Gara, publisher of Oak Creek Publishing in Fitchburg. ''But then we thought, 'That's all we need is some lawsuit from the hair tonic people.' ''
Oak Creek employees finally settled on Today's Wisconsin Man. Is it a 365-day beefcake calendar? Hardly. Today's Wisconsin Man is the newest publication in the Madison area.
It's distributed free at many sports bars, golf courses, health clubs and any other spot where guys, um, men congregate.
The debut issue, featuring UW-Madison football and basketball broadcaster Matt Lepay on the cover, targets men ages 35 to 50.
''I'm trying to put out a professional, informational-type publication that can help men make their life easier,'' O'Gara said.
That means stories on topics such as golf, cigars, electronics, sex, wine and health.
The latter subject is particularly important to O'Gara, 37, who rattles off statistics about women's seven-year edge on men in terms of longevity, and how three out of four men don't have a personal physician.
''We need to make them think about going to the doctor more often,'' O'Gara said.
Don't get the idea that Today's Wisconsin Man is heavy-handed. Articles are casual and short, highlighting little-known golf courses or suggesting how to buy wine.
There's sex talk, too. A Madison psychologist offers a straightforward article about how men wonder if they're ''normal'' in their sexual relations.
O'Gara compares Wisconsin Man content, written entirely by local freelancers, to the popular Men's Health magazine.
''The format (of Men's Health) is appealing,'' O'Gara said. ''Lots of charts and graphics, short articles. It's an easy read.''
Oak Creek Publishing is best known for its monthly Mature Lifestyles, which has more than 40,000 copies distributed in southwestern Wisconsin.
Two years ago, the company started the monthly Wisconsin Woman magazine.
''Madison is a very female-friendly, progressive market,'' O'Gara said. ''I saw another women's publication in Raleigh/Durham and thought, 'This would make so much sense in Madison.' ''
Oak Creek prints 25,000 copies of Wisconsin Woman for free distribution. O'Gara said 20,000 copies of Today's Wisconsin Man will be available through October.
Advertising sales were better on the first Wisconsin Man than the first Wisconsin Woman, but O'Gara is not sure how often Wisconsin Man will be published.
''Our research says men don't pick up free publications as often as women do,'' he said. ''I'm hoping to have another issue out in five months.''
Is there any stopping Oak Creek's expansion? For instance, is Wisconsin Pet in the works?
''No,'' O'Gara said with a laugh. ''There's nothing else new. We have to take what we're doing and make it better.'' What didn't run
Today's Wisconsin Man magazine published a (largely) tongue-in-cheek list of ''Top Ten Articles We Decided Not to Run!'' in its debut issue. The items included:
*''Men's Favorite Beers -- No explanation needed as long as they are cold.''
*''Romantic Getaways -- Since when do I plan anything?''
*''Ways to Go Golfing Without Her Knowing -- Shh! She may be reading this.''
*''Best Time to Get a Vasectomy -- During college basketball's March Madness. Just sit there with your ice pack and get waited on.''

Graphic

 
State Journal photo/Craig Schreiner
Pat O'Gara has added Today's Wisconsin Man magazine to his collection of free publications, which includes Mature Lifestyles and Wisconsin Woman. Features shown here are from the magazine's first issue.

Load-Date: September 9, 2000


End of Document
