




Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)
February 1, 2003 Saturday City Edition


Copyright 2003 Richmond Newspapers, Inc.
Section: AREA/STATE; Pg. B-3
Length: 374 words
Byline: The Associated Press
Dateline: NORFOLK
Body


Some military men deploying for the Middle East are leaving behind more than their wives. They're banking sperm samples.
In some cases, men are concerned that exposure to chemical warfare or vaccinations for smallpox and anthrax will damage their sperm or make them infertile, even though there have been no studies to prove such a risk. Others worry they could die in combat.
Fertility clinic administrators in the Hampton Roads area say many of the military men who have been freezing sperm want their wives to continue infertility treatments they have already started.
A Marine and his wife went to the New Hope Center for Reproductive Medicine in Virginia Beach the day after hearing President Bush's State of the Union address. The husband had not received orders to deploy but expected to any day.
"We don't know what he'll be exposed to over there or how long he'll be there," the wife told The Virginian-Pilot.
The number of sperm samples frozen at that clinic rose from the typical rate of eight to 10 a month to 30 or 40 samples in January, with some men leaving several samples. Medical director Dr. Robin Poe-Zeigler said the demand has been so strong that she had to buy a new tank for storing the frozen sperm.
The Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine at Eastern Virginia Medical School in Norfolk had 60 requests to freeze sperm in January from military men anticipating deployment.
Because of the hurried nature of several recent deployments, only about 30 had time to go to the clinic. Still, the institute typically freezes about half that many samples in a month, and only one or two from military men.
Jones Institute administrators have begun offering the service free to military personnel who already are clients. The usual cost of freezing sperm and storing it for a year is $245.
The New Hope Center also is offering the service free to its military clients.
Men typically freeze sperm before they undergo chemotherapy or radiation, or if they're having a vasectomy. The sperm is used primarily in two procedures: artificial insemination, in which the sperm is transferred into the woman's uterus, or in vitro fertilization, in which a woman's egg is fertilized by the sperm in a laboratory dish and then implanted in the uterus.

Load-Date: February 4, 2003


End of Document
