




Northwestern Missourian: Northwest Missouri State University
September 24, 2014 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2014 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 382 words
Body


For a woman who has found herself in the difficult position of an unwanted pregnancy, the decision for abortion is hard enough without the additions of governmental control. So why in the world has the state of Missouri enacted yet another law to make a bad situation worse?
Missouri law has increased the waiting period from 24 to 72 hours that an abortion can be scheduled from the initial doctors visit. The only clinic in Missouri that offers elective abortions, meaning not for medical necessity, is in St. Louis.
The most maddening part about this law is that the health of the woman and the unborn child is not the issue that this law is trying to address. The only thing this law accomplishes is shaming women into changing their minds. According to the Guttmacher Institute, there is a five-one hundredths percent chance of medical risk when having an abortion in the first trimester, indicating that early medical consultation is key.
I also find it ridiculous that there are no mandatory wait laws for procedures such as vasectomies.
Most people opposed to this law are concerned about the extra expenses it will cost the patient; such as fuel, lodging and time off of work.
I am concerned about whether this will increase the number of unwanted babies in this state. Who takes care of the babies that are born because it's too difficult to get an abortion? These babies are born to mothers who do not want them, do not have the money to feed them and will possibly neglect or abuse them. There is no clause in all these abortion laws that protect the fetus once it's out of the womb. Just plenty of them to keep the fetus safe inside a person who does not want them.
I may be venturing onto a slippery slope here, but this could set our society back 60 years if women resort to wire hangers again. Then it'll be more than just the fetus's life in trouble.
It speaks volumes that Governor Jay Nixon, vetoed the bill. However, the legislature overturned the veto, turning this into a law. Governor Nixon is quoted as saying the waiting period "serves no demonstrable purpose other than to create emotional and financial hardships for women."
I couldn't agree more. How a woman makes decisions for herself and her health should not be dictated by a bunch of men in suits in a state building.

Load-Date: September 24, 2014


End of Document
