




International Business Times News
October 11, 2016 Tuesday 7:56 PM EST


Copyright 2016 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 433 words
Byline: Minyvonne Burke
Body


Oct 11, 2016( International Business Times News:  Delivered by Newstex)  Love ...p Hop: Hollywood - Ray J, Princess Love, Nikki Mudarris, ...e New Cast On What To Expect Moniece Slaughter is not happy her sex tape has become a storyline on Season 3 of VH1's 'Love ...p Hop: Hollywood[1].' On Monday's episode 9, Princess Love met up with blogger Jason Lee to see if he would release the X-rated video to her and Brandi Boyd. On Tuesday, Moniece took to Twitter to rant about the show. 'Each and every person sitting in that room is going to regret it,' her posts began. 'Beg for forgiveness, never! Outsmart you, always #countdowntocourt.' She added: 'And the powers at be who were so desperate for drama, are going to be sick by the time I'm done with them too. Built a season off my back! These folks at the tip top got me f---ed up.'
             Sunday, Moniece posted on Instagram that she wasn't going to be commenting on rumors surrounding her personal life because she was advised by her legal team to 'let the courts deal with it.' Her response came after Jason publicly accused her of having a sex tape with an unknown rapper and reportedly getting pregnant by former basketball player Shaquille O'Neal while he was still married to Shaunie O'Neal. 'No comment,' Moniece captioned her Instagram post[2]. 'Sad day when you've done literally nothing to an individual. A man at that. And he makes it his mission to do what he thinks is destroying you. But ultimately will damage the one individual who has nothing to do with any of it. My child. And if it weren't for that, I'd let them keep it up.' Moniece Slaughter went on a Twitter rant following an episode of 'Love ...p Hop: Hollywood' about her supposed sex tape. Photo: VH1 Even though Slaughter said she didn't want to address the baby rumor with Shaq[3], the VH1 reality star took to Twitter to tell fans that there was no truth to it. 'Let me make it clear condoms. An iud. And a vasectomy make pregnancy impossible. Meeting him in 2012 makes it impossible during a marriage,' she tweeted[4]. 'SO STOP ASKING ME.' [ 1]:             [ 2]:             [ 3]:             [ 4]:             

Load-Date: October 11, 2016


End of Document
