




University Wire
November 10, 2006 Friday


Copyright 2006 Daily Nebraskan via U-Wire
Length: 481 words
Byline: By Chris Rosacker, Daily Nebraskan; SOURCE: U. Nebraska
Dateline: LINCOLN, Neb. 
Body


Researchers are still working hard to produce a male birth control pill, but it's likely to be more than nine months before anything is born from their labor.
With many options open to women -- like pills, patches, injections and intrauterine devices -- and few options for men -- condoms, withdrawal or a vasectomy -- both sexes would like to see more of an active role for birth control on the man's part, according to a study by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.
Polly Daro, a University of Nebraska freshman psychology and sociology major, said she would appreciate a male pill because prevention should go both ways.
Theoretically, it may make sense to take the bullets out of the gun before you fire it at the bulletproof vest, but scientifically, it's more complex than that.
For more than two decades now, researchers have been working on that very issue. One of the main hurdles in the research is the biological difference between sexes.
"Developing effective contraceptive methods for men without permanently impairing their fertility has proved to be very elusive, but progress is being made," a statement on the Planned Parenthood Web site said.
Women have a fertility cycle, producing one egg at a time, compared to men who produce millions and millions of sperm a day. It is far easier to isolate one egg than all the sperm men constantly produce, according to the Planned Parenthood Web site.
That doesn't mean there aren't promising options on the horizon. The University of Washington's Male Contraception Research Center is working on a hormonal method of birth control involving the addition of testosterone to the blood stream to turn off sperm production.
The hormones can be injected and released by sub-dermal implants or with a pill. The ingestion process has been proven to reduce the addition of hormones needed, though.
There has been a lot of talk about Organon, a pharmaceutical research company in the Netherlands that was supposed to have a 100 percent effective male pill. That pill was scheduled to hit the market in 2005 but it hasn't reached the U.S. yet.
Many of these developmental methods are proven to reduce sperm counts. The problems are some have "potentially toxic side effects," some are only "unlikely" to cause pregnancy or the others that involve adding testosterone to the body may leave men uneasy.
All the new options claim to be available soon, but none have been released for market use yet.
"When people are making those kinds of guesses (for how long the method will take to be released), that's exactly what they are doing is guessing," said Bobbie Kierstead, vice president of public affairs for Planned Parenthood of Nebraska and Council Bluffs.
She said Planned Parenthood is anxiously awaiting and welcomes the expansion of the new male contraceptives. Their arrival time, however, remains to be seen.
(C) 2006 Daily Nebraskan via U-WIRE

Load-Date: November 10, 2006


End of Document
