




 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
March 9, 2002 Saturday,
Home Edition


Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Features;
Length: 1002 words
Byline: DEREK RICHMAN
Body


In May, I'm going to complete a Half Iron Man Triathlon to raise money for the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. That fact astounds me.
Before 2000, my only experience as an endurance athlete occurred in 1991, when I pursued my dog after he jumped out the window of my moving car.  In 2000, when I turned 30 and my waistline turned thirtysomething, a friend convinced me to try triathlete training. In 2001, I entered my first International Distance triathlon, ready to become a world-famous triathlete. Here's what happened.
For the Journal-Constitution
At the starting line, the large, muscular fellows surrounding me act friendly. "Hello! I see you don't have a wet suit, unlike everyone else here! Didn't you hear the race officials announce the water temperature this morning? You were throwing up all morning? Great! Good luck, little dude!" These men aren't my friends. Shortly, every one of them will attempt to drown me.
You, too, can experience the start of a triathlon. Fill a small room with 50 large, muscular men. Blindfold them. Ask them to practice their most awkward and spastic Jackie Chan moves. Blindfold yourself. Hold your breath. Cross the room 30 times. Stay conscious.
After 20 minutes of violent thrashing, I realize I'm not going to drown, despite the other swimmers' best efforts. Which frees me to focus on more important things. Like sharks. I've seen "Jaws" 200 times, so I'm terrified of ocean swims. I've seen "Jaws 4" once, so I'm terrified of what else Michael Caine might do for a paycheck.  But I digress.
Swimming faster to finish 753rd rather than 754th makes little sense to me. However, swimming faster to encourage a pursuing mako to sample, instead of my chilled torso, the surely more meaty and tasty wet suit wearer I just passed makes a lot of sense. So I'm suddenly cutting through water like a terrified mackerel.
Unfortunately, a terrified mackerel doesn't occasionally look up to ensure he's aimed toward the beach. For the last five minutes, I've apparently been swimming toward Belize.
Eventually, after swimming like a terrified mackerel who occasionally looks up to make sure that he's aimed toward Florida, I finish the swim. As I transition to world-famous already exhausted biker, I begin to wish I had chosen an exercise program consisting solely of tossing my dog out a car window and chasing him.
 
Numbness spreads
After an hour of biking, during which my stomach keeps reminding me of the gallon of the Gulf of Mexico I had swallowed during the swim in lieu of breathing, I realize I can't feel my glutes. Before becoming a triathlete, I never realized I owned glutes. Now I was definitely missing the sensation of their existence. Later, I discover that this numbness has expanded to an area of my body extremely important to me.
I must digress here because this numbness does not go away after the triathlon ends. No, that certain area has no normal sensation until a week later, when I'm ready to sell my bike as a vasectomy alternative. Eventually, I learn that I can buy a special $50 bike seat that will let me retain my breeding potential. How can this not be a standard bike feature? Are there male bikers who won't pay extra?
 
Running in a helmet
Anyway, after about 75 minutes of sea water belches and numbness, I finish the bike ride. I try to run, but my legs now work as effectively as linguine. You, too, can experience running after biking for 26 miles. Spend 15 minutes pounding your thighs with a bat. Now Super Glue your soles to the floor. Now throw your dog out a window and run after him.
After 10 minutes of running less gracefully than a world-famous bowlegged albatross, I realize that I have another problem. No, it isn't that I'm being passed by obese women old enough to be my grandmother. I'd be able to live with that if they weren't laughing so loudly. My problem is that I'm the idiot running while still wearing a bike helmet.
Few options are available to you when you've forgotten to remove your bike helmet. You don't want to just throw it away. You don't want to carry it because then you're the idiot running while still carrying a bike helmet. No, the only option available, I think, is to justify the helmet. So every 100 yards, I run hard into a tree. Or a post. Or a fellow competitor. Especially a fellow competitor.
Then I yell, "Wow! That was painful! Good thing I have this helmet on, huh! Bet you wish you had one right now, Grandma!"
Somehow, though my running style (i.e., into people) has done its share of damage to my body (but not my head), I reach the finish line. I feel like someone whose dog just threw him out the window of a moving car. When I go to sleep that night, I don't wake until about 30 hours later. Which means I wake about five days before my groin.
A Half Iron Man includes a 1.2-mile swim, 56-mile bike ride and 13.1-mile run, more than double the International Triathlon distance.
Why am I doing it? No matter how painful the race will be, it can't compare with the battle hundreds of thousands wage every day with leukemia and lymphoma. My most important goal is to raise as much money as possible through an organization called Team in Training.
This incredible group trains people of all athletic abilities to compete in triathlons, marathons and other endurance events. In return, participants raise money to support the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.
I'm dedicating my efforts in memory of my grandmother, who would be laughing at this article, cheering me on and probably passing me in the race if leukemia hadn't taken her life.
Participating in Team in Training is simply the finest thing I've done. I know that my grandmother would be proud of her grandson. I also know that she would want me to use the $50 bike seat. She wants great-grandchildren someday.
When he's not recovering from triathlons, Derek Richman is an attorney with Kilpatrick Stockton LLP. He lives in Atlanta. He can be reached at . To learn more about Team in Training, visit  . 

Graphic

 
Photo:
Derek Richman

Load-Date: March 9, 2002


End of Document
