




Redbook
April 1, 2010


Copyright 2010 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: YOUR LOVE LIFE; Pg. 90; Vol. 214
Length: 593 words
Byline: HILDA HUTCHERSON, M.D.
Body


Q: My husband and I use birth control because we don't want to have more kids. We're not worried about STDs, so what are our other options besides the Pill (I'm not crazy about being on hormones) or condoms (my hubby hates them)?
A:  It's great that you're weighing your options: When you feel confident and comfortable with your contraceptive method, you can better relax and enjoy sex. Luckily, you have many choices.
One often-overlooked option for long-term birth control is the IUD (intrauterine device). There are two types: a T-shaped copper device that you leave in for up to 12 years, and another containing the hormone progestin that lasts for five years. Less-permanent methods like the diaphragm and condom are also effective when used properly. Condoms have gotten a bad rap with men, understandably-the old ones were thick and didn't offer much sensation. But the new thinner versions-like the Inspiral, which has extra latex at the top that massages the head of the penis-provide much more pleasure for men. If guys would open their minds and give condoms a shot-with a dab of lube inside-they might actually enjoy them!
If you are totally sure that you do not want more kids, consider permanent sterilization. (I usually reserve this suggestion for women 35 or older, because I have seen so many younger women regret their decision.) The traditional procedure, tubal ligation, requires surgery. But a new procedure called Essure, in which a steel coil is placed inside your Fallopian tubes to keep sperm from entering, can be performed in your doctor's office. Or consider male sterilization, a.k.a. vasectomy. I know what you're thinking: For most guys-my husband included!-the thought of a knife in their most sensitive area is enough to send chills down their spine. But vasectomy is safe, can be performed in the doctor's office, and is more easily reversible than female sterilization.
All that said, birth control pills are still my favorite method for women who don't smoke. (Smokers on the Pill increase their risk of blood clots, heart attack, and stroke.) Low-dose oral contraceptives are totally safe for healthy women to use until menopause-and they even offer some health benefits, like lower risk of ovarian and uterine cancer, and reduced menstrual flow, cramping, and PMS symptoms. To set the record straight, birth control pills have not been shown to significantly increase your risk of breast cancer.
Whatever you decide, remember: It takes two to tango. Your husband is just as responsible for preventing a pregnancy as you are. So talk to him about all of the great options out there (including vasectomy!).
Making sense of Pap smears
If you dread your yearly Pap smear, you'll love the newest recommendations from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists that suggest going in for them less often: every two years until age 30 if you're not at high risk for cervical cancer, and every three years if you are over 30, have had three consecutive negative Paps, and are not at high risk. (You're at high risk if you've had an abnormal Pap and high-risk human papilloma virus [HPV] or have HIV or a weakened immune system.) But you are not off the hook from your yearly gynecologist visit! Your Pap smear is only a tiny part of a full reproductive health evaluation, which checks your breasts, ovaries, vagina, and the rest of your body. So keep going to the gyno once a year, whether you get a Pap or not. Then reward yourself with some pampering of your choice-my favorite is lunch and a manicure with my best friend.

Load-Date: July 23, 2010


End of Document
