




Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)
November 3, 2017 Friday


Copyright 2017 Post-Bulletin
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS
Length: 586 words
Byline: Matthew Stolle, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.
Body


Nov. 03--An estimated 50 demonstrators opposing abortion, led by Diocese of Winona Bishop John Quinn, held a prayer vigil Thursday outside the Rochester office of Planned Parenthood, even as abortion rights in parts of the U.S. have been eroding.
The demonstration was part of 40 Days for Life, a national campaign that coordinates rallies throughout the U.S. with an aim to end abortion.
For about an hour, protesters, the bulk of whom were seminarians from the Immaculate Heart of Mary Seminary in Winona, recited the Rosary, prayed the Lord's Prayer and held anti-abortion signs.
"The message is that life is a gift, and we're trying to give that witness to everyone: Politicians, teachers, doctors and family members," Quinn said.
But even as they marched in the chilly late afternoon air along Seventh Street Northwest, they were greeted by a smaller contingent of pink-clad, sign-waving counterprotesters who rallied just feet away, cheering every time a passing motorist honked.
Quinn said the rally's purpose was to change hearts rather than to promote a political message or piece of legislation. Laws are good, but only to the degree that "we believe in the values of those laws." He said also that the younger generation is "much more pro-life" than previous generations, and that is making it difficult for Planned Parenthood to find members among younger people.
"Many of them have seen how the baby developed in the womb and some of them have seen their own sonogram that shows the heart beating," Quinn said. "That's not just a clump of cells when they see that it's me."
But some of the counterprotesters argued the national campaign is an attempt to impose one group's values on everyone else. A couple said they didn't like abortion either. But the best way to end or limit abortions is to promote strong family planning and the right of women to control whether or not they get pregnant.
Abortions are only a small part of what Planned Parenthood does, one counterprotester said. The vast majority of services are pap smears, cancer screenings, STD tests, vasectomies and family planning education for young people.
Another counterprotester said it was important to respond to the prayer vigil.
"It's very frustrating to me," said Marilyn, who declined to give her last name. "We all get to choose for ourselves. If you don't believe in family planning and abortion rights, you (don't have to). It's annoying to me that they're here in front of our offices as opposed to having a vigil at their church."
Abortion rights have been in retreat in different parts of the country for several years now. Even though the newest Supreme Court justice, Neil Gorsuch, has yet to offer a legal opinion on abortion, observers note that abortion rights rest on a shaky 5-4 court majority. If President Trump gets to chose another justice, the legality of abortion could be upended.
Dr. Andy Good, a retired Rochester obstetrician, said many states have passed laws making it more difficult for women to obtain an abortion. In South Dakota, for example, the laws have become so restrictive that a Minnesota doctor has to be flown in to perform abortions. Four-day waiting periods, six-hour drives to clinics and other rules have created greater hurdles to access.
"A lot of states have passed these draconian laws," Good said. "I like to say it's Taliban-light, men controlling the lives of their women."
___ (c)2017 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at  Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

Load-Date: November 3, 2017


End of Document
