




 The New York Times
February 3, 2004 Tuesday
 Late Edition - Final 


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company
Section: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8
Length: 998 words
Byline:  By PETER M. NICHOLS
Body


Sofia Coppola's "Lost in Translation," released today by Universal, is the second of this year's Academy Awards best-picture nominees to reach DVD. Gary Ross's "Seabiscuit" has been available since December. Release dates for Peter Weir's "Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World," Clint Eastwood's "Mystic River" and Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" are yet to be announced.
     "Rings" is likely to follow the same two-part release scheduling of the first two "Rings" films, which would mean a rather basic edition ("basic" for Mr. Jackson amounting to an extras-packed extravaganza for most directors) in May or June and an extended version of the movie with a raft of other features in November. 
 As with other Oscar movies the number of theaters showing "Lost in Translation" jumped last week, but that should gradually dwindle with the release of DVD and videocassette. For a movie with a best-picture Oscar on the line, as well as nominations for Bill Murray as best actor and two for Ms. Coppola, best director and best original screenplay, it arrives with a minimum of extra features.
A 30-minute look behind the scenes begins by introducing people around the production office in Tokyo, where the movie was made, and proceeds on a hit-or-miss basis through some of the 27-day shoot in the relaxed manner of Ms. Coppola herself. Some DVD's turn happenings on the set into miniproductions, but "Translation" had scant room for a DVD crew. "We just had our little video camera and passed it around," Ms. Coppola said on the telephone last week. "It was morelike home movies." Mr. Murray does his seal imitation and talks about trying to communicate in Tokyo using the book "Making Out in Japanese." Others describe the making of a quiet, personal film in a huge, loud city.
Last week Ms. Coppola, 32, said that she didn't feel like doing a director's commentary. "Translation" is her second feature film, after "The Virgin Suicides" (1999). "I thought that maybe when I'm an older lady, I can talk about my work," she said. "Right now I'm kind of self-conscious."
She and Mr. Murray have a conversation about "Translation," but they don't recount the extended manhunt required to land the elusive Mr. Murray for the role of Bob Harris, a Murray-like actor who develops a crush on the young wife (Scarlett Johansson) of a photographer. Most DVD's would carry on at length about such a casting coup.
"I kept a little video journal about my pursuit of Bill Murray for eight months, but I didn't put it on the DVD," Ms. Coppola said. "It was too personal." 2003. $26.98. 102 minutes. R.

'American Splendor'
"It's weird, isn't it?" growls Harvey Pekar in the comic book "My Movie Year," which accompanies the DVD of "American Splendor," released today by HBO. "Y'd think investors would wanna sink millions into a film based on the autobiographical tales of a low-level file clerk who's been workin' at the Cleveland V.A. hospital for over 30 years."
No one did until the producer Ted Hope and the writers and directors Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini came along and made a movie about Mr. Pekar (Paul Giamatti) and his "American Splendor" comic-book series, illustrated by Robert Crumb (James Urbaniak) and other artists.
Mr. Pekar himself appears now and then in a film (nominated for best adapted screenplay) that occasionally injects characters from the comics into the live action. Hope Davis plays Joyce Brabner, the comic book dealer and kindred besieged spirit from Delaware who identifies with the shaggily depressed outlook in Harvey's work and decides to take a chance and meet him in Cleveland.
"Before we get started, you should know that I had a vasectomy," are Harvey's first words to her. Later in Harvey's record- and comic book-clogged apartment Joyce wearily decides that they should skip the courtship and just get married.
Mr. Pekar and Ms. Brabner join a commentary with the actors and filmmakers and are shown at the Cannes International Film Festival in a making-of documentary.
"They haven't a clue as to who we are," Ms. Brabner says of the festival crowd. Mr. Pekar says the French do a good job with his laundry. 2003. $27.95. 101 minutes. R.

'Only the Strong Survive'
Chris Hegedus and D. A. Pennebaker's documentary revisits the Memphis music scene of the 1960's and early 70's, with the 82-year-old D.J. and soul music pioneer Rufus Thomas and his sidekick Jaye Michael Davis serving as anchors as they work the microphones on the Memphis radio station WDIA.
"Baby, you got my mind messed up," goes one lyric. Performers include Sam Moore, Ann Peebles, Isaac Hayes, Jerry Butler, the Chi-Lites, Mary Wilson of the Supremes and Wilson Pickett, whose "In the Midnight Hour" still electrifies.
"The classic soul that pumps, struts, growls and cries through 'Only the Strong Survive' is so adrenalized that young audiences encountering the music for the first time could easily find themselves converted into old fogies," Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times. The record producer Jerry Wexler, Mr. Moore and others do a commentary. 2003. Miramax. $29.99. 95 minutes. PG-13.

'Under the Tuscan Sun'
In a documentary the director Audrey Wells says that her film is about "forcing yourself to engage when you're not ready to." Under California's no-fault divorce law, a book critic named Frances (Diane Lane) must give her philandering husband, a "writer" dependent on her earnings, half of what they own. For some reason she gives him almost everything.
That can be depressing. A friend sends Frances on a trip to Tuscany, where she falls in love not with a guy but an old villa, which she buys on impulse. During renovations she gets involved with local artisans and tradespeople and settles into Tuscan rhythms. A few gorgeous men present themselves, but, says Ms. Wells (who also does a commentary), the film isn't about finding the right one. "Ultimately nobody is the one," she says. 2003. Buena Vista. $29.99. 115 minutes. PG-13.



Graphic

 
Photos: Hope Davis and Paul Giamatti as kindred besieged spirits in "American Splendor," now on DVD. (Photo by John Clifford/HBO Films); Bill Murray and Scarlett Johansson in the best-picture Oscar nominee "Lost in Translation." (Photo by Yoshio Sato/Focus Features) 

Load-Date: February 3, 2004


End of Document
