




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
June 6, 2024 Thursday


Copyright 2024 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 505 words
Body


Till now, male contraception was just limited to condoms or a vasectomy. But now researchers have developed a gel which, when applied to a male's bare shoulders, can help reduce sperm production.
This simple gel is a hormone-based treatment that has shown promising results in clinical trials.
A hormone gel is usually applied to the shoulders because this area of the skin is suitable for transdermal delivery of medication. The skin on the shoulders has a good balance of thickness and blood flow, making it effective for absorbing the hormones into the bloodstream. There's minimal contact with others and the application is easy since it is a large surface area.
Researchers from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) presented promising phase 2 trial results for the new hormonal gel at the Endocrine Societys conference in Boston.
The trial, part of NIH's Contraceptive Development Program, involved 222 men aged 18 to 50. The participants applied 5 millilitres of the gel (about a teaspoon) to their shoulder blades daily.
Preliminary findings indicate the gel works faster than expected.
After 12 weeks, 86% of participants achieved sperm suppression, defined as having up to 1 million sperm per millilitre of semen, considered effective for contraception.
The average time to reach this level was eight weeks, a significant improvement over previous methods that took longer.
Typically, normal sperm counts range from 15 million to 200 million per millilitre without contraception. The gel's rapid effectiveness is encouraging, especially since past attempts required higher doses of testosterone, which can cause side effects.
The new gel combines testosterone and Nestorone, a synthetic hormone called segesterone acetate, allowing it to act faster and with lower testosterone doses.
Nestorone is already used in female contraceptives like the vaginal ring. In men, the combination of Nestorone and testosterone suppresses sperm production without affecting the sex drive or causing other side effects.
So far, participants have maintained normal sexual function with low blood testosterone levels.
Researchers are now monitoring the gel's effectiveness in preventing pregnancy. Male participants, required to be in committed, monogamous relationships, need their partners' consent to use the gel as their sole birth control method.
Couples must have sex at least once a month for a year, with men undergoing periodic sperm count tests to gauge fertility.
The gel is yet to be approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
"While studies have shown that some hormonal agents may be effective for male contraception, the slow onset of spermatogenic suppression is a limitation," said senior researcher Diana Blithe, chief of the Contraceptive Development Program at the NIH.
The sperm suppression stage of the international phase 2b trial of segesterone-testosterone gel is complete.
The study continues to test the contraceptive's effectiveness, safety, acceptability and reversibility of contraception after treatment stops.

Load-Date: June 6, 2024


End of Document
