




USA TODAY
March 17, 2008 Monday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: MONEY; Pg. 3B
Length: 564 words
Byline: Laura Petrecca and Theresa Howard
Body


Madness is right.  Consumer brands line up every year to associate with the March Madness of the NCAA men's basketball tournament (see story at right). So why not a vasectomy provider?
Radio ads for the Oregon Urology Institute are encouraging guys to have vasectomies Wednesday,  the day before the first round games begins, or March 26, the day before the "Sweet Sixteen" round, to "lower your seed for the tournament." The 60-second ad airing in Eugene, home of the University of Oregon, pitches the needed days of recuperation as the perfect excuse "to stay at home in front of the big screen to watch all the games with the full support -- even the sympathy -- of everyone around you."
The ad was a slam dunk. "Our goal was to get five or six vasectomies" scheduled, says institute administrator Terry FitzPatrick.
About 20  guys have signed up so far.
Out of luck. There's a bit less green in retailers' cash registers from St. Patrick's Day-related spending. Consumers are expected to end up spending about $3.64 billion this year vs. last year's $3.76 billion, says the National Retail Federation.  A "double whammy" of St. Paddy's Day on a Monday, plus an early Easter slowed sales, says NRF CEO Tracy Mullin. "With the holiday just six days before Easter, many retailers are finding they don't have enough space on their shelves to promote shamrocks and Easter bunnies at the same time."
Bowled over. The Ad Team has always thought of wearing shoes used by a hundred other people as odd enough, but time spent at the local bowling center is about to get a new twist from a partnership between cable channel VH1  and Strike Ten Entertainment  -- the marketing arm of the Bowling Proprietors' Association of America.
Hundreds of bowling centers are showcasing VH1's reality shows on alley TVs for weekend "viewing parties." The first, last weekend, was themed around the show Scott Baio is 46 ... and Pregnant.  The show features Baio, best-known for his Chachi role in the 1970s hit Happy Days, as he adjusts to the idea of fatherhood.
Next up is Bret Michaels' Rock of Love 2  and then Flavor Flav's Flavor of Love 3.  Michaels, the former frontman for hair-metal band Poison and Flav, a former rapper, each look for romance in their shows.
But the promos go beyond just airing the shows:
*Life-size  cardboard stand-ups of Michaels at more than 500 alleys.
*Silk pajama-themed nights for Flav, a nod to his penchant for the sleek loungewear.
*Scott Baio look-a-like contests.
The promotions cater to twenty- and thirtysomething bowlers, "a new segment of our business that's growing," BPAA Chairman Jim Strum says.
Sell-iot: Eliot Spitzer may be out of his New York governor's job after being linked to a prostitution ring. But some see it as a marketing opportunity.
E-Bay sellers are hawking "Client 9" buttons and T-shirts that refer to Spitzer's identification as "Client 9" in legal documents.
Zazzle.com, also selling T-shirts, bought "Spitzer" as a Google key word to drive buyers to its site.
Georgia minor league baseball team the Macon Music has deemed June 13 "Eliot Spitzer Night" with incentives that include: a buck off admission for New Yorkers and any fan named Eliot, Spitzer or Kristen (the woman Spitzer is alleged to have met). Prizes for the ninth fan admitted. A gift certificate to the team for the 871st fan (for hotel room 871, named as the location of the tryst). 

Graphic

 
PHOTO, B/W, VH1

Load-Date: March 17, 2008


End of Document
