




 Creative Review
February 2003


Copyright 2003 Gale Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved
Business and Industry
Section: Pg. 12; Vol. 23; No. 2; ISSN: 0262-1037
Length: 815 words
Body


1. PET SHOP BOYS PROMO BY MARTIN PARR
Following previous efforts by Wolfgang Tillmans and Bruce Weber, Pet Shop Boys and Parlophone have commissioned photographer Martin Parr to direct the promo for new track, London. The song's lyric "We were in London, tell it like it is" no doubt had great bearing on the decision to recruit Parr, the photographer having built a career out of documenting everyday life in Britain. His incisive eye brings the viewer some vintage London moments: kitten adorned placemats sauce-laden chips in greasy spoons and cigarette packets floating in rain-filled gutters abound. The Pet Shop Boys also appear, busking in various London locations: "We chose the Millennium Bridge. then went to Peckham, Elephant & Castle... down at heel, shabby London," explains Parr. "It's about showing real London as opposed to the usual glitz. This, to me, is what London's all about the details." Production company on the promo was Mosaic.
2 JOHNNIE WALKER SPOT BY DANIEL KLEINMAN
Daniel Kleinman has shot a Darwinian new spot for Whisky brand Johnnie Walker through agency BBH. Mostly shot underwater it features naked men and women swimming, fish-like beneath the surface of an ocean. They form a shoal, occasionally leaping out of the water like dolphins, until they reach land, where one swimmer then strides out of the sea. Art director Neil Dawson explains the concept, "The end-line Keep Walking is already established and is about progress, The idea of evolution, and man emerging, walking from the sea, seemed to embody that Perfectly " Copywriter: Clive Pickering.
3 GREENPEACE VIRAL FROM THEINDUSTRY
David Bryant, of Passion & Partners has written and developed a 60-second ad for Greenpeace UK through his viral agency  Created for cinema and viral distribution, it features a post-apocalyptic World where animals are genetically mutated and mankind demoted to caveman-like status. Hand-held footage cut with disturbing CG-animated creatures aims to highlight the dangers associated with nuclear Power and radioactive waste. Directed by John Williams and David Lea of Passion Films, Bryant's film took five months to complete on a shoe-string budget. "It's a surrealist vision of our nuclear future," explains Williams. The work of David Attenborough was cited as a big influence.
4 LACQUER PROMO BY OLIVIER "TWIST" GONDRY
Olivier "Twist" Gondry, brother of star director, Michel, has made his first solo promo. The video is for French dance act Lacquer's debut single, Behind, Shot from a back seat vantage point, it documents a road trip in a sports car from Los Angeles to New York. The whole journey took eight days and seven nights to film but lasts under four minutes in the video. Despite Gondry's skill with post-production techniques (having Worked on many of Michel's promos) no Special effects are used "just editing and speeded-up footage," says Gondry. Of the concept he explains: "When I lived in Los Angeles with my girlfriend this was a trip we wanted to make but never got the chance." Production company: Partizan Midi-Minuit, Paris. Record label: Vorston & Limantell.
5 THE ONE ACCOUNT CAMPAIGN BY TBWA
The stars and set of cult 70s kids programme Hector's House have been lovingly re-created in a branding campaign for The One Account (formerly Virgin One). The ads, by Frazer Jelleyman and Alasdair Graham of TBWA, London feature hapless Hector bemoaning missing out on the benefits of The One Account. "A lot of information you get in financial ads tends to be very dry or boring, so it's just nice to have a vehicle that makes that information entertaining" comments Jelleyman. Asylum (See p20) were brought in to build the puppets:" We wanted to make it as true to the original version as possible, so we got early blueprints for the sets and puppets to make it authentic," adds Jelleyman. Each spot includes variations of Hector's trademark catchphrase resulting in one-liners such as: "I'm a great big skint old Hector, not to save money on my mortgage with the The One Account." Director: Daniel Kleinman, Spectre.
6 SAFEX COMMERCIAL FROM FAULDS
The real-life experiences of Faulds' Guy Moore came in handy when writing this script for condom brand Safex. It features a man in a doctor's surgery, asking his GP about getting a vasectomy. The doctor subsequently takes the poor chap through a cringe-inducing description of the procedure: "We will make an incision into each side of the scrotum... We will then pull out the tubes" and So on, all the While gesticulating nonchalantly with a sharp-looking letter opener as the patient becomes more and more concerned. The endline points out that all this pain can be avoided if you just wear a condom instead. Moore wrote the ad with partner Tony Malcolm. Director: Terence Stevens-prior at MustardCopyright 2003 Centaur Communications LtdCopyright 2003 Centaur Communications Ltd776

Load-Date: January 31, 2005


End of Document
