




Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
January 2, 2023 Monday 4:46 AM EST


Copyright 2023 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 668 words
Byline: Catherine Armecin
Body


Jan 02, 2023( International Business Times News: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 KEY POINTS 
 Andy Cohen asked Nick Cannon about an "endgame" when it comes to having more children Cannon said he loves having many children and doesn't have a plan when it comes to expanding his brood Cannon recently welcomed his 12th child, a daughter with model Alyssa Scott For more breaking global news visit IBTimes.com[1] 
Family planning is not on Nick Cannon's mind. 
During CNN's broadcast of "New Year's Eve Live[2]" in Time Square, Andy Cohen asked the "Masked Singer" host about an "endgame" when it comes to having more kids, joking that the father of 12 appears to be "single-handedly repopulating the Earth." Cannon welcomed his youngest child with model Alyssa Scott on Dec. 14. 
"What is your plan?" Cohen asked Cannon, People[3] reported. 
"Clearly, I don't have a plan," Cannon replied. "Honestly man, it's just so much joy and elation that I have, the family that I have, and I embrace it. I love it, and I don't have a plan. That should have been clear from the jump." 
Cohen, who was hosting the live show with CNN's Anderson Cooper, then asked if he was open to a vasectomy. 
"Is that what you want me to get?" the "Gigolo" singer said. "It's my body, my choice." 
As for his advice for new fathers, Cannon said, "Just operate out of love. I mean some people may say that's what got us here in the first place, but that's what I would always do, and always do it with a smile." 
The conversation eventually turned to New Year's resolutions. When Mariah Carey's ex-husband was asked about his goals for 2023, he doubled down on his previous statement, saying he doesn't make any. 
"Like I said, I'm just so happy for health, and want to continue to be as healthy and filled with as much gratitude as possible for the next year," Cannon told the hosts. 
Cannon welcomed his 12th child, daughter Halo Marie Cannon, with Scott last month. The arrival of Halo came a year after the death of the pair's son Zen, who died at 5 months old as a result of brain cancer. 
"December 14, 2022. Our lives are forever changed," Scott wrote on Instagram[4] alongside a video documenting her pregnancy and delivery. "Zen is in every breath I take. I know his spirit was with us in the room that morning. I know he is watching down on us. He shows me signs every day. I will hold onto this memory forever." 
She added, "I will remember the sound of Nick's voice saying 'it's a girl' and the look of everything we've been through flash across his face. I will remember the sound of her crying out with her first breath and feeling her heartbeat against mine. My sweet girl, I got my surprise!! We love you, Halo Marie Cannon!" 
Cannon welcomed three other children in 2022. In September, Onyx Ice Cole Cannon, a daughter with former "Price is Right" model LaNisha Cole, arrived. Nine days later, Rise Messiah Cannon, his daughter with model Brittany Bell, was born. In November, he and Abby De La Rosa announced the birth of their daughter, Beautiful Zeppelin Cannon. 
Cannon previously said on the Paramount+ show "The Checkup with Dr. David Agus" that he felt guilty about not spending enough time with all of his children. 
"Being a father of multiple kids, it's always the biggest guilt on me is that I don't get to spend enough time with all my children, one 'cause I'm constantly working and two because I'm just spread thin," he said[5]. 
 [ 1]:  [ 2]:  [ 3]:  [ 4]:  [ 5]:  


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: January 2, 2023


End of Document
