




College Heights Herald: Western Kentucky University
July 31, 2019 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2019 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 411 words
Body


Nikki Sixx and Courtney Bingham have welcomed a baby girl.
The 60-year-old rocker's 33-year-old model wife gave birth to Ruby, their first child together, on Saturday (07.27.19) and Nikki - who already has four children - is completely smitten.
He posted on Instagram: "Saturday night my wife Courtney and I welcomed into our world and family a very beautiful baby girl named Ruby Sixx. A spunky little girl with a full head of hair making her the 5th Sixx joining her two sisters and two brothers.Fatherhood has been the greatest joy in my life.....and @how2girl is a real natural as a mom. I would like to thank our family and friends for all the love and support ( and flowers ). We are already sleep training her with a metronome and I got her a pink bass (sic)."
Courtney wrote: "Our baby girl, Ruby was born Saturday July 27th. I'm so grateful to my Heavenly Father for blessing Nikki and me with the sweetest most angelic child of God. Ruby is more precious and more beautiful than I ever could have imagined. Her special spirit just radiates. The moment our Dr. placed her on top of me after what was an 18 hour labor but a very quick delivery, my heart just melted and I was instantly head over heels in love as my life changed forever in an instant. I never knew this kind of love existed. I am so excited to be a mommy and know Nikki will be the most wonderful daddy ever just as he has been with my four step-children. We are home getting settled and Ruby is doing fantastic. (Leica and Houdini are obsessed with her!) She healthy with a full head of hair (Nikki) and long legs (me) Thank you for all of the love and well wishes during our entire pregnancy. We love you. God is Good! (sic)."
More from this section
Jermaine Pennant credits Celebs Go Dating for saving his married
Season three of 'Big Little Lies'?
Michelle Obama discusses 'cute' husband
Meanwhile, Nikki previously revealed he opted against having his vasectomy reversed in order to conceive his fifth child and instead the Motley Crue rocker chose to undergo an uncomfortable sperm-retrieval procedure before his spouse had artificial insemination in order to get pregnant.
He said: "They just had to take it out of me - that's no party getting your [testicles] cut open.
"Getting your [testicles] cut open is like being in Motley Crue in 1987 [when we partied too hard]. It's the same feeling. But now she's pregnant, and we're super excited."
This article originally ran on celebretainment.com.

Load-Date: July 31, 2019


End of Document
