




Pittsburgh Tribune Review
September 26, 2015 Saturday


Copyright 2015 Tribune Review Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Length: 488 words
Byline: by GEORGE DICKIE
Body


The Bold and the Beautiful 
Brooke urges Ridge to tell Caroline about his vasectomy. Caroline and Thomas spend a tense first day as design partners. Zende is incensed to learn that Thomas kissed Nicole. Caroline is taken aback to learn that Brooke knew something about Ridge that she didn't. Zende asks Nicole on a date, and then they tell Rick about their relationship. Ivy plots to get her job back at Forrester. Thomas suppresses his true feelings when Steffy questions him about working so closely with Caroline. 
Next week: Bill's decision angers Quinn.  
Days of Our Lives 
Armed with new information, Steve goes to find Bo and winds up with an unexpected stowaway. Caroline's declining mental state has Julie and Maggie worried. The arrival of Paige's father infuriates Eve. To prove his love for his family, Steve tells Joey the story about his and Kayla's relationship. Nicole is furious to learn that Theresa's silent investor is Kate. Marlena fights for her life when the killer attacks. Abigail and Chad's close moment angers Ben. Rafe is shocked to learn he had a familial tie to Paige. Justin and Adrienne's date doesn't go as planned. The killer's identity is revealed. Abigail takes a big risk to help Chad. Jennifer says the wrong thing to Clyde. Bo tries to escape from his captors. Andre DiMera returns to help an ailing Stefano. Adrienne receives startling news about her mother's health. Miami cop Lani Price arrives in town and takes an immediate interest in Abe. 
Next week: Justin helps a grieving Eve cope. 
General Hospital 
Jake offers to help Carly and her family during a difficult time.  Tracy fills in Maxie about her history with Paul. Carly and Michael urge Morgan to get help. Sam mourns Jason on their anniversary. An unlikely party has a surprising proposition for Ava. Olivia seeks Tracy's help in bringing Leo home. Elizabeth has to cover for Sonny's mistake. Ric loses his job. Julian is grateful for Alexis' loyalty. Ava seeks Scott's help to get her baby back. Elizabeth and Jake set a wedding date. Alexis appeals to Paul to track down the culprits behind the crime spike in Port Charles.  
Next week: Franco apologizes to Kiki. 
The Young and the Restless 
Adam tells Jack he needs to be careful of any new people because of Paragon. Stitch offers Abby a trip to Europe to meet with important fashion people. Dylan tells Paul he discovered that Colin paid an escort to convince Devon they slept together at his bachelor party. Noah has doubts about Marisa. Gwen confesses to Devon that she is falling for Neil. Chelsea worries about her company being attacked by the Paragon Project. Abby accuses Victoria of sabotaging her at Newman Enterprises. Devon follows a lead in Hilary's disappearance. Dylan reassures Faith that he'll always be there for her. Jack and Ashley lock horns over a transaction at Jabot.  
Next week: Phyllis confides in Ian. 
George Dickie writes for Tribune Media Services. 

Load-Date: September 28, 2015


End of Document
