




The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)
December 3, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 The Columbian Publishing Co. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. Ax
Length: 630 words
Highlight: Resentencing is disgusting
Regarding "Roy Russell resentenced to 26 years in 2005 murder of Chelsea Harrison" (Nov. 19, 2022, The Columbian), I am beyond shocked and angry. I am biased, as the former prosecutor of the murder trial and current attorney for the murdered child's family. But my anger goes out to our lawmakers who allowed this to happen.
Roy Wayne Russell was convicted of armed robbery, theft, kidnapping, perjury, assault, arson and ultimately murder. He was rightfully sentenced to life in prison. However, your Washington lawmakers in 2021 chose to invalidate robbery as a strike offense, leading to his release at a maximum of nine years from now.
Body


Resentencing is disgusting
Regarding "Roy Russell resentenced to 26 years in 2005 murder of Chelsea Harrison" (Nov. 19, 2022, The Columbian), I am beyond shocked and angry. I am biased, as the former prosecutor of the murder trial and current attorney for the murdered child's family. But my anger goes out to our lawmakers who allowed this to happen.
Roy Wayne Russell was convicted of armed robbery, theft, kidnapping, perjury, assault, arson and ultimately murder. He was rightfully sentenced to life in prison. However, your Washington lawmakers in 2021 chose to invalidate robbery as a strike offense, leading to his release at a maximum of nine years from now.
I support reforms that help our offenders, but this is truly the worst legislation I have seen in my 27 years of law. We elect these people to pass laws, and this is what they do? None of the lawmakers would respond to any media inquiries. Either they were ignorant, or they didn't care. Unacceptable.
This is not political. This is inequity. Try explaining this to 14-year-old murder victim Chelsea's family, who in 2006 I told that Roy Wayne Russell would be behind bars for life.
I am disgusted at my elected officials. I hope others are too. This is not right.
Jim Senescu
CAMAS
Cut down on unwanted pregnancies
Recent letters in "Our Readers' Views" have discussed topics such as female responsibility for pregnancy, male vasectomies at puberty, and various government controls. While I am against government involvement, I would concur with Cal Stone's Nov. 25 letter and encourage females of all ages to only date males who can prove they have had a vasectomy. (Medical doctors to provide proof on request?)
Hopefully, this "dating requirement" by females, along with vasectomy reversal operations, will result in fewer unwanted pregnancies, and fewer abortions.
Guidelines for parental sex education discussions, and school curriculums, will need adjustment.
Ralph C. Edwards
Vancouver
Kent lost; time to march on
In the recount case, Mr. Joe Kent seems bent on pursuing to the infinite end, he now has the local reputation of a simple old-fashioned playground bully. We have had years of Trump-MAGA and it would show an element of gentlemanly demeanor if Mr. Kent returned home to quietly manage his family. Enough is enough. Perez won the fight and the ballots have been certified. Let's march on, there are vastly more important issues to resolve.
Morris Foutch
Vancouver
Help keep hummingbirds warm
Hummingbirds stay here all winter long and to feed them, the sugar water must be warm. The feeders must have some form of heat, such as a night light bulb. If not, the birds will try to feed as early as 4 a.m. and because the water will be very cold, they could freeze and die.
Their metabolism slows down at night by going into torpor, similar to hibernation. When they wake up they need the warmth of sugar water as they expend a great deal of energy flying. The Backyard Bird Shop has all the information about hummingbirds and you can build a lighted feeder; just look at "Do It Yourself" online.
June Yamrick
vANCOUVER
Biden is troubling
Having been born, raised, and educated in the Southeast U.S., I grew up in a very conservative atmosphere, and am amazed at the outlandish crude comments still coming toward former President Donald Trump.
Then there's Joe Biden, supported by those who hate Donald Trump. I am troubled with the actions, mental and physical condition of President Biden. Then there is Vice President Kamala Harris, who is just plain unqualified even to read to children. God forbid anything should ever happen to President Biden, requiring that Harris to be president.
Having said all that, I do have the deepest sympathy for those who just can't get Donald J. Trump out of their heads!
Ron Moon
Vancouver

Load-Date: December 3, 2022


End of Document
