




Pittsburgh Tribune Review
October 3, 2015 Saturday


Copyright 2015 Tribune Review Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Length: 474 words
Byline: by GEORGE DICKIE
Body


The Bold and the Beautiful 
Ridge's unexpected news prompts Caroline to see her marriage in a new light. Quinn is upset when Wyatt tells her that Bill rejected the idea of establishing a competing fashion house to Forrester. Bill is blunt in his response when Quinn takes him to task about whether he loves Wyatt. Quinn confronts Liam over his father's favoritism of him. Thomas finds a way to get over his broken heart. Ridge tells Brooke he confessed to Caroline about his vasectomy. Fearful of Quinn, Liam turns to his half-brother, Wyatt. Steffy confronts Thomas regarding his bad attitude toward their father, Ridge. Ridge apologizes to Caroline and she shares a revelation. 
Next week: Ivy and Steffy plead their cases with Eric.  
Days of Our Lives 
Chad finds a way to prove his innocence. Aiden makes a stunning confession to Hope. Steve's search for Bo heats up. An unexpected discovery unsettles JJ and Jennifer. Justin helps Eve cope with Paige's death. Eve lashes out at Jennifer. Adrienne is tested for the breast cancer gene. Lani seems to know a lot about Abe, which leaves him shaken. Caroline's mental state worsens and she is hospitalized. Kayla and Victor clash over Caroline's treatment. Aiden is in deep debt to Stefano. Eduardo makes a bold move in helping the police find Chad. Brady reaches out to a distraught Theresa. Chad reluctantly seeks Stefano's help. 
Next week: Aiden gets revenge against Clyde. 
General Hospital 
Anna confronts Julian about his involvement in Duke's murder. Ava asserts her power at a meeting and gets a warning from Michael. Carly receives terrifying news. Sam finally lets go of Jason. Nikolas and Hayden talk about trust and their history. Morgan and Michael promise Sonny they won't interfere in Sonny's business. Maxie alleviates Nathan's concerns about her role in Dillon's movie. Valerie comforts Dante and shares confidences with Dillon. Paul seeks information about Anna from Nathan. Anna proposes a business venture to Sam. Dillon makes a confession to Maxie. Ava confronts Carly. Nina seeks a fresh start. Franco apologizes to Kiki for not being there for her after Silas' murder.   
Next week: Laura pleads with Elizabeth. 
The Young and the Restless 
Lauren and Michael agree he should move back home. Noah confronts Marisa about her past. Mariah and Kevin admit their mutual attraction. Devon and Lily wonder why Neil is hesitant to get involved with Gwen. Dylan asks Kevin to use his computer skills to help find Hilary. Sharon encounters someone from her past. Ashley puts Billy in charge of Jabot while she is away. Jack tells Victor that the Abbotts are not involved with the Paragon Project. Phyllis confides in Ian about the negative effect of the Paragon Project on the Newmans and Abbotts. 
Next week: Paul visits Sharon and Patty. 
George Dickie writes for Tribune Media Services. 

Load-Date: October 5, 2015


End of Document
