




Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)
January 26, 2016 Tuesday


Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.
Length: 437 words
Body


TO A STANDSTILL
Winter weather forced postponement of the Jazz's game at Washington last Saturday. In New York, the governor ordered a cease of all traffic, including planes, trains, buses and automobiles.
Still no word on who ordered the Jazz's shutdown in overtime against the Knicks.
DIFFERENT STROKES
National newscasters, in Philadelphia to cover Winter Storm Jonas, were pelted with snowballs.
Residents say it was a nice change of pace from throwing beer cups and water bottles at the Phillies' games.
REDUCED SENTENCE
A Jazz fan was ejected from Vivint Arena for shining a laser light at Houston's James Harden earlier this month. The fan was also banned from games for a year.
The good news is he avoided the greater punishment of being forced to watch the Spurs beat the Jazz by 24 in San Antonio.
FROM THE TOP
The Cleveland Cavaliers fired coach David Blatt, despite having the best record in the Eastern Conference.
A news release said LeBron James was not consulted.
Maybe that's because James made the call in the first place.
DESIGNER BRAND
Shortly after being hired, Virginia football coach Bronco Mendenhall told the Washington Post he spent 500 hours "in organizational design and behavior," preparing a BYU-centric program "and this program will be designed specific for the University of Virginia."
Get ready for uniforms that say "Life," "Liberty" and "Pursuit of Happiness."
FATHER OF NATIONS
Regina (Sas.) Leader Post writer Ian Hamilton, on New York defensive back Antonio Cromartie expecting twins, despite having fathered 10 kids and having had a vasectomy: "So much for him being a shutdown corner."
A PAST FORGOTTEN
Certain psychotherapists claim they can aid patients by helping them recover "repressed memories."
Which means referee Dick Bavetta is never going to live down those missed calls in the 1998 NBA Finals.
DISHING IT
The NHL Fan Fair, in conjunction with this year's All-Star Game, will include a "cascading fountain" of Velveeta. In addition, the Oscar Meyer Weinermobile and Mr. Peanut will be on hand.
As long as they've gone this far, why not fill the NBCSN satellite dish with nacho chips and be done with it?
A LIVE UPDATE
Rootmetrics.com has rated every NFL stadium according to wireless accessibility. Ranking best is the 49ers' Levi's Stadium. Coming in last is Detroit's Ford Field.
That's where fans get their updates by shouting, "Hey, anyone got a score on the Bears-Packers game?"
THE GOLDEN YEARS
TBS's Conan O'Brien, on theories of a universe in which time moves backward: "So finally, some good news for Laker fans."
Email: 
Twitter: therockmonster
Blog: Rockmonster Unplugged

Load-Date: January 26, 2016


End of Document
