




The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)
July 9, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 The Columbian Publishing Co. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. Ax
Length: 642 words
Highlight: Homeless are our neighbors
The June 24 letter "Where do homeless come from?" asks Council for the Homeless to gather data on where people without homes in Clark County lived before they experienced homelessness in our community.
This question is asked and the data is available at . There is an interactive Clark County map of ZIP codes countywide with additional data. There is also a list of other states and the percentages of people who came from those states.
Body


Homeless are our neighbors
The June 24 letter "Where do homeless come from?" asks Council for the Homeless to gather data on where people without homes in Clark County lived before they experienced homelessness in our community.
This question is asked and the data is available at . There is an interactive Clark County map of ZIP codes countywide with additional data. There is also a list of other states and the percentages of people who came from those states.
In 2021, 83.9 percent of people who touched the homeless service system in Clark County reported a last previously housed ZIP code from within Washington; 75.4 percent reported a ZIP code within Clark County and 68.2 percent of people reported a last ZIP code within Vancouver.
Most often, people seek services and want a home in the community in which they come from for reasons including this is where they grew up, where they have friends and family, where they have jobs and where they go to school. A common myth about the unhoused is that the majority come to Clark County from somewhere else. The reality is, they have been, and still are, our neighbors.
Dale Whitley
Homeless Management Information Systems Administrator
Council for the Homeless
Vancouver
Support Hinojosa for council
Hector Hinojosa has our votes for Clark County Council Position 1.
Hector has decades of expertise troubleshooting problems in our community by working with stakeholders to build collaborative solutions. As an engineer, Hector thinks systematically and logically. Maybe more importantly, he's a quiet, respectful community leader who listens and then works together to find solutions and get things done.
Hector runs a popular Vancouver Farmers Market food business; founded Community Roots Collaborative (building tiny homes for the houseless); and founded Stone Soup Communities (sharing food with hungry people).
Hector has our votes, and we hope he has your vote too!
Debbie and Greg Nelson
Vancouver
Hold men responsible
Valerie Atwood and Daphne Kivinen ("Ways to avoid pregnancy" and "Responsibility is the key," Our Readers' Views, June 28) take the stance that women are responsible for their pregnancies and should use birth control or get themselves fixed. The Dobbs decision also threatens all contraceptive methods except for abstinence. But, more importantly, why should women be the only ones taking responsibility?
As I recall, from high school sex ed classes (back in the '60s), it takes two to procreate - women don't become pregnant on their own. Men need to step up and take responsibility for their sexual activities and society needs to confront the lopsided application of punishment for women's sexual activities. If you want to end abortion, mandate male vasectomies at puberty - vasectomies can be reversed, whereas contraceptive methods can also be harmful to women and occasionally fail anyway. If men want children, they must provide a signed and witnessed agreement from their female partner to reverse the procedure for a specified length of time, after which the vasectomy is again performed.
Women have carried the entire burden of pregnancy in Western society for millennia. Men need to pick up their share of the burden of procreation.
Linda Wallers
Vancouver
Support Cheney for Legislature
The only clear choice in the upcoming primary election for state representative in the 18th District, Position 2, is Greg Cheney. His two Republican opponents - one a carpetbagger who doesn't live in the 18th but feels compelled to stretch the letter of the residency law - and the other who is running solely on his family name, are both very poor choices.
Greg Cheney is a young, sharp attorney with impeccable credentials and high moral standards. The right choice in the 18th District Position 2 is Greg Cheney.
Larry Hoff
Vancouver

Load-Date: July 9, 2022


End of Document
