




Chicago Daily Herald
February 17, 2000, Thursday, DuPage


Copyright 2000 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: News;; Fence Post;
Length: 1621 words
Body


Unfair phone surcharge
Have you noticed on your Ameritech monthly telephone statement that since April 1999, Ameritech is assessing a number portability surcharge (more commonly known as LNP, local number portability) surcharge? The reason for this surcharge is that in the event you choose to switch local carriers, you have the privilege of keeping your current number. The monthly charge (initially 41 cents but recently reduced to 28 cents by the FCC) will continue for five years for a total assessment of $ 16.80. Admittedly, it's not a lot of money but that does not make the charge any less inappropriate.
Due to the fact that we have to pay the surcharge whether or not we elect to change carriers and keep our current number, the surcharge is discriminatory against Ameritech's most loyal customers who will not be changing local carriers or those who don't keep their current number when changing.
Last year, I contacted Ameritech to protest this discriminatory LNP surcharge. It took three letters and two voice mails over a period of months before Ameritech would even allow me the common courtesy of a reply. During the only phone conversation I had with Ameritech, a representative stated the LNP surcharge could not be eliminated because it was "mandated" by the FCC. When I reminded him that the FCC merely gave Ameritech permission to institute the surcharge, he danced around the subject. Is this the same company that has the slogan: "In a world of technology, people make the difference?" Can't be!
Also during that conversation, I made a counterproposal: If a customer chooses to change his or her local carrier and decides to keep the current number, only then would that customer pay the $ 16.80. You can guess where that went.
The best way to protest this charge is to contact the FCC in Washington. Visit the FCC Web site: . Complete Consumer Complaint Form No. 475 on the Internet, or print the form, fill it in and mail. If you do not have access to the Internet, you can send a letter to Federal Communications Commission, Common Carrier Bureau, Consumer Complaints, Mail Stop 1600A2, Washington, D.C. 20554. Refer to FCC form No. 475.
Perhaps if enough of us address this issue, Ameritech will act in our favor (or change its slogan).
Dick Hartop
Wheaton
Defining marriage
I recently read a letter to the editor in the Daily Herald titled "Undermining the family" in the Monday, Jan. 3, issue. Matt C. Abbott from Chicago addressed valid arguments concerning why same sex marriages should not be legal, such as his personal, religious beliefs against gay marriage as well as the idea that this type of marriage lacks traditional family units.
However, his final statement was rather harsh - a sarcastic predicament that a court ruling to unite man and baboon might follow the legalization of same sex unions. The ignorance of this argument made me contemplate the validity of his previous arguments, specifically the one addressing child rearing as being a symbol of a legal marriage.
The issue of procreation that Abbott raises is a typical argument often raised by individuals who are opposed to same sex marriage. They believe that possessing the ability to procreate defines a legal marriage. These individuals have my support in the idea that procreation among homosexuals is impossible because this act does defy the natural laws of nature. But the fact that it is unnatural does not make it wrong. Furthermore, the natural law has nothing to do with the marital law. Their misguided definition of marriage raises my concern.
The sections of the marriage vows are easily comprehensible: "In sickness and in health, for richer for poorer, for better for worse, till death us do part," and unclear as to why some individuals see a mention of procreation within the bond. But the idea of procreation legalizing a marriage bond is an interesting idea to consider.
If marriage vows did include such requirements, then the criticism would not be geared strictly at homosexuals. Richard D. Mohr emphasizes in his book "A More Perfect Union" that every state in America unites individuals over the age of 60 even though such marriages would be sterile. Furthermore, couples who wish to adopt children, possibly as a result of inability to procreate, would also be told that their marriage is not legal.
The ostracism would not stop there. Men who wish to have vasectomies and women taking birth control pills or undergoing tubal ligations or hysterectomies for the sole intention of stopping procreation would also find themselves defying the marital bond. In fact, it would seem that these individuals, who go out of their way not to bear children (and not to mention interfere with the natural law) could receive more criticism than homosexuals who simply cannot bear children.
Fortunately, for the sake of individuals that would be affected (provided this definition were true), procreation uniting couples is an inaccurate definition of marriage. If individuals like Abbott are going to argue against same sex marriages, they should at least choose an accurate argument. Because when overall ideas are misguided, the direction of their intended effects become misguided as well.
Josette Lebensorger
Naperville
Harmful development
This letter is written in concern for rezoning the property in which Home Depot wishes to build on, which is 14.6 acres located west of County Farm Road, north of Roosevelt Road and across the street from Shaffner Road.
This land is not appropriate for development regardless if it is in Wheaton and/or Winfield. The land is considered flood plain because of Winfield Creek that runs through the surrounding properties and its well-known flooding problems. Storm water is a big concern for the many residents who live in close proximity of the proposed project and who have experienced flood disasters before without commercial properties dumping their share of water into the creek.
Has anyone thought of the impact that it is going to make for traffic on Manchester Road and other surrounding side streets? There is Monroe Middle School on Manchester Road and St. Francis High School on Roosevelt Road. Is there any concern for the children that attend these schools and their safety? People will look for ways to avoid additional traffic lights.
Often, wheelchairs from the convalescent center will travel Manchester Road in nice weather, as well as bicyclists and pedestrians, including children. Parts of Manchester Road and many side streets are not equipped with sidewalks. Are any of you concerned of the possible fatalities that could occur because of increased traffic? There is no consideration of public safety.
This does not just effect County Farm and Roosevelt roads, it effects many of the surrounding residential streets and the adults and children who live on them.
We also have to take into consideration the potential of crime happening in an area that has been considered residential long before Home Depot brought its proposal forward.
It is our hope that the public will realize before it's too late what is going to happen in our residential areas and express their opposition to such proposals. Please let your opposition be known on or by Tuesday, March 7, which is the date for the next Wheaton Plan Commission meeting at 7:30 p.m.
John and Marcia Shipkowski
Winfield
Say no to Meijer
Just about three years ago, we in Bloomingdale voted to take the chance and buy the golf course, incurring a $ 15 million debt to protect us from the congestion of trucks and traffic in our village, which would have been caused by a corporate or retail purchase of that property.
Now what is the difference? With the Meijer proposal, we are faced with at least 8,000 cars, plus delivery trucks per day. With homes to the west, apartments across the street and Pasquinellas Phase 1 and 2 approximately 200 yards to the north, here's an idea: build homes in that area and complete what has been started with residential development.
This store will be open 24 hours a day.
This store will hurt our current businesses (which have been paying high rents for 20 years or more.)
This company states that after 12 to 18 months, regular competition will take over. In these days of downsizing, how many businesses can survive this? How many will leave? With high overhead and new competition, a 2-5 percent loss will cause damage. What will be our gain? The store is a threat to all our current merchants.
Chicago is a meat grinder for retailers. Those that have moved out or gone out of business include the Fair, Bonson Wiebolt, Goldblatts, Shoppers World, Zayre, Korvette, Grants, Robert Hall and many more. Plus Kroger, A&P, Kohls (food market) and Eagle, which is almost out. Again, what is the gain? If they close we have more unrented space. We currently have enough closed, unrented space.
With 45 years of retail management experience, I can tell you that even shoplifters, at least 15 per week, must be handled. More crime! Also, 15 pickups per week will require additional police officers.
As to the question, what if they go to another village and we lose the income? Ask yourself and your friends how often they go to Sam's, Omni (closed), Cub Foods and Big Kmart. All are out of town (no worries at all.) We have everything we need in Bloomingdale now.
Go to the next planning meeting on Feb. 29 and let them know you don't want the store, the 8,000 cars and that you don't want to lose our current merchants.
They should put this question to referendum in November so we can show the board what we "don't want." We have home rule. If our sales tax drops, the village can put in any tax it wants to maintain our regular services.
Ray Friscia
Bloomingdale
Former Village Trustee

Load-Date: February 25, 2000


End of Document
