




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
March 19, 2012 Monday


Copyright 2012 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: A; Pg. 4
Length: 540 words
Byline: the TH Editorial Board
Body


where we stand Though their political views are usually at opposite ends, Iowa's U.S. senators are working together on legislation to fight age discrimination.
Since 1985, Iowans have been represented in the U.S. Senate by both Tom Harkin and Charles Grassley. Not only do they come from opposing political parties, their views skew toward the outer ranges of the liberal and conservative ends of the spectrum. How Iowans keep re-electing men with such divergent positions is a political curiosity.
Thus, it is particularly noteworthy when Harkin (first elected in 1984) and Grassley (1980) find themselves in such agreement on an issue that they share co-sponsorship of the Protecting Older Workers Against Discrimination Act.
The measure is a response to a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that made it more difficult for an older worker to claim age discrimination. Joining Harkin (age 72) and Grassley (78) as co-sponsor is Patrick Leahy, the 71-year-old Democrat from Vermont.
They want to make the burden of proof under the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act the same as for cases alleging discrimination on race, sex, national origin or religion.
It's hard to know this early how their legislation will fare in Congress, but it's nice to see Iowa's senators in synch on an issue now and then.
We'll warn you that this item is rated V - but not because of violence.
A trend involving college basketball's postseason tournaments, commonly known as March Madness, has emerged in the news media. Turns out that some urologists are noting that many patients are careful in scheduling their vasectomies. Recovery from the procedure involves sitting around for a day or two and strategically positioning some ice packs.
Well, what better time to spend quiet time on the couch than during March Madness?
The chairman of the Cleveland Clinic's regional urology told Georgea Kovanis, of The Detroit Free Press, that a few years ago he started noticing that vasectomies increased up to 50 percent during the NCAA tournament, where early-round games run morning, noon and night.
What some guys won't due to get their basketball fix.
It's a sign of the times, and a sign of how quickly things can change in the digital world.
Encyclopaedia Britannica, the massive repository of information output in book form for more than 240 years, will stop printing books. It's all digital from now on.
In a recent span of a half-dozen years (1990-96), Encyclopaedia Britannica Inc. fell from record profits to bankruptcy. Its executives said they had known for a long time that their printed volume (available for $1,395) was on the way out.
"This has nothing to do with Wikipedia or Google," Jorge Cauz, Britannica's president, said of the decision. "This has to do with the fact that now Britannica sells its digital products to a large number of people."
Well, maybe. Britannica's extensively researched and verified information has solid value. But if all you are needing is Madonna's birthdate, the capital of New York or who won the 1997 World Series (and are willing to risk an error), a free search engine will suffice.
By the way, the answers are Aug. 16, 1958; Albany; and Florida Marlins.
Editorials reflect the consensus of the Telegraph Herald Editorial Board.

Load-Date: April 1, 2012


End of Document
