




Journal Record Legislative Report (Oklahoma City, OK)
October 28, 2005 Friday


Copyright 2005 Dolan Media Newswires     All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; General news
Length: 837 words
Byline: Jeff Packham
Body


An Oklahoma City-based conservative think tank Thursday gave legislators a list of 25 entities that could be reduced, eliminated or consolidated through fiscal changes under proposed Taxpayer's Bill of Rights (TABOR) legislation.
The Oklahoma Council on Public Affairs suggested to members of the state House Government Reform and Agency Oversight Committee that at least five state agencies could be completely eliminated, while another nine could rely solely on private industry funding.
Steve Anderson, senior fellow for OCPA, said the state could discontinue the operations at the Oklahoma School of Science and Math, Arts Council, Indian Affairs Commission, Physician Manpower Training Commission, and Oklahoma Space Industry Development Authority.
Anderson said duties performed by OSSM, Arts Council, and OSIDA could be carried on by private industry if desired, while legislators were encouraged to move PMTC functions to the state Medicaid program in an effort to increase the reimbursement rate for rural hospitals. Anderson said tribal governments could take over the functions of the Indian Affairs Commission, and state Rep. Ray Young, R-Yukon, suggested this could be handled by the governor's office.
Based on fiscal year 2006 figures, elimination of these agencies would free up an estimated $17.4 million in state expenditures, although Anderson said the $5.3 million in state funding for PMTC could be diverted to the Oklahoma Health Care Authority.
Among those named as best being served through consolidation with another agency were the Merit Protection Commission, Oklahoma Commission on Children and Youth, Scenic Rivers Commission, Office of Handicapped Concerns, Human Rights Commission, Commissioners of the Land Office, Department of Mines, Oklahoma Commission for Teacher Preparation, and the Employees Benefits Council. The watershed program - responsible for 19 percent of agency operations - at the Oklahoma Conservation Commission was proposed for a transfer to the Department of Environmental Quality.
Anderson said many of these agencies were either duplicative in their duties or could be served equally as well at another agency. He gave the example of EBC as functioning just as well as being part of the Oklahoma State and Education Employees Group Insurance Board, given that both work in the area of health insurance for public employees.
Dana Webb, director of legislative affairs for EBC, said EBC differed from OSEEGIB in that the council had flexible spending accounts and the state wellness program, but she said otherwise the functions of the two entities were similar. She said OSEEGIB provides health insurance coverage services for 230,000 public employees while EBC was responsible for providing benefits to an estimated 36,000 state employees.
"There are many duplicative functions," Webb said.
Although she said she wasn't advocating a consolidation of the two entities, Webb said the state could save a minimum of $1.5 million. She said OSEEGIB could either perform the functions through a lower percentage of the health care premium or through the normal duties of the office.
Anderson suggested maintaining nine of the agencies but funding them entirely through various industries. Among those agencies were the Oklahoma Insurance Department, CompSource, J.M. Davis Memorial Commission, Will Rogers Commission, Horse Racing Commission, Consumer Credit Commission, Secretary of State, Council on Judicial Complaints and Oklahoma Education Television Authority.
With OETA having to be funded $23.7 million for federally required digital conversion in addition to the FY06 state appropriation of $4.6 million, Anderson said the assets of the public television station should be handed over to the foundation that oversees the private donations. He said government shouldn't be responsible for the public viewing of television.
"I think it would be up to the people that wish to support it," Anderson said of the ability of the station to continue without state funding.
Anderson said two other agencies could continue receiving state funding but with some reductions. He suggested reducing the number of conservation districts at the Conservation Commission from 88 to 77, while revenues generated from recent fee increases should lead to a reduction in the state appropriation given to the Ethics Commission.
Brandon Dutcher, vice president for public policy at OCPA, said the goal of the OCPA budget proposals was to limit the growth of government. He said taxpayer money was better spent by the people than by government officials wining and dining Communist party leaders, public officials providing condoms and vasectomies, and state employees purchasing $100 car washes.
Young said his interim study proposal was linked to public perception of waste in government. Chairman John Wright, R-Broken Arrow, said with TABOR being discussed in Oklahoma, it was appropriate to at least be aware of potential areas that could be reduced if the state were required to cut government spending.

Load-Date: October 28, 2005


End of Document
