




Newstex Blogs 
Newsbusters.org
May 24, 2022 Tuesday 9:06 PM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 593 words
Byline: John Simmons
Body


May 24, 2022( Newsbusters.org: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 Abortions in Oklahoma were almost completely wiped out thanks toHouse Bill 4327[1], a bill that will only allow abortions if the child is a product of rape or incest (and confirmed by law enforcement) and if the pregnancy threatens the life of the mother. 
However, before the bill was signed on Thursday, State Rep. Mickey Dollens (D, Oklahoma City) took the house floor to say that he was touting a bill that he thought would be a better solution than banning abortions. 
Sorry fellas, but it involves you and your ability to produce a baby. 
Dollens thought it would be better to pass a bill that would require all Oklahoman males to get a vasectomy once they reach puberty. 
HB4327 allows people to sue doctors for performing an abortion and defines life at the moment of 'fertilization.' Here's an idea: mandatory vasectomies - if signed into law would be the first Oklahoma statute to control the male reproductive system. No more unwanted pregnancies. pic.twitter.com/UnkJREpogZ[2] 
— Rep. Mickey Dollens (@MickeyDollens) May 19, 2022[3] 
'I would invite you to co-author a bill that I'm considering next year that would mandate that each male, when they reach puberty, get a mandatory vasectomy that's only reversible when they reach the point of financial and emotional stability,' Dollenssaid[4]. 'If you think that's crazy, then I think that maybe you understand how 50% of Oklahomans feel, as well.' Dollens said he plans on drafting the bill next year. 
Yes, that's about as ridiculous as it sounds. But Dollens is just showboating for the base. 
It's all just an emotional outburst a man who may or may not really believe abortion is healthcare and not murder. And by the way, the prolife bill waspassed[5]in a whopping 73-16 vote, which shows much stronger support than Dollens would let on. 
 [ 1]: https://www.pbs .org/newshour/nation/oklahoma-approves-the-nations-most-restrictive-abortion-ban [ 2]:  [ 3]:  [ 4]:  [ 5]:  
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: May 24, 2022


End of Document
