




University Wire
January 22, 2003, Wednesday


Copyright 2003 Daily O'Collegian via U-Wire
Length: 629 words
Byline: By Bethany Krottinger, Daily O'Collegian
Dateline: Stillwater, Okla.
Body


Editor's Note: This is the second in a four-part sexual health series.
Last semester changed one Oklahoma State University student's life forever when she gave birth to her daughter Oct. 27. Prioritizing her baby over her school work was the biggest challenge.
"Before I had a baby, I was involved in my college," said Emily Boozer, interior design senior. "Once you have a baby, they take priority over your school work and it's different from just being involved on campus."
Oklahoma State U.
Boozer, 22, said before she had a baby sitter, she had to bring her baby to class when she was sleeping all the time.
"It's hard to find someone that you can trust," Boozer said. "I did not want to send my child to a day care and I did not want her exposed to all the illnesses."
Because mostly girls were in her classes, they were always happy to see the baby, Boozer said.
"Nobody gave me a negative response and in most of my classes, my teachers were very accepting." In 2002, mothers between the ages of 18 and 23 gave birth to 256 newborns at the Stillwater Medical Center, said Shyla Eggers, director of public relations. That is 32 percent of the 792 births at the medical center last year.
If a woman suspects she is pregnant, she can get a pregnancy test at the University Health Center and will be given options if tests confirm pregnancy. "We provide counseling and direct one-on-one counseling for the patient," said VonDa Moore, University Health Center registered nurse.
Because the health center does not have an obstetrics program, students who discover their pregnancies at the center will be referred to a specialist, Moore said. However, students who want to learn more about birth control options and pregnancy can visit the health center any time.
"A lot of girls do not have the information they need to make an educated decision," said Becky George, University Health Center registered nurse. "She can expect to see a doctor first, whether the test is negative or positive. She will talk to the doctor again for options."
The health center offers many birth control methods including the pill, injections and condoms. "Oral contraception is probably the number one birth control method that I see here at the clinic," George said. "If you do not take the pill as directed, you risk pregnancy."
Depo-Provera is the injection that does not contain estrogen and the injections are given every three months. However, the injection, like the pill, does have side effects and consulting a physician about those effects is encouraged.
"If they are going to be taking Depo, we would encourage a well-rounded diet that's rich in calcium or make sure they are taking a calcium supplement," George said. The patch known as Ortho Evra and the NUVA Ring are the newest birth control methods used today that contain hormones. The patch is applied on the shoulder, hip or abdomen once a week for three weeks each month, George said. The NUVA Ring is inserted in the cervix and used once a month for three weeks. For those who do not want to use a hormonal birth control method, the condom and diaphragm are offered at the health center.
"If you are just going to use condoms, make sure you use them always, and condoms are even more effective with spermicide," George said. A diaphragm covers the cervix and keeps the sperm from getting to the egg, she said. The device can be inserted six to eight hours before sex.
For a permanent birth control option, George said women can undergo a tubal ligation to close the fallopian tubes and men can have a vasectomy to cut the tubes that carry the sperm to the penis. "Abstinence is also the one birth control that can prevent sexually transmitted diseases," she said.
(C) 2002 Daily O'Collegian via U-WIRE

Load-Date: January 22, 2003


End of Document
