




Portland Press Herald (Maine)
June 29, 2010 Tuesday
FINAL Edition


Copyright 2010 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: BUSINESS; Pg. C7; On the Move
Length: 624 words
Byline: --
Body


NEW FACES
Jennifer Andrews has been named an associate at Woodard & Curran. She is the manager of the firm's 12-member marketing team.
Erika Lloyd has been named an associate at Woodard & Curran. She is a project manager and geologist with more than 10 years of experience in environmental data management and geographic information systems.
Laura Pasquali has been named an associate at Woodard & Curran. She is the firm's accounting manager.
Tedd Gifford, service line manager for Woodard & Curran's electrical instrumentation and controls services, has been named a vice president of the company. He has 30 years of experience in all phases of electrical engineering for the design of commercial, industrial and utility-owned facilities.
Dean Jusseaume has been hired by Weatherization Wizards of Auburn as director of field operations. Jusseaume brings more than 10 years of construction management experience to the company.
Rosie Gavazova has joined Macdonald Page & Co. LLC as a staff accountant in the company's South Portland office. She began her accounting career in 2009 with Baker, Newman & Noyes as a tax intern.
Dr. James Ross has joined the medical staff at Parkview Adventist Medical Center. He has nearly 20 years of experience diagnosing and treating patients with issues ranging from diseases of the urinary tract and urogenital system to procedures involving bladder cancer, erectile dysfunction, incontinence, kidney stones, prostate problems and vasectomies.
Helen Pottle has joined the office of Tat & Howard as a civil engineer. She recently graduated from the University of Maine in Orono and will support the firm's growth in Maine water, wastewater and stormwater consulting engineering.
PROMOTIONS
Todd Robbins of Ram Island Home & Grounds, formerly Ram Island Landscape & Design, has been promoted to manager of the company's ''Ask Todd'' service.
Linda Abernethy has been appointed superintendent of the Dorothea Dix Psychiatric Center in Bangor. She is a seven-year veteran of the center and has been in nursing for more than 40 years.
AWARDS and RECOGNITION
Harriman, a full-service architecture and engineering firm, received a Citation Award from the Maine chapter of the American Institute of Architects for the company's design of 123 Middle St. in Portland.
The Maine Association of Planners presented its Outstanding Planning Achievement of the Year award to the state's Land Use Regulation Commission for its concept plan for the Moosehead Lake region.
The Sagadahoc Region Rural Resource Initiative received the Project of the Year award from the Maine Association of Planners for a conservation blueprint.
Charles ''Tex'' Haeuser, planning director for South Portland, received the Planner of the Year award from the Maine Association of Planners for his successful efforts in changing the Tax Increment Financing law.
Clark Nichols was honored with a plaque on the grounds of the Penobscot Marine Museum in Searsport upon retiring from the museum's board of directors after nearly 40 years of service.
Haven's Candies has been named ''Best Candy Store'' in DownEast Magazine's Reader's Choice Poll.
Marge Hutchings of Better Homes and Gardens Town & Country real estate was named 2010 Realtor of the Year by the Coastal Mountain Council, part of the Mid-Coast Board of Realtors.
GENERAL
Rod Melanson of Newcastle and Chip Newell of Boothbay were elected to the board of trustees of the Friends of Midcoast Maine. Jennifer Merritt, Christopher Glass and Benjamin Long were re-elected to the board.
Justin Lamontagne, associate broker of CBRE/The Boulos Co., has been appointed to the board of directors of the Maine Commercial Association of Realtors and the board of directors of the Portland Community Chamber of Commerce.

Graphic

 
Andrews
Lloyd
Gifford
Abernethy
Robbins
Pottle
Pasquali
Nichols

Load-Date: July 6, 2010


End of Document
