




The Alestle: Southern Illinois University - Edwardsville
January 12, 2017 Thursday


University Wire
Copyright 2017 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 531 words
Byline: Taylor Fleig
Body


Healthcare House Speaker Paul Ryan announced Jan. 5, the Republican party is officially planning to federally defund Planned Parenthood as a part of process they are using early this year to dismantle Obamacare. The government restricting what women do with their bodies is an outrage. Women and men should always have access to affordable health care, and programs that aid in allowing them to make their own choices with their bodies.
According to NPR, currently, over 40 percent of PP's funding is from the government, so PP cannot continue their services at the rate it does primarily on donations alone. Furthermore, the vast majority of federal money PP does receive goes toward preventive health care, birth control, pregnancy tests and other women's health care services.
However, if you are against PP using federal money to pay for services that do not line up with your beliefs, whether they be moral, personal, political or because of religious affiliation, there is more for you to learn.
According to PP, federal funding does not fund abortion services. Rather, federal funding raises money for cancer screenings, pap smears, STD testing and medical check ups. Additionally, access to affordable birth control for the uninsured will in fact prevent unwanted pregnancies, therefore preventing abortions. Even men can get access to prostate, colon and testicular cancer screenings, vasectomies, male infertility screenings, and sexual-health services, among other necessary health treatments. Only 3 percent of PP's recorded services are abortions.
Its health centers focus on prevention: 80 percent of their patients receive services to prevent unintended pregnancy. PP services help prevent approximately 579,000 unintended pregnancies in a single year by providing accessible and affordable birth control. It also provides more than 270,000 pap tests and more than 360,000 breast exams in a single year, critical services in detecting cancer. PP provides more than 4.2 million tests and treatments for sexually transmitted infections, including more than 650,000 HIV tests.
It is disappointing as well as incredibly frustrating for women, Democrats and feminists that our country feels that a woman's right to health care is more of a topic up for political debate rather than a woman's own personal choice.
Our support and donations are now more important than ever for women in need of affordable health care. The fight has officially begun, and people are vowing to work to help PP in any way they can, and urge you to do the same. To contact Paul Ryan personally, you can call him at his office to leave him a message at 608-752-4050. To further show your support for Planned Parenthood, there are several things you can do as well. A few you can do today to support PP's mission:
Follow them on Twitter/Facebook/Instagram to keep updated.
Become a fan of your local Planned Parenthood's Facebook page.
Become a patient in order to become more aware of the services offered. Click here to find a health center close to you.
Donate to help support for the work Planned Parenthood does in your community.
Sign up for Action Alerts for the latest on how to get involved with campaigns.

Load-Date: January 16, 2018


End of Document
