




El Universal (Mexico)
March 25, 2005 Friday


Copyright 2005 NoticiasFinancieras/Groupo de Diarios America All Rights Reserved
Length: 1082 words
Byline: Kelly Arthur Garrett
Body


Depending on how you twist the kaleidoscope, last week's prickly little scrap over the far-right bent of the National Action Party's (PAN) newly installed leadership is either: 1) A garden variety power struggle between party factions more interested in consolidating personal power than promoting any ideology, or: 2) A disturbing indication of the PAN's political priorities for the months leading up to the 2006 national elections.
It may be both, but it's certainly the former. The PAN's history is as riddled with tribal warfare as any party. And the antagonists don't always fall in line neatly according to the far-right and moderate-right labels associated with the part.
Indeed, the main complaint of party members frozen out by the election of Manuel Espino as party president seems to be . . . well, precisely that they've been frozen out. The disaffected tend to define Espino's extremism as more of a divisive leadership style than a wrong turn off the right side of the political map.
PAN federal deputy Germán Martínez, for example, described his party's move to the right as promoting "intolerance, exclusion, repression and vengeance." Undesirable traits, to be sure. And, yes, most often associated with the far right. But in this context, they're not as much political positions as character flaws. An interviewer trying to get an antiEspinista to name a concrete political issue over which he disagrees with Espino won't get much of an answer.
At the same time, there's no doubt that Espino and others in the new PAN leadership are connected with even members of extreme rightwing religious groups. This is where the party's hard right turn becomes more than just an internal PAN problem.
El Yunque is getting most of the attention these days, but Mexico is teeming with other militant and often secretive rightwing Catholic organizations, including Opus Dei, the Legion of Christ, the Knights of Malta, and El Muro. In general, these groups push a fundamentalist Catholicism, want to see the last vestiges of liberation theology eliminated, and have little use for any collective secular effort to solve social problems.
What they're best known for, however, is their list of sexual taboos, which is exhaustive: birth control, condoms, extramarital relations, abortion, morningafter pills, masturbation, homosexuality, in vitro fertilization, even vasectomies. You might notice that these proscriptions coincide with official Church doctrine, and indeed the historian Garry Wills (a practicing Catholic) has pointed out Opus Dei and the Legion of Christ enjoy the current Pope's good graces.
Their missions are obviously different, though. The Pope shepherds the faithful, while the religious radicals promote a domestic political agenda. And their modus operandi for achieving it is, like the man said, intolerant, exclusionary, repressive and vindictive.
It's not unreasonable to assume that the panistas linked to these groups subscribe to the religious-right principles that the groups advocate. After all, one doesn't hook up with El Yunque or Opus Dei for the Friday night bingo games. It's also worth noting that far-right organizations have had a historical, if not dominant, presence in the PAN, which was born as a pro-clerical, pro-business alternative to the secular, corporativist PRI. The difference is that today's PAN wins elections, and the far-right "presence" is now running the show.
Where things go from here is anybody's guess. Mexico is in many ways a conservative country, but it's hardly likely to embrace a presidential candidate running from the far right. Many political observers have pointed this out, and agree with Martínez that if the ultrarightists draft an extremist party platform, Los Pinos will be but a bittersweet memory come December 2006.
Still, you don't need to run as an extremist to insinuate religious-right ideas into a campaign and eventually into a presidency. Cast your eyes northward for a case in point. Bush captured the U.S. presidency in 2000 by milking the religious right's political energy and adopting just enough of its program to keep them happy without alienating non-radical Republicans. But he was careful not to posture himself as one of them. Remember compassionate conservatism?
By the 2004 election, he no longer needed to hide his allegiance to the religious right. Never was a campaign better timed for serious debate about the direction a country was headed in. Instead, it became a contest of moral (read religious) character. And the "values" winner was the candidate who had manipulated a national catastrophe to unleash a pointless war on false premises. Ultimately, Bush's handlers convinced 51 percent of the electorate to do as he does that is, to believe rather than think.
Would the new PAN brain trust try to pull off something similar in the 2006 race? Well, its candidate will have to run on something, and the party's record over the last five years doesn't offer much in the way of pickin's. "Nothing really bad happened" may be accurate, but it won't cut it as a campaign slogan with an impatient electorate that looks around and sees no end in sight to the triumviral reign of poverty, crime and environmental disaster.
So why not inject an oh-sosubtle dose of the religious right's agenda into the campaign? Sound solutions to intractable problems are hard to come by and even harder to explain. But recasting them as moral failings, as our deserved punishment for having lost our "core values" or "spiritual underpinnings" or (insert your favorite religious-right buzzword here) might push enough voters' buttons to make a difference in a close three-way race.
It also offers the supplementary religious-right ploy of setting up strawmen (gays, clones, foul-mouthed rappers) that your party and only your party is in a position to knock down, since it's the only one willing to mix politics with religion. What better way to distinguish your candidate from the others than to turn him into Professor Harold Hill, dedicated to saving beleaguered River Citians from moral threats they never knew existed?
This is speculation, of course. But it's a healthy kind of speculation after the religious right takes over the party in power. It's not too early to worry about the upcoming presidential campaign degenerating into a senseless debate over non-issues like "overcoming" homosexuality and the need to teach religion in public schools.
Unlikely? Both were proposed by public officials just last week.

Load-Date: March 25, 2005


End of Document
