




The Columbian (Vancouver, WA.)
December 3, 2002, Tuesday


Copyright 2002 The Columbian Publishing Co.
Section: Clark County/region; Pg. c2
Length: 502 words
Byline: BRAD CAIN, Associated Press writer
Body


SALEM, Ore. -- Gov. John Kitzhaber formally apologized Monday for the state's past eugenics laws that led to the forced sterilization of thousands of Oregonians.
"To those who suffered, I say the people of Oregon are sorry," Kitzhaber said during a ceremony in the governor's office. "Our hearts are heavy for the pain you endured."
Girls in reform school, people in mental institutions and poor women selected by welfare workers were among the more than 2,500 Oregonians subjected to sterilizations under a law that stood from 1917 to 1983.
The apology by Kitzhaber makes him the second governor to atone for a state's eugenics laws.
Virginia Gov. Mark Warner in May erected a memorial to the first woman sterilized under eugenics, and he apologized for Virginia's participation in eugenics, calling it "a shameful effort."
Kitzhaber served on the joint committee that helped repeal the Oregon law in 1983, when he was serving in the Legislature.
Dozens of people crowded into the governor's ceremonial office, including several who had been the victims of forced sterilization, to hear Kitzhaber acknowledge the events that "darken the history of our state institutions."
"The time has come to apologize for misdeeds that resulted from widespread misconceptions, ignorance and bigotry," said Kitzhaber, who also proclaimed Dec. 10 as Human Rights Day in Oregon.
Among those who attended Monday's ceremony was Velma Haynes, 68, who was sterilized at age 15 while living at the Fairview Training Center.
She called the state's acknowledgment of wrongdoing "long overdue," but praised Kitzhaber's effort to make things right.
"I want to thank you for taking the time to apologize," Haynes told Kitzhaber. "Your apology is appreciated and accepted."
Not everyone who was sterilized was satisfied with Monday's apology.
Ken Newman, 61, who said he was given a vasectomy without his consent when he was a teenager at the Fairview Training Center, said the governor's remarks don't erase what happened.
"I want more than an apology. I want to be compensated," Newman said. But he also said he's had difficulty finding a lawyer willing to sue the state over the forced sterilizations.
Kitzhaber spokesman Tom Towslee said he wasn't aware of any pending lawsuits at this point in Oregon.
Most of the advocacy groups represented at Monday's ceremony had nothing but praise for Kitzhaber's decision to put the state on record apologizing for the eugenics policy.
Basic Rights Oregon, the state's largest gay rights organization, said that some of those who were subjected to forced sterilization included gay men who were classed as criminals based solely on their sexual orientation.
"Unfortunately, many people paid the price for society's ignorance," spokeswoman Roey Thorpe said.
The law was based on the pseudoscientific movement called eugenics that sought to prevent people considered "unfit" or "defective" from having children.
After 1967, the Oregon law was chiefly used to sterilize those with mental illness or mental disability.

Graphic

 
DON RYAN/The Associated Press * Oregon Gov. John Kitzhaber signs a declaration Monday in the Capitol, proclaiming Dec. 10 Human Rights Day in the state.

Load-Date: December 10, 2002


End of Document
