




St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
November 11, 2011 Friday


Copyright  2011 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


Section: TBT; Pg. 74; THE JUICE
Length: 967 words
Byline: JOSHUA GILLIN
Body


The early speculation was right: producer Brian Grazer has agreed to pick up the slack left by Brett Ratner and work on the next Academy Awards show, according to the Hollywood Reporter. He'll be joining Don Mischer to bring the Feb. 26 telecast to life.
Meanwhile, Billy Crystal revealed he's replacing Murphy by announcing on Twitter via @BillyCrystal, Am doing the Oscars so the young woman in the pharmacy will stop asking my name when I pick up my prescriptions. Looking forward to the show Is it the real deal? The Academy says yes, so get ready to see Billy do it for the ninth time.
But back to behind the scenes: If the name Grazer sounds even slightly familiar, it's because he worked on Ratner's Tower Heist, which starred Eddie Murphy, who quit the hosting job for the same show after Ratner quit. Grazer won Best Picture in 2002 for A Beautiful Mind, and has been nominated three other times, so he knows his way around that room.
There are no hard feelings, though, because TMZ says Grazer and Ratner had dinner together in Santa Monica on Wednesday night, presumably to discuss Grazer taking the job. Now all he has to do is watch his mouth until Leap Day. We don't suspect Billy has a problem with that.
* * *
Ashton backs Paterno, then apologizes
If there's one person excelling at making himself look like an idiot these days, it's Ashton Kutcher. First he cheats on wife Demi Moore on their anniversary, and now he is caught defending former Penn State football coach Joe Paterno on Twitter. Don't worry, he apologized for it, but it's obvious now that University of Iowa fans ain't all that smart. How do you fire Jo Pa? #insult #noclass as a hawkeye fan I find it in poor taste, Kutcher tweeted to more than 8 million followers Wednesday night via @aplusk. It seems he then took five seconds to read what everyone else in the country has by now heard concerning Paterno's involvement in a possible coverup of child sex-abuse allegations, and then took back what he wrote. The good news is, he's decided to stop tweeting until he gets a clue. As an advocate in the fight against child sexual exploitation, I could not be more remorseful for all involved in the Penn St. case, he tweeted after deleting his clueless comments. As of immediately I will stop tweeting until I find a way to properly manage this feed. I feel awful about this error. Won't happen again. He then posted a long-winded explanation (which you can read on the blog) saying, "I'm going to turn the management of the feed over to my team at Katalyst as a secondary editorial measure, to ensure the quality of its content." He shoulda done that years ago. Oh, and The Juice*, who is a Nebraska alum, has to add: Go Big Red!
* * *
Alicia Keys is a DJ now, apparently
Last time we saw producer Swizz Beatz, he was settling a child-support claim from a woman in England, but if you happened to be at Yotel NYC two nights before Halloween, you'd have seen him passing the mic off to his wife, Alicia Keys. Pardon us, we mean Mrs. DJ AK-47. It took us awhile to hear about this, but website Rap-Up.com shined some light on the appearance, in which Keys played some Pete Rock and Gang Starr, among other hooks, while her hubby and Busta Rhymes helped her out. "I learned how to DJ at 9:45 tonight," AK told the crowd in a video of the appearance, which you can watch at tampabay.com/blogs/juice. She also started a Twitter account, @MrsDJAK47, and plans to release a mixtape. That's what she says, anyway.
* * *
Daily Dish
Mel may be a dad again
Just when you though Mel Gibson was finally fading from the spotlight comes word from glossy Star that he's knocked up some F-list reality-show star. They're both denying it, of course, but Star insists it's true, anyway. Laura Bellizzi, 35, dated Mel over the summer after claiming very minor fame in 2010 on VH1's Secrets of Aspen, but now she's four months pregnant and has allegedly been telling people Gibson is the father. She isn't telling Star that, but the ubiquitous Unnamed Source says it's true. That Unnamed Source guy sure knows a lot of people. "Laura's being as secretive as she can be about it," the source said. "But she's really showing now, and people are beginning to ask the question: 'Who's the daddy?'" In fact, a family member who is still anonymous said Laura was pregnant by "an A-lister" and the baby will have a "famous father." Well, that settles it, then. Another source allegedly close to Gibson says it's "physically impossible" for 55-year-old Mel, by which they must mean Gibson had a vasectomy, because 55-year-olds can still make plenty of babies. That must mean he had a vasectomy after daughter Lucia was born to Oksana Grigorieva. Eight really is enough, huh Mel?
Nicki Minaj blows up at help
You don't usually hear bad things about Nicki Minaj, but her facialist is doubling down, saying the Super Bass singer went full-blown Naomi Campbell on her recently. Well, she didn't throw any cell phones, but she did allegedly rip into the woman for screwing up some waxing. "After I waxed her eyebrows and lip, she started screaming 'Who the f--- do you think you are? Look what you did to my damn face! You think this s--- is worth 170 dollars?'" Dawn DaLuise, owner of L.A.'s Skin Refinery beauty spa told Star. "It's a shame when you see a darling girl turn into a temperamental diva." DaLuise added that Minaj stormed out, throwing a wad of bills at her on the way. That prompted even more cattiness from DaLuise, who said Nicki had done this before: "I arrived at her condo one afternoon, her eyes were dilated, her wig was falling off, her face was covered in red sores and she was perspiring heavily. She was swearing and screaming at her assistant." Maybe her favorite pair of zebra stretch pants weren't out of the dryer yet.
- 

Graphic

 
PHOTO - Getty Images: JESSICA'S BACK, BABY; Jessica Alba famously said she'd never get her body back after having two babies, but Honor and Haven's mom was working it at the Armani Hotel Milano opening on Thursday in Milan. She was at the Versace for H&M event in New York a couple days before that. She must be taking lessons from Gwen Stefani. PHOTO: How else will Nicki achieve full-blown diva status? PHOTO: You all know what Billy Crystal looks like. PHOTO - via YouTube: Swizz Beatz, Mrs. DJ AK-47 and Busta Rhymes blew it up at Yotel on Oct. 29. Where was our invite?

Load-Date: November 11, 2011


End of Document
