




 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
May 11, 2005 Wednesday
Home Edition


Copyright 2005 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Editorial;
Length: 391 words
Body


The same governor who on Monday decried "government busybodies" turned around on Tuesday and signed legislation that allows state government to pull up a chair in a gynecologist's office as a woman discusses an unwanted pregnancy with her doctor.
Gov. Sonny Perdue and the other supporters of the Woman's Right to Know Act believe that Georgia women can't be trusted to make up their own minds about whether to undergo an abortion, so they're now going to force them to sit through a scripted anti-abortion screed and then wait 24 hours.
This is the "less government" governor who, explaining his misgivings about a statewide smoking ban Monday, said that beyond providing safe communities and good schools, "we really just want government to leave us alone. We don't want government busybodies looking over our shoulder."
The Woman's Right to Know Act is more than government looking over a woman's shoulder. It is government abusing its power and meddling in a woman's right to make the most personal of medical decisions on her own timetable and after her own contemplation.
It is government frustrated by its inability to outlaw abortions, so it is taking any steps it can to make them difficult to obtain, especially for poor women.
It is government disrespecting women in a way that it never would men. Imagine the outcry if legislators voted that men couldn't undergo a vasectomy without first enduring a lecture written by government nannies and then being ordered to go home and think about it for 24 hours. (And consider the uprising if men had to wait to get Viagra.)
Many people believe that it is reasonable to mandate that women wait 24 hours before an abortion to give them time to consider the consequences. The fact is most women have thought a great deal about the decision before they show up at the doctor's office.
Some of them are seeking an abortion because testing has revealed a defect in the fetus. Some of them are doing so because they are rape victims. The law makes no exception for a 14-year-old rape victim or a 44-year-old fertility patient who has just learned her fetus has a fatal chromosomal anomaly.
Perdue argues that this bill helps women. It does not. It punishes women. It treats them as emotional incompetents incapable of weighing whether to have an abortion without the state putting its clammy hand on the scale.

Load-Date: May 11, 2005


End of Document
