




The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)
January 4, 2024 Thursday


Copyright 2024 The Columbian Publishing Co. All Rights Reserved
Section: LETTERS TO EDITOR; Pg. A4
Length: 660 words
Highlight: Speak up for freedom
Anyone who is planning to vote for a candidate for president of our country who has declared that he will be a dictator if elected, should read this article ("Russian poet to serve 7 years for reciting verses against war," Associated Press, Dec. 29). This is what a dictatorship is all about.
Not only would our right to free speech be abandoned, so would all of our other freedoms. In 1948 when I was in fourth grade, along with the Pledge of Allegiance, we recited a version of the following which addresses the four freedoms put forth by President Franklin Roosevelt in 1941. They are what America and democracy are all about. Perhaps we should still ponder them today.
Body


Speak up for freedom
Anyone who is planning to vote for a candidate for president of our country who has declared that he will be a dictator if elected, should read this article ("Russian poet to serve 7 years for reciting verses against war," Associated Press, Dec. 29). This is what a dictatorship is all about.
Not only would our right to free speech be abandoned, so would all of our other freedoms. In 1948 when I was in fourth grade, along with the Pledge of Allegiance, we recited a version of the following which addresses the four freedoms put forth by President Franklin Roosevelt in 1941. They are what America and democracy are all about. Perhaps we should still ponder them today.
I am an American. A free American.
Free to speak - without fear,
Free to worship God in my own way,
Free to stand for what I think right,
Free to oppose what I believe wrong,
Free to choose those who govern my country.
This heritage of freedom I pledge to uphold,
For myself and all mankind.
Mary McFarland
VANCOUVER
Make health care fair
For those men who think they have the right to make health care decisions for women, here's an idea to make it fair. Government should require a vasectomy for the guy who impregnated the woman when the pregnancy ends in abortion. This will certainly stop any future abortions that result from this man's sexual activity.
Also, since HIPAA doesn't seem to apply to women who choose to end a pregnancy and it is reported to the state (creating shame and sometimes dangerous harassment), let's make it so any man who sees a physician for a vasectomy or treatment of an STD also be made public. After all, if I am a religious zealot who does not believe in birth control or sexual freedom, then I certainly have the right to know whose choices are counter to my beliefs. Fair, right?
Michele Black
VANCOUVER
Snake dams do not prevent flooding
A recent letter described the four lower Snake River dams as offering a line of defense against flooding ("Preserve lower Snake dams," Our Readers' Views, Dec. 30). In fact, they do not. Congress did not authorize flood control as a purpose and the dams are "run of the river" dams, meaning they were not built to store water.
In fact, due to sediment buildup, Lower Granite Dam actually creates a flood risk to Lewiston, Idaho, and Clarkston. The next flood will put downtown Lewiston and Clarkston under six feet of water or more, because of the Lower Granite Dam.
The federal government recently entered into a plan to replace the dams' services and breach the four lower Snake River dams. This was long overdue, but at last it is agreed that the dams must go, and soon. It is time for all to accept this and stop wasting energy and time trying to retain the illegal, old, polluting, deadly dams, and instead put that energy into replacing the dams' services.
Marjorie Millner
VANCOUVER
Traffic violations can be scary
Just to add support to a recent letter ("Traffic carnage surprising?," Our Readers' Views, Dec. 30), what I have seen is truly scary. Yesterday, I was sitting at a red light at Padden Parkway and the southbound I-205 ramp headed east. I looked in my rear view and there was a red pickup truck accelerating. The truck zipped around me and plowed through the lane next to me then the intersection. No brake lights. No intention of stopping.
Last month, I was at a red light at Mill Plain Boulevard where northbound I-5 comes off headed west. A teal Toyota Corolla next to me just drove right through the intersection. No brake lights. No intention of stopping.
Vancouver police say there is nothing that can be done unless they see it themselves (with tickets/citations). If nothing is done and nothing can be done, the carnage has the potential to be deadly. What about red light cameras for those major intersections?
Yesterday, I'm just glad the red truck did not hit me and push me into the intersection where I could have been killed. Thank you angels for another day!
Natalie Richards
VANCOUVER

Load-Date: February 24, 2025


End of Document
