




Daily News (New York)
July 15, 2014 Tuesday
SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION


Copyright 2014 Daily News, L.P.


Section: NEWS; Pg. 11
Length: 402 words
Byline: BY NANCY DILLON NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Body


IT'S A cautionary tale for the ages: Never do PCP after reading about vasectomies.
The Wu-Tang Clan-affiliated rapper who cut off his own penis in a drug-fueled delirium last April opened up on Monday in an effort to set a few things straight.
Andre Johnson didn't get his private parts reattached, as some reports claimed, and he still gets that loving feeling from time to time.
"Doctors didn't reattach it, but I definitely have some penis left," said Johnson, who raps under the name Christ Bearer. "I always say a penis is a penis. And the sensation is still there. I definitely still get extremely aroused if I see a beautiful woman."
But he doesn't take it any further than that.
"I definitely believe sex is for mortals, and I am God," he told the Daily News. "So this is a blessing, not a curse."
Johnson, 41, said he wasn't trying to commit suicide when he cut himself and jumped off the second-story balcony of his condo in North Hollywood on April 16.
"By no means was I trying to kill myself. I was under the influence of PCP. It's a drug that I had stopped doing for years, but I just got back from Ohio and got back into that lifestyle for a few days. It definitely was not wise," he told The News.
Johnson said he had been studying some literature about monks and vasectomies and was extremely high when he took the knife to his genitals and jumped.
"I was lucky I was only on the second floor. If I was any higher, it would have been a tragedy. The height didn't make any difference to me. I wasn't aware of the height," he said. "I was so happy to wake up in the hospital."
Johnson said he welcomed a new daughter named Kennedy into the world just two weeks after his bizarre breakdown and hospitalization at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
He also has two older daughters, Lana, 2, and Lauren, 8.
"I'm very optimistic about the future," he told The News.
He said he's still writing music and hopes to sign with an agent soon to start doing some stand up comedy.
Wu-Tang Clan leader RZA produced the rap group Northstar's well-received 2004 debut album. Johnson is a member of the Long Beach, Calif.-based group.
"I'm excited about getting back. I'm looking forward to what will occur," Johnson told The News on Monday.
"The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams," he said. "My message is about peace and harmony and love, everybody getting along."


Graphic

 
"I definitely have some penis left," says rapper Andre Johnson. JOHN CHAPPLE

Load-Date: July 15, 2014


End of Document
