




Newstex Blogs 
International Business Times News
October 5, 2022 Wednesday 12:05 PM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 2208 words
Byline: Lauren Dubois
Body


Oct 05, 2022( International Business Times News: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 With finally around the corner, the time has come for everything spooky, including binge-watching holiday-themed TV episodes of favorite shows. 
Peacock has plenty to watch for those hoping to see some of the nostalgic episodes from shows of the past, as well as from newer series Check out these 65 specials you can stream throughout the month of October. 
"Baby-Sitter's Club" Season 1, Episode 2- "Dawn and the Haunted House" 
Girls start a babysitting business but fear an unusual client. 
"Brooklyn Nine-Nine" Season 1, Episode 6- "" 
Jake bets Captain Holt that he can steal his Medal of Valor before midnight and Amy must overcome her hatred of . 
"Brooklyn Nine-Nine" Season 2, Episode 4- " II" 
Peralta and Holt repeat their wager of the previous year as Peralta bets the captain that he can steal his treasured watch before midnight and enlists criminal assistance to achieve his goal. 
"Brooklyn Nine-Nine" Season 3, Episode 5- ", Part III" 
Holt and Peralta compete for the title of "Amazing Detective Slash Genius" in their third annual heist. 
"Brooklyn Nine-Nine" Season 4, Episode 5- " IV" 
On , the squad members pull out all the stops as they compete for the title of "Ultimate Detective Slash Genius." 
"Brooklyn Nine-Nine" Season 5, Episode 4- "HalloVeen" 
The precinct embarks on its fifth annual Heist. Everybody has a plan, no one is safe, and relationships and friendships are sorely tested. 
"Charmed" Season 3, Episode 4- "All Halliwell's Eve" 
 sends the sisters back in time, where they must help a coven in danger of extinction. 
"Cheers" Season 3, Episode 4- "Fairy Tales Can Come True" 
During a party at Cheers, Cliff meets the girl of his dreams. After meeting her in fancy dress, he worries she won't like the real him and becomes afraid to see her again as himself. 
"Cheers" Season 5, Episode 5- "House of Horrors with Formal Dining and Used Brick" 
Carla is thrilled to move into a reasonably-priced, older home. When she discovers the house was built on the graveyard of a 17th-century prison, she assumes that is the reason for the low price. 
"Cheers" Season 10, Episode 7- "Bar Wars V: The Final Judgment" 
A prank against rival Gary at the Old Towne Tavern has serious consequences when nothing really goes to plan. 
"Chicago Fire" Season 7, Episode 6- "All the Proof" 
Gorsch continues his reign of terror at Firehouse 51, taking over Boden's morning meeting and going out on calls in Boden's place; Brett and Foster respond to a call where a prank has turned deadly serious. 
"Chrisley Knows Best" Season 4, Episode 26- "A Very Grisley Chrisley" 
The Chrisleys enter a home decorating contest with their new neighbors, but when Todd gets too competitive, Julie loses her patience. Lindsie opens up to the family about some surprising news about her relationship with Will. 
"Everybody Hates Chris" Season 1, Episode 6- "Everybody Hates " 
It's and Chris is excited when another girl invites him to a costume party, but Caruso has other plans for him. Meanwhile, back at home, Julius buys cheap candy for the local kids. 
"Everybody Loves Raymond" Season 3, Episode 6- " Candy" 
When Debra pressures Ray into getting a vasectomy, Ray buys multicolor condoms instead, but they are accidentally handed out to trick-or-treaters. 
"Frasier" Season 5, Episode 3- "" 
At a library benefit costume party, Frasier accidentally lets slip the news that Roz might be pregnant. Niles, who is getting drunk, misconstrues it to mean that Frasier has impregnated Daphne. 
"Frasier" Season 9, Episode 6- "Room Full of Heroes" 
Frasier throws a party and invites everyone to dress as their favorite hero, and Niles shows up dressed as Martin. 
"Frasier" Season 10, Episode 5- "Tales From the Crypt" 
Frasier vows revenge after Bulldog (Dan Butler) plays a prank on him; Daphne's mom (Millicent Martin) wages war against a scorned trick-or-treater in a practical joke grudge match. 
"George Lopez" Season 2, Episode 4- " Cheer" 
George gets ready for his favorite spooky holiday while stressing over hiring a worker whose life is a complete disaster. 
"George Lopez" Season 3, Episode 7- "No One Gets Out Alive" 
The Lopezes turn their home into a haunted house on in order to raise money for the factory workers who have lost their salaries as a result of a plane crash investigation. 
"George Lopez" Season 5, Episode 5- "Trick or Treat Me Right" 
When Bunny's abusive comments and behavior grow worse, George finds it impossible to laugh things off and threatens to make some big changes. 
"Growing Up Chrisley" Season 3, Episode 3- "Boos Brothers" 
Chase is pulled between Emmy and Elliott on ; Savannah hires a new assistant. 
"Kevin Can Wait" Season 1, Episode 9- "Hallow-We-Ain't-Home" 
On , Kevin and Donna pretend not to be home to avoid giving out candy. 
"The King of Queens" Season 4, Episode 6- "Ticker Treat" 
Doug's decorations put Arthur in the hospital; Deacon doesn't like Kirby's choice of a costume. 
"Little House on the Prairie" Season 2, Episode 5- "Haunted House" 
Laura decides to investigate the occupant of a haunted house. 
"Little House on the Prairie" Season 6, Episode 7- "The Dream" 
Before a party, Albert naps and dreams that indigenous Americans have captured him and Laura. 
"The Middle" Season 2, Episode 6- "" 
Frankie is excited about being invited to a neighborhood party. 
"The Middle" Season 3, Episode 7- " II" 
When Sue wears an embarrassing costume to a party, she turns to Mike for advice. 
"The Middle" Season 4, Episode 6- " III: The Driving" 
As approaches, the Hecks get quite the scare when Sue receives her learner's permit, and it's time for Frankie and Mike to teach her how to drive. 
"The Middle" Season 5, Episode 5- " IV: The Ghost Story" 
Sue holds a sance; the football team stops Axl from attending the party in his room. 
"The Middle" Season 6, Episode 5- " V" 
Frankie and Mike are surprised when Brick invites a girl over to the house to hang out; Sue tries to organize a screening of a holiday classic in a pumpkin patch; Axl is locked inside the library. 
"The Middle" Season 7, Episode 6- " VI: Tick Tock Death" 
Brick provides an introduction for "Twilight Zone" --like stories featuring the Hecks. 
"The Middle" Season 8, Episode 3- " VII: The Heckoning" 
Frankie learns that the kids would choose to live with Mike if the two of them divorced. 
"The Middle" Season 9, Episode 4- " VIII: Orson Murder Mystery" 
As nears, Frankie finds out that a woman died in the Heck house nearly 50 years ago; Axl and Lexie are frustrated when Sue insists on hanging out with them. 
"Modern Family" Season 2, Episode 6- "" 
Claire prepares to make the Dunphy house spooky for ; Cameron does not like the holiday because of a traumatic childhood experience; Jay and Manny tease Gloria about her accent. 
"Modern Family" Season 4, Episode 5- "Open House of Horrors" 
Claire must rein in her enthusiasm for and keep her celebration kid-friendly; Phil decides to hold an open house on ; Mitch and Cam have a costume party; Gloria's hormones make her more quick-tempered than usual. 
"Modern Family" Season 6, Episode 6- " 3: Awesome Land" 
When Claire lets Phil take charge of , he decides to do something different than her usual fright-fest theme; Jay wants to be Prince Charming for —complete with a full head of hair; Cam becomes overwhelmed. 
"Modern Family" Season 8, Episode 5- " 4: The Revenge of Rod Skyhook" 
The Dunphys kick-start Luke's party; Cam confronts his nemesis; Jay plans to go to a party at an old enemy's home to deliver an unforgettable trick. 
"Modern Family" Season 9, Episode 5- "It's The Great Pumpkin, Phil Dunphy" 
Phil and Claire start to question their enthusiasm for when no one else seems to feel the same; Mitch confronts Jay about how long the kitchen remodel is taking; Cam oversteps his boundaries as a house guest. 
"Modern Family" Season 10, Episode 5- "Good Grief" 
It's another epic full of costumes, tricks and treats for the Dunphy-Pritchett-tucker clan as they deal with huge, unexpected news. 
"Modern Family" Season 11, Episode 5- "The Last " 
Phil is determined to scare Claire on ; Gloria feels self-conscious about her age when someone correctly assumes she is Jay's wife; Mitch and Cam go to the WeHo Carnival after Lily decides to go to her first party alone. 
"The Office" Season 2, Episode 5- "" 
As the staff preps for a party, Michael can't decide who to let go, putting a damper on the festivities. 
"The Office" Season 5, Episode 6- "Employee Transfer" 
Pam is embarrassed when no one else at corporate wears a costume on ; Holly and Michael get shocking news from corporate; Dwight tries to get under Andy's skin. 
"The Office" Season 7, Episode 6- "Costume Contest" 
The Dunder Mifflin staff have a costume contest, Michael's upset after Darryl gives an idea to corporate without running it by him first and Pam tries to make Danny open up about their dating past. 
"The Office" Season 8, Episode 5- "Spooked" 
Erin tries to put on a party that will please both Andy and Robert California, Jim and Pam fight about the existence of ghosts and Dwight bonds with Robert California's son. 
"The Office" Season 9, Episode 5- "Here Comes Treble" 
Andy invites his old a cappella group to perform for , which leads to a confrontation with his frenemy. Then, Dwight tries to track down a madman in the office and Jim and Pam fight over his new job. 
"Parenthood" Season 2, Episode 6- "Orange Alert" 
Zeek tries to go overboard with the family's celebration; Adam and Kristina are nervous about Max's new plans for the holiday; Sarah confronts Gordon about their kiss. 
"Parks and Recreation" Season 2, Episode 7- "Greg Pikitis" 
Leslie tries to stop a high school punk who vandalizes the park every , but will he get the last laugh? Meanwhile, Ann's party is a bore until Tom saves the day. 
"Parks and Recreation" Season 4, Episode 5- "Meet 'n' Greet" 
April and Andy throw a party, to Ben's dismay; Tom promotes his company while emceeing a campaign event for Leslie; Ron and Ann give Andy and April an unusual gift. 
"Parks and Recreation" Season 5, Episode 5- " Surprise" 
Ben gets a job offer forcing Leslie to think about their future; Ron and Andy take Diane's girls trick-or-treating; Tom looks for a new business idea. 
"Parks and Recreation" Season 6, Episode 7- "Recall Vote" 
Leslie goes into a funk after she loses the recall election, while the rest of the office sets up a Haunted House and Tom turns to Ron and a local online trendsetter to help save Rent-a-Swag. 
"Punky Brewster" Season 2, Episode 10- "Love Thy Neighbor" 
Punky learns a lesson about senior citizens when she plays a trick on a cantankerous woman. 
"Roseanne" Season 2, Episode 7- "BOO!" 
The Conner family holds a contest to see who can play the scariest trick. 
"Roseanne" Season 3, Episode 7- "Trick or Treat" 
Roseanne gets mistaken for one of the guys when she dresses up for but is only too happy to play along. 
"Roseanne" Season 4, Episode 6- "Trick Me Up, Trick Me Down" 
The Conners plan an outrageous costume party for that includes a practical joke on the neighbors. 
"Roseanne" Season 5, Episode 7- " IV" 
Roseanne becomes depressed when Becky can't be home for , and the ghosts of past, present and future visit. 
"Roseanne" Season 6, Episode 6- " V" 
Dan wants to play a prank on Nancy; David and Darlene spook Roseanne. 
"Roseanne" Season 7, Episode 6- "Skeleton in the Closet" 
Roseanne loves . Not because of pranks, but because she believes this year, she is on the verge of a secret: Could Fred be gay? 
"Roseanne" Season 8, Episode 5- ": The Final Chapter" 
A Ouija board's message sends Roseanne into labor on . 
"Roseanne" Season 9, Episode 7- "Satan, Darling" 
Roseanne and Jackie whoop it up with ghoulish glee at a glitzy party in New York. 
"Superstore" Season 2, Episode 7- " Theft" 
After an apparent theft, Dina launches a store-wide investigation, interrupting everyone's plans; Jonah and Cheyenne attempt to bond; Garrett tries to defend himself in Dina's theft probe. 
"Superstore" Season 3, Episode 5- "Sal's Dead" 
A dead body is discovered in the store on , causing panic and confusing the shoppers; Amy and Garrett get into trouble using a dating app on Jonah's phone. 
"Superstore" Season 4, Episode 4- "Costume Competition" 
Amy and Mateo play dirty to win the employee costume contest after learning first prize is a paid day off; Garrett is tormented by the store's repetitive music; Glenn fears he's being followed. 
"Superstore" Season 5, Episode 6- "Trick-or-Treat" 
Amy amps up the store's spirit to impress the new district manager, even setting up a haunted house that terrified Glenn; Jonah collects the last of the union cards; Cheyenne and Mateo wonder if any Cloud 9 employees are capable of murder. 
"That 70s Show" Season 2, Episode 5- "" 
The gang's antics include seeing a horror movie and visiting a haunted school. 
"That 70s Show" Season 3, Episode 4- "Too Old to Trick or Treat, Too Young to Die" 
Things go terribly wrong as the gang prepares festivities. 
"Two and a Half Men" Season 12, Episode 1- "The Ol' Mexican Spinach" 
While everyone is getting ready for , Walden has a heart attack. Walden decides to spend his life differently from now on. However, his decisions have a major impact on Alan's future. 

Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: October 5, 2022


End of Document
