




St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
March 1, 2018 Thursday
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2018 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A2
Length: 360 words
Byline:  From news services 
Body


‘Fuller House' executive fired over reports of abusive behavior
Producers of the Netflix remake "Fuller House" have fired the show's top executive amid charges about his behavior on the set.
Warner Brothers Television said Wednesday that it would not renew Jeff Franklin's deal, without explaining why. Variety reports that there were complaints about his being verbally abusive to staffers and making inappropriate comments to the show's writers. There have been no accusations of sexual misconduct.
Franklin's attorney, Stanton "Larry" Stein, said neither he nor his client had been told about what had been said that was deemed offensive. Franklin also was the creator of "Full House," the ABC show upon which the remake was based.
Richards sorry for ‘snip' quip about Jagger - Keith Richards says he regrets saying Mick Jagger needed a vasectomy after recently having his eighth child.
In a story posted Wednesday, The Wall Street Journal magazine reported that Richards said, "It's time for the snip - you can't be a father at that age. Those poor kids!"
Jagger, 74, welcomed his eighth child in December 2016. Richards said, "I deeply regret the comments I made about Mick," in a statement released Wednesday. He said he had apologized to the Rolling Stone frontman in person.
Markle eager to use royal role to help empower women - Meghan Markle said Wednesday that she hoped to "hit the ground running" as a member of the British royal family and use her position to highlight the empowerment of women.
Markle, 36, who is due to marry Prince Harry in May, attended an event in London alongside Harry, Prince William and Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge.
Markle, an American actress, said that with the ongoing campaigns against sexual harassment, "there is no better time" to shine a light on women feeling empowered.
CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS
Singer Harry Belafonte is 91. Actor Robert Conrad is 83. Singer Roger Daltrey is 74. Actor Dirk Benedict is 73. Actor-director Ron Howard is 64. Actress Catherine Bach is 63. Actor George Eads is 51. Actor Javier Bardem is 49. Actor Jensen Ackles is 40. Actress Lupita Nyong'o is 35. Singer Kesha is 31. Singer Justin Bieber is 24.

Load-Date: March 2, 2018


End of Document
