




Deseret News (Salt Lake City)
January 9, 2000, Sunday


Copyright 2000 The Deseret News Publishing Co.
Section: MONEY;
Length: 728 words
Body


U.S. Bank has named Bernette "B" Murphy vice president and bank account executive in its private financial services department. Based in Park City, he will secure and service high net worth individual and private banking account relationships, and work with the credit and non-credit needs of people in the Park City, Summit County and Salt Lake areas.
Larry Worrell has been promoted to partnership in the Grant Thornton LLP Utah office. With an accounting career that spans 20 years, he currently focuses on corporate taxation, partnership taxation, individual taxation and employee benefit plans.
Zions Bank has named Meggin Kennedy assistant relationship officer in the commercial Banking division.
H. Roger Boyer, chairman of the board of The Boyer Co., has been appointed a director of the Salt Lake City Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. He is replacing Nancy Mortensen, vice president of marketing for ZCMI, who retired from the board after serving as a director since 1994. Boyer is a Salt Lake-based developer and operator of real estate.
The Honorable Glen Clark has received the Outstanding Judicial Service Award from the Utah Federal Bar Association for his outstanding career and service as a United States Bankruptcy Court Judge. He has written 130 published decisions, many of which have had a significant impact on both the local and national practice of bankruptcy.
Wilkinson Ferrari & Co., a Salt Lake-based public relations and marketing firm, has hired Joni Dykstra as an account manager. She has previous experience as a fund raiser, account executive and has promoted nationally touring Broadway productions in 50 North American cities.
David Clark has been promoted to vice president of corporate communications and business development at NPS Pharmaceuticals. He joined the firm in 1996 as director of corporate communications and in 1998 took on additional business development responsibilities. He also has served as a director in both communications and development during the past year.
Kris Piteck, owner of three Subway stores in Salt Lake City, has been elected to Subway's National Advertising Board. She is among 12 national and two international members of the board, which directs marketing and other policy issues for Subway stores nationally. She will represent all Subway stores in nine Western states.
The Utah Advertising Federation has announced its new board of directors. The presiding president is Craig Johnson, director of marketing for Sizzling Platter; first vice president is Barbara Tharp, account executive in sales at KTVX 4 Utah; and the second vice president is Jeri Cartwright, president of Cartwright Communications. The organization's executive director is Dee Ann Budge.
NAI Utah Commercial Real Estate has added five commercial brokerage agents and has established two new divisions, retail and asset/property management. The new brokers are Brett Palmer, who will be in the retail division and will focus on retail and investments; Duncan Lambert, who is the vice president of property management for the new asset/property management division; Stephen Tate, a retail specialist and property manager in the asset/property management division; Glenn McKay, a principal broker in the firm's office division who will focus on regional and international clients who need metropolitan office property; and Chris Monson, who is in the firm's retail division as senior retail/investment specialist.
University of Utah Health Network (UUHN) has named Dr. Steve Stahl as a family practice physician at the Greenwood Medical Center in Midvale. Stahl previously served as medical director for the University of Utah's Family Practice Program at the School of Medicine. He speaks Spanish and has a particular interest in such specialties as non-scalpel vasectomies, depression and headaches.
Linda Rowlee has been appointed the western regional sales director for Thomson Target Media. She has 20 years of newspaper industry experience in advertising sales and management.
Bill Stone, the former manager of new business development for Parker Aerospace's Control Systems Division-Commercial in Ogden, has been named director of Embraer programs for Parker Aerospace. Among his duties will be establishing a new Parker facility in Brazil to provide Embraer with design, marketing, technical and aftermarket support.

Load-Date: January 9, 2000


End of Document
