




Newsweek
September 1, 2003,
U.S. EditionU.S. Edition


Copyright 2003 Newsweek
Section: PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 17
Length: 415 words
Byline: Quotation sources from top to bottom: New York Times, Playboy, Associated Press (2), Salt Lake Tribune, New York Times, AP, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, AP (2), Minneapolis Star-Tribune
Body


"The end of the Roadmap is a cliff." Secretary of State Colin Powell, on the faltering Middle East peace effort
"I've seen guys marry carbon copies of the lady they divorced. What is so eerie about this?" O. J. Simpson, on why he is still "turned on" by women who resemble his murdered ex-wife, Nicole Brown
"I guess in nine months, we're going to see the biggest baby boom we've ever seen." Toronto Mayor Mel Lastman, on the potential consequences of the Aug. 14 blackout
"History will be kind to me." Charles Taylor, the former Liberian warlord turned president, who has been accused of multiple war crimes during his rule of the West African country
"It's the recession. I know my Budweiser stock is my best performer." State Rep. Ty McCartney, on why Utah's alcohol sales have increased over 2002's Olympic year
"To do my duty, I must obey God." Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore, on why he has defied federal court rulings that said he had violated the separation of church and state by installing a 5,280-pound monument of the Ten Commandments in the state Supreme Court lobby. The other justices of the court voted unanimously against him.
"The strangest thing is that he asked no questions when the doctor started preparations in the area which had so little to do with his ear." Vanessa Guimaraes, the manager of a clinic in Montes Claros, Brazil, on a man who came in with an earache and left with a vasectomy. He did not reverse the procedure.
"We will look at anyone who moves." Kanawha County Sheriff David Tucker, on his department's investigation into the West Virginia sniper who has killed three people in the Charleston area
"Heck, he's been around here forever. He played here. He coached here. His son, Barry, becomes what he is here." San Francisco Giants outfielder Marvin Benard, on the death of Bobby Bonds, 57, one of the first major leaguers to blend home-run power with speed. He hit 332 homers and stole 461 bases during his 14-year career.
"You can't be stoned or drunk and act, but you're done acting at the end of the day." Actor Peter Riegert (who played Boon), on the making of the 1978 movie "Animal House," at the cast's "class reunion" held in Hollywood last week
"Spam has been part of the Hawaiian culture for decades." Nick Meyer, senior product manager for Hormel Foods, on the Spam Hawaii Collector's Edition, which will be available in limited quantities only in Hawaiian grocery stores. Hawaiians eat more Spam per capita than any other group in the United States.

Load-Date: August 26, 2003


End of Document
