




Newstex Blogs 
Axios
September 30, 2024 Monday 9:30 AM EST


Delivered by Newstex LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2024 Axios 
Length: 774 words
Byline: Tina Reed
Body


September 30th, 2024 (   - Delivered by   )
Drug developers are pursuing a new option for reproductive care in the post-Roe landscape: birth control pills for men.
Why it matters: Mounting abortion restrictions across the U.S. are driving a search for new contraceptive methods that can be reversed, aimed at male Gen Zers and millennials.
Early stage trials have identified mechanisms for inhibiting or blocking sperm that don't involve hormones and could create a  
"Even if you only get 10% or 20% of the market, you're still talking about tens of millions of men around the world. I think the market is there," John Amory, a University of Washington professor who studies male contraceptive options.
Driving the news: Last week, California-based YourChoice Therapeutics announced the launch of an early phase human trial of an experimental birth control pill for men that could be an alternative to condoms or vasectomies.
The once-a-day pill inhibits a receptor for vitamin A, or retinol, in the testes, a well-known pathway for sperm cell production. It's  
The science was inspired by findings that men with vitamin deficiencies during the Dust Bowl were less fertile - a problem that resolved when their diets improved, YourChoice Therapeutics' CEO Akash Bakshi told Axios.
Between the lines: While the approach may seem straightforward, it's difficult to make male contraception foolproof.
"Part of it is the underlying physiology," Amory said. "Men make 1,000 sperm every second. Women make one egg month. And in practice, it's turned out easier to suppress the production of one egg a month."
Conventional birth control pills for women disrupt the menstrual cycle by elevating levels of the hormone progesterone to mimic pregnancy, when women don't produce new eggs. There's nothing equivalent for men.
Reality check: The roadmap for approving a male birth control pill also is untested.
The Food and Drug Administration has stricter standards than when the first forms of birth control for women were approved decades ago, said Heather Vahdat, executive director of the Male Contraceptive Initiative, which has provided funding to YourChoice.
Regulators consider risks versus benefits. In the case of a woman, the benefits of avoiding a pregnancy outweigh certain risks around the contraceptive. The calculus is expected to be different for a pill for men.
"They are going to be a little bit more conservative because it's like, OK, if this person does not take this pill, what is the risk? And you could argue, biologically, nothing," Vahdat said.
It's not clear how the pill would dovetail with the Affordable Care Act's requirement for full coverage of female-controlled contraception as well as condoms. Researchers and advocates say the pills need to be affordable to compete with alternative methods.
The FDA declined to comment, saying it "cannot discuss ongoing clinical trials or products in development."
Then there's the human factor. It's still unclear whether women will trust their partners to take these drugs.
There are inexpensive products already on the market to allow men to check their sperm count following vasectomies, which makes it straightforward to verify their status to their partners.
This could be particularly important to gain trust from women who, Bakshi said, may be thinking: "'How can I go from living in a world where I have taken on responsibility? I know that I'm compliant. The risk is all with me. Now, do I really trust my husband or my boyfriend?'"
State of play: Other male contraception techniques under development involve gels, ultrasound devices and implants.
Contraline has a long-acting hydrogel injected into the scrotum in an outpatient setting that's undergoing an early phrase safety trial in Australia.
A hormonal method in phase 2 trials from researchers at the National Institutes of Health is  
Researchers are also working on creating an on-demand option, taken only as needed shortly before sex, that's  
What to watch: The best-case scenario for YourChoice Therapeutics is still years away: If all trials go according to plan, it could be approved in 2030, its executives say.
There's also a lingering question about whether big drug companies will get interested in taking the lead on research and taking on the risk of developing new products. For now, "it's a win-win for them to just sit back and wait," Vahdat said.


Notes

The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: September 30, 2024


End of Document
