




Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Washington)
August 21, 2018 Tuesday


Copyright 2018 Walla Walla Union-Bulletin
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS
Length: 972 words
Byline: Vicki Hillhouse, Walla Walla Union-Bulletin, Wash.
Body


Aug. 21--Badly needed ambulatory surgical services are on the horizon for the community. But who will ultimately provide them was the subject Monday of a nearly three-hour public hearing led by the Washington state Department of Health.
Input from two dozen medical professionals, administrators and health care consumers appeared to pit size against choice in the applications from Providence St. Mary Medical Center and Walla Walla Clinic as the health-care providers seek to fill the gaps in service left with the closure a year ago of Walla Walla General Hospital.
Both have filed a request for a Certificate of Need, the required designation for expanded ambulatory surgical centers. Although approval of both requests is not an impossibility, common practice for the Certificate of Need Program is to grant approval based on county population.
Nevertheless, many in the audience urged approval of both applications. Dr. Robert Smith, chief of staff for Providence St. Mary who also works at Walla Walla Clinic with his work in general and pediatric anesthesiology, said the scale of the Providence proposal would help decompress the backlog of needed care in the community, but the proposal from Walla Walla Clinic, which provides services not offered at Providence, is critical to market competition.
"The only reasonable option for the Department of Health is to approve the certification for both facilities," Smith said.
That sentiment was echoed by Walla Walla resident and former County Commissioner Pam Ray, who praised the services she received from Providence after the closure of Walla Walla General. If only Walla Walla Clinic's proposal were to be approved, the community would still face a shortage of operating rooms.
"Our community would best be served by both since both have merit," she said.
The shortage of operating room space has led to creative use of facilities, expanded schedules and additional hiring. It's hit patients hardest with the lack of rooms to complete nonemergent procedures. Elective surgeries and those that can otherwise be postponed have been pushed out sometimes months, health-care professionals said.
Walla Walla Clinic has operated its three-room ambulatory surgical facility as a Certificate of Need-exempt operation with two multi-speciality operating rooms and one endoscopy procedure room. Currently, it is used by clinic physician owners and employees.
Its proposal seeks to operate as a Certificate of Need-approved operation. Approval would allow the clinic to open its doors to any credentialed physician. With an estimated cost of $175,000 largely used for updating equipment, the proposal would be relatively easy to implement, since the center was already established 18 years ago.
Walla Walla Clinic CEO Kevin Michelson said the result would provide more capacity in an environment that's more affordable than Providence's facilities.
Supporters of Walla Walla Clinic's proposal said Providence's faith-based approach to medical care, including its lack of vasectomy services and its case-by-case approach to tubal ligations, hinders family planning by patient choice. On that principle, several testifying did so in favor of Walla Walla Clinic.
Providence administrators pointed out their proposal would also result in reduced costs for patients currently receiving outpatient procedures in the hospital setting.
Its $3.68 million proposal includes about $1.9 million of what would be the ambulatory surgical center's share of the purchase of the former Walla Walla General Hospital, which has already taken place. The remaining $1.4 million would cover equipment.
Providence seeks to open two operating rooms and two procedure rooms. Providence Chief Strategy Officer Rob Watilo said in opening statements the outpatient services at the former General campus would cost less for patients than in the hospital's outpatient department.
Providence was strongly supported by its physician leadership, staff and affiliates who said the nonprofit operation's core value to provide care to all regardless of ability to pay is central to why its application should be approved.
In 2017 Providence contributed $3 million in free and low-cost care for the uninsured, underinsured and those otherwise unable to pay. That doesn't include coverage of shortfalls for patients insured through Medicaid and Medicare.
"I have the luxury of being able to perform surgery on any patient who needs it without having to check to determine if or how they will pay the bill," Dr. Kelly Casey, one of Providence's general surgeons, testified. "I can see very patient who walks into my office regardless of whether they are insured or uninsured, employed or unemployed, on Medicare or Medicaid, whether they are from Washington or Oregon or whether they have an outstanding balance on their bill. My patients will not be terminated from care because they are slow to pay a bill."
Casey was one of several people to make the point that Walla Walla's health services are utilized by many more people than its own county numbers reflect. Oregon residents represent 27 percent of his patient numbers, he said. Consequently, there is more to consider in the Certificate of Need applications than quantitative factors.
Certificate of Need analyst Karen Nidermayer was impressed by the input.
"This is probably the most informed audience I have ever conducted a public hearing in," she told the audience.
The closure of Monday's hearing launches a rebuttal period that closes Sept. 15. A decision is expected Oct. 19.
Vicki Hillhouse can be reached at 509-526-8321,  or on Twitter at .
___ (c)2018 Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Walla Walla, Wash.) Visit Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Walla Walla, Wash.) at union-bulletin.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

Load-Date: August 22, 2018


End of Document
