




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
August 14, 2022 Sunday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2022 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: FORUM; Pg. B4
Length: 2192 words
Body


Politics avoids critical thinking
I read with agreement last Sunday's letter to the editor "Algebra is essential to critical thinking." I took a course in critical thinking in college and it literally changed my life.
When you think critically, it must be objective and without bias. It is about analyzing and synthesizing ideas, developing solutions through research and determining which solutions work and which ones don't.
Critical thinking can be applied in the work place and everyday life. As a nurse, I had to use critical thinking every shift. My mentor called it "thinking on your feet."
Which brings me to my point. Political thinking is not critical thinking and that is why our world is divided. It is my tribe against your tribe - blindly following what your tribe believes without any effort into researching and gathering ideas and coming to conclusions. I see no attempts at checking if the conclusions are reasonable.
This inaction starts at the lowliest level of politics and runs straight to the U.S. Supreme Court. We knew which tribe each of the Supreme Court members belonged to. Without surprise, Roe v. Wade was overturned.
Critical thinking? I don't think so.
Susan Kennedy, Fitchburg
Blocking insulin cap isn't pro-life
Last weekend, Republicans did their best to savage the tax and climate bill. They eliminated the $35 per month cap on out-of-pocket patient expenses for insulin through private insurers.
One of my childhood memories is that of my older sister convulsing and biting her tongue and bleeding profusely from her mouth - type one diabetes expressing itself. At my parent's request, I also recall walking to the pharmacy with their cash in hand and picking up her Lente U-80 insulin. My sister only made it to her early 50s after a lifetime of struggles with her juvenile-onset diabetes. The disease is hereditary, and younger extended family members have also been diagnosed with diabetes.
So it kind of galls me to witness the Republic Senate, apparent part-time members of a "pro-life" party, deliberately hinder access to affordable insulin and put lives at risk. This, unfortunately, includes our U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Oshkosh, who supported the measure.
Expletives aside, Johnson's vote represents everything abhorrent and vile in politics.
Al Rickey, Madison
Large items can still be picked up
A year or so ago, the city of Madison changed its policy for picking up large items such as mattresses and furniture left on city terraces. Before then, city trucks would pick up the items during routine rounds. Now, you need to fill out an online form for pickup.
Recently, some large items gradually accumulated near where I live in the Bassett neighborhood. I called the city and the next morning the pile was completely gone. Thank you city staff - you rock.
No need to let large items pile up on your terrace. Just fill out the online form.
Carol Gillen, Madison
Republican Party has gone too far
I must admit I've not been alarmed by the Republican Party until now. I've always thought we need a strong two party system in this country. It makes us better and our democracy stronger.
But I am very alarmed and quite frankly frightened by their embracement of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. His speech at the Conservative Political Action Committee was unnerving and dangerous. Orbán stands for banning immigration, gay marriage, mixing of races and democracy. This is the man who received a standing ovation at CPAC. If this doesn't scare everyone then you are not paying attention.
The leadership of the GOP is telling us exactly who they are - a party that doesn't want your vote to count unless it is for their candidates, that embraces Orbán, that banishes anyone in their party who disagrees with them, and embraces a disgraced former president and election deniers.
Alas, I know you have heard it before and may be weary of hearing it again, but we need to show up in November and tell the GOP that their dysfunctional and ineffective party doesn't deserve to be in power. The Democratic Party is not perfect - not even close - but they do want to preserve democracy.
Claudia Cooper, Madison
We must cooperate with rest of world
To face the challenges that lie ahead for the planet, be they ecological, economic or infectious, it is imperative that the people of the world work together.
Cooperation is critical if we are to survive the potential catastrophes we face. Climate change doesn't recognize political boundaries. COVID-19 has been an equal opportunity scourge. Famine, floods, earthquakes - none of these care about the racial or religious composition of the communities they destroy.
To achieve a meaningful level of global cooperation, we should begin by encouraging and welcoming diversity here in our own country. We can't expect to relate to our neighbors on the planet, nor have them relate to us, if we don't reflect a realistic image of the variability that is our world.
Racially, the United States is about 60% white, but that percentage is less than 20% globally. Christians make up 65% of religious Americans, but only half that percentage worldwide.
Statistically, we are not the melting pot we claim to be. The more we can change to better reflect the actual diversity of our planet, the better chance we have of learning to cooperate effectively with our neighbors.
Those perilous challenges are very real. Ignoring them would be foolish, and ignoring the sensible path to solving them would be equally foolish.
Like it or not, we're all in this together. The sooner we start to reflect a global way of being, the sooner we can find our way out of our isolationist, ethnocentric mindset and into the spirit of international cooperation that will be necessary for our survival.
Dennis B. Appleton, Madison
Don't let Johnson end earned benefits
Over 60 million Americans now receive Social Security or Medicare benefits. These are earned benefits, not entitlements, because the recipients have paid into the system during their lifetimes.
Yet shockingly, U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Oshkosh, has proposed turning these vitally important earned benefits into "discretionary spending," meaning Congress would need to vote on them every year, and Congress could cut, privatize or dismantle these programs at any time.
Johnson's proposal is outrageous and shameful. Johnson is a millionaire many times over who has voted himself a massive tax cut while in office. He has no appreciation of, or empathy for, the countless millions of Americans who rely on these earned benefit programs for their economic survival.
We can not idly stand by and allow a super wealthy elected official such as Johnson to strip these earned benefits away from hardworking Americans
The best response to Johnson is to vote him out of office in November. I will be supporting Mandela Barnes.
Jim Youngerman, Madison
Republicans won't be joining liberals
I want to thank the far-left-of-center Democrat for his July 31 letter to the editor, "Democrats welcome decent Republicans."
He extended an invitation to join in their fight to save democracy and our fundamental rights from the clutches of the disgraceful, lying and fear-mongering Republicans. How can any right-of-center conservative say no to such a welcoming invite? I'll give it a shot. No.
I have no interest in finding a place in a party that believes:
* Inflation will disappear as long as the government spends more and people buy less.
* Education is the purview of school boards, not parents and determining a child's gender is more important than teaching that child to read and write.
* Our southern border is secure and immigration by illegal immigrants should be unlimited and accompanied by free health care and education.
* Violent crime isn't out of control due to bail reform laws and the early release of repeat offenders by progressive district attorneys - it's a predictable result of the scourge of social injustice.
* Abortion should be absolutely unrestricted - not just not free, safe and rare.
* Energy independence should be sacrificed at the altar of the climate change crowd.
Again, thanks for the invitation. Good luck in November.
David J. Rizzo, Fitchburg
F-35s will make city less livable
We can take pride in Madison being ranked best place to live in America by livability.com. As Avani Kalra writes in a July 28 Wisconsin State Journal article, "Madison repeats as the champ," the city created a team in 2014 to improve Madison's quality of life and to make our city a winner.
But now there are threats that jeopardize this progress. A squadron of F-35 fighter jets is projected to be stationed at Truax over the next couple of years.
These excruciatingly loud and highly polluting military planes will affect the physical, psychological and cognitive health of thousands of children and families living near Truax. Tragically, the greatest impact will affect residents in neighborhoods with a high percentage of low-income and minority families.
According to the State Journal story, Madison's lowest score on the livability evaluation was in demographics, and the highest score in the economy. The basing of the F-35s at Truax is an example of "environmental injustice" and the resulting reduction in property values will weaken our economy. If we want to maintain the livability award, move the F-35s to an isolated area, away from an urban center.
Jane H. Kavaloski, Madison
Radicals replace good Republicans
The Republicans have been talking about "replacement" theory. It appears that they're correct about being replaced, but unfortunately, they have missed what's really going on.
Republicans are being replaced with Trumpists, fascists and authoritarians. Remember when Republicans believed in civic duty? They are being replaced with people who demonize poll workers and elected officials who follow the law. Republicans supported the military but now many are voting against the help our veterans need. Republicans used to be proud of our schools but now don't trust teachers to interact with their children.
Republicans used to recognize Russia and Vladimir Putin as destabilizing forces in the world, but the Republicans have been replaced by people like U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Oshkosh, who, with a straight face, repeats disinformation campaigns direct from the Russian government while others like Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., want to aid Putin's imperialist desires by blocking the expansion of NATO.
But worst of all, Republicans used to be informed. Listen to them now and it seems they don't know the difference between communism, socialism and fascism. They don't care what they do as long as it keeps them in power. Republicans are being replaced and we will all suffer for it.
Dean Siewert, Madison
End of Roe isn't good for women
I disagree with the July 31 letter to the editor "Women will benefit from the end of Roe." Everyone has opinions, but opinions must be rooted in facts and data.
The letter suggests there will be fewer unwanted pregnancies because more women will choose contraception. Contraception is not readily available or affordable for all women. And the letter ignores the fact that often women seeking abortions are doing so for many medical reasons, not just to avoid an unwanted pregnancy.
More baby girls will be born, as the letter suggests, but more boys will be born as well, since abortion seekers do not only abort girls. Those babies will be born to mothers who can't afford to support those children emotionally or financially, leading to more children in the foster care system. There are approximately 7,000 in our Wisconsin system. The letter mentions abortion trauma, but ignores the trauma of women and children being split up in that system.
Lastly, if having fewer choices, and loss of bodily autonomy will increase respect for women, let's mandate vasectomies, and fewer choices for men. That will encourage us women respect men more for their willingness to participate in the contraception process.
Judy Neary, Edgerton
Vote out GOP climate deniers
I am truly amazed at how off the rails the Republican Party is.
Their denial of climate change, by far the most serious issue we all face, is astonishing. Do they not have children or grandchildren? Don't they want to see them grow up in a planet capable of sustaining them? Do they not see the damage that it causes all over the world?
Their agenda of maintaining power at all costs through voter suppression and gerrymandering is destroying our democracy and may destroy the planet as well. All this just to support the oil companies. We must vote them out at all levels of government.
Randy Schramm, Madison
Add movie theater to new development
The State Journal has reported that a developer wants to tear down the cheap-ticket, community-friendly Market Square Theater building and to replace it with an apartment building in the Odana Road area.
The newspaper also reported that the project concept includes commercial space along Yellowstone Drive. Problem solved. Madison's planning commission could require the commercial space to be designed as the new location of a new budget movie theater.
That way a community asset would be saved.
Bruce McClellin, Madison

Load-Date: August 14, 2022


End of Document
