




Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Washington)
May 23, 2018 Wednesday


Copyright 2018 Walla Walla Union-Bulletin
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS
Length: 1073 words
Byline: Vicki Hillhouse, Walla Walla Union-Bulletin, Wash.
Body


May 23--Providence St. Mary Medical Center has asked the Port of Walla Walla for a letter supporting its plan to re-purpose the former Walla Walla General Hospital and open an ambulatory surgical center there.
As St. Mary expands to the Second Avenue campus it purchased after the closure of General, it is soliciting support from various community groups for submission to the Washington State Department of Health.
That agency will decide whether to grant a Certificate of Need that paves the way to proceed with the outpatient surgical center.
The request will be considered by Port commissioners during a 1 p.m. meeting Thursday at their administrative office, 310 A St.
This is at least the second time a public agency has considered approving a letter of support for the endeavor.
Walla Walla City Council weighed the idea early this year but ultimately did not move forward with it. In a series of discussions that included debate over the Catholic hospital's stance on family planning health care services, Council opted to not take an official position. The decision came with the realization that Walla Walla Clinic is also seeking a Certificate of Need and that Providence officials say they did not actually request a letter from the city.
In the Port's case, Executive Director Patrick Reay said he had a verbal request about two weeks ago from Rob Watilo, Providence chief strategy officer for the Southeast Washington Service Area.
Providence St. Mary Director of Marketing and Communications Kathleen Obenland said the hospital is contacting some individuals and agencies for letters but would not specify their identities.
"It is helpful in a Certificate of Need process to have community support, and so these letters play a role," Obenland said.
The Port's mission of job creation and retention aligns with what's proposed, making the economic development agency an appropriate one from which to seek an endorsement, she said.
St. Mary projects 30 full-time equivalent positions would be created just with the surgical center. That doesn't include the yet unknown number with the relocation and expansion of other services to the former General site on Second Avenue.
Expansion not related to a surgical center will proceed without the Certificate of Need. Obenland said the first large service move is expected to take place there in August. The operation's print shop has already been located there, though it's an internal operation.
Walla Walla Clinic CEO Kevin Michelson said he hopes the Port will at least seek more information about the merits of both applications if it's going to entertain endorsing one.
"At least at the minimum for us, we would like the opportunity to discuss with those folks our application before they endorse one or the other," Michelson said.
He said he hasn't sought a letter from the Port -- or previously the city -- because he doesn't believe local or public agencies should be put in the position to choose between the two proposals.
Both have merit, he said.
St. Mary and Walla Walla Clinic had announced their intentions to add same-day surgery services in the wake of Walla Walla General Hospital's closure last summer.
Walla Walla Clinic's plan would allow community surgeons, including those employed by Providence Medical Group, to work in the operation's existing same-day surgery facility. Currently only Walla Walla Clinic surgeons are cleared to perform procedures there.
Opening to other community surgeons, he said, would expand access in a non-hospital facility where medical coverage tends to be more affordable.
St. Mary administrators say their plan for the Southgate location would also be more financially accessible for patients by offering a surgical center outside of the hospital as one facet of the multiuse facility.
Their surgery center would include two operating rooms and two endoscopy procedure rooms to address patient needs in the greater community. St. Mary also plans to offer primary care, urgent care and other services at the campus.
To build or open ambulatory surgery centers, health care providers in Washington must go through the Certificate of Need regulatory process. Administered by the state Department of Health, the program is designed to ensure that facilities and services proposed are needed for quality patient care.
It is not unheard of for two facilities to be granted the certificate, said Gordon MacCracken, public information officer for the Department of Health. As an example he pointed to Thurston County, where two competing applicants were both approved for psychiatric hospitals.
Michelson, from the Walla Walla Clinic, said in today's environment it's helpful that the Department of Health bases its decision as much on qualitative factors as quantitative ones.
Providence is a larger operation that serves more patients and has a broader range of services between the full-service hospital and its urgent care and express care clinics. But Walla Walla Clinic, which also has walk-in services in addition to its primary care, pediatrics, women's services and ambulatory surgical services, performs certain procedures that St. Mary does not, including vasectomies and elective tubal ligations.
The two applications are undergoing review concurrently, MacCracken said. The Department of Health considers the letters of support, though they are generally not a deciding factor, he said.
"The department does look for not only who supports or opposes the applications but what their reasons are," he said. "It is certainly taken into effect, but it isn't just an emotional thing. It's looking at the capabilities of the applicants and the needs of the community."
He said a request for a public hearing for the two projects has been received. That will be scheduled as the agency delves into the formal review process.
The hearing, he said, could take place in Walla Walla in mid- to late July. Timelines are approximate. A decision date for the two projects could be around late September or early October. Public comments are accepted any time leading up to the public hearing.
Vicki Hillhouse can be reached at  or 526-8321.
Vicki Hillhouse can be reached at 509-526-8321,  or on Twitter at .
___ (c)2018 Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Walla Walla, Wash.) Visit Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Walla Walla, Wash.) at union-bulletin.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

Load-Date: May 24, 2018


End of Document
