




Manufacturing Close-Up
February 13, 2023 Monday


Copyright 2023 Close-Up Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 377 words
Body


Posterity Health, a virtual Male Fertility Center of Excellence that offers personalized care, educational resources, and effective treatments, reported it is continuing its expansion into the Southeast Region, which includes Georgia and Tennessee.
With this growth, Posterity Health said it has tapped reproductive urologist, Dr. Matthew Pollard, to lead the new region. Dr. Pollard is immediately accepting new patients.
According to a release, Posterity Health offers a combination of virtual visits, at-home diagnostics and in-person consultations to help assess and improve a male's fertility status.
"We are excited to expand into the Southeast and remain laser focused on our mission to provide male fertility care to every couple trying to conceive," said Pam Pure, CEO of Posterity Health. "With only 200 Male Fertility specialists in the country, Posterity Health's team of reproductive urologists coupled with our unique Digital Health Platform will provide males in Georgia and Tennessee with immediate access to male fertility care. We are thrilled about the opportunity to work with the top fertility centers and OBGYNs in these regions. Our goal is to help every couple find their best path to pregnancy."
Services in the Southeast Region include the Male Fertility Assessment for males who want to assess their fertility status and the Male Fertility Workup, which is designed for males with an abnormal semen analysis and includes a personalized treatment plan. Posterity Health also provides a portfolio of Men's Health solutions including vasectomies, vasectomy reversals, varicocele repairs, testosterone therapy, hormone management, as well as a Second Opinion service.
Dr. Matthew Pollard is a certified reproductive urologist and is fellowship certified in male reproductive medicine. Dr. Pollard obtained his MD from the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. He completed his urology residency training with the Department of Urology at the University of California Los Angeles and spent an additional year completing a fellowship in Male Reproductive Medicine and Surgery at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.
More information and complete details:

((Comments on this story may be sent to ))

Load-Date: February 14, 2023


End of Document
