




Richmond Times Dispatch (Virginia)
March 5, 2010 Friday
State Edition


Copyright 2010 Richmond Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: AREA/STATE; Pg. B-05
Length: 480 words
Body


Virginia Urology is scoring big with television and radio spots advising men that March Madness is the perfect time to get a vasectomy - they can sit and watch basketball guilt-free for a few days while recovering.
 The unusual media spots have doubled the number of consultation requests the practice typically gets in a month, to about 40, said Terry Coffey, administrator for the practice.
 "Not everyone is at that point that they want a vasectomy," Coffey said. "It reminds people it is an option when they are ready."
 Virginia Urology has 11 offices and surgery centers in the Richmond, Tappahannock and Southside Virginia areas.
 The ads suggests to men that they can align their "couch time with optimal tube time for the best games" with the full support of their wives. In a vasectomy, doctors snip the vas deferens - the tubes that carry sperm, thus the double meaning of the reference to "tube time" in the spots. It makes a man unable to biologically father any more children.
 "Many of the issues we treat are very sensitive and serious," Coffey said.
 "This is the one things we do that we can promote and have a little fun with at the same time."
 About 6 percent of married or cohabiting couples in which the woman is of reproductive age rely on vasectomy for birth control, according to the National Survey of Family Growth.
 More than double that number of women in such pairings get tubal ligations.
 One marketing expert said the ads hit the mark.
 "I have seen that ad. My initial thought was, 'Wow, I could not think of a more touchy subject,' " said Dawn Young, director of account services of Free Agents Marketing, which specializes in health-care marketing. "I think my husband actually cringed. From an advertising perspective I have to applaud it."
 The ad, she said, tackles a sensitive subject and blends humor, relevance and timeliness. Viewers or listeners will remember what the ad was about.
 "It's absolutely targeted to the male audience," Young said. "I thought it was a really unique way to position what's in it for the guys."
 The ad campaign has been extended a week, Coffey said.
 Virginia Urology is not the first to use the promotion, he said. The idea originated with a medical practice in Oregon. Some other practices copying the idea are throwing in a bag of frozen peas (to help reduce swelling) and a free pizza.
 Vasectomy costs about $700. Insurance covers it, so for most men the cost would be lower, Coffey said.
 Men can usually return to work two to three days after the procedure and return to normal activities in three to seven days, health officials say. Bruising and swelling usually go away within two weeks.
 The doctor in the television ad is urologist Eugene Kramolowsky II.
 "He was chosen because he is a basketball fan and referees high school basketball in his off time," Coffey said.
 - Tammie Smith
Illustration: Photo
Memo: Biz to Go

Load-Date: March 6, 2010


End of Document
