




Spartan Daily: San Jose State University
November 20, 2018 Tuesday


University Wire
Copyright 2018 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 532 words
Byline: Claire Hultin
Body


Though it takes both a sperm and an egg to create a child, there is an unfair truth that the burden of contraception and pregnancy falls primarily on women.
Women are expected to take all types of birth control, as well as carry and birth the child if they become pregnant. Why don't men carry any responsibility?
Women have the pain of having a menstrual cycle, carrying a child and all the side effects that come with both. Men hardly take part in the birthing process or endure the pain that women feel. 
In a survey done by the Kaiser Family Foundation called "Men's Role In Preventing Pregnancy," the results displayed that more than half of the men involved in the study did not know a lot about contraceptive options. One in five of those men claimed to know little to nothing about the subject at all.
This is a big issue and contributes heavily to the pressing stress that women face. 
According to Planned Parenthood's website, there are five options for male birth control. These are condoms, abstinence, vasectomies, withdrawal and outercourse. 
Abstinence and outercourse involve not having intercourse, withdrawal has low rates of effectiveness, and a vasectomy is a medical sterilization procedure that is permanent. None of these are great options for men and women.
On the other hand, women have 14 different types of birth control. 
These are female condoms, tubal ligation, IUDs, the birth control, the
NuvaRing, the Patch, diaphragm, cervical cap, Plan B, spermicidal jellies and foams, the sponge, a small piece of white plastic foam that is inserted in the vagina, Depo-Provera, outercourse and abstinence. 
Female birth control is expensive. The pill costs anywhere from $15 to $50 a month. This is an expense that men will never have to encounter.
It enrages me how much more women have to deal with, the expenses and how mentally and physically tolling it is to be a woman.
I do not think that it is a bad thing to have so many options for birth control, as each woman responds differently to each type. However, zoning in on how women can prevent pregnancy from occurring lessens the spotlight of the responsibility men should have.
I also believe that men should be encouraged to take some type of contraceptive whether that is a pill, shot or a patch. Men should be able to truly understand how much work it can take to control and effectively manage your fertility.
In a study done by the University of Washington, researchers came up with a pill for men to use as a contraceptive. The pill is called dimethandrolone undecanoate and it works to reduce the levels of hormones to amounts that are low enough to suppress sperm production.
Since the researchers announced the pill earlier in 2018, the majority of men who participated in a poll on the website Healthline said that they would not use the pill. 
The root of this problem is the reality that men do not want the responsibility on their hands and are unwilling to take something to prevent pregnancy, even though women have to and do so every day.
Maybe things will change in the future, but it is doubtful. Seeing as women are still the only gender to be able to produce a child, the responsibility may weigh on them forever.

Load-Date: November 20, 2018


End of Document
