




The Columbian (Vancouver, WA.)
March 16, 2000, Thursday


Copyright 2000 The Columbian Publishing Co.
Section: Clark County/region; Pg. b2
Length: 502 words
Byline: AP
Body


SPOKANE (AP) Scores of Washington state prison inmates whose genitals were bombarded with radiation in Cold War experiments will receive portions of a $ 2.4 million settlement.
U.S. District Judge Robert Whaley approved the mediated settlement Tuesday to end a 1996 lawsuit by four of 64 inmates who participated in the X-ray experiments. After attorney fees are subtracted, the inmate volunteers will split $ 1.1 million.
"This is a very, very good settlement," Whaley said. "The manner in which we treated our incarcerated citizens should have been brought to the fore."
The Atomic Energy Commission forerunner to today's federal Department of Energy wanted to know how radiation would affect male fertility in nuclear war, outer space and nuclear plant work. Prisoners in Washington and Oregon were used in the experiments that ran from 1963 until they were halted in 1971 for being "Nazi-like."
In the experiments, prisoners' gonads were bombarded by radiation equivalent to thousands of chest X-rays. Most then underwent vasectomies.
Robert White of Spokane and the three other original plaintiffs each will receive $ 43,750 from the settlement.
But White, 59, who left prison in 1968, said he lives with daily pain from scarring the experiments caused.
"It wasn't about money," he said. "I'm happy with the settlement because it says we have rights as human beings."
White was 22 and serving a sentence for assault when he agreed to participate in the experiments. Documents show he received a dose of radiation equivalent to 50,000 chest X-rays.
Another lead plaintiff, Donald Byers, died of heart failure in January, only a few weeks after his release from the Airway Heights Corrections Center, where he served a term for armed robbery.
Of the original 64 men who participated in the experiments, 40 have died.
As many as 32 inmates, their survivors or estates will receive payments averaging $ 30,000. The 15 who agreed to be named plaintiffs will receive an additional $ 5,000. The remainder either were unable to be found, or declined to join the lawsuit.
Attorneys who brought the case will receive $ 1.3 million in legal fees and costs. The money will come from a $ 2.4 million settlement fund deposited by the defendants, who include Dr. Alvin Paulsen, a University of Washington medical professor who conducted the experiments; former state Penitentiary Superintendent Robert Rhay; and Dr. William Conte, former director of the state Department of Institutions, who authorized the experiments.
The federal government, which paid for the experiments, and the Hanford nuclear reservation contractor that supplied the radiation machines, were dropped from the lawsuit.
As part of the settlement, the defendants deny liability, but say they regret any harm that may have been done to the prisoners.
In a 1994 interview, Paulsen defended the experiments for advancing knowledge of radiation's impact on fertility, but conceded they could not have been done today.
The Washington experiments were discontinued in 1971.

Load-Date: March 16, 2000


End of Document
