




Chicago Daily Herald
March 30, 2013 Saturday


Copyright 2013 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: REAL ESTATE; Pg. 17
Length: 434 words
Byline: By Timothy J. Roth, M.D. Urology, Ltd.
Body


Prostate cancer affects 1 in 6 American men and is the second leading cause of cancer death in this country.
Fortunately, screening of at-risk men with prostate specific-antigen (PSA) has resulted in a 40 percent reduction in prostate cancer mortality.
On May 21, 2012, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) released final recommendations against PSA-based screening for prostate cancer, asserting that there is "moderate or high certainty that the service has no benefit or that the harms outweigh the benefits," and discouraged the use of the test by issuing it a Grade D. rating.
We, the physicians at Urology, Ltd., believe that the Task Force is doing men a great disservice by disparaging what is now the only widely available test for prostate cancer, a potentially devastating disease.
We hold true to our current position as supported by the American Urologic Association's Prostate-Specific Antigen Best Practice Statement that, when interpreted appropriately, the PSA test provides important information in the diagnosis, pre-treatment staging, or risk assessment and monitoring of prostate cancer patients.
It is inappropriate and irresponsible to issue a blanket statement against PSA testing, particularly for at-risk populations, such as African American men, those with a family history of the disease, those who are underinsured and those who live in rural areas with limited healthcare access.
Disparaging the PSA test when newer tests and diagnostics are not yet widely available does a great disservice to American men.
If you have concerns regarding your risk for prostate cancer, or any other urologic condition, please do not hesitate to contact our office for an appointment.
We have provided state-of-the-art urologic care to the area for more than 65 years.
Our physicians specialize in minimally invasive techniques including robotic and laparoscopic surgery.
In addition to managing prostate cancer, we also treat cancer of the kidney, bladder, ureter, and testes.
We provide comprehensive kidney stone management as well as treatment of benign prostate enlargement (BPH).
We also do the following in house procedures:
* Cystoscopy.
* Prostate biopsy.
* Urodynamic study.
* Vasectomy.
* TherMatrx.
We provide the highest quality of medical care in a friendly, professional atmosphere. Our staff is always available 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday to answer any questions you may have.
Please give us a call at (847) 741-0398 we'll be happy to tell you more about our practice. New patients are always welcome. Please refer to our website — urologyltd.com — for further information.

Graphic

 
Dr. Timothy J. Roth

Load-Date: April 2, 2013


End of Document
