




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
May 24, 2016 Tuesday
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-6
Length: 525 words
Byline: Compiled from news services
Body


SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico - Puerto Rico's governor unveiled a stark budget Monday that sets aside more than $200 million for a critical bond payment as the U.S. territory sinks into a deep economic crisis.
The proposed $9.1 billion budget for the upcoming fiscal year is $700 million smaller than the current one and calls for nearly $3 billion in cuts to government operating expenses.
Legislators have to approve a budget by July 1, the day a $2 billion debt payment is due. Gov. Alejandro Garcia Padilla said he set aside only $209 million to help pay interest linked to that debt. The anticipated default is scheduled to be Puerto Rico's biggest one yet.
TSA security chief
WASHINGTON - A House committee said Monday that the head of security operations at the Transportation Security Administration has been replaced.
The oversight committee said Mr. Hoggan had received more than $90,000 in bonuses from 2013-2014.
About a year later, a report from Homeland Security revealed that agency employees failed to find dangerous items in more than 95 percent of covert tests at multiple U.S. airports.
Mr. Hoggan's ouster also comes amid growing concerns of massive security lines at airports this summer.
Clinton email probe
WASHINGTON - FBI agents probing whether Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server imperiled government secrets appear close to completing their work, a process experts say will likely culminate in a sit-down with the former secretary of state.
The FBI has already spoken with Huma Abedin, a Clinton confidant who was among the Democratic presidential front-runner's closest aides at the State Department. Former chief of staff Cheryl Mills is also cooperating with the investigation, according to her lawyer.
Atlantic City deal reached
TRENTON, N.J. - New Jersey lawmakers agreed Monday on an Atlantic City rescue package to keep the city from running out of money.
Leaders of the state Assembly and Senate reached a deal on a package of bills to help the nearly broke city, giving it five months to devise a plan for balanced budgets over the next five years.
The deal eliminated - for now - the threat of a state takeover.
New Mexico suing EPA
New Mexico on Monday became the first state to sue the federal government and the owners of two mines over the release of 3 million gallons of toxic wastewater from a closed Colorado gold mine, seeking tens of millions of dollars for environmental and economic damage caused by the spill.
The federal lawsuit says the environmental effects of the 2015 spill in which a bright-yellow plume of heavy metals fouled rivers in three Western states were far worse than claimed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Also in the nation ....
The White House and top House Democrats said Monday they will support a bipartisan bill to overhaul regulation of asbestos and other dangerous chemicals, clearing the way for the bill's passage in Congress and signature by President Barack Obama. ... Vermont is poised to become the first state to require public and private health insurance to cover vasectomies without copays and deductibles under a bill Democratic Gov. Peter Shumlin signed into law Monday.

Load-Date: May 25, 2016


End of Document
