




Alaska Dispatch News
June 3, 2017 Saturday


Copyright 2017 Alaska Dispatch Publishing, LLC All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Letters to the Editor
Length: 3028 words
Body


Start from scratch in Juneau
Re: layoff notices for teachers and state employees. I agree with the writer who suggested layoff notices for the Legislature. No, don't give them notices. Just fire the whole bunch and start from scratch. I'm not impressed with either the Democrats or the Republicans. The photo of the House majority with their arms folded was disgusting. It reminded me of the House of Representatives folks with baby pacifiers in their mouths. We certainly deserve better from our Legislature and we can have better.
- Thom Eley
Anchorage
Happy day!
Oh, what a joyous day it would be to see the likes of prolific writers and commenters Rolf Bilet, Jim Minnery, Lela Markham and Richard Rhyner, with their narrow and mean-spirited views, "ride off into the sunset." (Quoting Mr. Bilet's letter to the editor in the Anchorage Dispatch News on June 1). What a happy day that would be to know they had all ridden off, hand in hand, to never again darken our doors.
- Darlene Jens
Anchorage
House is doing its job,
Senate not so much
A public thank you to members of the bipartisan House majority and Gov. Walker for doing the difficult work of coming up with a comprehensive fiscal plan this past session. The House plan covers our budget shortfall without spending down the state's savings, cutting education or closing Pioneer Homes. It finally gets a fair share for our oil, though Senate Republicans are still battling that with their arms crossed.
Irritatingly, an Outside-funded attack flyer targeting the governor and House members hit my mailbox this week. The flyer was a one-trick pony, devoid of any awareness of the specifics or reality of our current situation.
Which brings me to Senate Republican leaders ... who think spending $360 million on cash subsidies to oil companies while cutting education and closing Pioneer Homes is a "plan." It's a plan of sorts, but one that not only cuts essential services but extends the fiscal uncertainty facing businesses and families, lowers our bond rating and spends down our savings.
My hope is that more practical members of Senate will convince their leaders to work with the House to get the state's financial affairs in order. You can call the Anchorage Legislative office to find out how to contact your senator at 269-0111.
- David Landry
Anchorage
First, ax the lawmakers; then ...
OK, let's fix the state.
First, fire the Legislature and send them home. They don't really do anything and dead people move faster.
Second, move the capital so that everyone in this state isn't supporting a tourist town in Southeast. A hundred years ago Juneau made sense; it no longer does.
 Third, if the governor wants to do something, give him three elections a year for the people of Alaska to vote on his proposals. If the people say no, then that's it. If we are going to keep these people who are supposed to be working, then let's get them to where we can get to them without spending $2,000.
- Bruce Eierman
Anchorage
Let's pink-slip our legislators
It seems that our legislators are still frittering away their time and our money. The state is handing out pink slips. I think that the legislators should be the first in line to get theirs. They have failed to do their jobs - again.
- Cathy Guay
Anchorage
Do what's right for the state
"... The Senate's plan uses our reserves to fund government well into the future, without imposing new taxes. We're here to do what's right for the people of this state" - Sen. Pete Kelly, May 31
The Republican leadership continues to rely on "our reserves to fund government well into the future." While not committing to a certain date, the best we can hope for is that they are secretly working on something profound that will be worth the hit to our reserves. But how would we know? All we have are Sens. Kelly and Micciche's assurances that they are doing what is right for us. Not very comforting when teachers are being laid off, industry is hanging in limbo and blanketing state workers with pink slips is imminent.
Do what is truly right for the people of our state and open the doors, meet with your colleagues and do your job. The time is now.
- Patricia Linville
Seward
Sen. Sullivan avoids the issue
I recently wrote Sen. Dan Sullivan about Republican attempts to defund Planned Parenthood, sharing with him my own experience with the organization. When I was a 30-year-old undergraduate in college, I made the decision not to have kids of my own. While I understand that this is not too common, I was surprised that no service providers save Planned Parenthood would even talk to me about getting a vasectomy unless I was already married and/or had children. The folks at Planned Parenthood discussed the issue with me, made sure that it was something I really wanted to do and were able to give me an affordable, safe procedure.
Sullivan, or one of his surrogates, wrote back stating that other service providers would do all that Planned Parenthood would do, and implied that thee service providers would actually do a better job when they got all the funding that currently went to Planned Parenthood. This totally ignored the entire point of my message - that Planned Parenthood is ready to step in when other service providers won't. I see no reason to defund Planned Parenthood, as none of the federal funds are used for abortions. Continued funding allows a great organization to serve the real needs of real people.
- Paul Anderson
Anchorage
Don't toe Pete Kelly's line
For a third year in a row Republican Senate President Pete Kelly is playing government shutdown games. Politicians try to win by holding off real negotiations until the other side says uncle. In this case, Kelly and his colleagues have gutted and slow-rolled a needed House bipartisan majority oil reform bill. And they keep insisting on education cuts and cutting assistance to seniors while putting $360 million in spending on oil company cash subsidies in their budget.
 By the end of May they had still not appointed a negotiating committee to hash out differences between the House plan to get a fair share for our oil, and the Senate "plan" to lavish $1.4 billion more of our money in oil subsidies over the next decade.
Senate Republicans should stop toeing Sen. Kelly's line of oil companies before schools and seniors. They should stop slow-rolling this session and stop playing with people's jobs.
- Nancy Wallace 
Anchorage
Don't hinder teachers; help them
Teachers are so vital, administrators so critical. Our nation's children deserve so much. It breaks my heart to see layoffs, parental attacks on administrators, children without respect.
The Anchorage School District laid off 220 teachers on Friday because of our unwillingness to fund them. How are classrooms to function? Teachers have so many ideologies to please, so many toxic rubrics to follow, it's a wonder any of them stay in the field. Pretty soon we'll need to resort to a Go Fund Me campaign to pay their pitifully low salaries.
Hug a teacher. Make a donation for their school supplies; contact state and national government. We need to make this a priority. All of us, but especially the children, are already suffering the consequences of our apathy.
- Nikishka Stewart
Anchorage
Big cuts will spark recession
I've heard many oppose an income tax in Alaska because they are angry at the thought that the state would take any of their money that they have earned. They say an income tax would stifle private business. But in Alaska the public and private sector depend on each other. Costs are high in Alaska and Alaska is far from other markets and has a small population.
Severely curtailing state spending causes Alaska's economy to go into a recession. It is difficult for private businesses to prosper when there are few customers. In the late '80s when state spending was drastically cut, more than 40,000 people left the state. All of us who were here in the late '80s remember the vacant and boarded-up homes. It was a good time to rent or buy a house, if you had a decent job. It was not a good time if you were a landlord or if you wanted to sell your house.
People also want to live in vibrant communities with good schools. I would not recommend a family with children move to Alaska if all the proposed school cuts take place.
I respect people who work in private businesses. But without stable revenue for state government, we won't have a stable environment for private businesses to prosper.
- Jeanne Foy
Juneau
What Senate GOP leaders want
Senate Republican leaders want:
· to give $360 million in cash subsidies to oil companies,
· cut schools,
· cut help for seniors,
· leave an $800 million deficit,
· and blame everyone else for not blessing their backward priorities.
Why do Senate Republicans want to cut the PFD instead of levying a fair income tax on the rich?
Because their campaign funding comes from Big Oil and the rich. They don't care about the future. They lie and say "trickle down" will get you a job.
- John Kaufman
Anchorage
End abortion now
Recently, the Alaska House introduced a very important pro-life bill. The Life at Conception Act would make killing pre-born children illegal. In other words, the Life at Conception Act stops abortions. This is music to many people's ears. So far, Rep. David Eastman is the only sponsor of the bill.
Abortion kills the innocent pre-born child that is alive and has a beating heart. It is very interesting that a single-celled bacterium on another planet is considered life, yet the unborn human embryo is not. However, in federal law a person who murders a pregnant woman is charged with two homicides. It's interesting seeing that if the mother wants to kill her baby, she can, in the process of abortion.
Whether we like it or not, abortion is murder. Can we come together and end abortion as a state? Will you stand against the genocide of our generation? What shall your children say about you? Join the movement. End abortion today by calling your Alaska state representative and demanding that they end abortion by becoming a co-sponsor of the Alaska Life At Conception Act.
- William Deaton
Cordova
Even the healthiest people can develop pre-existing conditions
Eric Olenick suggested, in a May 31 letter to the editor, that it is perfectly OK for individuals with pre-existing health concerns and unhealthy living habits to pay more for health insurance compared to those who do not have pre-existing health concerns and unhealthy lifestyles. He seems to think that all pre-existing conditions are related to unhealthy lifestyles. In fact, that is not always the case and, further, one could argue that some healthy lifestyle habits may, in fact, predispose one to something that becomes a pre-existing condition.
Take, for example, the case of an adult who, in a quest to stay physically fit, opts out of a daily automobile drive to work in favor of a daily bicycle ride. That healthy lifestyle habit becomes a pre-existing condition in the instant that he and his bicycle are hit by a car, causing leg and hip injuries that never heal quite properly; he now has a pre-existing condition. Or consider the case of Jim Fixx, author of "The Complete Book of Running," who at age 52, while on his daily 10-mile run, experienced sudden death from a heart attack, despite no previous warning signs of heart disease - except his father's death from a heart attack at a young age. And what about the 6.9 of every 100,000 people under 20 years of age who develop leukemia or a cancer of the brain or central nervous system? While risk factors for those cancers can occasionally be identified, from 75 percent to 90 percent of those cancers occur in children with no identifiable risk factors. Yet every single one of those children will be considered to have a pre-existing condition for their entire lives.
My point, of course, is that Mr. Olenick is only seconds away from his own pre-existing condition even if he faithfully implements healthy lifestyle habits; if he lives into his 50s and beyond, he will almost certainly develop pre-existing condition(s) related to the aging process. And, of course, any children that he may produce would also have the potential to develop a pre-existing condition unrelated to any unhealthy lifestyle habit.
I'll bet that he would be outraged to be priced out of the health insurance market if he or one of his children develops a pre-existing condition.
- Tina D. DeLapp
emerita professor of nursing
Anchorage
A note to Alaska's senators
Just wanted to let you know that because of your inability to work with the House members to provide a balanced budget, we are now shopping for colleges Outside to provide a reliable education for our family.
- John LeClair
Anchorage
Newspaper has cut too much
We have had your paper delivered for almost 30 years. I understand price increases. However, you keep cutting services and adding cost. I did not complain when you cut the Saturday publication. But when you decided the stop printing the TV guide, well, that's the straw that broke the camel's back. Therefore, my husband and I have decided we no longer need or want your services. I will be notifying my bank today to cease auto pay to you.
Yes, you may print this. However, I will not be reading; I'll not be receiving your paper any longer.
- Verda Lewis
Palmer
Words of wisdom
The inscription on the monumental Boston Public Library, built in 1895, reads, "The Commonwealth Requires the Education of the People as the Safeguard of Order and Liberty."
- Janet McCabe
Anchorage
Don't put party above country
Sen. Murkowski and Sen. Sullivan, are you listening? Your constituents are afraid that you are going to take their health care away, Do not put party above country. One Alaskan losing health care should mean that you should lose your health care if it by your vote. Your responsibility should be to the least of us, not the rich and powerful. Medicare for all! And all means all.
- Bill Harbin
Anchorage
The center will hold as long
as we keep our faith
From the poem "Second Coming" by William Butler Yeats:
"Turning and turning in the widening gyre
The falcon cannot hear the falconer;
Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold;
Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world,
The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere
The ceremony of innocence is drowned;
The best lack all conviction, while the worst
Are full of passionate intensity."
Our country is in for a time of turbulence unlike anything we've ever seen. There's too much smoke and embers for there not to be a fire somewhere close to or in the White House. Sometimes I get discouraged when I listen to people, some that I know well and some talking heads on TV that I would like to respect, defend the man currently in the White House. Some have a charming naïvete, some are angry and raging at the world, some lack an understanding of how the world actually functions and some, I fear, have sold their integrity and souls for a chance at power that would allow them to bend the people around them to their will.
But here's the thing: They cannot succeed if the center holds. And we are the center. As long as we hold faith in our Constitution, the checks and balances of our system; as long as we hold faith in our fellow Americans, then the center holds. We must not hide ourselves away wrapped in a cloak of depression and dismay. We must support one another and hold all our leaders accountable. We must hold to the better angels of our nature and we must support one another, lending strength to one another when needed. And we must not be cowed by angry, hateful people who want to believe that the tactics of a bully will somehow keep them safe. We must find in our hearts forgiveness for those who have been duped by a con man and blindly believe and follow him because he said he was a Christian. They will perhaps be the most damaged when this is all over.
Sun Tzu said that battles are won before they are ever fought; they are won in the temples of the mind. Russia has tampered with the soul of our democracy and there is mounting evidence that weak-minded, greedy politicians helped them do it. So, in the temple of your mind, keep your eye on the real enemy. Not your fellow Americans who may disagree with you but on the real enemy: Russia and weak-minded, greedy politicians who aided and abetted. Do that according to the best angels of your nature and the center will hold.
The center will hold.
- Dona Maloney, Ph.D.
Anchorage
To counter China, democratize and federalize our alliances
Make America great again? As Graham Allison points out in his new book "Destined for War: Can America and China Escape Thucydides's Trap?" China has already irreversibly overtaken the U.S. in many economic and related measures. The question now is will we respond to this upstart challenger with ignorant aggression or with a more sophisticated strategy?
Contrary to our tweeter in chief's misconceptions (and perhaps preferences), there is indeed a global democratic community of which we are (or have been) the unquestioned leader for a century.
"The West" - broadly conceived (e.g., to include Japan) - remains, and will remain, vastly richer and stronger than China can ever hope to be.
If we can find ways to deepen our cooperation with our NATO and OECD allies (for a start, later to include ASEAN, India, etc.), we - rather than China - can determine the rules of international trade (preferably with much more transparency) and make it clear to China that aggression (e.g., in the South China Sea) will not be tolerated.
To do all that, we need to democratize and federalize our alliances, projects that have been our specialty since the founding of our country, so we are (or have been) headed in the right direction. Onward!
- Rick Wicks
Anchorage
The views expressed here are the writers' own and are not necessarily endorsed by Alaska Dispatch News, which welcomes a broad range of viewpoints. To submit a letter under 200 words for consideration, email letters@alaskadispatch.com, or click here to submit via any web browser. Submitting a letter to the editor constitutes granting permission for it to be edited for clarity, accuracy and brevity. Send longer works of opinion to commentary@alaskadispatch.com.

Graphic

 


(Pixabay)

Load-Date: June 28, 2017


End of Document
