




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
February 18, 2001, Sunday


Copyright 2001, Telegraph-Herald
Section: Pg. e6
Length: 560 words
Byline: JIM SWENSON
Body


If there still is a moral fiber in our country, it's getting thinner and thinner.
Recent revelations of Jesse Jackson's affair, Hollywood marriage breakups and reports of increasing amounts of sex on television only weaken an already taut fiber.
Some people would prefer to not try to judge such occurrences. They'd rather downplay them or create excuses for moral breakdowns. They get uneasy if you even bring it up.
A few weeks ago, I read a newspaper column about Jackson's affair, written by a woman in Virginia. Her take on it was this: If only Jesse - and all other 50-plus males - would get a vasectomy, there wouldn't be a "problem." She went on to relate stories about other 50-plus men she knew who have cheated on their wives and impregnated women.
And, she said, she couldn't believe why these men wouldn't get the simple and painless operation to avoid making babies … while they cheat.
I can't believe the woman wrote that column with a straight face. It pains me to think that she's probably not the only person who looks at life's relationships that way.
Men such as Jackson, Bill Clinton and millions of others who can't seem to control themselves when it comes to fidelity don't have to involve other people. They can take the proverbial cold shower … go jogging … read a magazine, for heaven's sake.
To assume and to accept that men are going to cheat on their wives cuts at the very heart of our family values. When the Jacksons of the world commit adultery, we shouldn't be creating excuses or clauses for them, we should be morally insulted. Forgive them? Yes. Admire them? No.
Some of those Hollywood marriages - I prefer to call them temporary infatuation gratifications - offer a similar bad example.
Sure, Hollywood marriages have come and gone by the hundreds since the silent picture era. But why do so many analysts and commentators act so surprised when it happens? I mean, do you really believe Madonna is prepared to live happily ever after now that she's had a highly publicized marriage?
I get tired of seeing these stars act all kissy-face at premiers and get quoted in articles about how happy they finally are to find the one person they really want to spend the rest of their lives with …
And then a year or two later, they divorce.
It's a joke, and I'm not embarrassed to judge them as contributing to the moral decay of our country through their actions - on and off the screens.
On the TV screen, they contributed to 12 percent more sex in their programs last year than they did two years ago, according to a recent study.
Again, there has been sex on television and in the movies forever. But now it's reaching new highs.
And, if you listen to that shady pro wrestling guru Vince McMahon spouting off about his rapidly declining XFL: "I don't think there's ever too much sex."
Well, Vince, yes there is. When sex becomes addictive, like anything else, it destroys people. There are many more victims than just the perpetrators. Most of them are innocent, yet they still suffer.
Nevertheless, until more of us make some basic judgments on what is moral and what is immoral, people are going to continue to suffer. Urging men to get a vasectomy rather than to be faithful is simply immoral.
Sitting by and saying, "It's not my place to judge," just doesn't cut it.
It's time to take a stand.
You can e-mail Swenson at  .  

Load-Date: February 20, 2001


End of Document
