




The Daily Caller
August 19, 2024 Monday 07:44 PM EST


Copyright 2024 The Daily Caller, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; politics
Length: 1279 words
Byline: Mary Rooke, Commentary and Analysis Writer, 
Mary Rooke is a Catholic mom of four and author of the Daily Caller's column featuring based takes on modern-day insanities. She also writes analysis for Patriot subscribers.

Body



Behind the curtain of Vice President Kamala Harris's popularity lies dissension in the Democrat party's ranks and everyday Americans who aren't buying the official narrative about the media's new “it” girl.
Democrat convention goers began arriving in Chicago on Sunday to enjoy a week of racially segregated meetings, , and lectures about decency and democracy from the same people who installed a presidential candidate without a single primary vote being cast. Still, while some feel energetic about being a part of Harris's supposed historic nomination, thousands are waiting in the streets, ready to riot.
 'It Makes Me Doubt My Party': Former Clinton Pollster Calls Out Dems For Lacking 'Backbone' To Condemn DNC Protests 
 - Daily Caller (@DailyCaller) 
Politico  a desperate attempt to ignore the brewing chaos already at the DNC. “Democrats arrive here, a city that's played host to so many drama-filled political conventions, as a party lacking in drama. They are disciplined, orderly, and united around Vice President Kamala Harris and, more to the point, thwarting former President Donald Trump's restoration,” wrote Jonathan Martin, Politico's senior political columnist and politics bureau chief.  

LARGO, MARYLAND - AUGUST 15: U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris gives remarks alongside U.S. President Joe Biden at Prince George's Community College on August 15, 2024 in Largo, Maryland. Biden and Harris held the event to talk about their administration's efforts to lower drug costs. This event is the first time President Biden and Vice President Harris have appeared in public together since Biden announced he would be stepping down from running for re-election. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)
While Martin acknowledged that “protests over the Middle East”... “[threaten] the Democrats' fragile coalition and electoral map,” he still believes that “Democrats are a healthier, better organized, more hierarchical and even ruthless party” than Republicans.
  NOW: Protestors are surrounding the DNC Welcome Party with a MASSIVE banner reading “K*LLER KAMALA”
 This comes just moments after the party was CRASHED by a protestor that got inside
 OFF TO A STRONG START!  
 - Nick Sortor (@nicksortor) 
He must not have viewed the viral video of pro-Palestinian protesters crashing the DNC welcome party or the thousands who marched in the street chanting about Harris being complicit in genocide in Gaza. Maybe he didn't see that local businesses are boarding up their windows and doors as if there is an unspoken reality that far-left activism automatically equates to cities burning down.
 NOW: disruption inside the DNC delegate welcome party on the stage at Navy Pier!!  
 - Angela Van Der Pluym (@anjewla90) 
In the last month, the Democrat party committed a coup against President Joe Biden's campaign and stomped on primary voters like useless ants to install Harris, who has been heckled and booed at several campaign events and fumbled the ball on her economic policy rollout. The party is in disarray; even its platform still references “President Joe Biden's second term”  despite him being pushed out weeks ago. Still, after all of this, Democrat shills in regime media will tell you with a straight face and a twinkle in their eye that the party with Harris at the helm is “brutally efficient, on-message, establishment-driven and singularly committed to winning general elections.”
 'That's Scary': Van Jones Distraught That Harris Hasn't Pulled Away From Trump Despite 'Positive Press' 
 - Daily Caller (@DailyCaller) 
That probably explains the complete shock on former CNN host Don Lemon's face when he asked Atlantic City voters which president they wanted in November: Harris or former President Donald Trump. In the 2-minute clip, Americans told Lemon various reasons why they would be voting for Trump or thought he would win, including the economy and lack of experience. Instead of listening to their concerns, Lemon told the man how great the economy was and that everything else was just a figment of his imagination. 

GLENDALE, ARIZONA - AUGUST 9: Democratic presidential candidate, U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris and Democratic vice presidential candidate Minnesota Governor Tim Walz take a selfie in front of a sign that reads “Kamala and The Coach” during stop at a campaign office on August 9, 2024 in Glendale, Arizona. Kamala Harris and her newly selected running mate Tim Walz are campaigning across the country this week. Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
“I know you feel that way, but that's not actually what the record shows. The economy is actually better under Biden,” Lemon said. Thankfully, the cameraman got the guy's reaction, which was to laugh at Lemon's smug face.
 Hey Jersey...Trump or Harris?  
 - Don Lemon (@donlemon) 
In a similar exchange, ABC's Martha Raddatz went to Wisconsin to ask locals about the presidential election when she happened upon an undecided black female voter, Melody Davy.

WASHINGTON, DC - OCTOBER 30: U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris introduces President Joe Biden during an event about their administration's work to regulate artificial intelligence in the East Room of the White House on October 30, 2023 in Washington, DC. President Biden issued a new executive order on Monday, directing his administration to create a new chief AI officer, track companies developing the most powerful AI systems, adopt stronger privacy policies and “both deploy AI and guard against its possible bias,” creating new safety guidelines and industry standards. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Davy told Raddatz that while she hasn't officially decided, she is leaning toward Trump. Not only does Davy not like Harris ripping off Trump's economic policies, like his push for no tax on tips, but she also believes that Harris has lied about her heritage to gain favor with black voters. Raddatz's reaction to Davy was to accuse her of falling for “Trump's rhetoric.”
 ABC's Martha Raddatz insults black Trump voter in Wisconsin:
 “Trump's rhetoric has clearly had an effect on her in an astonishing way.”
 After this young voter lists off Kamala's stealing of Trump's ideas and her lying, the DNC activist Raddatz concludes:
 “There was just no... 
 - Western Lensman (@WesternLensman) 
Propagandists like Raddatz and Lemon are part of a dying machine that is out of touch with mainstream America. Despite their claims, the economy is not better under the Biden-Harris administration, and you don't need complex economic theories to prove it. Every trip to the grocery store, back-to-school shopping, and energy bill is enough of a gut punch to make the point. 
Harris has been riding the wave of celebrity endorsements, the media class drooling over her, and elites shelling out cash. Still, she is running into a political seawall because all her hype is manufactured by the same people who sneer at working-class voters and tell them the economy isn't that bad. Trump's ability to speak to these people and acknowledge their plight makes his campaign so effective against Harris.

Graphic

 
MOON TOWNSHIP, PENNSYLVANIA - AUGUST 18: Democratic presidential candidate, U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to reporters outside of Primanti Bros. Restaurant on August 18, 2024 in Moon Township, Pennsylvania. Harris, along with Democratic vice presidential candidate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz, his wife Gwen Walz and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff are participating in a campaign bus tour through out cities around western Pennsylvania. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images)

Load-Date: August 19, 2024


End of Document
