




Rolling Stone
August 16, 2024


Copyright 2024 Penske Media Corporation All Rights Reserved


Length: 490 words
Byline: Sage Anderson
Body


If you purchase an independently reviewed product or service through a link on our website, Rolling Stone may receive an affiliate commission.
Taking these iconic  frenemies from the big screen and onto bar shelves, Aviation American Gin (co-owned by Ryan Reynolds AKA Wade Wilson) have released  inspired by the newly released  film, which hit theaters on July 26. Besides featuring designs with different Deadpool variants, in honor of the film's debut, the brand also dropped a  at the forefront, officially welcoming him to the Deadpool Ginematic Universe after years of tough-and-cheek commercials of Reynolds beefing with Hugh Jackman. 

According to , the bottles are "encased in a sleek black glass and accented with yellow custom strip stamps and metallic details" and is "filled with the same perfectly crisp, smooth Aviation American Gin consumers know and love." As some of the  currently out there, you can now bring the dynamic duo together on your bar cart - no backseat-of-the-car beat-downs necessary. Feel free to sit back, pour yourself a "Wolverine Sunrise," and  to sip to the sounds of 'NSync and Stray Kids. 
Many cocktail connoisseurs credit  for the ginaissance, a new wave of gin enjoyment amongst average Americans. Even if Ryan Reynolds didn't create the company himself, when he took his first sip of Aviation American Gin in 2018, it was clear that it was worth investing in - and he's since purchased the brand. Founded in Portland,  is a great spirit if you're not looking for something too dry for a Wolverine-worthy tasting gin, or even if you don't normally turn to the spirit for your signature cocktail order.

The gin is s, with subtle top notes of peppery spice, a hint of floral juniper, and finishing off with a base layer of citrus. You'll get a softer, more pure flavor, too thanks to the unique distilling process and commitment to crafting the gin in smaller, 100-case batches. Reynolds is not unknown for his stunts advertising Aviation, such as introducing the gin's "" on Father's Day last year, but the launch of these sleek bottles is relatively tame in comparison. 


The good news is that these "beautiful, rare pieces of art," won't cost you more than the traditional Aviation American Gin offerings, priced starting at $38.99 per bottle and $94.98 for the  - but they are limited. According to the distillery, the bottles are only available to buy in Florida, California, Texas, New York, and Oregon, and "just like summer romances," these anti-heroes of Aviation won't be around for much longer, so be sure to snag one on  while you still can. 

Load-Date: August 15, 2024


End of Document
