




The Jambar: Youngstown State University
September 18, 2013 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2013 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 546 words
Body


The idea of birth control can be dated back to ancient times that may be well beyond recorded data. Using intestines as condoms and lemon halves as a diaphragm are two examples of early contraceptive protection methods.
Michael Clayton, associate professor at Youngstown State University, said the safe and truly effective methods of birth control can only really be traced back to the 20th century.
One - if not the most used - method of birth control is the combined oral contraceptive pill. This method is strictly for females, meaning they are responsible for taking the pills and must deal with the side effects of hormonal imbalances.
Culturally, women have been tasked with the responsibility of using birth control. Clayton said that women and men are tasked with different responsibilities depending on how gender roles are viewed in different cultures.
"Throughout history, men and women have always had different expectations and different roles in many cultures. [In] some cultures, the males are tasked with different responsibilities than women. Generally, women in most cultures are the ones that handle having responsibility better," he said.
There are many reasons why a man might chose not to wear a condom during intercourse, but Clayton said that there is one major factor that turns up the most.
"The major reason men don't wear condoms is because they say it doesn't feel the same," Clayton said. "Money is put into trying to make the condom thinner for that purpose."
Nathan Unger, a second year YSU student, said he doesn't see why people wouldn't use protection.
"When you're struggling to get through college, and you're managing all your money and time, having unprotected sex and running the risk of a child being thrown into the mix is not a good thing," Unger said.
There are only two choices of birth control for men: condoms and a vasectomy. For women: there is the birth control pill, a diaphragm, and spermicide - just to name a common few.
A male contraceptive pill could be the next option in male birth control. With a male contraceptive pill, the levels of testosterone - the male hormone that allows the body to know when sperm needs to be created - would be increased to help stop the creation of new sperm while on the pill. The male pill would tell a man's body that there is already enough sperm that does not need to be replaced.
Rex Bakos, a fourth year student at YSU, was very positive on the idea for a male birth control pill.
"I would take a birth control pill for men; I feel like it would just make everything easier between both people in a relationship," Bakos said.
Zach Torocsik, a third year student at YSU, said he wasn't very keen on the idea of a male birth control pill.
"I wouldn't take a pill because of the hormonal imbalances that would have to occur for the pill to work. It just doesn't seem beneficial to the body," Torocsik said.
Clayton said that with such a small demographic for something that could be as beneficial as a male birth control pill, it makes the creation of a pill almost unbeneficial. Continuing to make thinner condoms seems to disregard the reason for having condoms.
"Bill Gates is willing to put up a million to fund a next generation condom. So it's going to be a project for years to come," Clayton said.

Load-Date: September 20, 2013


End of Document
