




National Journal
May 3, 2003


Copyright 2003 The National Journal, Inc.
Section:  COLUMN; Vol. 35, No. 18
Length: 1426 words
Byline:  Stuart Taylor Jr.
Highlight: Santorum's remarks are more plausible as legal analysis than most
critics have acknowledged.
Body


"If the Supreme Court says that you have the right to consensual
sex within your home, then you have the right to bigamy, you have
the right to polygamy, you have the right to incest, you have the
right to adultery. You have the right to anything… The
definition of marriage has not ever to my knowledge included
homosexuality. That's not to pick on homosexuality. It's not, you
know, man on child, man on dog, or whatever the case may be."
For those words, Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., has been
widely denounced by many Democrats and some moderate Republicans
as a raving homophobic bigot. And it was indeed offensive to so
casually associate the millions of decent people who happen to be
gay with practices almost universally condemned as immoral.
But Santorum's remarks are more plausible as legal
analysis, in the context of a major gay-rights case now before
the Supreme Court, than most critics have acknowledged.
Meanwhile, Santorum's assertion in the same April 7 interview
that there should be no constitutional right to privacy reveals
an agenda that is more controversial than most of his defenders
seem to understand.
The issue in Lawrence v. Texas, which the justices heard
on March 26 and will probably decide by late June, is whether to
strike down as unconstitutional a Texas law making it a crime to
engage in homosexual sodomy. The answer should be yes, and I
think it will be. "To criminalize any enjoyment of their sexual
powers by a whole category of persons is either an imposition of
a very great cruelty or an exercise in hypocrisy inviting
arbitrary and abusive applications of the criminal law," in the
words of Harvard Law professor Charles Fried, a conservative who
was President Reagan's solicitor general.
But there are at least two ways to strike down the Texas
law. And the narrower way would not lead toward the slippery
slope of which Santorum warns.
The broad way to strike down the Texas law would be to
hold that constitutionally protected privacy includes "the right
to be free from governmental intrusion into, and criminalization
of, private sexual relations between consenting adults," as the
Human Rights Campaign and more than 25 other groups argue in an
amicus brief.
Santorum has a point in asserting that such a ruling
could put us on a slippery slope toward legalizing some forms of
incest, the most repellent of the practices he listed. Indeed, by
5-4, the Supreme Court held in 1986, in Bowers v. Hardwick, that
if the Court were to recognize an unqualified right to "voluntary
sexual conduct between consenting adults, it would be difficult,
except by fiat, to limit the claimed right to homosexual conduct
while leaving exposed to prosecution adultery, incest, and other
sexual crimes" within the home.
To be sure, consensual sex does not violate laws against
adultery, bigamy, or polygamy unless it breaches a contract of
marriage, which is a state-created privilege conditioned upon a
vow to have sex only with one's spouse and to have only one
spouse at a time. And incest is not consensual in the bulk of
cases, which involve parental rape or seduction of minor
children.
But what about what one law professor delicately calls
"Lord Byron's problem"-consensual sex between an adult brother
and sister? (In Byron's case it was a half-sister.) While that
practice would, unlike gay sex, often risk producing children
with serious birth defects, the risk is non-existent for
infertile women and can be eliminated for others by vasectomy,
sterilization, contraception, or abortion. Besides, privacy
advocates (and the Court) would surely reject the notion that
states can bar people with heritable defects from having
children.
Might Lord Byron's problem nonetheless be outlawed
because it has long been despised as repugnant and immoral? Not
if there is an unqualified constitutional right to consensual
adult sex. And sodomy, no less than sibling incest, has for
centuries been subject to "condemnation … firmly rooted in
Judeo-Christian moral and ethical standards," as the late Chief
Justice Warren E. Burger stressed in a concurrence in Bowers v.
Hardwick. Public opinion is moving toward majority support for a
right to have gay sex. But it's not there yet.
So Santorum's legal analysis was not as outlandish as
many have suggested. Indeed, he would have been on the mark had
he phrased it like this: If the Supreme Court said you have the
right to consensual sex within your home, it would be a giant
step toward a right to commit incest with your adult brother or
sister and (at least if you are unmarried) to have group orgies.
Many libertarians would counter that the Court should
recognize such a broad freedom-of-consensual-sex principle, just
as it has long recognized freedom-of-speech principles broad
enough to protect hard pornography and hate speech. I would
agree. But I suspect that the justices will avoid such a sweeping
expansion of the right to privacy, which is rooted in the due
process clause. One reason is that-because the Texas law forbids
gay couples from engaging in sexual practices that are lawful for
heterosexual couples-the Court can strike it down on narrower,
equal-protection-of-the-law grounds. Another is that headlines
such as "Court Legalizes Sodomy and Incest" would generate a more
forceful backlash than "Court Bans Discrimination Against Gay
Sex."
The narrow way of striking down the laws criminalizing
homosexual (but not heterosexual) sodomy in Texas and three other
states would be to rule that even though rarely enforced, they
seek to condemn a whole class of millions of gay Americans to
lifelong, involuntary sexual abstinence, and to stigmatize them
as criminal deviants. Laws criminalizing Lord Byron's problem
have no comparable effect, because few if any people can hope to
find sexual fulfillment only with their siblings. And such a
ruling could avoid any discussion of the laws in nine other
states that ban heterosexual and homosexual sodomy alike. (To be
sure, these laws affect gays disproportionately and could be
struck down for that reason.)
The argument for striking down the Texas law is far
stronger than was the Court's basis in 1996 for using the equal
protection clause to void a Colorado ballot referendum that would
have barred enactment of any state or local laws against anti-gay
discrimination in employment, housing, and public accommodations.
(It would have also repealed all existing gay-and-lesbian-rights
laws.) That 6-3 decision, Romer v. Evans, held that states cannot
"make [gays] unequal to everyone else," and that the Colorado
provision "lacks a rational relationship to legitimate state
interests" because it "seems inexplicable by anything but animus
toward the class that it affects."
Santorum, a devout Roman Catholic, said in the April 7
interview that he is driven not by animus but by his conviction
that "this freedom"-which I read to mean the freedom to engage in
any sex outside of traditional marriage-is "antithetical to
strong, healthy families." There may be a modicum of truth here.
But in an era of rampant adultery, divorce, unhappy marriages,
spousal violence, child abuse, deadbeat dads, premarital sex,
birth control, out-of-wedlock births, and working couples whose
kids spend most waking hours in day care centers, it seems far-
fetched to list gay sex as one of the real threats to the
traditional family.
Speaking of slippery slopes, Santorum's assertion on
April 7 that the "right to privacy … doesn't exist in my
opinion in the United States Constitution" would take the law in
a direction far more objectionable than would the "right to
anything" that he is so worried about. By explicitly rejecting
Griswold v. Connecticut, the 1965 decision that established the
constitutional right of married couples to use contraceptives,
Santorum suggested that states should be free to ban
contraception, period. And his apparent goal of overruling the
entire 80-year line of right-to-privacy decisions would not only
be a step toward allowing states to criminalize all premarital
and extramarital sex; Rick Santorum's America might also be a
place in which states would be free to mandate sterilization of
convicts and retarded people.
Santorum did not mention those issues specifically. But
the right to privacy that he assails was the main basis for the
Court's rulings in Skinner v. Oklahoma, in 1942, banning forced
sterilization of certain convicts; and Pierce v. Society of the
Sisters, in 1925, guaranteeing parents the right to choose
private or religious schools for their children. (Pierce could
be, but was not, based on the First Amendment independent of the
right to privacy.) How would Americans like to see those
decisions overruled?

Load-Date: May 5, 2003


End of Document
