




Financial Markets Regulatory Wire
July 9, 2015 Thursday


Copyright  2015 CQ-Roll Call, Inc.	All Rights Reserved
All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of CQ Transcriptions. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
Body


EVENT DATE: July 9, 2015
TYPE: COMMITTEE HEARING
LOCATION: WASHINGTON, D.C.
COMMITTEE: SENATE COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
SPEAKER: SEN. RON JOHNSON, CHAIRMAN
WITNESSES:
SEN. RON JOHNSON, R-WIS. CHAIRMAN
SEN. THOMAS R. CARPER, D-DEL. RANKING MEMBER
WITNESSES: KEITH HALL, DIRECTOR OF THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
SEN. MICHAEL B. ENZI, R-WYO.
SEN. JON TESTER, D-MONT.
SEN. CORY BOOKER, D-N.J.
SEN. CLAIRE MCCASKILL, D-MO.
JOHNSON:  Good morning.  This committee hearing will come to order.  I want to welcome the director of the Congressional Budget Office Dr. Keith Hall here today.  And, you know, certainly, thank you for your time and your appearance and your thoughtful testimony.  
      The issues we're going to deal within this hearing are difficult. Whereas, being the director ahead of time, how do you convey to the American public the depth of the problems so that we collectively can take the first step in solving any problem which is the meaning we got it?  And that's, you know, I've done a lot of problem solving in my manufacturing background and you have to first layout  reality, understand, you know, definition of problem, describe it properly but you really have to take that first step.  And we really got a problem if you have any hope of solving them.  
      This committee has a mission statement and I don't think we can repeat it enough.  It's to enhance the economic and national security of America.  And I think this hearing is going to address both of those components because I believe and I agree with former chairman of the Joint of Chief Staff Admiral Mike Mullen when he said the greatest threat to our national security is literally our debt and deficit. We're going to be talking about our deficit now.  
      I would define the problem we're facing with in terms of our debt and deficit not as a 10-year budget window problem which is so much of what we're always grappling here with our budgets and 10-year budget window.  
      What we really have is we have a 30-year demographic problem here.  With all the Baby Boom generation, people like Senator Carper and myself, we got white hair.  Usually, his isn't quite as white as mine.  It's getting close, getting close.  
CARPER:  At least we still have hair, there you go.  
JOHNSON:  Where we're trying to raise 10,000 people per day, we made all these promises to the Baby Boom generation.  We really don't have way to pay for them and we've got to, you know, step up the play and admit that.  
      Part of the problem is we're not admitting it as political leadership and I've got to repeat this story because it's pretty relevant.  I was in the White House.  We, you know, to President Obama's credit, he did got a dinner with a number of us.  And probably maybe largely because of my prodding I ask the President what he's serious about making a dent in our debt and deficit, making White House fast available to us.  Let's start working.  Let's try and find those areas of agreement which is what we're trying to do in this committee is don't worry about things that divide us, concentrate in the areas of agreement.  And I'll send the entities of a pro effect (ph) in terms of legislation.  What can we agree on?  
      And so, I brought my accounting skills.  I brought that problem definition skills.  So we were in the White House for two hour meeting and President Obama came in for the last half.  And, you know, of course he wanted everything on the table.  
      I said "Fair (ph) enough, Mr. President.  If you want everything on the table here is how you do it."  And I  -- I've slit in front of them and try to look something similar to this, you know, 30 years by decade here is the size of the deficit.  You know, use your bullet pulpit.  Take the truth to the American public.  Make sure the American people understand the depth of the problem so the collectively we can take that first step in solving any problem which is admitting we have one.  
      You know what he said to me?  He said, "Ron, we can't show the American public numbers that big.  If we do, they'll get scared. They'll give up hope."  And he said, "Besides, Ron, we can't do all the work.  Wait to leave some work for future presidents, future Congresses."  
      That's not leadership that's an advocation of leadership.  So again the purpose of this hearing is to show the American people the truth.  And what we needed to do as much as I appreciate all the works CBO has done the long term projections.  Again, let's stipulate these are projections it's hard to fully understand and predict out in the future.  But we can take a look at projections we can compare those to previous history.  
      And as much as I understand the relevance and the necessity of looking at these things as a percent of GDP, the problem is most people don't deal in percentages but we deal with dollars, you know, that's how we pay for things.  So dollars are more relevant.  
      And so, I want to continue to work with Director Hall and the CBO.  And the economists they're trying to figure out a way to present the reality, the debt of the problem the American people so we understand it.  And I've got a lot of charts and graphs.  We developed a one year -- a one page income statement which is on the chart right now that pretty well lays it out.  I mean that's -- by the way, that's the purpose of any income statement. 
      Describe reality but describe reality for the purpose of directing action.  This one you're in -- this one page income statement does that, in one page this shows pretty much the financial situation of America on income basis and it shows that social security will pay out about $14 trillion more in benefits than takes in the material facts (ph) over the next 30 years.  
      Medicare pays out about $34 trillion more, and then the rest of the $103 trillion deficit over 30 years which we're going to talk about today is interest on the debt.  Three elements, social security deficit, medicare deficit, and interest on the debt drive that $103 trillion unsustainable deficit.  
      We need to understand that.  But let me just throw out more little factor that I'd hear and I think hopefully will grab the attention of the audience of the members of the committee and hope the American public.  We're all witnessing pretty much a collapse of Greece's welfare system or unstable that model is.  And again, we here this all the time I've been in here now four and a half years and I've heard witness after witness talks about how our current fiscal situation in America is unsustainable.  
      Let's just do a comparison, we calculated this number as of the end of the first quarter so they're comparable between Greece and America.  Today or at the end of March in America every American share of our current federal debt as March 31st, 2015, every American share, my share, my kids share, my grandchild share is $56,710.  By comparison, the share of every Greeks, share of their debt in Greece is $30,786.  So Americans on individual basis our share, our federal debt is almost double what Greek share is of their federal debt.  
      Now don't we have the rights on the streets, you know, why don't we have a financial crisis today like Greece has?  Well, because we're the world's reserve currency, and we can in fact print money to fund this debt.  
      Greece's creditors run out of patience at some point in time American creditors are going to run out of patience they're going to look at America and say "You know, you're not very serious, when coming in terms of the debt and deficit.  We're not going to loan you anymore money or we're certainly not going to loan it at that interest rate."  
      At that point interest rates spiked for every one percent increase in interest rate.  That's a $180 billion more debt turn to our interest payments.  That's what we're dealing with, that's what we got trying to convey, that's what we have to admit.  
      So again I ask unanimous consent to enter my written statement into the record -- my opening statement.  With that I'll turn it over to Senator Carper for his comments.  
CARPER:  Thanks, sir.  Thanks, Mr. Chairman.  (inaudible) welcome Dr. Hall.  Thanks.  Very nice to see you again.  And I'd ask you that my first statement be made a part of the record. 
      Just want to respond and maybe add a couple of thoughts for us to keep in mind.  Here (ph) the committee say the only thing that new in the world of history where we never learned or forgot and I want to just go back in time a little bit.  
      It's not that long ago we actually had four balance budgets in a row.  And we had a Republican Congress and we had a Democratic president, Bill Clinton.  And when he left office, he turned over a a surplus and we have strongest economy on earth.  We're flying high. Eight years later we turn to the action administration turn over an economy that was going down -- gone down and some were afraid we're going to go down for the count.  
      The weeks that this president -- current president, this vice- president was wanting to ask (inaudible).  With that one week along we lost -- 628,000 people signed up for unemployment insurance.  Think about that.  628,000.  2.5 million people lost their jobs in the last six months of 2008.  Another 2.5 million lost their jobs in the first six months of 2009.  Budget deficit that year was $1.4 trillion.  
      And we have slowly but surely climbed out of the that (ph) and it's not because this administration, it's not because of Congress. It's a lot of facts.  And I hope, you know, dozens could blame this stuff went go badly.  They also sometimes credible things that -- when things go well.  
      But -- we're hell a lot in better shape than we were I think six and a half years ago.  The deficit for this year is -- and when -- deficit at $1.4 trillion is about 10 percent of GDP.  10 percent -- that's a lot.  It's about 3 percent of GDP.  I think that's a lot.  
      I'm an old state treasurer.  I was treasurer there when we had the worst credit rating in America.  We're tied for (inaudible) last, Puerto Rico.  We were in such bad shape that we sell revenue anticipation notes.  Revenue -- tax exempt revenue anticipation just to make payroll to pay -- make our pension payments.  
      We're the best in the country in overestimating revenues and underestimating spending.  That's how we got the worst credit rate in the country.  
      So I blame the (inaudible) old governor for these jobs.  I think there are like three things.  Think throughout the pie chart of how we spend money in the federal government.  Over half of it is entitlement spending.  Over half of it is entitlement spending.  5 percent to 10 percent is debt service.  The biggest part of what's left is defense spending.  And then, the remainder is non-defense discretionary spending.  
      We can wipe out entirely non-defense discretionary spending.  We still have a deficit.  So we got some work to do here.  The (inaudible) Commission said, really, maybe three things we need to focus on.  One of those is entitlement spending.  That does not (inaudible) people but it actually finds way to save money in these programs.  Make sure they're going to be around for our kids and grandchildren.  And that's our challenge. And I think we got to be up to that.  We can't walk away from that. I think we kept chipping it away with the growth and health care cost which use to be going up by 18 percent of GDP.  We're down now about 17.5 percent.  We're trending down in terms of health care cost percent of GDP.  We got to continue to bring that down, find out what works, do more of that.  
      The -- so entitlement reform number 1.  Number 2, tax reform.  I most emphasize broaden the base, lower the rates, whatever revenues we regenerate to make sure that something goes against reduction (ph).  I think that makes a lot of sense.  And the last thing that they said to do is to look at everything that we do, everything we do in government and say, "How do we get a better result for less money?"  Every single thing.  
      I'll never -- and I'm sure everybody in the committee remembers something that some -- one of our constituents said to us, "Maybe the hearing, maybe at home that we just have never forgotten."  I'll never forget a town hall meeting, when I was a congressman, I used to do a lot of town hall meetings and a woman said to me, "I don't ming paying taxes.  I just don't want you to waste my money."  That's what she said.  "I don't mind paying taxes.  I just don't want you to waste my money."  
      One of the reasons I want to be on this committee is because we focus on finding ways not to waste people's money, not to waste taxpayers' money.  
      So I'm more delighted that you're here, Dr. Hall.  I'll say one -- maybe one last thing.  The idea of budgeting -- so we use budget for like year to year to year to year, and then they (inaudible) 10- year budgets now.  We'll look out as far as 20 years.  And the -- if you actually look at 20 years and look how much money we'll actually save by implementing most of the Affordable Care Act, we save hundreds of billions of dollars over the next 20 years, even more than that.  
      If we could somehow figure out how to do something close to comprehensive immigration reform, we'd save hundreds of billions of dollars and our GDP would go as well,  
      And the last thing I'd say is this.  If we can somehow put our heads together and put our heads around a way to fully find a secure transportation plan -- robust secure transportation plan, we can see global institute (inaudible) gave us these numbers.  Here's what he said, 1.8 million new jobs created, and GDP to go by 1.5 percent a year for annually, annually.  And that's worth doing.  And it's also worth paying for as well.  
      So with that, we're glad you're here and look forward to hearing from you. I' could be in and out (ph).  We're going to finance on transportation planning right now, so I need to be in that.  So I apologize for that.  But thanks for joining us.  
JOHNSON:  Good luck to you.  And (inaudible) members.  So it is the tradition of this committee to swear in witnesses, so if you please rise and raise your right hand.  Do you swear the testimony you will give before this committee will the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth so help you God?  
HALL:  I do.  
JOHNSON:  Thank you.  Please be seated.  Our sole witness today is Dr. Keith Hall (inaudible) the Director of the Congressional Budget Office.  On April 1st he became the director.  He has previously served as chief economist at the International Trade Commission, is senior research fellow at the Mercatus or Mercatus Center at George Mason University, commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, chief economist for the White House Council of Economic Advisers, and assistant professor at the University of Arkansas.  And, Dr. Hall.  
HALL:  Thank you.  Chairman Johnson, Senator Carper, and members of the committee, thank you for the opportunity to testify in the Congressional Budget Office has recently released assessment of the long-term outlook for the federal budget.  
      CBO has frequently expressed concerns about the likelihood of that undercurrent law, the federal government's debt will rise over the next few decades to a level rarely seen in U.S. history.  And we are pleased to provide some analysis that will help this committee to focus attention on that worrisome prospect.  
      Let me first talk about that projected increase in debt.  CBO's long-term outlook for the federal budget has changed little since last year.  If current laws remain generally unchanged in the future, we expect that federal debt held by the public will decline slightly relative to GDP over the next few years as the economy continues to move towards greater recovery from the great recession.  
      After that, however, the effects of our aging population in rising health care cost will become more apparent and growing budget deficits will push that back to and above its current higher level. The said deficit will go from less than 3 percent of GDP this year to more than 6 percent of GDP in 2040.  At that point, the already high federal debt held by the public would have risen above 100 percent of GDP.  
      We're making comparisons between amounts of debt in different years.  CBO typically expresses debt as a percentage of GDP.  Although that measure is not perfect, there are other ways of putting the amount of debt into perspective.  This has the advantage of getting some indication of the ability of the U.S. to reduce or eliminate debt in the future.  The accounts for changes in price levels population output and income over time.  All of which are important in assessing the sustainability of the budget.  
      This is a household income and assets or a measure of how much debt it can reasonably bear, GDP broadly conveys the means available to finance debt held by the public.  I should reiterate that CBO made these projections under the assumption that current law remains the same.  In that case, rising incomes would push tax revenues to a level that is high by historical standards relative to GDP.  
      Also spending for programs other than social security and the major health programs would be quite low by historical standards relative to GDP.  If the law did change in a way that kept revenues in spending for those programs close to the historical averages, the result would be even higher (inaudible).  
      Though the long-term outlook has worsened dramatically since 2007, CBO -- in that year, CBO projected that the federal debt would be below its historical average in each of the next 25 years if current law to that time had remained unchanged.  But then some major changes came along, specifically the great recession and some significant alterations to tax and spending laws.  
      In 2009 to 2012, budget deficits were the largest relative to the size of the economy in any year since 1946, causing the government's debt to soar.  The total amount of federal debt held by the public nearly doubled during that period, it is now about $13 trillion. That's equivalent to about 74 percent of the economy's annual output, a higher percentage that at any point in U.S. history, except the brief period around World War II.  
      Under current law, debt is projected to rise continuously relative to the size of the economy in the long run.  That path could not be sustained indefinitely.  Investors would eventually begin to doubt the ability of the government to cut spending or raise revenues by enough to pay its debt obligations.  Such a fiscal crisis would present policy makers with extremely difficult choices and would probably have a substantial negative impact on the country.  
      Unfortunately, there's no way to predict with any confidence whether -- or when the fiscal crisis might occur in the United States. And particularly, there is no identifiable tipping point in the debt the GDP ratio would indicate that a crisis is likely or imminent.  All else being equal, however, the larger a government's debt, the greater the risk of a fiscal crisis.  
      Of course, budgetary outcomes are uncertain.  Under current law, unexpected changes in the economy, demographics, or other factors could probably lead to outcomes different from those that we have projected.  Nonetheless, our analysis shows that under a wide range of possible outcomes, tax and spending policies under current law would probably leave the federal debt in 2040 at a much higher level than it is now, which is already elevated by historical standards.  
      So how large would the policy changes need to be to lower the trajectory of federal debt?  To put the federal debt on sustainable path for the long term, lawmakers would have to make significant changes to tax and spending policies by reducing spending for their large benefit programs below the projected amounts, leading revenues rise more than they would under current law, or adopting some combination of these approaches.  
      The size of such changes would depend upon the amount of federal debt that lawmakers considered appropriate.  Just holding federal debt at its current high level of 74 percent of GDP in 2040 would require significant changes in tax and spending policies.  The combination of increases in federal tax revenues and cuts and non-interest federal spending relative to current law of about 1.1 percent of GDP in each year for 25 years would be needed. 
      In 2016, this would be a spending into a tax revenue increase totaling about $210 billion and more than that for each year after that.  Many combinations of policies could be adopted to meet such a goal.  We have illustrated some of those in one of our figures from the written testimony that's been distributed to you.  For example, if those changes came from increases of equal percentage in all types of revenues, they would represent an increase of 6 percent relative to current law for each year between 2016 and 2040.  
      In 2016 for example, an average middle income household would have to pay $750 more in taxes and more than at each year afterwards. All the changes came from cuts of equal percentage in all types of non-interest spending.  That spending each year would have to 5.5 percent less than projected.  If the reduction was applied across the board, all types of non-interest spending, an average 65-year-old in the middle of the earnings income who retires in 2016 would see a reduction of about $1,050 in his or her initial annual social security benefits, more than that in each year afterwards.  
      The more (inaudible) of returning public debt by 2040 to its average level over the past half century, which is 38 percent of GDP, would require more than that.  It doesn't require revenue increase into our interest spending decrease totalling 2.6 percent of GDP every year.  This means an average middle income household would have to pay $17,000 more in federal taxes in 2016 and larger amounts in subsequent years.  Or by cutting non-interest spending across the board, average social security benefits for 65-year-old in the middle of the earning distribution would have to drop by $24,000 in 2016 and by larger amounts in later years.  
      Regardless of the chosen goal for federal debt, you as lawmakers would face tradeoffs when deciding how quickly to carry out policies. The sooner significant debts that reduction was implemented, the smaller the government's accumulated debt would be, the smaller the policy change would be needed to achieve the particular long term outcome and the less uncertainty there would be about what policies could be adopted.  
      Even if policy changes to shrink deficits in the long term were not implemented for several years, making decisions about them sooner rather than later would tend to increase output in the department in the next few years.  Such decisions could hold down long term interest rates, reduce uncertainty, enhance businesses and consumers' confidence.  Thank you.  
JOHNSON:  Thank you, Director Hall.  Again, thank you for appearing and thank you and your staff at CBO for all of your hard work.  
      I think the question is how do we grab the American people's attention with numbers, you know, with financial data?  And I'm an accountant, you're an economist.  I like numbers, you like percentages.  It's a difficult problem.  It's something I've been grappling with for literally 4.5 years.  
      One of my attempts in this was really -- was a couple amendments that I offer that were adopted unanimously in our budget process this year.  One was the (inaudible) budget office shall provide a projection of federal revenues, outlays and deficits for the 30 year period beginning with budget year expressed in terms of dollars.  
      This is kind of what I had in mind.  And I would really, you know, I want to keep working with you.  I would really prefer this was a congressional budget office chart, so that we didn't have to take the detailed information and try and graph with it and come up with our interpretation.  So, it's incredibly authoritative because this is extremely important, that we have non-partisan organization that you can see like yourselves that definitively state, this is what this project results in dollar terms.  Because, again, people don't pay for their electricity bill and food in percentages, they use dollars.  So, Americans understand dollars.  
      So, let's start here.  This is your ultimate fiscal scenario. And done by a decade, I think this lays it out pretty simply and that's, you know, coming from a business side.  I like the kid's principle, keep it simple.  The first decade about $10 trillion are project deficit according to your alternate fiscal scenario.  The second decade, $28 trillion.  The third decade, $66 trillion for a whopping total over the next 30 years.  Projected deficit by your alternate fiscal scenario by $103 trillion.  
      Now again, we're becoming immune to these massive numbers, who can really understand them.  So I've added, to this chart, the dollar value of all private assets.  The net asset base of America is $116 trillion that's what we're looking at over the next 30 years.  
      Now, I want to talk -- let's take that one down and put the next chart because this is where I'll convert to percentages on a relative basis.  And it's really going to mean the base of my first question. The numbers you are talking about in your testimony is really based off your base line, correct -- your baseline projection.  I'm showing the ultimate fiscal scenario.  
      For me to take a look at projections, this is what I did in business.  You know, I do my budgeting process.  I would always take a look at history.  You know, what is -- you know, are these numbers relevant, do they compare to history?  So, what I've done -- again, try and keep it as simple as possible.  I've laid out percentage GDP for these spending categories.  Prior to 30 years, from 1985 to 2014, then I've got CBO's baseline projection.  And the third column is CBO's ultimate fiscal scenario.  
      So, let's just -- again, trying to keep it simple, entitlements, total entitlements, social security, and health care, last 30 years, about 7.7 percent of GDP.  And under both scenarios, that's expected to rise to 13.1 percent.  Now, that's -- I mean, health care is about difficult one to really project.  Social security is pretty darn close, right?  I mean we know because of demographics, (inaudible) math that type of thing.  We got a pretty god handle on social security over the next 30 years coming in about $14 trillion deficit in terms of what we pay on benefits versus the payroll tax.  Is that correct?  
      (OFF-MIKE)  
JOHNSON:  But yes.  So -- but this study show the dramatic increase.  7 percent -- 7.7 percent to 13.1 percent.  Now, on defense, the last 30 years on average, we spend about 4.2 percent and this includes the '90s where we really went pretty low historically as percentage GDP.  According to your baseline, CBO's baseline says over the next 30 years we'll spend about 2.6 percent of GDP.  The ultimate fiscal scenario is 3.4.  
      So, I guess when I take a look of this, understanding the problems in the world.  OK, the threats to our national security, I look at that and I go, "That's probably not realistic.  They won't be able to get away with this."  Spending only 2.6 or only 3.4 when historically, we spend by 4.2 percent.  I mean, would you disagree with that?  
      (OFF-MIKE)  
HALL:  And the bigger number was something close to long-term averages.  But, you're exactly right that one of the uncertainty is that are there, are forecasted.  It's something like a major war, another recession, something like that, that would make the picture of the deficit look much worse.  
JOHNSON:  Yes.  Even 4.2.  You take a look over the last 50 years where we would had debt, you know, during Korean War I think we have 10 percent.  During the '70s, '80s, I think we're 8 percent and 7 percent.  We are historically low percentages with GDP spending already on defense.  
      Let's go to the...  
HALL:  Right.  
JOHNSON:  ... all other spending in the federal government.  Over the last 30 years, it's been about 6.2 percent of GDP.  Your baseline says it'll drop down to 4.6 percent.  Your ultimate fiscal scenario is 5.9 percent.  OK.  And then interest, again, it's a plug figure.  It depends on, you know, what we think interest rates would be and nobody really knows that.  
      But I guess the point I'm trying to make, if you're really looking at how realistic is -- are these projections, baseline versus alternate fiscal scenario, kind of gives you a range of projections. I mean, I would look at this, and one of the reasons I used ultimate fiscal scenario, I save of the more likely scenario based on 30 years prior history, I would just kind of look at ultimate fiscal scenario. You could maybe make an argument to that and might still be low.  As projection deficits, would you comment on that?  
HALL:  Well, you know, we didn't want to -- we wanted to careful about predicting what congress is going to do.  
JOHNSON:  I understand.  
HALL:  So the regular baseline is on the current law.  But you -- our often fiscal scenario is trying to look at the way that Congress has behaved in the past.  And so, we didn't make an effort to do that.  
JOHNSON:  Well, I know that -- and Congress is very difficult to predict other than (inaudible) be somewhat dysfunctional.  But let me go to with my remaining seconds here.  Let me go to the last point.  
      No, let's -- first of all, live on -- I want to talk about revenues because the last 30 years on average, we've generated about 17.2 percent of GDP in terms of revenue in the federal government. Now, if you go back 50 years, it's probably been more around 18.1 percent.  So, your baseline shows about 19 percent, average over 30 years.  Ultimate fiscal scenario is really pretty much about that 50 year average.  Now, let's go to the last chart here.  
      This chart shows what percentage of GDP we've raised in revenue comparable to the top marginal tax rate.  Now, how much are we going to try and punish success and how effective are we at punishing success and dramatically increasing the percentage of revenue we raised as percent of GDP.  You can see, going back to the late '50s when we had a top marginal tax rate of 91 percent.  
      Now, I think that would give pleasure to fair amount of people that like to do that.  You know, stick it to the rich guys.  We still only had about 18.1 percent average.  Look at how steady that is. Regardless of top marginal tax rate, the 91 percent or 70 percent or 50 percent or 28 percent or 39.6 percent.  
      So, I guess I want you to comment on our ability as a federal government to try and punish success and do it successfully, so we actually increase revenue to the federal government because I -- to me it's somewhat a fool's error and when you start dramatically increasing marginal tax rates, I would say you dramatically increase the disincentives for people to take the kind of risk taking that actually helps grow our economy.  
HALL:  I don't want to comment too much about specific tax policy things, but you're absolutely right that tax revenue has been fairly much around 18 to 19 percent.  There's only been a brief time where it's as high as 19 percent to where we projected under our extended scenario, under current law.  So that's one of the things that I think -- a caution is under our -- just a regular extended scenario, tax revenues get to historically higher level, and we still have a really significant problem 25 years down the line.  
JOHNSON:  Doesn't this chart basically show that yes, we can attempt to increase revenues percentage GDP by increasing marginal tax rates, but people change their behavior.  And this kind of gets back to the static versus dynamic scoring debate...  
HALL:  Right.  
JOHNSON:  ... that I think this is a pretty darn good argument that if we're going to change tax policy, we really do need to understand the dynamic effect of those tax policies on people's behavior and in some way shape or form.  And trust me, there's a real complexity here in terms of deductions and, you know, what type of income, which I think is kind of silly too, we have different rates and different types of incomes, you know, incomes income.  
      From my standpoint, we should dramatically simplify our tax code. And I think you might have more responsiveness weren't so complex. But anyway, it's just very difficult to really take more than 80 percent away from the American public, isn't that kind of -- doesn't have what this -- isn't that what that chart really  will show us?  
HALL:  Historically, yes, it just hasn't been done.  And we just say too in part of our forecast, we do have a dynamic component in our economic forecast that underlies this, and we do have some dynamic effect of the tax rate being between a historically high level, so that actually does impact the economic growth.  
JOHNSON:  OK.  Well, thank you.  Our next questioner is another accountant, Senator Enzi.  
ENZI:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  I appreciate you doing this hearing.  I know from experience that solving problems early is usually less expensive than solving problems late.  I used to be the mayor of Joliet, and we had some infrastructure problems that we needed to solve, and that required us to have some debt.  I had to appear before a Standard & Poor's and Moody and answer how I was going to pay off this debt.  
      And I was kind of stunned by some of the questions because they're all about our retirement system.  We're a very young community so we had everybody at the beginning of their retirement cycle, but what I discovered is that the questionnaires were on a panel to save New York City who had had a policy of pensions of full retirement at a very young age.  
      Currently, Greece and other countries across Europe are experiencing economic crisis that are due to their pension and entitlement promises that they can't afford.  
      Given CBO's long-term outlook on the challenges we face, are there any lessons that we can draw from their problem in a short amount of time?  
HALL:  Yes.  Actually, I do think that there's a very important lesson.  Greece is going through a very difficult experience.  And I think the main thing we ought to take from this is that it's extremely difficult to make fiscal policy decisions under the pressure of a financial crisis.  So this is my "hurry up and make decisions".  If you wait till the debt gets very, very large in United States and we get something close to a fiscal crisis, it is very difficult to find fiscal policy decisions that will solve your problem.  
ENZI:  In your testimony, you mentioned that social security -- the debt I think was $1,050 reduction in payments, and then more each year.  Could you expound on that a little bit more?  
HALL:  Sure.  What we did is we figured out a fixed percentage of savings we would need to have from spending on social security.  And the reason that it comes out that we were trying to look at something like an average person, what it would have cost in 2016, and that number would go up.  That would be -- that's a yearly number.  It would go up basically on GDP growth.  This GDP growth went up, that number would go up and incomes went up.  So that was an effort just to give you some idea of a nice, simple impact on average people.  
ENZI:  Yes.  But you meant that it would just a few additional dollars each year, not a total 1,050 additional reduction.  I'm trying...  
HALL:  Yes, yes, that's right.  
ENZI:  I'm trying to...  
HALL:  That's right.  
ENZI:  ... to -- because otherwise, pretty quick people would be in zero.  
HALL:  Right, right.  Yes, I know, that's fixed amount in percent extremes.  Yes.  
ENZI:  What effect do you think that the collapse of Greece if they don't meet their Sunday deadline will have on interest rates for us?  Will that make us a more secure country or what people worry about putting their money anywhere as far as buying bonds?  
HALL:  Well, so far the Greek crises has had -- haven't had a lot of effect, but probably the biggest effect is going to be through the exchange rate.  And would probably (inaudible) effect our trade balance with the Eurozone.  And if Greece were to -- so think in that respect, it will be fairly minimal.  But if they were to exit the Eurozone, I think we might get a bit more of effect where the dollar would appreciate a bit further, treasury rates would actually fall a little bit and U.S. equity prices might fall a little bit if they actually pull out of the Euro.  
ENZI:  Thank you pouring (ph) what will happen with our budget if the interest rate goes to a norm for the United States instead of (inaudible) less than 2 percent that we're at now which causes 235 billion a year.  
HALL:  Right.  
ENZI:  That more than doubles, we'll be spending more on that than we will be on national defense or all of the rest of the spending that we do that we have control over.  There's a whole lot that you point out that we don't have control over.  
      Now, former Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin told the budget committee a year ago that the number one problem facing Canada during their fiscal crisis in the 1990s was interest payments on the debt. According to Martin, the problem was the Canadian people would not believe they're writing checks to pay interest that hurt as much as writing checks to the government to pay for health care or for living expenses.  
      Dr. Hall, what's the CBO's long-term outlook for interest payments on the debt in the country and how does this compare to the amount that we'll be spending on health care for example.  
HALL:  Sure.  Well, this year, we forecasted our payment -- interest payments on the debt are equal to about 1.3 percent of GDP. And in 25 years, under current law, that's going to go all the way up to about 4.3 percent of GDP.  So that's a pretty significant increase. And of course, that's going to be sensitive exactly how much interest rates go up over time.  
      Also right now, net federal health care spending is about 5.2 percent of GDP and it goes up -- it will go up to about 8 percent.  So in 25 years, our interest payments will be about 4.3 percent, our health care, federal health care spending will be about 8 percent. Well, there's only (inaudible) one thing though between 2015 and 2040, our health care spending is going to go up by about, by our forecast, by about 2.8 percentage points.  I know I'm using a lot of percentages, I apologize.  
      But interest is going to go up by 3 percentage points of GDP.  So actually, the increase and the cost of interest will be more than the increase in the cost of health care under our projection.  
ENZI:  But 12.33 percent of GDP between the two will be considerable amount.  
HALL:  Yes.  
ENZI:  Now, you've also projected -- the CBO has projected for many -- and I realized you've only been there a short time.  We appreciate all your efforts during that time.  But CBO has projected for many years dramatically increasing outlays for federally funded retirement programs keep going back to their retirement programs. Indeed, CBO has also argued that revenues will be willfully insufficient to pay for these programs, which means that the government borrowing requirement will be dramatically increased as well.  
      You suggest recently in testimony before the budget committee that this public sector borrowing will crowd out private borrowing which will slow the pace of economic growth.  Will this slower pace growth also reduce worker productivity?  Could this reduction in worker productivity result in slower wage and slower growth and future job opportunities?  
HALL:  Yes, it will.  In our forecast, there's a -- in our single rule of fund, for each dollar that the deficit rises, domestic investment falls by between $0.15 and $0.50.  So there's a pretty big impact.  In effect to that deficit on investment, because it crowds out private investment, peoples' savings get pulled into funding the government rather than funding -- than making the goods and services will lead to a smaller capital stock in the economy, less investment, which makes workers less productive and then decreases wages as a result.  And we do have some estimates of the amount of income, the average income, how much lower it is because of the borrowing.  
ENZI:  Can you repeat that very first part, for each dollar...  
HALL:  Yes.  For each dollar, the deficit rises, domestic investment falls by between $0.15 and $0.50.  
ENZI:  Thank you.  My time's expired.  
JOHNSON:  First of all, Dr. Hall, no need to apologize for using percentages.  This is incredibly complex.  There's no doubt about it, and that's what we're trying to do is work with you to try and simplify it as much as possible so we all can understand it.  
      But I will make a commitment, by the way.  This is just the first in the series of hearings.  This is the overall macro look at the budget, trying to come up with some method of simplifying it.  We are going to drill down into social security, a special hearing on that, we'll do it in Medicare.  I will probably talk about interest in the effect on the economy from that standpoint as well.  
      So this is just the first in a series of hearings we're going to certainly have under my chairmanship because this is so incredibly important and because it is complex.  It's one of the reasons I don't think we grabbed the American public's attention which is what we need to do if they're going to place and admit we have the problem to put pressure on us to fix it.  
      Senator Tester.  
TESTER:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for holding this hearing.  Thank you, Dr. Hall, for your testimony.  
      As I look out into the crowd, there's a ton of folks here.  Are you guys all interns?  Raise your hand if you're an intern.  That's good.  Well, I appreciate you being here.  It's quite frankly, this conversation we're having today impacts you actually more than it impacts me because you've been around a lot longer, I hope.  And it's good to have you all here.  
      We did -- Dr. Hall, you talked about the great recession and you talked about what transpired in that great recession that we had when I got here in January of '07 and I think in about June of '07, I got notification from the Treasury secretary that we were on the issue of financial meltdown shortly thereafter.  
      And since that time, when our revenues have dropped and the safety nets like unemployment insurance kicked in which caused our debt to explode, we have reduced our cumulative debts for about $4.5 trillion since 2010.  
      And before that, as the ranking member pointed out, we did have a balanced budget situation in the 1990s which was followed by Vice President Cheney, I believe, saying that debt doesn't matter, which was followed by a tax cut and war all put on the credit card at the same time.  That's when they found it was booming.  
      And so, to have the debt that we have today with the economic downturn and some of the policies that were put in effect 10 or 12 years ago should be no surprise to anybody.  And yet today, and I am going to leave this committee and go to an appropriations subcommittee in a second, we had a defense appropriations committee where we use an overseas contingency account gimmick to take and put $40 billion addition into that account all on the credit card and nobody is asking anything about it.  
      Why?  Because it's about war and we can fight wars all over the world and that's OK.  We don't need to have France's help or England's help or Australia's help or any of our allies' help.  We'll do it all on the taxpayers of this country.  
      So if we want to deal with the debt and the deficit, we can talk about social security and we talked about Medicare and we need to. But if we don't talk about what we're doing with foreign policy in this country and how we're going to deal with infrastructure, highway infrastructure that is war out that will leave the kids in this audience -- even you're 30, I'll call you a kid -- with the lack of ability to have a 21st Century economy or many of you are probably going to college and you know you're going to walk out the door with $40,000 or $50,000 in debt, you're not going to build that house, that is a negative impact on the economy.  Or the fact we don't have an immigration bill and we're not funding research and development, so we're funneling all those jobs in India and Brazil and other -- China and other places around the world.  
      So debt and deficit is important, Mr. Chairman.  And if we don't take a look at a lot of the policies that get us here, I will tell you what Mr. Bernanke told me when he left the Office of Fed.  When I said, "It's the most important thing we're looking at, the debt."  And he said, "No, the most important thing you need to look at is handing the people in this audience, the next generation, the 21st Century economy because if you do not, you will never pay that debt down." We're not handing these folks 21st Century economy because we're saddling with so much debt, personal debt right out of the chute.  
      We can solve this problem.  It's going to take a lot of tough decisions.  I think there are people around this dais that are willing to do it.  And I think there are people in the Senate that are willing to do it.  And I also think there's a lot of folks in the Senate that would rather play politics with this and then get to the point.  And that's the point I want to make.  
      The question I have for you, Dr. Hall, is this.  You talked about the debt, you talked about projections on the debt.  Can we tackle this effort by spending cuts alone?  
HALL:  I want to avoid that issue because it's not my job, in a sense.  It's your decision...  
TESTER:  I know that.  I just want your estimation.  You don't need to get political.  You could just say yes or no and if they beat you up for it, they'll beat you up for it regardless.  So these are good people.  They won't do that.  
HALL:  So actually, the scenarios I just gave you were ways to hit targets totally by spending and totally by revenue.  So I did give you some bits of extremes there.  
TESTER:  All right.  And you're not on this side of the dais, but with you on this side of the dais, would you be looking at both or would you just be looking spending cuts or tax increases?  
HALL:  Well, again, it's -- as the CBO director, it's not my job to recommend policy.  I'll talk to you about the possible impact of specific things and we actually have a document or two giving you some options of what the likely effects would be on how to improve the budget situation.  
TESTER:  Well, I appreciate that.  Although, I was hoping for a better answer, a more direct answer, but that's the way it is.  
      I want to just say that I think the debt is very important to handle.  I think the American people are very concerned about this.  I hear about it every time I go home, every time I go home, I hear about this.  And I think that if we're able to work together, as I said earlier, in a bipartisan way, we can come to solutions.  But it's going to require some revenue and it's going to require some cuts.  
      So far, we've been cutting the baton (ph) of four in dollars and cuts for every $1 in increased revenue.  I quite frankly don't think that's sustainable for a 21st Century economy.  
      Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Thank you, Dr. Hall.  
JOHNSON:  Thank you, Senator Tester.  I do want to respond a little bit.  If you want a 21st Century economy, there's some pretty easy elements we need to concentrate on.  
      Let's -- for example, let's not unofficially drive up the cost of energy.  You know, if you want manufacturing to be powered cheap power, buy an expensive power.  Let's reduce the regulatory burdens that are dramatically increased and let's simplify our taxes, and so we have growth pro-growth policies.  You would need an economic growth.  We've increased revenue to federal governments since 2009 by more than $900 billion with robust or meager economic growth.  
      Second point, the total cost of the wars since 2001 is probably $102 trillion...  
TESTER:  You're not taking into account...  
JOHNSON:  I'm saying in terms of the effect on the budget asset today.  Less than $2 trillion we've increased our debt by almost $8 trillion in just six years.  So yes, the wars are part of it, certainly not the answer.  And in terms of infrastructure, spending totally agreed, we should dramatically increase what we're spending on infrastructure for 21st Century economy.  The shortfall in the highway trust fund is about $15 billion per year in an almost 4,000 $1 billion a year budget can't refine $15 billion of lower priority spending and let's spend it in a higher priority.  
      So that would be my response to that.  
TESTER:  My response to that would be we just came through the recession since the 1930s and that's what caused that $6 billion to go up, income going down, expenses to go up. 
      The other thing is as we just had a hearing here yesterday, with the gentleman from your state that raised chickens, poultry industry, is that a low priority spending?  It depends on whose box is being gored here.  
JOHNSON:  And we are going to work to make sure that we take care of that situation as well.  That's why we have the hearing.  
TESTER:  I know.  But what I'm saying is that it was important, and the fact is if somebody living in the middle of Downtown, Miami might say, "You know, the subsidies we give to crop insurance...  
      (CROSSTALK)  
JOHNSON:  I wasn't saying that was the lower priority.  We can find $15 billion of lower priority spending.  I believe it's Senator Ernst.  
      (OFF-MIKE)  
JOHNSON:  Sorry about that.  Senator Booker.  
BOOKER:  I'm on the same thing here.  Unfortunately I have to go.  
JOHNSON:  Senator Carper.  
CARPER:  I got plenty of questions, so.  
      (OFF-MIKE)  
CARPER:  Dr. Hall.  The first question I have for you is, how's it going?  
HALL:  It's going well.  You mean the budget, it's concerning.  
      (OFF-MIKE)  
CARPER:  I guess it really surprise me (ph) not all the time, but quite a bit what keeps me up at night.  I'm a senior Democrat on this committee and we focus a lot on highway tax and all kinds of tax on our country.  Those are along with the kinds of things that keep me up at night.  
      What -- same question for you, what keeps you up at night, at least on the professional side?  
HALL:  On the professional side is making -- it's sort of my job, it's making sure that you have the information you need, Congress has the information it needs to make some tough decisions everyday.  
CARPER:  And I got a couple of question I want to read and then a couple of questions I just wanted -- like to ask off the top of my head.  You know, take off -- take this one that my staff has been good enough to provide for me.  But if you go back to a couple of years and I wanted to ask about long-term forecast, long-term forecast. 
      But it's important for us to of course plan for the future and make sure the policies that we put in place, they make sense and therefore not just for now but for the long run.  But if someone in 1985 attempted to project our economic and federal budget outlook like this year in 2015, I think even the best models could never account it for so many factors that since played a part.  
      We had no idea in 1985, for example, that the internet would exist and what happened on 9/11 would come about a war in Afghanistan, two wars in Iraq, the rise of China and India, 2008 financial crisis, the great recession would happen.  Projection made in 1985 would have failed even to account for the savings and loan crisis that began the following year and some of us lived through.  
      The question will be, how do we strike the right balance here knowing that there's so many unknowns, how do we strike the right balance?  
HALL:  Well, that's difficult, and, you know, I think one of the things that we strive to do is give you our best estimate.  We all know it's probably not going to be right, but we also try to give you some idea of what sort of uncertainty is there.  For example, in the long-term budget outlook report, we go through some scenarios where we change the mortality rate, where we change productivity, you know, it's higher or lower than it has been historically.  
      We change ranges of interest rates and et cetera to give you some idea of what sort of range of outcomes you really could have 25 years from now be up to size our point estimate.  And that's to make exactly this point that that thing's changed, it's very hard to predict the outcomes.  
      But I think one of the things that we're in a position in saying though is under almost any reasonable sort of scenario, the federal debt 25 years from now is going to be at a very high level.  And we're headed on a path where we'll be unsustainable under just about any of these scenarios under current law, no matter what happens to -- reasonably happens to productivity or reasonably happens to interest rates.  And that's part of our message today.  
CARPER:  OK, thanks.  I think we'd all agree that some level of debt is as reasonable and longer (ph) debts that is sometimes necessary.  I always -- The two most common as we hear about were at the times of war and the economic recession, try to time the pump and get the economy moving.  How would you explain to the American people the difference between, say, reasonable debt and unreasonable debt?  
HALL:  Yes...  
CARPER:  Or on reasonably high levels...  
HALL:  Sure, sure.  Well, you know, it's a complicated thing. It's one of the reasons that is so hard to talk about this.  And I would suggest they think about themselves, they think about businesses, you know?  Is it OK for household to run debt?  Well, yes. 
      Well, how much debt is too much debt?  It's not easy to say.  You know, it depends upon how big the household is, what the household's prospects are.  But at some point, if a household or a business works up debt, it gets to a level where there's a real concern that is not sustainable.  But that's sort of a way to think about it.  
      So there's no easy, hard and fast rule about how much debt is too much debt because you can't say that.  You can't look at Starbucks and say, "How much debt is too much debt for Starbucks," because you have to look at a lot of things and investors have to make a decision. It's sort of the same thing here for the United States.  There's nothing wrong with running debt, but at some point, you have to think about, is the debt too much, is it getting to where it's going to be very difficult to pay it back over time.  And I think that's what we're pointing out is that we're getting to a level where it's getting very high and it's going to be very difficult to pay it back if we keep our current trends.  
CARPER:  I'm not going to be able to make a perfect analogy here (inaudible).  Say, you have, on one end, you have a family.  And they are trying to decide what to spend the money on, and if they don't have enough to -- for example, one of the spouses or both the spouses want to go back to school and maybe one spouse work full-time, the other spouse go back to school and get a better education to be able to get a better job.  Maybe they want their kids to be able to, you know, go to school, finish school and be more -- not just more productive but actually be able to wage their income too, or maybe have a choice to want to be able to get to work and they have to go work some place we can't get -- take transits or maybe invest in a car.  
      The -- those are investments that are designed to enable a family to increase their income.  When you think about the federal government spending money -- the family decide to spend their money to go on vacation to Hawaii instead of investing in the kinds of things that I talked about.  And in the federal government, we can invest in things that actually enhance our long-term economic growth or not.  
      And one of the things I focus on a lot, as my colleagues know, is making sure we're making smart investments in transportation infrastructure because there's big pay off there.  But there's some things that we ought to be investing in.  What are some things that we ought to be investing in that maybe we're doing enough of or maybe not enough of to help grow our economic -- our economy?  
HALL:  Well, I'm in a position where I can't give policy advice. But it's certainly true that the type of spending the government has, has an impact.  You know, one of the things that I thought was -- I think is very interesting about a long-term budget outlook is that if you look under current law and go forward, spending on everything else besides the social security and health care goes down to a low level. And it's still unsustainable.  
      And so, so my point is, to a large degree, that the big problems here are crowding out, perhaps to sort of spending that you're talking about which can help support economic growth.  So that's, you know, that's sort of part of the message here I think that spending on things like that can be worthwhile but you have to consider especially if you're going to pay for it with debt.  Is it worth, you know, is it going to have an impact on the economy that you wanted to have if you're paying for it with debt versus something else.  
CARPER:  All right.  Good, thanks.  
JOHNSON:  Senator McCaskill.  
MCCASKILL:  I do think it's frustrating because I think there's a lot of misconceptions out in America about the budget process and the difference between a deficit and the debt...  
HALL:  Right.  
MCCASKILL:  ... and the difference between austerity and stimulus from an economic perspective.  There's a lot of hysterics around the stimulus, but if we look at the data, I think you would agree, doctor, that the data shows the countries that engage in stimulus did a much better job of navigating out of the whole than those countries that went with an austerity program.  Would that be an accurate description of the growth in the various...  
HALL:  Right.  
MCCASKILL:  ... nations based on the policies they embrace after the -- we saw off a cliff?  
HALL:  Well, CBO has weighed in and there is a consensus in the economics profession that the stimulus did have an effect on economic growth.  
MCCASKILL:  A positive effect?  
HALL:  Yes.  
MCCASKILL:  And -- but it's counterintuitive that when the government is in a bad place because of an economic downturn that you spend more money.  I mean, because all of us in our homes...  
HALL:  Right.  
MCCASKILL:  ... if you're having a bad turn, you spend less money.  So it is one of those things that's frustrating because I think it's complicated...  
HALL:  Right.  
MCCASKILL:  ... for people to step back and realize that stimulus spending is in fact a positive for the economy and in fact I think that you would agree, there's a robust debate among the economic community now and to whether or not the stimulus is large enough.  
HALL:  Right, yes.  Yes, that's true.  And let me sort of pave it back to the budget issue in my mind.  The debt has gotten so large, and under current law, it's going to get so large.  Our ability to respond to a future crisis like this, it's going to be very limited because we worked up so much debt.  And that's one of the concerns I think about having such a large debt is the sort of uncertainty and what could happen with the economy, what could happen with a number of things.  So there's risk involved with having debt this high.  
MCCASKILL:  So on a debt, one of the frustrating things as we look at public policy is that we look at the scoring and we try to figure out what it's going to cost, but you all, for a lot of legitimate, valid reasons, don't ever score the positives of policies, for example, prevention.  There's no question that several things contribute to lower health care cost including spending more money on activities that help prevent illness.  But of course that's never scored.  
      Another example would be what we say by having everyone have some skin in the game.  By that, I mean the Cadillac policies where nobody have to go in their pocket for anything and they see their health care is free as opposed to people who have deductibles and copays, what impacts that has on ultimately the amount of what health care cost are in this country.  
      I mean, those are two examples, I could give you a lot of other examples.  Could you speak to the failure of our ability to quantify the money we saved with public policy that's enacted when we are preventing the spending of money as opposed to calculating how much money we're spending?  
HALL:  Well, when we score things we do try to take that to account when there's sufficient evidence, where there is some good research and we can...  
MCCASKILL:  Give me an example of where you have.  
HALL:  I'm doing something we're working on.  We haven't -- I'm not sure we haven't gotten there yet, but we're looking very hard at the issue of obesity.  We've been asked to look at that, the effects of obesity on health and such are going forward.  That's turned out to be a very difficult thing that sort of quantifiers to whether that's -- that has an effect that's measurable in the budget, but that's something actually we're working...  
MCCASKILL:  Well, we know it does.  
HALL:  Well..  
MCCASKILL:  It's the quantifying that's hard, right?  
HALL:  Quantifying is hard and the research is not as straightforward as you might hope, but we're working on that.  We may get there.  I don't know.  
MCCASKILL:  Not if you take into account the onset of adult diabetes and what we're spending.  I mean, all you do is turn on T.V. Every third ad is for a blood monitor which we're paying for all of them, right? 
HALL:  Right.  And I say if we can work out some solid estimates and solid evidence that that's actually true, then that will play into what we do.  
MCCASKILL:  So can you give me another example where CBO has taken into account money that we will save based on public policy by preventing certain activities or changing...  
HALL:  Yes.  
MCCASKILL:  ... peoples' behavior?  
HALL:  Can I get back with you on that?  I'm sure we can dig up something...  
MCCASKILL:  Because I've always been told what we can't -- that doesn't count and certainly on the health care bill...  
HALL:  Right.  
MCCASKILL:  They didn't count anything for the prevention.  And there's obviously a lot of prevention now that is occurring because people are not having to go in their pocket for prevention.  They're able to go and get vasectomy...  
HALL:  Yes.  
MCCASKILL:  ... you know?  
HALL:  Well, we're happy that I have something on our review...  
MCCASKILL:  Mammograms and so forth...  
HALL:  Right.  
MCCASKILL:  ... without having to pay for them, and I don't think that that was ever taken into account even though the health care bill did say it was going to bring down the deficit.  And it has, hasn't it?  
HALL:  Well, yeah.  Our forecast is -- that's right that the ACA on the hall does do that.  
MCCASKILL:  OK.  Great.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  
JOHNSON:  Thanks, Senator McCaskill.  I do want to address a little bit in terms of stimulus.  You know, what you spend money on is pretty important, correct?  I mean, if you...  
HALL:  Yes.  
JOHNSON:  ... there's no doubt, you spend a lot of money that's consummate the economy, but if you spend it on a consumption versus, let's say, infrastructure...  
HALL:  Right. 
JOHNSON:  ... do you know out of the 800 whatever billion dollars stimulus, how much of that was actually spent on something we would consider infrastructure, highways, bridges, that type of thing versus just getting, you know, pumped into, for example, city and state governments?  
HALL:  Yes, I don't know that.  
JOHNSON:  It's pretty small though, isn't it?  
HALL:  I did not...  
      (CROSSTALK)  
JOHNSON:  OK.  With that assessment (ph), I'd be able to get a status about $50 billion into what I'd consider infrastructure.  
HALL:  Right.  
JOHNSON:  I want to go back to debt burden and what you can really -- how much you can really carry, because you are right, it depends -- solely depends on the circumstance, you know, in a growing organization, you take in a lot more debt because you're going to be a lot bigger and, you know, five, 10, 15 years.  Isn't really come down to debt service though in terms of whether you can afford it, and isn't that what we're facing right here is because we had such historically low interest rates?  
      We're not really feeling the full economic brunt of this enormous increase into our debt where we're keeping those interest rates artificially low and we're able to service for the time being, but at some point in time that's going to stop, correct?  
HALL:  That's right.  And that's in our 25-year forecast.  We do have interest rates moving back to more historical levels.  
JOHNSON:  To what level?  
HALL:  I think we have the treasury 10-year at something like 2.3 percent.  I have to look that up to make sure.  
JOHNSON:  OK.  I think right now, as Senator Enzi was saying, I think we're --the total borrowing cost is about 102 percent, historically what we're looking at is about 5.3 percent, you know, overall average interest rate that the federal government is paying on its debt  
HALL:  Right.  
JOHNSON:  So I think your estimate is about 4.7 percent, so still under that 50, 60-year average.  
HALL:  Well, yes, the 4.7 percent is the net interest.  
JOHNSON:  Right.  
HALL:  4.7 percent of GDP...  
JOHNSON:  But basically nominal.  That then -- that includes inflation, that type of thing, correct?  
HALL:  That's right.  
JOHNSON:  OK.  One thing you don't include in your forecast is another recession, correct?  
HALL:  That's right.  
JOHNSON:  I'm just -- I just had staff quick give me a note in how frequently we have recessions and dating back to the '60s, it's about a nine-year then three-year, five-year, 10-year, 10-year, eight- year interval.  Is the economy -- is that -- but right, you know, every 10 years or less, we're having another recession, correct?  
HALL:  That's right.  
JOHNSON:  So again, your long term projections, again, I understand you can't project out a recession, but we can -- based on the past, you can pretty well assume that there will be recessions maybe three or four or more of those over the next 30 years.  
HALL:  Unfortunately, that's probably...  
JOHNSON:  And that will make the numbers, the $103 trillion even worst.   
HALL:  Well, that's right.  We -- but we tried to work in the long run, averages through recessions.  So you get some idea of a recession and then recovery, what it averages through that.  But there's certainly has risk if there -- if there's recession.  
JOHNSON:  And Senator Enzi was alluding to as well, you know, part of the problem we have in terms of being the center control is so much of the federal budget is on automatic pilot.  That we don't -- we really don't need appropriate about $1 trillion out of a, you know, what's approaching a $4 trillion budget, isn't that correct?  
HALL:  Yes.  
JOHNSON:  And so we don't have a whole lot of room to maneuver on an annual basis in terms of adjusting those things because these are programs that are termed entitlement programs.  If you qualify, it gets automatically spent.  
HALL:  Yes.  
JOHNSON:  I want to talk a little bit about the difference between total debt and debt held by the public.  
HALL:  OK.  
JOHNSON:  What's excluded from debt held by the public versus total debt which right now is over $18 trillion total debt? 
HALL:  Right.  But the idea here is that debt that's held by other parts of government is not included in debt held by the public. And the reason at least we focus on debt held by the public is this is the stuff that has economic impact.  One part of government owing money to another part of government doesn't really impact the economy like...  
      (CROSSTALK)  
JOHNSON:  But it is a debt of the -- you know, for example, one of -- the biggest element of that is really social security trust fund, correct?  
HALL:  Yes.  
JOHNSON:  And that's about $2.77 trillion worth, correct?  
HALL:  I think that's right, yes.  
JOHNSON:  Now, to the trust fund, that trust fund holds about $2.77 trillion of the U.S. government bonds, correct?  
HALL:  I think so.  
JOHNSON:  So again, that's an asset to the trust fund, right? But what is the U.S. government bond, what it's called to the treasury?  A liability, correct?  
HALL:  Right.  
JOHNSON:  Now, coming from the (inaudible) -- if you're talking about one overall organization like the federal government, you consolidate the books.  So when you consolidate the books of federal government, you look at a $2.77 trillion asset in the trust fund versus the $2.77 trillion liability treasury.  What does that net out to?  Can you say it?  
HALL:  Can you run it by me once more?  
JOHNSON:  OK.  A $2.77 trillion asset in the trust fund of U.S. government bonds, is a $2.77 trillion liability...  
HALL:  Years out, yes.  
JOHNSON:  ... it nets to...  
HALL:  Zero.  
JOHNSON:  Zero.  So the trust fund, social security trust fund in terms of a financial guide of the federal government is equal to zero, correct?  
HALL:  Right, yes.  
JOHNSON:  It's just the accounting convention, it's a bookkeeping. 
HALL:  Right.  
JOHNSON:  It's just -- OK.  So I want to just go through what happens now that we are actually paying out more in benefits than we take in the payroll tax.  What's currently happening is the interest on those bonds are still being paid into the trust fund, and the interest is covering the deficits currently, but in a few years, the interest payments would no longer cover the expanding deficit in social security.  So the social security trust fund is going to have to start cashing those bonds into the treasury, correct?  
HALL:  Yes.  
JOHNSON:  So they'll take a bond, maybe $100 billion if that's the shortfall, give it to the treasury, the treasury will write -- you know, give them $100 billion to pay our benefits, but was the treasury do -- how does the treasury get that $100 billion?  
HALL:  They borrow it from somebody else.  
JOHNSON:  They borrow it.  So I guess from my standpoint, the debt held within these agencies is an obligation.  Now, I realized we don't recognize it as such because I think by federal law, we really don't have to.  We're really not obligated to make social security payments.  It's really -- social security is really not a pre-funded retirement fund.  We didn't really take those funds in and put those into account for an individual taxpayer, correct?  
      We brought that money in, we spend it, and in its place, we issued a U.S. government bond.  We -- in a previous hearing, we actually have the trust fund and we got a picture of it.  We didn't bring it today.  It's a four-drawer file in Parkersburg, West Virginia.  That's what politicians from both parties are telling American people, looking them straight in the eye and lying to them, saying that that's going to fund social security deficits for the next 20 or so years.  But it doesn't do that, does it?  
HALL:  No.  
JOHNSON:  No.  So the trust fund is a fiction.  By and large, the trust fund is a fiction.  It has no financial value to the federal government.  Now had we, just real quick, had the federal government actually taken those surpluses and invested those in assets outside the federal government.  So for example, maybe a Dow Jones stock index fund, those would be a real hard asset that then the trust fund could actually cash those in and a different entity could've paid that.  And that actually would be funding benefits.  But that's not what happened right?  
HALL:  Right.  
JOHNSON:  We took the money and we spent it, it's gone and all we have in place of it is a piece of paper.  It basically says $2.77 trillion.  OK, we will be exploring this in far greater detail in a future hearing.  Senator Carper. 
CARPER:  Thank you.  I want to go back to the analogy of the family, planning how to spend their money.  So you got a family that's renting, they're trying to decide whether to buy or just to continue to pay rent payments and mortgage payments are maybe attractive.  Or mortgage rates are attractive.  And so they're tempted to actually buy a house.  And they finally decide maybe that's in their best long-term interest.  
      We rent a lot of space issue now in the federal government, a lot of space.  And we -- sometimes we're wondering maybe should we just go ahead and buy something or bill something.  Would we be better off? Will the taxpayers ultimately be better off?  And I think there's a lot of reason to say, "Yes, we would."  And it's just some (inaudible) but folks are a lot smarter than me.  
      It was (inaudible) who may -- GSA but on the issue of Homeland Security -- Department of Homeland Security continuing to rent space all over kingdom come.  There weren't a lot of space, you know, it's a big agency, huge -- dozens of agencies that are part of -- they're far flung across this area and really across the world.  But they're trying to consolidate in one area not all the department but pieces of the department.  
      Former Secretary Tom Ridge, (inaudible), Janet Napolitano -- I was at in terms actually managing the department makes a whole lot of sense.  But we're also told by GSA that if they actually -- do the consolidation we build, that over the next 30 years, we'll save taxpayers over billion dollars.  
      And be at -- we continue to rent space, lease space, as opposed to buying a building.  What can we do in order to better insure we make smarter decisions when it comes to, you know, acquiring space, paying for space.  What do we need to do on the legislative side?  
      My sense you're tide -- hands are tied.  Because we, you know, when we try to buy or build, it doesn't score well because we have to, you know, account for everything up front as opposed to paying for renting something for 34 years.  What can we do to -- how much we make issue some common sense here.  
HALL:  Well I suppose it's making decision about it, obviously. It's understanding what the cost and what the extra cost are not extra cost will be of buying versus renting that sort of thing.  You know, obviously in terms of the -- of scoring something like that, that's something that we do routinely.  We don't constrain anybody in that. We just are trying to be clear, what's going to be the impact of spending on something like that.  
CARPER:  The way that the scoring occurs now -- an agency when they just get clearly demonstrate GSA -- an agency can clearly demonstrate that a lot of money is going to be saved for tax payers if we buy or build as opposed to continue renting.  But yet we continue to rent or lease.  
      And is there something that we need to do with the legislative branch in order to make sure use some common sense or enable you and your folks to use some common sense here?  
HALL:  I don't think I have any advice on that to be honest. It's something I suppose -- if you're interested in us following up on something like that -- on likely the scoring impact or that sort of thing, we can talk about that in a Q&A afterwards if you like.  
CARPER:  Good.  This is what I've been interested in for a while, so I look forward to that conversation.  The -- Senator McCaskill's over here talking about prevention and that sort of thing.  Major cost -- health care cost drivers -- there are a lot of them.  But among those major drivers are obesity.  
      Among the drivers are dementia.  I think we got about 5 million people that are suffering from Alzheimer's disease, dementia.  Today that number is expected to grow.  The great -- I use to think Medicaid -- the drivers in Medicaid was like, you know, women and children.  
      As it turns out, I'm told maybe three quarters of what we spent in Medicaid these days are for folks -- and there's old or people in nursing homes, a lot of whom have dementia.  
      Another health care cost drivers is end of life care.  We spend huge amount as you know, in the last six months of our lives.  And at some cases we -- people maybe do one of these advance care directives or, you know, actually depending on what kind of care they like to have in the last months or years of their life.  
      And they find it -- that you're doing like a hospital and that's still fine.  But if they get transferred to a different facility there's no portability of that directive.  I work out.  I love to work out everyday of my life in Austin, one of the places that I work out the YMCA back in Delaware.  
      And there's a woman who works out there from time to time.  I was talking to her -- she was in great shape.  She's on her 50's.  And is in terrific shape.  And I asked her if her parents were also like , you know, really in good physical shape.  And she said that they're deceased.  I said, really what happened.  
      And she said, her mom died of colorectal cancer.  And I said how old, and she said in her 50's.  And I said why, she said she just didn't want to get those screenings.  They were just -- didn't like to do -- it's uncomfortable, unpleasant and she'd rather don't do that and just take her chances.  She died.  
      I'm miserable of that death too, I might add.  One thing (inaudible) Affordable Care Act, is we basically try to make sure people get their screens whether it's colorectal, whether prostate, whether it's breast.  But I don't know that we always score those.  
      And in the end we know we saved a lot of money.  But though the score is not encouraging for us to do what in the end saves money. Can you just comment on what we need to do to change that?  
HALL:  We'll actually if you like, I think I mentioned this to Senator McCaskill, that if you like we can follow up with some description of how we score things like that and what sort of process we go through in looking at how to score something like that.  
CARPER:  OK.  Last one that I'll ask just briefly, of GAO finally signing a high risk list.  The issue of climate change.  They pointed out that enhancing resilience in communities may carry some upward cost but can reduce the damages in the future by a lot.  
      How should CBO factor into it's analysis, the growing cost of climate change, the economy and the federal budget?  
HALL:  We actually have done a little work on that.  
CARPER:  Have you?  
HALL:  Yes, we have.  We've looked at estimates of increased hurricanes and drought now is sort of a trend.  It does have an impact on GDP.  It's not a big impact on GDP.  I think we got a little discussion actually in this report on that.  And the reason it doesn't have a big budgetary impact of course is because the shared economy, the shred along the coast is not that big.  And the ag effects, you know, are part and the ag effects can be kind of mixed because you can actually have agricultural boost somewhere else, where you have it on the negative.  
      But we do have that, we do have some discussion on that.  We are in fact doing some more detailed work on the impact of increase hurricanes and maybe rising sea level.  So we'll actually have some work on that.  
CARPER:  Good.  I will look forward to that.  Thank you, thanks very much.  
HALL:  Sure  
JOHNSON:  Senator Carper, by the way to both of you and Senator McCaskill, if you're looking for an ally, there's the concept out there, pure strategy.  Which I think is exactly the direction we should be going in.  It's just a conservative.  I think it's money really well spent to try and cure diseases.  
      And what I'd love to do is get a commitment of CBO to really take a look at some of the projections for example how much we're going to be spending on Alzheimer's if we don't come up the cure.  You know, what, what is the current cost of just diabetes.  
      Do those types of things.  I think it's kind of hard to -- in my guess would be very difficult to project, you know, prevention.  You know what I'm saying, if you do this, but we certainly can have a pretty good hard number on what we're spending treating diabetes. What we're spending Alzheimer's and then dot he demographic projection in terms of how many, you know, the aging population, what's that going to cost and then the Alzheimer's associations and then those types of things.  
      So, I think those are extremely good numbers and types of information you would need to help direct action which kind of gets us back to the point we're making in this committee.  It's really about how do we simplify how we project, how we communicate those projections, it's about providing information not relying on demagoguery anymore because the only one we're going to solve this problem is again lay out the information, lay out the facts, have a very unbiased, nonpartisan intermediary arbitrator of the information so that we, you know, we're not assuming, battling over.  Well, this is my figure, that's your figure.  
      We can kind of come together and go OK.  Let's at least first agree on the figures as best we can to understand what underlies them.  
      So, again, I'm hoping that, you know, we've produced a lot -- we've report a lot of pieces of legislation that we have come to CBO in the past looking for scores.  I know you're busy.  I'm hoping you are valuing this and I hope you understand the direction I'm trying to go here.  Let's simplify things.  Let's get information to American public.  Let's get information to policy-makers so that we're on the same page.  
      So, I assume when looking for commitment out of CBO to which look one of the resources you have and on prioritized basis.  And, you know, we're not going to over burden here.  I'm very sympathetic for that standpoint but I really would like a little bit more help in terms of getting scores in some of these things and work with you to, again, prioritize what our requests are.  Is that fair enough?  
HALL:  Sure.  
JOHNSON:  Just too quick final questions.  I want to go back a little bit on debt and service ability of it.  Do you have any sounds sense that -- well, if you don't let me know and we'll submit as questions of record -- what are current maturity level is of our current federal debt versus prior years and what the recommendation be going forward of trying to extend that, take advantage of this low interest rates.  Can you comment on that?  
HALL:  I can't but I'm happy to follow-up.  
JOHNSON:  OK.  I mean that's pretty importantly.  I'd like to see where we used to be, where we are today because my sense is we've really shortened that maturity time period pretty dramatically, take advantage of this very low short-term interest rates when what we maybe ought to be doing is really trying to go as long as possible without driving up interest themselves by having great more -- great deal of demand.  
      The other thing again this might be picked up in our following hearing on social security but do you know what current law is when we no longer have those bonds when that accounting convention runs out with social security benefits?  Do you know what actually happens according to current law if we don't do something?  
      And, really, (inaudible) social security feasibility trust fund in the next year or two, correct?  
HALL:  That's right.  That's right.  Yes.  The -- that's right. The disability, one, is pretty quick, it's F.Y. 2017.  No, I don't know what the current law is on that.  I think we've sort of assumed that money is put in there.  
JOHNSON:  Something is going to happen, you know, I've heard and, again, I -- it's very difficult for us -- I've heard that basically what ends up happening by current law is benefits would be reduced to equal derived new generation.  But I can't get a real hand on that so I can't see that definitely at all.  But, you know, if you could check on that, we're going to certainly bring in some experts of social security to define what is the law if we just put our heads and they sign on this which is something I don't recommend we do.  
      But, again, Director Hall and Dr. Hall, I'd really do appreciate your testimony, the time you've taken today and I really, you know, all sincerity, I want to work with you because you are -- your agency is so critically important to get that information out there, for the American public to understand the depth of these issues because as Senator Enzi was saying, the soon you address these problems, the less painful the solutions will be.  
      So, with that in mind, I got with my hearing script, this hearing record will remain open for 15 days until July 24th at 5:00 P.M. for the submission of statements and questions for the record.  This hearing is adjourned.  
      END   

Load-Date: July 11, 2015


End of Document
