




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
March 29, 2000, Wednesday


Copyright 2000, Telegraph-Herald
Section: Iowa; Pg. d 8
Length: 733 words
Byline: Associated Press and TH staff
Dateline: SOLON, Iowa (AP)
Body


Local delegation split: Connolly votes against measure, Flynn in favor
DES MOINES - Senate lawmakers debated a 24-hour waiting period on abortions Tuesday, pressing the need to provide women with pamphlets on adoptions and photographs of a fetus before they decide to terminate their pregnancy.
The bill, which passed the House last week, would require doctors to offer pregnant women information before they perform an abortion in all cases except medical emergencies.
Supporters said the proposal would give women the information they need to fully understand their decision.
Sens. Mike Connolly, D-Dubuque, and Tom Flynn, D-Epworth, stood on opposite sides of the issue.
Connolly cast his vote against the bill, saying afterward he thought it was paternalism.
"It's basically demeaning to women," Connolly said.
"I voted what's in my heart. The bill really doesn't have much to do with abortion."
According to Connolly, a number of senators who have consistently voted against abortion joined him in voting against the bill, but Flynn was not one of them.
"I feel strongly that (abortion) has to be an informed decision," Flynn said. "I have consistently been pro-life. That's what my constituents expect of me."
Flynn said he was committed to supporting the bill even before the debate because he feels it will cut the number of abortions.
"It goes a long way to help people in understanding the impact of this medical procedure in their lives today and their lives later on," he said.
Under the proposal, women would be offered packets of printed materials containing public and private services available to them, information on adoption agencies, pictures representing the development of an unborn child and a 24-hour telephone number to call for services.
Doctors who fail to offer the information could face a simple misdemeanor, punishable by up to 30 days in jail, and a $ 500 fine.
Opponents of the bill said it was unnecessary and assumed women did not agonize over an unplanned pregnancy.
"I find this legislation very insulting to women because it assumes that we are stupid and unable to make our own decisions on our own reproductive health," said Sen. Pat Harper, D-Waterloo. "This is treating adult women as if they are teenagers."
The Department of Public Health reported 5,736 abortions in 1998, the most recent statistics available.
Clinics that offer counseling or abortion services shared mixed reviews of the need for the waiting period and mandated information.
Karen Kubby, executive director of the Emma Goldman Clinic for Women in Iowa City, called the proposal "incredibly insulting" to women. Her clinic advises about 6,000 women each year on reproductive issues ranging from birth control to abortion.
Kubby said any woman who requests an abortion from the clinic automatically undergoes an advocacy session to fully examine her needs and options.
"There are no other medical procedures that have this extra step," Kubby said.
Larry Breheny, executive director of Catholic Charities in Iowa, said his organization frequently counsels women who regret their decision to undergo an abortion and say they failed to realize its emotional impact.
The organization, which opposes abortion, offers Project Rachel, a program that provides post-abortion counseling.
"My feeling is that any additional time provided for under the law would be helpful," Breheny said.
Sen. Matt McCoy, D-Des Moines, criticized the printed information's $90,000 price tag and urged lawmakers to spend the money on preventing unplanned pregnancies before they occur.
"You're not preventing abortion here. You're just putting people through a lot of bureaucracy," McCoy said.
Democrats also offered several attachments to the bill, ranging from a measure to force men to wait 24 hours before they undergo a vasectomy to a proposal to require a waiting period for the purchasing of firearms. All of the proposals were defeated.
The legislation faces an uncertain future. Gov. Tom Vilsack said last week that he's troubled by the bill and indicated that he might veto the proposal when it reaches his desk.
"Philosophically, I would be surprised if a young woman, or any woman, faced with that decision, hadn't spent a great deal of time thinking about it before they make a decision," Vilsack said.
"If we're going to talk about a right to know, then why aren't we applying that to every other medical procedure?" Vilsack asked.

Load-Date: March 29, 2000


End of Document
