




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
November 18, 2021 Thursday


Copyright 2021 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 600 words
Body


(PRWeb) - Mens Health Awareness Month occurs every November to heighten awareness and provide education about cancers specific to men as well as mens mental health. Separate from Mens Health Month recognized in June, Novembers Mens Health Awareness Month raises awareness and support for men coping with prostate cancer, testicular cancer, mental health issues, and suicide.
Shady Grove Fertilitys (SGF) Center for Male Fertility, comprised of reproductive urologists Paul Shin, M.D., Cori Tanrikut, M.D., and Russel Hayden, M.D., encourages male fertility preservation prior to cancer treatment in order to secure future family-building options. Similar to egg and embryo freezing, men can freeze their sperm to preserve fertility when faced with testicular tumors or other cancers. Cryopreservation of sperm is a viable option for men to safeguard their fertility prior to undergoing cancer treatments.
Mens Health Awareness Month prioritizes conversations like cancer, mental health, and fertility preservation because the truth of the matter is that between 40 and 50 percent of the male population will experience some issues with sexual health and fertility, explains Dr. Hayden.
SGF Physicians help couples overcome male-factor infertility
In addition to male fertility preservation, SGFs Center for Male Fertility offers a range of male services from basic fertility evaluation and testing to surgical interventions and state-of-the-art microsurgical techniques, including:
varicocele repair
vasectomy reversal
percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration (PESA)
testicular sperm extraction (TESE)
no-needle, no-scalpel vasectomy
testicular microdissection
Nearly one in eight couples will face infertility, understandably resulting in possible medical, emotional, physical, and financial stress. SGF offers a wide array of free resources for men seeking more knowledge on reproductive health, such as:
The Lifecycle of Sperm: Sperm Development
Overcoming Male Factor Infertility
Improve Sperm Count: Sperm Quality Checklist
Male Fertility On-Demand Webinar
Patient Stories
SGF also offers individuals or couples professional counseling and support groups:
Following a pregnancy loss
Following an unsuccessful treatment cycle
When considering third-party reproduction, such as using donor eggs, donor sperm, and/or a gestational carrier
When considering transitioning from one treatment to another or when considering discontinuing treatment altogether
When financial, emotional, physical, or relationship obstacles seem to be insurmountable
At the start of any feelings of isolation or depression
If the coping strategies they once found to be helpful no longer seem to be working
To schedule an appointment with our reproductive urologists, or any of SGFs reproductive endocrinologists, call 1-888-761-1967 or complete this brief online request form.
About Shady Grove Fertility (SGF) SGF is a leading fertility and IVF center of excellence with more than 100,000 babies born. With 43 locations, including new locations in Colorado and Norfolk, VA, as well as throughout CO, FL, GA, MD, NY, PA, VA, D.C., and Santiago, Chile, SGF offers patients virtual physician consults, delivers individualized care, accepts most insurance plans, and makes treatment more affordable through innovative financial options, including 100% refund guarantees. More physicians refer their patients to SGF than any other center. SGF is among the founding partner practices of US Fertility, the largest physician-owned, physician-led partnership of top-tier fertility practices in the U.S. Call 1-888-761-1967 or visit ShadyGroveFertility.com.

Load-Date: November 18, 2021


End of Document
