




Glamour
May 2011


Copyright 2011 The Conde Nast Publications All Rights Reserved


Section: THE ULTIMATE GUIDE TO HIS MAN PARTS; Pg. 272; Vol. 109; No. 5; ISSN: 0017-0747
Length: 290 words
Byline: Jennifer Matlack
Highlight: For work, people! Karen Elizabeth Boyle, M.D., a urologist and reproductive-medicine specialist in Baltimore, tells you what she's seen and what it's taught her.
Body


I specialize in vasectomy reversals, infertility and sexual function. On a typical day, I see 30 to 40 men, and all of these patients need their genitalia examined. For a physician, however, whatever part of the body that's examined becomes just that: another body part. Despite the great variety and diversity I've seen—from genital piercings and tattoos (I recently saw LUCKY YOU inscribed down the shaft of a patient's penis) to manscaping (yes, a lot of guys groom their pubic hair)—there is really no shock value for me.
In my profession, I've also learned that you really can't judge a book by its cover. It's usually the most quiet, reserved men who come up with jaw-dropping stories about sex and sex toys I've never heard of. (Later, I have to google to find out what new device they're talking about!) I also see men who are successful and accomplished—really on-top-of-their-game men—who are surprisingly insecure about their penis size. Invariably, these men have had a negative experience with a sexual partner and as a result are genuinely concerned that they have an abnormally short penis. (Note to women: Please do not ever criticize a man's parts. It's not kind.)
I also believe that penile health is a good indicator of a man's overall health. Erectile dysfunction can be one of the first symptoms of underlying heart disease, so men will often quit smoking to improve their sexual performance. I get so many men to quit smoking because of that! As a doctor who specializes in this very field, I feel privileged. When I get calls letting me know that a pregnancy test is positive or when I receive e-mails with pictures of my patients' newborn babies, I feel a great sense of accomplishment. It's an incredibly happy profession.

Load-Date: September 28, 2011


End of Document
