




Chicago Daily Herald
January 6, 2012 Friday
ML2 Edition


Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: NEWS; Pg. 13
Length: 700 words
Body


Leads in cop's slaying
Chicago Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy said investigators are looking at a significant number of leads into the slaying last week of an off-duty police officer. McCarthy said the department is getting a lot of cooperation from the West Side community where officer Clifton Lewis was shot to death while working as a security guard at a convenience store. The 41-year-old officer was an eight-year police veteran. Reward offers totaling $20,000 have been made seeking information. Lewis was laid to rest Thursday.
Building owner jailed:
The owner of a vacant building where a collapsed roof crushed and killed two Chicago firefighters in 2010 was jailed Thursday after failing to pay bond on contempt charges. A Cook County judge ordered Chuck Dai, 62, of South Holland jailed after Dai couldn't pay the $50,000 bond. Prosecutors allege Dai failed to comply with a court order requiring him to secure and repair the South Side property. Cook County State's Attorney Anita Alvarez announced the charge last month. A roof collapse killed Edward Stringer, 47, and Corey Ankum, 34, and injured more than a dozen other firefighters called to battle a blaze on Dec. 22, 2010, at the vacant laundry facility. The now-demolished building had been cited for sagging ceiling tiles, rotted roof trusses and other safety violations. Documents show it had 14 code violations in 2007. Attorney Gene Murphy, who represents Dai, said prosecutors can't prove their case.
Teen gunned down on porch:
Police in Chicago are investigating the death of a 15-year-old boy who was shot multiple times while on the front porch of a home on the city's South Side. The Cook County medical examiner's office says Mark Watts was pronounced dead at Stroger Hospital. An autopsy is planned. Police say the boy was wounded in the legs, abdomen and buttocks Wednesday night. Authorities say he'd just walked out of the home when the shooting began. No arrests have been made.
Chicago votes on seed:
There's a big election going on, and it has nothing to do with the New Hampshire primary. It's Chicago's citywide vote for favorite seed. The candidates in the race are basil, camomile and cilantro. The annual vote, known as One Seed Chicago, is organized by the NeighborSpace organization. The winning seed will be distributed free to encourage urban farming. NeighborSpace director Ben Helphand says the common seed links communities in a season-long celebration of urban gardening. Gardeners took part in a primary to narrow the field to three. The final vote is open to schools, offices or anywhere someone is willing to establish a polling station. Voting began on New Year's Day and runs until April 1. Previous winners include the sunflower seed in 2008 and bee balm in 2010.
Clinic offers vasectomies:
A Chicago Planned Parenthood clinic has begun offering vasectomies for men who've decided they've completed their families or don't want to father children. The nonprofit family planning organization has launched the service at its Near North Health Center. Kai Tao, the center's vice president of clinical operations, said the procedure is safe and practically painless. He said there's a short recovery time and most men return to work the next day. Planned Parenthood offers vasectomies at many locations across the United States. The organization says the cost of a vasectomy ranges from $350 to $1,000, including the follow-up sperm count. Many private insurance companies cover vasectomies.
Jackson to represent state:
The Rev. Jesse Jackson will represent Illinois in South Africa at the 100th anniversary of the founding of the African National Congress. The Chicago civil rights leader will leave next week. Gov. Pat Quinn announced Jackson's trip on Wednesday. Quinn says Jackson is a good ambassador for the state. State officials say South Africa is the top importer of Illinois products in Africa. The ANC is Africa's oldest liberation movement and was founded in 1912 to preserve voting rights for black South Africans. It is now that nation's largest political party. Jackson has visited South Africa before, including in 1990 when Nelson Mandela was freed after more than two decades in prison.

Graphic

 
Clifton Lewis Associated Press The casket of Chicago police officer Clifton Lewis is brought into the sanctuary of United Missionary Baptist Church in Chicago on Thursday. Lewis was shot to death last week while working as a security guard at a convenience store. Clifton Lewis Associated Press The casket of Chicago police officer Clifton Lewis is brought into the sanctuary of United Missionary Baptist Church in Chicago on Thursday. Lewis was shot to death last week while working as a security guard at a convenience store.

Load-Date: January 6, 2012


End of Document
