




Newstex Blogs 
Newsbusters.org
July 12, 2022 Tuesday 4:07 PM EST


Copyright 2022 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 1300 words
Byline: Alex Christy
Body


Jul 12, 2022( Newsbusters.org: / Delivered by Newstex)  
 The Tuesday tragicomic edition of CBS Mornings profiled a couple of men who had a suggestion on how men can do their part in the after of the Supreme Court's ruling to strike down Roe v. Wade: get a vasectomy. 
Host Tony Dokopoul got things started by reporting, 'more menare taking action themselves inthe aftermath of Roe v. Wade.Turning to vasectomies, thenumber of Google searches for theword 'vasectomy' peaked just one day after the Supreme Court's ruling last month and now doctors are saying that it's not justsearches, more patients are asking for the procedure IRL, in real life.' 
He then turned things over to national correspondent Manuel Bojorquez for a more in-depth report who reported, 'we also spoke with a doctor who saidthe way he found out by theSupreme Court's decision that day is by the sheer number ofphone calls coming into hisclinic.He said they tripled their normal volume and the number of men signing up forthe procedure tripled too.' 
Diving into a video, Bojorquez featured Dr. Doug Stein of Tampa, Florida,reporting that, 'We generally see about 12% inour practice, men who arechild-free and then we generally see about 12% of menunder the age of 30.But the number of both young andchild-free nearly doubled.' 
Bojorquez profiled one of those men, '27-year-old ThomasFigueroa says he and his girlfriend saidthey do not want children, so getting a vasectomy was always on his mind.' 
Figueroa declared that, 'I've always thought aboutthis decision.The Supreme Court did finallypush me to do it.' 
After Bojorquez described a vasectomy, he played up ill-founded fears that birth control is next, 'For Figueroa this also about easing the burden on women who have had their constitutional right to abortion taken away and for those who feel restrictions on birth control could come next.' 
Figuerora himself added, 'I feel for a lot of men, especially for myself, that this is a way where they're trying to protect their girlfriends, they're trying to protect their partners,they're trying to protect their future partners.' 
Another man profiled was Houston's Jordan Castro, whose 'post about getting a vasectomy went viral.He did it last fall after Texas passed a law banning abortion after about six weeks offertilization.' 
Only after the state passed a pro-life law did Castro start thinking about personal responsibility, 'Really try to put yourself ina—in a-- women's shoes.I really think guys should—guys should-- take that intoaccount and take a little bitmore responsibility.' 
After reminding viewers that Stein stresses to patients that getting a vasectomy is a serious decision that is not easily reversible, Bojorquez concluded by reporting, 'In fact, he says,they are booked through August,and that's as far in advance asthey've ever been booked before.' 
It is sad that it took the Supreme Court to instill some sense of responsibility for these two, but at least they will not pass their wisdom on to the next generation. 
This segment was sponsored by Neutrogena[1]. 
Here is a transcript for the July 12 show: 
CBS Mornings 
7/12/2022 
7:30 AM ET 
TONY DOKOUPIL: At the same time more menare taking action themselves inthe aftermath of Roe v. Wade.Turning to vasectomies, thenumber of Google searches for theword 'vasectomy' peaked just one day after the Supreme Court's ruling last month and now doctors are saying that it's not justsearches, more patients are asking for the procedure IRL, in real life.Manuel Bojorquez is in Miami Shores with more. Manny, I'm going to be watching thisvery closely, good morning. 
MANUEL BOJORQUEZ: That's right, good morning.You know, we also spoke with a doctor who saidthe way he found out by theSupreme Court's decision that day is by the sheer number ofphone calls coming into hisclinic.He said they tripled their normal volume and the number of men signing up forthe procedure tripled too. 
DOUG STEIN: I just want to get a feel forwhy you feel so confident you'regoing to be happy with yourvasectomy decision indefinitely. 
BOJORQUEZ: From his office in Tampa, urologist Doug Stein callspatients who are under 30 or donot have children to discuss whetherthey are 100% sure they want avasectomy, a call he's now makingmore often. 
STEIN: We generally see about 12% inour practice, men who arechild-free and then we generally see about 12% of menunder the age of 30.But the number of both young andchild-free nearly doubled. 
BOJORQUEZ: The two-doctorpractice performs sixvasectomies an hour most days. 
Some decisions not just made by men, but byfamilies. 
STEIN: Fifty percent of our calls are made bywomen. 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I just need you to print, sign, and date. 
BOJORQUEZ: 27-year-old ThomasFigueroa says he and his girlfriend saidthey do not want children, so getting a vasectomy was always on his mind. 
THOMAS FIGUERORA: I've always thought aboutthis decision.The Supreme Court did finallypush me to do it. 
BOJORQUEZ: The procedure whichblocks sperm from enteringsemen is outpatient and takes about ten minutes with about a two-day recovery as opposed to a female tubal ligation which is riskier and much more invasive. For Figueroa this also about easing the burden on women who have had their constitutional right to abortion taken away and for those who feel restrictions on birth control could come next. 
FIGUERORA: I feel for a lot of men, especially for myself, that this is a way where they're trying to protect their girlfriends, they're trying to protect their partners,they're trying to protect their future partners. 
BOJORQUEZ: In Houston, Jordan Castro'spost about getting a vasectomy went viral.He did it last fall after Texas passed a law banning abortion after about six weeks offertilization. 
JORDAN CASTRO: Really try to put yourself ina—in a-- women's shoes.I really think guys should—guys should-- take that intoaccount and take a little bitmore responsibility. 
BOJORQUEZ: And while vasectomiesare reversible, not allreversals are successful. 
STEIN: Alright, very good, do you have any pain? 
BOJORQUEZ: That's something Dr. Steinstresses to his growing numberof patients. 
And do you see this as a trendthat will continue or just kind of aspike? 
STEIN: I think maybe the spike isover and we're tapering down alittle bit, but I think wehaven't tapered back down topre-Roe overturn numbers. 
BOJORQUEZ: In fact, he says,they are booked through August,and that's as far in advance asthey've ever been booked before.Vlad? 
 [ 1]:  
The views expressed in any and all content distributed by Newstex and its re-distributors (collectively, the "Newstex Authoritative Content") are solely those of the respective author(s) and not necessarily the views of Newstex or its re-distributors. Stories from such authors are provided "AS IS," with no warranties, and confer no rights. The material and information provided in Newstex Authoritative Content are for general information only and should not, in any respect, be relied on as professional advice. Newstex Authoritative Content is not "read and approved" before it is posted. Accordingly, neither Newstex nor its re-distributors make any claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the information contained therein or linked to from such content, nor do they take responsibility for any aspect of such content. The Newstex Authoritative Content shall be construed as author-based content and commentary. Accordingly, no warranties or other guarantees are offered as to the quality of the opinions, commentary or anything else appearing in such Newstex Authoritative Content. Newstex and its re-distributors expressly reserve the right to delete stories at its and their sole discretion.

Load-Date: July 20, 2022


End of Document
