




University Wire
January 31, 2001


Copyright 2001 Daily Kent Stater via U-Wire
Section: COLUMN
Length: 651 words
Byline: By Quantia Watson, Daily Kent Stater
Dateline: Kent, Ohio
Body


It has been several weeks since the Rev. Jesse Jackson admitted that he had an affair that resulted in the birth of a "love child," as a few crass reporters called her.
The news came as a shock to me, and I have had so many mixed emotions that it wasn't until now that I can even begin to talk about the events that occurred. Now, my feelings have simply dwindled down to sadness, and I have a lot of unanswered "whys."
Why would a man who speaks vehemently against any form of family destruction knowingly and willingly involve himself in something potentially destructive to his own? The answer to that question is simple: The "little head" prevailed over the "big head," and in those sexual moments, his family was the last thing on his mind. Also, Jackson is human. God said we would all fall short of his glory, and this includes U.S. presidents and prominent ministers.
Kent State U.
Haven't you ever heard, "To err is human, to forgive is divine?" Well it's true, and since the Bible also said that the perfect one of us should throw the first stone, there shouldn't be any stones thrown. None of us is perfect. Still, the revelation of the whole thing left a sour taste in my mouth as I pondered other "whys."
Why didn't Jackson at least use a condom? For a man who preaches continually on safe and responsible sex, he could have at least had that much common sense. Having an affair is bad enough, but I bet the hardest thing for his wife to digest is the fact that a child (for whom he pays $ 3,000 per month of the family's income to support) is a constant, forever-long reminder of an affair that might have otherwise stayed swept under the rug or simply written off as a mid-life crisis.
Why did Jackson have to take his mistress to the White House? With the big deal everyone was making over Clinton's tryst with Monica, it was completely tasteless of the reverend to bring along his pregnant girlfriend for what was supposed to be a time of prayer and repentance. Maybe he wanted to show her what life would be like for him if their secret was ever leaked. I don't know, but Jackson definitely lost a few more cool points with me for that bad decision.
And if Jackson is the loving father to his 20-month-old daughter that he says he is, why doesn't she have his last name? That answer might not be hard to come by, either. At the time of the little girl's birth, the affair was not public, and what quicker way to call the press than have Jesse Jackson show up at a hospital with a woman in labor and subsequently sign the birth certificate of the child? But now the affair is public. Will Jackson now give his daughter her rightful last name, or is it reserved only for his "legitimate" children?
The real loser in the whole situation is the little girl, and everyone seems to be forgetting that. How much time will Jackson be spending with his daughter? After this scandal, will his wife be open to him hopping on a plane to visit her once a month? Or how about Mrs. Jackson suggesting that the child come visit them once a month and stay for six weeks in the summer? Not likely. And as the girl grows up, she will forever be branded as the "love child" that almost brought black America to its knees.
We act as if infidelity is new to this society. Bill Cosby did it. Clinton did it, and so did a host of other presidents and influential men. Although it's less talked about, women do it too. I once heard a urologist say that with a little pressing, nine out of 10 women who got pregnant after their husbands' vasectomies admitted to having unprotected sex with a partner other than their spouse. The doctor's remedy: You don't sue, and I won't tell. He said he simply assures the husbands that nothing is foolproof and lets the couple get on with their lives.
As for Jackson, his life, too, goes on. God will forgive him. Why shouldn't we?
(C) 2001 Daily Kent Stater via U-WIRE

Load-Date: January 31, 2001


End of Document
