




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
February 7, 2004 Saturday Spokane Edition


Copyright 2004 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: REGION; Pg.B2
Length: 379 words
Byline: Carla K. Johnson Staff writer
Body


Seeking to get birth control to the young women who need it, Planned
 Parenthood of the Inland Northwest plans to open an ''express clinic" on
 Spokane's South Hill by midsummer.
 No specific site has been chosen.
 The clinic, like one in Cheney that opened in October, would offer
 contraceptives and pregnancy testing, but not abortions or vasectomies.
The clinic also will dispense the so-called ''morning-after pill," which
 can prevent pregnancy if taken soon after unprotected sex.
 The agency analyzed client ZIP codes to determine where to put the express
 clinics, which are a trend among Planned Parenthood agencies nationwide.
 Of the more than 175,000 services delivered at the Spokane agency's East
 Indiana and Spokane Valley clinics last year, 17 percent of the clients came
 from the South Hill.
 Cheney was another big source of clients. Eastern Washington University
 students had been traveling into Spokane to get free or low-cost birth
 control.
 Contraceptives are not covered in the student health plan. The pill, the
 most popular method, normally costs $30 a month.
 Some students weren't happy about traveling into Spokane to get birth
 control they could afford. They called Planned Parenthood CEO C.J. Gribble.
 ''They said, 'Can't you do something about this?' I said, 'Yes, I think we
 can and should,"' Gribble said.
 The new Cheney clinic, in a remodeled beauty salon near campus, has one
 exam room. But most clients don't get a pelvic exam, Gribble said.
 If the clients are newly sexually active and don't have risk factors for
 cervical cancer, they can walk in the clinic without an appointment and walk
 out with contraceptives.
 Of contraceptives dispensed at Planned Parenthood's five health centers,
 the pill is the most popular. Sixty-one percent of contraceptives dispensed
 are birth control pills. Another 16 percent are emergency contraceptives.
 Planned Parenthood also offers the injectable contraceptive Depo Provera,
 diaphragms, the birth control patch, intra-uterine devices and the vaginal
 ring.
 A grand opening event for the Cheney clinic will be held from 5 to 6:30
 p.m. Feb. 17 at the clinic, 301 Second St. The public is invited.
 The Cheney clinic's regular hours are Monday, Wednesday and Friday, from 10
 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 6 p.m.

Notes

Carla K. Johnson can be reached at (509) 459-5148, or by e-mail at .  

Graphic

 
Photo; Mary, a physician's assistant, helps a patient at Planned Parenthood in Spokane on Friday. Photo by Holly Pickett, The Spokesman-Review

Load-Date: February 11, 2004


End of Document
