




Salt Lake Tribune (Utah)
April 5, 2001, Thursday


Copyright 2001 The Salt Lake Tribune
Section: Final; Pg. B2
Length: 321 words
Byline: DAN EGAN, THE SALT LAKE TRIBUNE
Body


A St. George physician lost his right to perform surgeries and prescribe medication in an emergency hearing by a state licensing board Tuesday.
Layfe Robert Anthony declined comment Wednesday after the Utah Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing (DOPL) alleged that two of his patients died after liposuction procedures.
A committee appointed by DOPL's Physician's Licensing Board also alleged Anthony botched a vasectomy and two tonsillectomies in surgeries dating back to 1997, though none of those patients died.
Anthony] was ordered to "immediately surrender his wall- and wallet-sized licenses to practice as a physician and surgeon," DOPL Director J. Craig Jackson ruled Wednesday.
Anthony will be given a restricted license to continue his practice until a second hearing is held within the next 20 days to determine whether the emergency order should be extended, rescinded or modified.
According to the findings issued Wednesday, an anonymous Nevada patient died in 1999 of an overdose of drugs prescribed by Anthony after liposuction.
When the patient complained of pain after surgery, the statement alleges, Anthony gave the patient's husband an "unlabeled syringe containing clear liquid." Anthony told the husband he could give the patient the drug "all at once or a little at a time."
The man injected the fluid into his wife's arm, and she died the next day.
A second anonymous woman seeking a liposuction procedure died in Anthony's care the next year, the statement said.
In another case, the statement said, a man who sought a vasectomy from Anthony subsequently impregnated his wife.
Because of Anthony's "habitual poor judgment, poor or nonexistent monitoring of patients during surgical procedures and pattern of subjecting patients to extreme risk, [his] lack of competency and skill as a physician and surgeon constitutes an immediate threat to the public's health safety and welfare," Jackson ruled.

Load-Date: April 5, 2001


End of Document
