




 The New York Times
May 17, 2002 Friday
 Late Edition - Final 


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company
Section: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4
Length: 744 words
Byline:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 
Dateline: ALBANY, May 16  
Body


The Legislature and the governor acted today to require health insurance plans to cover most infertility treatments, bringing an abrupt, surprising end to three years of wrangling.
     The mandate was inserted into one of the bills that make up the state budget after overnight negotiations involving the Senate, the Assembly and Gov. George E. Pataki. The Legislature passed the bills today, and the governor's office said he would sign them. 
 New York's new requirement, which takes effect Sept. 1, applies only to people between the ages of 21 and 44, with certain kinds of health insurance -- about two million New Yorkers, experts estimated. Fourteen other states have varying kinds of infertility coverage requirements, including New Jersey and Connecticut, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
The requirement explicitly excludes a few very expensive procedures, like in vitro fertilization and vasectomy reversal. But it includes a $10 million pilot program to have the state itself help pay for such procedures for a relatively small number of people. The Health Department will develop rules for deciding who will be eligible and how large the subsidies will be.
The new law also requires, in some cases, that insurance plans cover drug therapies for infertility.
"This is a tremendous gift to New Yorkers," said Pamela Madsen, executive director of the American Infertility Association.
The infertility requirement does not apply to the millions of New Yorkers on Medicaid, the government health insurance plan for the very poor; to people who buy individual policies; or, of course, to people who have no insurance.
About 13 million New Yorkers are enrolled in private group health insurance plans. About half of them -- primarily those who work for large corporations or belong to large unions -- have plans that are considered "self-insured," in which case they are governed by federal law and no state mandates apply. It is the others, perhaps seven million, who will be covered by the law, though fewer than one-third are in the right age bracket.
The new law requires that if a plan provides prescription drug coverage, it must also cover the cost of the drugs for infertility.
The issue first came to fore here in 1999, when both parties tried to gain traction in a special election campaign for State Senate in a district covering Rockland County and part of Orange County. Democrats and Republicans promised infertility coverage to Orthodox Jewish leaders, who are a powerful force in that district and had pushed hard for the requirement. About the same time, the American Infertility Association, a secular group, began lobbying for it.
The Senate and Assembly then passed their own versions of the bill, but seemed unable to compromise and accused each other of bad faith. The Democratic Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, wanted a fairly broad requirement, but the Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, sought a narrower one, to limit costs and to avoid conflict with the Roman Catholic Church, which objects to in vitro fertilization. Advocates for the mandate began to suspect that lawmakers had no real intention of enacting a law.
The two houses' differences appeared irreconcilable as recently as nine days ago, when the Senate passed an infertility bill and the Assembly refused to take it up. But in negotiations last night, Assembly leaders agreed to add a nearly identical provision to a budget bill.
Business groups, whose members pay most health insurance premiums, object to the mandate. "We don't think that state health care policy should be taking steps that make insurance more expensive and therefore less accessible," said Matthew Maguire, spokesman for the Business Council of New York State.
Women's groups and some liberal Assembly members have said the state should not require coverage of infertility treatments if it does not require coverage of contraceptives. "In the course of these negotiations, there always ends up being something that's infuriating," said Assemblywoman Deborah Glick, a vocal member of that group. "I guess it's the nature of compromise."
In typical Albany fashion, the deal was struck and the bill printed before most legislators, even those who had been central to the debate, were aware it was under consideration. It is tucked in the middle of a 127-page bill that deals with, among other things, the harvesting of quahogs and the registration of pet food brands. 



Load-Date: May 17, 2002


End of Document
