




The Philadelphia Daily News
August 27, 2010 Friday
FINAL Edition


Copyright 2010 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC All Rights Reserved
Section: FEATURES; DN Yo! Features; Pg. 33
Length: 473 words
Body


Q: My partner and I have been together for 25 years. Two years ago he got a vasectomy, and we have been having sex at least once a day since. The relief of not getting pregnant has changed our sex lives tremendously. The problem is that recently my desire has dropped off. My doctor says this is perfectly natural after age 40. But I don't want it to. I am really having a lot of fun.
I have found that a couple of shots of rum relaxes me and gets me in the mood, but I would rather not destroy my liver. Are there any herbs out there that will increase my desire? I don't want to hit the bottle every time I want to have sex!
Steve: As Ogden Nash observed, "Candy is dandy, but liquor is quicker." As long as your input is moderate - and I see no problem with one shot of rum or one glass of wine - your output should be fine.
Mia: Oh, honey, where's the female Viagra pill when you need it? Seriously, though I'm no doctor, I've heard that ginko biloba and ginseng supposedly help increase sexual desire.
But before investing a lot of time in playing medicine woman on yourself, try a little creativity to rev up your libido. Have sex in the Jacuzzi or check into a hotel for a night. Buy some naughty lingerie and indulge in role play.
Whatever you do, keep having sex. Sometimes if you just go through the motions, you'll find the old feelings come flooding back.
If things don't get better, you're going to have revisit your doctor or find a new one to help you explore the medical options that are available, such as localized estrogen therapy.
Whatever you do, don't fret. What you're experiencing is natural. Just because you've slowed down a little doesn't mean you're no longer a hot, sexy mama.
Q: Is there really such a thing as a sex addiction? My girlfriend says I'm a sex addict. I just like having sex, that's all. What do you think? Mia: If you're just doing the hanky-panky with your girlfriend, I'd say she's one lucky gal.
Steve: People are addicted to all kinds of things. Sex can be one of them. But liking something a lot isn't the same as being addicted. It all depends on how dependent you are on it.
Do you feel compelled to have sex all the time? Does it feel out of your control sometimes? Is it affecting other parts of your life, like your job? If you go for a few days without it, do you feel desperate or sick?
If you answer yes to those questions, you should consult a doctor. If the answer is no, then you're just a guy who likes sex more than his girlfriend. And you are not alone. 
Steve is a 50-something married man who's been around the block. Mia is a younger, recently married woman with an altogether different attitude. They may not agree, but they have plenty of answers. For answers to your romantic troubles, e-mail  or write: S&M c/o Daily News, 400 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, PA 19130.

Load-Date: August 27, 2010


End of Document
