




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
September 9, 2023 Saturday
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2023 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: MAGAZINE; Pg. B-1
Length: 713 words
Byline: Joshua Axelrod Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Body


If you thought the "Jackass" stunts that made it onto television and the big screen were gnarly, just wait until you see the ones that didn't.
Some of those forbidden set pieces have recently begun making the rounds nationwide thanks to "Jackass" star Steve-O and his "Bucket List Tour." Those live shows mix standup comedy with pre-taped versions of stunts that he described in an early August interview with the Post-Gazette as being "too hot for 'Jackass.' "
Steve-O's "Bucket List Tour" will be stopping by Greensburg's Palace Theatre on Sunday. Tickets for the (understandably) 18-plus show, including a $125 VIP package highlighted by a post-show meet-and-greet with the man himself, are available via thepalacetheatre.org. Anyone attending "The Bucket List Tour" should be prepared to witness clips with names like "The Vasectomy Olympics" and "The Epidural Foot Race."
"It's the most epic stuff I've ever put out there," said Steve-O, whose real name is Stephen Glover. "I'm always trying to take it to the next level. That's what I did with this show. It's the next level past 'Jackass.' "
Talking to Steve-O is a special experience because there's no telling where the conversation will eventually lead.
His video call with the Post-Gazette began with him behind the wheel of a car excitedly discussing how he and his fianc쎩e had just found the perfect property for the animal sanctuary they wanted to establish that would eventually serve as their wedding venue. He also brought up how excited he was to be getting a tattoo on his head later that weekend.
There's no shortage of Steve-O content available these days. He maintains a pretty robust YouTube channel, hosts the "Wild Ride! with Steve-O" podcast and has written two books: 2012's "Professional Idiot: A Memoir" and last year's "A Hard Kick in the Nuts: What I've Learned from a Lifetime of Terrible Decisions."
"I'm profoundly grateful for everything that's going on in my life," he said.
Steve-O also made an appearance in the 2022 film "Jackass Forever," which he said served as "a killer commercial for all my different endeavors." Plus, he 's already filming more X-rated and/or "legitimately life-threatening" stunts for his follow-up to "The Bucket List Tour."
"Between now and then, we're talking about flying a helicopter over my house in the Hollywood Hills to fly in a 760-pound vending machine so that it can live on top of my new half-pipe that's being finished in the back of my house right now," he added.
Sure, why not? To be fair though, he did at one point exit the car to show off the half-pipe being constructed in his backyard. He then uttered the phrase "check out my goats" before revealing a loft underneath his house that was full of grazing goats.
That's the kind of irreverence folks can expect from the live portion of "The Bucket List Tour," which is purely Steve-O on stage doing standup bits.
"I wouldn't insult the live audience with physical stunts that could be repeated every night," he said. "The bar is too high for that."
He would, however, provide them with footage of things so upsetting that he allegedly was banned from bringing "The Bucket List Tour" to theaters in Philadelphia "due to the content." Though it's unclear if that's also why Steve-O is performing in Greensburg instead of somewhere in Pittsburgh, he said "that sounds like par for the course with this show."
"Bucket List Tour" audience members have been known to pass out during some stunts, mainly from the aforementioned "Vasectomy Olympics" segment. As for "The Epidural Foot Race," that apparently involves Steve-O having a four-inch needle injected into his spine, becoming paralyzed in the middle of a full sprint and his buddies conducting a series of experiments on him to see how helpless he really is.
All Steve-O is sure of at this point is that he has at least one more tour in him - "after that, I really don't know." For that and many other reasons, he considers "The Bucket List Tour" to be a must-see for anyone with even a passing interest in "Jackass" or his larger body of work.
"Anybody who appreciates 'Jackass' would be curious to see what would be too much for 'Jackass,' " he said. "I made a show to demonstrate precisely that."
Joshua Axelrod:  and Twitter @jaxelburgh.

Graphic

 
PHOTO: SteveO.com: "Jackass" star Steve-O will be stopping by Greensburg's Palace Theatre Sunday on his "Bucket List Tour."
PHOTO: SteveO.com: "Jackass" star Steve-O will be stopping by Greensburg's Palace Theatre Sunday on his "Bucket List Tour."
PHOTO: SteveO.com: "Jackass" star Steve-O will be stopping by Greensburg's Palace Theatre Sunday on his "Bucket List Tour."
PHOTO: SteveO.com:

Load-Date: September 9, 2023


End of Document
