




Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
March 1, 2024 Friday
SOONER EDITION


Copyright 2024 P.G. Publishing Co.
Section: OPINION; Pg. A-17
Length: 851 words
Byline: Adriana E. RamÃrez / Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Body


The fiftieth anniversary of Erica Jong's hyper-intelligent and hyper-sexual novel "Fear of Flying" should have been a celebration of the fulfillment of the author's dreams.
Ms. Jong's 1973 auto-fictional account of a woman in her late twenties running away from her marriage while also searching for the perfect man - a "zipless [expletive]," which is to say, a platonic ideal of an intimate encounter without significance or responsibility - is thrilling in its honesty, verve and salaciousness. Ms. Jong is literary and high-brow and unafraid of poking around in the gutter.
But alas, the publication anniversary of one of second-wave feminism's literary darlings seemed hollow less than a year after the Supreme Court's June 2022 decision in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization. How could "Fear of Flying," a novel about sexual equality published months after the decision in Roe v. Wade, be celebrated when access to reproductive rights had been setback to pre-1973?
Educated and beautiful
Isadora Zelda White Stollerman Wing, Ms. Jong's barely concealed alter-ego, is an incredibly literate and aroused protagonist who relishes being educated and beautiful at a time when America was finally invested in the interior lives of women. She is no role model, but more real than most female protagonists.
Isadora is also at the height of privilege. She is wealthy, fashionable and a graduate of Ivy League universities, including a PhD in literature from Columbia. She's Jewish, but she's also white, blonde and blue-eyed enough that she's shocked when anyone identifies her as Jewish.
And Isadora is unhappy. She enjoys the chase and flirtation of pursuit more than she does being married. Now on her second husband, she finds more comfort in imagining the naughty things she can do when they attend a conference in Europe than she does in his arms.
She dreams of being unencumbered by societal expectations. She's not sure she wants to be a mother. She's not sure she wants a house. She wants to write. But she's figuring that out too.
Isadora is of the first generation to have a widely available choice in where her life could go - in this regard, her indecision makes a lot of sense. She likes having the freedom to try on different selves. Because before her, few women could.
Sexual power
A huge part of that freedom was being able to decide when to have a child. Reliable birth control, which became available in 1963, and abortion a decade later, gave women sexual power over their lives. For the first time in history, women could enjoy the flexibility men had.
Why were men able to have meaningless sexual encounters?, Ms. Jong's novel asked. If sexual morality only applied to one of the sexes, shouldn't men then be limited to reproductive sex too? Or is the fairest thing to let everyone have the same sexual freedom?
A friend of mine argued at a meal last week that vasectomies should be offered for free to every man of reproductive age. After all, all pregnancies are caused by sperm.
Vasectomies would solve the issue once and for all, and when people were ready to have children, a reversal is simple and should also be free. Everyone at the table laughed, knowing the cultural impossibility of heterosexual men bearing the burden of preventing pregnancy.
Ms. Jong would have laughed with us. But I think her laugh would have been sadder. Isadora represented a new possibility, a new future for women. And of course, every movement inspires its backlash.
Fifty years later, we're in the thick of removing reproductive rights from women, preferring to think of women who want abortions as potential human incubators shirking responsibility instead of as human beings who want autonomy over their own bodies.
But the spirit of Isadora Wing hasn't faded in this cultural backlash. It's not hard to find young women grappling with the same questions about purpose and desire. The questions come up often in the media we consume, from the "Barbie" film to the tradwife movement, as well as the confessional video diaries of young women on Tik Tok.
An hour or two on the platform demonstrates how much we've failed young women. We promised them a world where they had the freedom to choose - and instead of making marriage and child-rearing more attractive, we've instead criminalized indecision.
True liberation
Ms. Jong's novel is fun to read, but it also inspired the doldrums in me. There was a promise to Isadora's irreverence. There's a reason so many people kept "Fear of Flying" underneath their mattresses or wrapped in different covers in their lockers at school, even years after its publication.
It was a naughty book, not just for its frank depictions of sex and desire, but also because it gave us a peek at what true liberation meant.
Isadora was messy, sure. And her decisions had consequences, absolutely. But she was failing freely in a way so few of us ever had, and really, ever would.
And here we are, fifty years later, still afraid to let young women fly.
Adriana E. RamÃrez, author of "Dead Boys," is a columnist and InReview editor for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Find her on X @zadri.

Graphic

 
PHOTO: Berkley: Cover of "Fear of Flying: 50th Anniversary Edition" by Erica Jong
PHOTO: Nathan Howard/Associated Press: Vice President Kamala Harris speaks on reproductive freedom at Howard University on April 25, 2023.

Load-Date: March 1, 2024


End of Document
