




Wall St. Cheat Sheet
September 23, 2011 Friday 7:42 AM EST


Copyright 2011 Newstex LLC
All Rights Reserved
Newstex Web Blogs
Copyright 2011 Wall St. Cheat Sheet
Length: 1487 words
Body


Wall St. Watchdog reveals information about companies for which stock analysts initiated coverage on September 22nd.
lululemon athletica (NASDAQ:LULU): Argus initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $75. Auriga initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $68. About the company: Lululemon Athletica Inc designs and retails athletic clothing. The Company produces fitness pants, shorts, tops and jackets for yoga, dance, running, and general fitness.
Uranium Energy (AMEX:UEC): Global Hunter Securities initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Accumulate and a price target of $4.45. About the company: Uranium Energy Corporation explores for and develops uranium resources in the south western United States.
AtriCure (NASDAQ:ATRC): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $14. About the company: AtriCure, Inc. develops, manufactures, and sells surgical devices designed to create precise lesions in soft tissues. The Company's bipolar ablation system is used by cardiothoracic surgeons as a standard treatment alternative to create lesions in heart tissue to block the abnormal electrical impulses that cause atrial fibrillation.
Varian Medical (NYSE:VAR): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $64. About the company: Varian Medical Systems, Inc. designs, manufactures, sells, and services equipment and software products for treating cancer with radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy. The Company also supplies products that include x-ray tubes, linear accelerators, digital image detectors, image processing software and image detection products.
Stryker (NYSE:SYK): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $57. About the company: Stryker Corporation develops, manufactures, and markets specialty surgical and medical products. The Company's products include implants, biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose  throat and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment.
St. Jude Medical (NYSE:STJ): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $50. About the company: St. Jude Medical, Inc. develops, manufactures, and distributes medical devices for the worldwide cardiovascular market. The Company serves patients and its health care customers with products and services including heart valves, cardiac rhythm management systems, specialty catheters, and other cardiovascular devices.
NuVasive (NASDAQ:NUVA): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Hold and a price target of $21. About the company: NuVasive, Inc. designs, develops, and markets products for the surgical treatment of spine disorders. The Company's products include Maximum Access Surgery and Fusion products.
Cyberonics (NASDAQ:CYBX): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Hold and a price target of $28. About the company: Cyberonics, Inc. designs, develops, and markets medical devices. The Company's devices are used for the treatment of epilepsy and other debilitating neurological, psychiatric, and other disorders. Cyberonics' NCP System is approved for sale in the United States, Europe, Canada, and other markets.
Alphatec (NASDAQ:ATEC): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Hold and a price target of $3. About the company: Alphatec Holdings, Inc. manufactures medical devices. The Company produces products for the surgical treatment of spinal disorders. Alphatec manufactures spine screws, spinal spacers, and plates.
Conceptus (NASDAQ:CPTS): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Hold and a price target of $11. About the company: Conceptus Inc. manufactures and markets Essure, an innovative medical device and procedure designed to provide a nonincisional alternative to tubal ligation. The availability of Essure in the US is expected to open up a market currently occupied by tubal ligation and vasectomy.
Boston Scientific (NYSE:BSX): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Hold and a price target of $7. About the company: Boston Scientific Corporation develops, manufactures, and markets minimally invasive medical devices. The Company's products are used in interventional cardiology, cardiac rhythm management, peripheral interventions, electrophysiology, neurovascular intervention, endoscopy, urology, gynecology and neuromodulation.
Hologic (NASDAQ:HOLX): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $19. About the company: Hologic, Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets x-ray systems. The Company makes x-ray bone densitometers that measure the precise bone density for use in the diagnosing of metabolic bone diseases such as osteoporosis.
Zimmer Hldgs (NYSE:ZMH): Kaufman Bros initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Hold and a price target of $57. About the company: Zimmer Holdings, Inc. designs, develops, manufactures, and markets orthopaedic and dental reconstructive implants, spinal implants, trauma products and related surgical products. The Company also provides other healthcare related services. Zimmer markets its products in the United States and other countries around the world.
Tesla Motors (NASDAQ:TSLA): Robert W. Baird initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Outperform and a price target of $35. About the company: Tesla Motors, Inc. designs, manufactures, and sells high-performance electric vehicles and electric vehicle powertrain components. The Company owns its sales and service network and sells electric powertrain components to other automobile manufacturers.
Complete Production Services (NYSE:CPX): Morgan Keegan initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Outperform and a price target of $45. About the company: Complete Production Services, Inc. offers services to the oil and natural gas production industry. The Company establishes, maintains, and enhances the flow of oil and gas throughout the life of a well, offers land drilling, specialized rig logistics and site preparation services, and offers products such as completion, flow control and artificial lift equipment, and tubular goods.
Skechers USA (NYSE:SKX): Auriga initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Hold and a price target of $16. About the company: Skechers U.S.A., Inc. designs and markets branded contemporary casual, active, rugged, and lifestyle footwear for men, women, and children. The Company sells its products to department stores and specialty retailers. Skechers also sells its products internationally through distributors and directly to consumers through its own retail stores.
Deckers Outdoor (NASDAQ:DECK): Auriga initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $115. About the company: Deckers Outdoor Corporation designs and markets footwear and accessories. The Company offers footwear for men, women and children. Deckers sells its products including accessories such as handbags, headwear, and outerwear, through domestic retailers and international distributors and directly to end-user consumers, through call centers, retail concept stores and retail outlet stores.
DSW (NYSE:DSW): Auriga initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $55. About the company: DSW Inc., is a specialty branded footwear retailer operating in the United States. The Company offers a wide selection of brand name and designer dress, casual, and athletic footwear for women and men.
Allegiant Travel (NASDAQ:ALGT): Ticonderoga initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Neutral. About the company: Allegiant Travel Company is a leisure travel company. The Company operates a passenger airline marketed to leisure travelers in small cities.
Steven Madden (NASDAQ:SHOO): Auriga initiated coverage of this company with a rating of Buy and a price target of $42. About the company: Steven Madden, Ltd. designs and markets fashion footwear for women. The Company's shoes are sold through Steve Madden retail stores, department stores, apparel and footwear specialty stores, and online. Steven Madden has licensees, including sportswear and jeans, outerwear, intimate apparel, eyewear, hosiery, and jewelry, and owns and operates a retail store under its David Aaron brand.
(Note: Selected financial data are sourced from Briefing.com via the Wall St. Journal. All data are assumed to be accurate.)
Advantage: Check out our interactive stock charts, fundamentals, Twitter stream, and more 
Improve Your 2011 Financial Health: Join the winning team of stock pickers with Wall St. Cheat Sheet's acclaimed premium newsletter

Load-Date: September 23, 2011


End of Document
