




St. Petersburg Times (Florida)
September 30, 2005 Friday 2 Late Tampa Edition


Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company
Section: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 4B; Newspaper
Length: 490 words
Byline: BRADY DENNIS
Dateline: TAMPA
Body


Former Hillsborough County Fire Marshal Donald Goff is serving a prison sentence that will keep him behind bars well into 2008.
But county Commissioner Ronda Storms wants his punishment to last far longer by revoking his pension. On Thursday, she beseeched a visiting group of state legislators to help make that happen, insisting that "he breached the public trust."
Goff was convicted this year on federal charges of possessing child pornography and transferring obscene materials to a minor. Officials said he had pornographic Web links on his work computer, visited personal sites while on duty and once drove his department vehicle to an apartment complex he thought was home to a 14-year-old girl whom he met in an Internet chat room and solicited for sex. In reality, the "girl" was an FBI agent.
In April, because of the case, the County Commission voted to deny retirement benefits to employees who commit sex crimes involving minors while on the job. Storms made the motion for that vote.
Also, Florida Retirement Systems administrators began taking steps to eliminate Goff's pension, valued at more than $3,100 a month, and to try to recoup pension payments he had been collecting since his resignation in 2004.
But somewhere down the line, that changed. Storms arrived at Thursday's meeting, where a panel of state legislators was holding a public hearing about preventing child abuse and neglect, incensed about a memo she said she only recently discovered.
An attorney for the state wrote to Sarabeth Snuggs, director of Florida's Division of Retirement, saying, "There is no evidence that (Goff) deprived the public of the receipt of the faithful performance of his duties or violated his oath of office."
The attorney, Tommy Wright, suggested no further action be taken and that the case be closed. Storms fumed.
"This man used the authority of his office to commit a crime. He should lose his state pension," she said. And if he doesn't: "Shame on us."
State Rep. Bill Galvano, R-Bradenton, assured Storms, "We will take another look."
Still, not everyone agrees that Goff should lose his pension.
"If a person earned that pension and they were vested, then that pension belongs to them, like their home," said David Keene, a former assistant chief at Tampa Fire Rescue who has dealt for years with pension issues. "If somebody commits a crime, do you take their house or their life savings? No."
Keene said Goff has "a debt to society," but that he's paying it through his prison sentence.
"The punishment is doing your time. That should be enough," he said. If he were to lose his pension, Keene said, "You're not only punishing the person, you're punishing their family and their beneficiaries. Somebody ought to speak up for common sense."
Also Thursday, Storms urged legislators to consider instituting tubal ligations and vasectomies in criminal sentencings as a way to prevent those convicted of harming children from reproducing.

Graphic

 
PHOTO; Ex-Hillsborough Fire Marshal Donald Goff

Load-Date: September 30, 2005


End of Document
