




USNEWS.com
March 2, 2016 Wednesday


Copyright 2016 U.S. News & World Report All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Policy Dose; Vol.; No.
Length: 601 words
Byline: Emily Schneider, M.D.
Highlight: The Supreme Court is hearing arguments over a law that makes no medical sense.
Body


 As a board-certified, practicing obstetrician-gynecologist in Denver, the abortion rights case being argued before the Supreme Court on Wednesday concerns me greatly. Upholding the law at the center of the case would harm my ability as a physician to act in the best interests of my patients and will jeopardize their health and safety. 
The case being argued --  -- is about what's known as Targeted Regulation of Abortion Providers, or TRAP laws; the particular law in the case was passed in Texas. These laws are political, not medical: they are designed to regulate abortion out of existence by making it impossible for physicians to meet the requirements to perform them. Colorado is a pro-choice state, but the same laws that passed in Texas have been repeatedly attempted here -- a TRAP bill will be heard in committee in the Colorado legislature next week.
The Supreme Court is specifically looking at two provisions of the Texas law. First is an ambulatory surgical center requirement that forces abortion clinics to needlessly convert into mini-hospitals at great expense. This is not medically justified, does not improve patient care, and often requires facilities to undergo new construction or costly renovations. For this reason, very few abortion providers can afford financially to comply with this (unnecessary) requirement.
The second provision is the admitting privilege requirement: It requires doctors who perform abortion care to have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital -- in Texas, clinics have to be within 30 miles of a hospital -- but nothing ensures that hospitals will consider the request, let alone grant such privileges. Therefore, even doctors who make every effort to comply with the mandate, but cannot gain admitting privileges, will be driven out of practice. 
SEE: []
 As a physician and an abortion provider, I can tell you neither of these requirements makes any sense medically. First-trimester abortions constitute 89 percent of those performed, either surgically or medically induced. Legal abortion is already among the safest medical procedures in America. The risk of a major complication requiring hospital care from a first trimester abortion is less than 0.05 percent.
Here's a short list of the medical procedures with greater risk than abortion that do not have ambulatory surgical center or admitting privilege requirements: Vasectomies. Laser eye surgery. Tooth extraction. Colonoscopies.
As a comprehensive women's health care provider, I have treated a wide array of patients in my practice, including a developmentally delayed 15-year-old who was raped by her brother's friend. I provided an abortion at the family's request. Politicians have no business interfering in that situation -- or with any of the complex, intensely personal decisions made between me and my patients.
But the Supreme Court case isn't just about abortion. Abortion is a medical procedure. This fight is also about a woman's right to make decisions about her own life and control her own body. And it's about my right as a physician to offer the best possible advice and offer the best possible care.
 Every woman is different. Every situation is different. Laws that put women and physicians at risk are bad medicine. I oppose them in Colorado, and I hope the Supreme Court strikes them down in Texas.
Emily Schneider is a practicing obstetrician-gynecologist in Denver, Colorado. She is a member of the American College of Obstetrician-Gynecologists and Physicians for Reproductive Health.

Graphic

 
Picture, Striking down Texas' law would be the right prescription., (AP Photo/Eric Gay)

Load-Date: March 3, 2016


End of Document
