




The Parthenon: Marshall University
July 2, 2014 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2014 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. 1
Length: 655 words
Byline: The Parthenon
Body


The Supreme Court decision Monday in favor of Hobby Lobby and its refusal to include contraceptives in its health coverage has upset many who feel it is yet another government attack on women. 
There is no argument that Hobby Lobby's policy is blatantly sexist since they still include coverage for vasectomies. Also, it is valuable to note that challenging the Affordable Care Act was an extreme action, since Hobby Lobby's win now means other businesses can follow suit. And many other businesses already have plans to do so. 
While the ruling does give other corporations the chance to be exempt from the Affordable Care Act requirement of providing birth control under their health insurance, the companies still have to bring forth their own cases and win by proving their religious convictions are legitimate. However, the ruling will not apply to company who have public shareholders, as was noted in the majority opinion. 
However, it is also valuable to explore how the Supreme Court works and the reasons why the Supreme Court ruled the way it did. The Supreme Court does not make judgment calls on what is right or wrong. They do judge situations based on constitutionality.
But it was not the First Amendment of the Constitution and its guarantee of religious freedom that caused the Supreme Court to rule the way they did, it was The Religious Freedom Restoration Act.
RFRA is a product of Congress and its attempt to protect religious groups after the Supreme Court ruled in 1990 that there was no religious exemption from laws that apply to all groups equally (as the Affordable Care Act does). 
RFRA says that no one should have to give up his or her religious beliefs in order to become a corporation owner. Presumably, the same would apply to small-business owners, as well.
The Justices made it clear in the majority opinion that because of RFRA, they had to consider a much greater level of religious protection than they believe the Constitution affords corporations. 
Undoubtedly, the ruling is less than desirable, but the Supreme Court has to work under the laws presently established. Dissenting Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has written her opinion in favor of birth control coverage-the proper action for her to take. 
The facts are that the decision has already been made and Supreme Court Justices are appointed for the duration of their lives unless they retire or are impeached, so nothing there we can change in the short term. 
Chances are you aren't going to get anyone to change their mind if they hold a deep-rooted religious belief regarding contraceptives, so debates will get us nowhere. 
The good news is that because the Supreme Court made their ruling based on interpretation of statute (RFRA) and not the Constitution there is a greater potential for amendment. To change the statute, Congress must pass a new law that amends or repeals the original RFRA. 
What we can do is continue the fight for reproductive rights by supporting organizations like Planned Parenthood and becoming more involved in politics, because complaining about the decision is not going to change it. 
Probably the easiest and most important thing we can do is boycott Hobby Lobby and other corporations that deny their employees basic healthcare. How hard is it to do research on companies before giving them our money? I would argue not that hard. 
If you want to take it step further, make your feelings known to these organizations through social media, email and phone calls. Make your feelings known to the individuals you have elected to represent you. 
Be vocal about your decision to boycott, so that others know why and how they should help in the continuing fight for women's rights. 
Maybe the Supreme Court made the "wrong" decision, but it is up to us to take action if we want to change the situation. In order to bring about a productive change we must be looking at all of the elements, like RFRA, that we can address.

Load-Date: July 3, 2014


End of Document
