




The San Diego Union-Tribune
August 25, 2002, Sunday


Copyright 2002 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: LIFESTYLE;Pg. D-4
Length: 466 words
Body

DEAR CAROLYN: I am pregnant, and my ex was supportive until he found a new girlfriend, then he felt I should terminate the pregnancy, always giving various reasons to do so.  I asked if we could try to work things out because I was still in love with him.  He never gave me a negative answer but he never gave me a positive one, either.  I feel like he's keeping me hanging until he sees how far this current relationship is going.  He hasn't told his friends or family about the baby but has told them about his new girlfriend.  Should I forget about him or try to make things work between us? ANSWER: Over the years I've been refining and updating my list of Three Ways to Avoid a Miserable Life, but one of the items is fixed: Never Pursue Relationships With Exes Who Pressure You to Have Abortions So They Can Concentrate on Their New Girlfriends.
I don't doubt you're confused -- and if I were you, I'd throw in hurt and extremely (bleeped) -- but there's less gray here than you think.  The decision before you is whether to go through with becoming a mother; to be single is a decision the father made for you.
That was, of course, his prerogative.  He doesn't love you now, and no child is going to change that, whereas his staying with you and not loving you would sadly change the child.  Too bad his motives are so blatantly selfish, or I could have given him credit for having some excellent foresight.
Instead I'll give him credit for making my job easier -- and yours, too, eventually.  Nothing he has said and no decision he has made in this extremely difficult time has been honorable.  This is who he is.  If you take him back, or have the baby only to get him back, that screaming you hear will be me.
I am 29, my (second) husband is 47. Due to things I was told when I was younger, I thought I would be a horrible mother and so decided to never have children.  My new husband was also married previously and has three children.  After his last child, he had a vasectomy.  We agreed we did not want children of our own.
My problem is, the more wonderful I see he is, the more I want a child with him.  We have a very honest relationship but I am reluctant to discuss this because I feel I was less than honest when I said I didn't want children (even though I believed that at the time). I know vasectomies are difficult and expensive to reverse, but adoption or even using a donor is appealing to me.  Can people change their minds on such a fundamental issue?
Unless people are married to your new husband, their minds don't matter.
You changed yours.  And that's just fine.  When it comes to opinions, honesty is a moving target.  Today, it means you fess up.
If you're in the mood, make it a two-fer: What, exactly, can a girl be "told" to make her think she should not be a mother?

Graphic

 
Write to Carolyn Hax at , or "Tell Me About It," c/o The Washington Post, Style Plus, 1150 15th St., NW, Washington, DC 20071.  

Load-Date: September 21, 2002


End of Document
