




USA Today
May 19, 2021 Wednesday
1 Edition


Copyright 2021 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. D6
Length: 723 words
Byline: By, Chuck Lindell, Austin American-Statesman
Body


AUSTIN, Texas - The state Senate, thwarted in two previous efforts directed at young transgender Texans, took a third bite of the apple Monday by giving initial passage, on a party-line vote, to a Republican bill that would ban gender-affirming medical care for those under age 18.
Senate Bill 1311 would prohibit doctors from offering a range of treatments to youths, including puberty blockers - reversible medications commonly prescribed to delay the onset of physical changes - providing teenagers time to decide whether more permanent changes are desired.
The bill also would bar hormone therapies, which can produce body alterations that cannot be reversed, as well as castration, vasectomies, hysterectomies and similar surgeries, although medical experts have testified in Capitol hearings that such surgeries are not offered before age 18.
The bill's author, Sen. Bob Hall, R-Edgewood, revived SB 1311 on Friday, placing it on the Senate calendar one day after a House voting deadline killed a similar measure in the lower chamber.
On Monday, the first day SB 1311 was eligible for a Senate floor vote, Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick recognized Hall to present the bill.
"Our job is to protect children who can't protect themselves," Hall told fellow senators.
Democrats challenged Hall's assumptions, noting that leading medical associations and businesses oppose SB 1311 as detrimental to the mental health of transgender youths and bad for a state economy that thrives when segments of the population are not singled out for legislative retribution.
"Isn't this exactly the wrong time to pass discriminatory and anti-business legislation?" asked Sen. Beverly Powell, D-Burleson, noting estimates that it could take more than two years for employment to recover from the pandemic.
"Well," Hall replied, "I think it is just the right time to protect these children. It was wrong yesterday, it is wrong today and it'll be wrong tomorrow to not protect those who cannot protect themselves."
With the legislative session in its final two weeks, Senate Republicans have had little luck getting cooperation from the House on legislation directed at young transgender Texans:
First, all 18 Senate Republicans voted as a bloc in mid-April to approve SB 29, which would require athletes in Texas public high schools and grade schools to compete in sports based on the "biological sex" listed on their original birth certificate. Under that definition, biological boys would be banned from competing in girls sports, although girls could compete in boys sports if a comparable female sport was not available.
SB 29, however, apparently has stalled in the House, where it has yet to be sent to the Calendars Committee - which schedules floor votes on bills - despite approval by the House Public Education Committee on May 7.
The House must give initial approval to Senate bills by May 25, placing the transgender sports bill in jeopardy.
Second, senators  split along party lines in late April to approve a GOP bill aimed at barring gender-affirming medical care for transgender youths.
SB 1646 by Sen. Charles Perry, R-Lubbock, seeks to broaden the legal definition of child abuse to include providing puberty-blocking medication, hormone therapy or surgery to a transgender Texan under age 18.
Parents who allow such treatments would risk removal of their children by Child Protective Services under the bill, but the House has shown little appetite for taking that route, shunting Perry's legislation to a committee that has taken no action on it for the past two weeks.
On Monday, GOP senators hoped to change their luck with SB 1311, knowing that a similar bill by Rep. Matt Krause, R-Fort Worth, was approved by a House committee and placed on the House calendar for a vote last week.
That House bill was placed so low on the calendar  it had almost no chance of getting a floor vote before a midnight Thursday deadline, indicating little appetite in the House for bills targeting transgender youths, at least thus far.
Under Hall's bill, doctors who provide gender-affirming care would lose their medical license. SB 1311 also would prohibit liability insurance coverage for banned treatments.
Monday afternoon's vote was 17-13, with all Republicans in favor and all Democrats opposed.
SB 1311 must receive a final Senate vote before it can be sent to the House.

Load-Date: May 19, 2021


End of Document
