




Legal Monitor Worldwide
November 18, 2015 Wednesday


Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 468 words
Body


The Supreme Court said it would take on the biggest challenge to abortion rights in a quarter century, agreeing to hear a challenge against a Texas law that put strict requirements on abortion providers in the name of protecting women's health.
The 2013 law requires abortion clinics to meet the same medical standards as standalone surgery centers, and forces doctors who provide abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals.
Conservative groups that approve of the laws say they'll protect women and prevent abuses like the case of Dr. Kermit Gosnell, a Philadelphia abortion provider sentenced to life in jail for first-degree murder whose clinic was described as a filthy house of horrors.
But medical groups have lined up behind the Center for Reproductive Rights, which is challenging the law, to say the requirements aren't necessary.
"Abortion is a very safe procedure, and complications requiring hospital admission are extremely rare," the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and the American Medical Association (AMA) said in a joint amicus brief filed in a 2013 appeal against the law.
"There is no medical basis to require abortion providers to have local hospital-admitting privileges. Emergency room physicians, hospital-based physicians, and on-call specialists already provide prompt and effective treatment to all patients with urgent medical needs, including women with abortion-related complications," it added.
"Moreover, there is no medically sound reason for Texas to impose more stringent requirements on abortion facilities than it does on other medical facilities that perform procedures with similar, or even greater, risks."
These include colonoscopies, laser eye surgery and vasectomies. Women can get very similar procedures to abortions, for instance when they're having a miscarriage, in a doctor's office in many states.
"When the leading medical groups like the AMA oppose these laws, you have to ask yourself what they are really about," said Jennifer Dalven of the American Civil Liberties Union.
"They're about shutting down clinics and attempting to prevent a woman who has decided to have an abortion from getting one."
"It's clear that some Texas politicians are attempting to make an end-run around women's legal right to an abortion by shutting down abortion facilities through the passage of laws that falsely claim to protect women," said Marcia Greenberger of the National Women's Law Center.
Texas state officials say the law is about health and safety.
"The advancement of the abortion industry's bottom line shouldn't take precedence over women's health, and we look forward to demonstrating the validity of these important health and safety requirements in court," said Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton. 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

Load-Date: November 18, 2015


End of Document
