




Esquire
September 1, 2010


Copyright 2010 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: THIS WAY IN; Pg. 42; Vol. 154
Length: 3363 words
Body


This Month in This Way In: Your letters! pages 42, 44, 48, 50, and 52.(Another) funny joke from (another) beautiful woman page 50. What to expect in your sixties page 44. Why our grooming expert is running 250 miles-in eleven days page 50. Things you might not know about sex page 48. And even more James Franco page 52.
YOU LIKE HIM!
Our How to Be a Man Issue featured actor, father, and occasional eccentric Tom Cruise on the cover. Cruise spoke about the influences-including greeting cards, minibikes, and Soul Train-that made him the man he is today ("The Fixer," June/July).
It's good to see that Cruise is a real guy with real roots. Reading this story was like spending time with a wise older brother. Thanks for getting the focus on his character and off tabloid hype.
DARRIN PODESCHI Lake Oswego, Oreg.
SORT OF  
This is the first time I've finished an article on Cruise without thinking, Wow, what an unbelievably whacked-out, out-of-touch jackass. Congratulations.
DANIEL HARTZ San Francisco, Calif.
  AND ONLY SOME OF YOU
You pictured Cruise under the title "How to Be a Man." In my opinion, the two are mutually exclusive.
JOHN SILVERS Loveland, Colo.
Please. The only Cruise we want to see is Katie Holmes.
MICHAEL WEAVER New Orleans, La.
LUMPS, VASECTOMIES, AND WHY DR. OZ SCARES NILS WETTERLIND
The June/July issue included a comprehensive guide to maintaining the things you need: your brain, your heart, and your balls ("The Vital Organs").
The section on balls ?nally pushed me to see a doctor about the lump I'd been ignoring on my testicle. It'll probably be another few weeks of tests and prodding before I really know what I'm up against, but I'm going into it more con?dent than I could imagine. Count me in as a lifetime subscriber. (It's the least I could do.) Hell, I may even take some of your fashion advice more seriously, as you obviously have better judgment than I do.
JUSTIN SCHMIDT Phoenix, Ariz.
Thank you for Chris Jones's insightful and hilarious article on getting a vasectomy ("Balls"). I've been contemplating getting snipped since the birth of my second daughter, and Jones's article completely put me at ease. It also nearly made me piss myself from laughing.
BRIAN WILKES Helena, Ala.
I can't be the only one fed up with Dr. Mehmet Oz's constant scaremongering (i.e., if your heart rate isn't this, your chance of death doubles!). Oz-and Esquire-would perhaps be wise to remember that our chances of dying are exactly 100 percent, and that a leading cause of premature death is stress-often caused by fearmongering, to be sure.
NILS WETTERLINDBali, Indonesia
HOW TO GROW UP
In case you needed direction, "How a Man Ages   Or Should" (June/July) tracked the progress you should be making between the ages of eighteen and fifty-nine.
I really like your guide to being a man, but I disagree on two points: 1. You suggest that a man invest in his first real suit at twenty-one. I work at a college where I meet plenty of twenty-one-year-olds. For most of them, even a nice pair of slacks would be a giant leap forward. 2. You suggest that a twenty-three-year-old familiarize himself with Bob Dylan or Leonard Cohen. Both are overrated.
RYAN JOHNSON Lansing, Mich.
Over thirty-five years, you've turned me on to many things: Gucci loafers in the seventies, La?te in the eighties, and Cohiba Robustos in the nineties. So I was a bit dismayed that your guide ended at fifty-nine (my current age). Seems to me you guys have given up on us old f*ckers. I've got plenty of time, money, and energy left, so don't write me off.
ALAN LOPENA Fair Haven, N. J.
Please see right.  -Editors 
A MAN IN CRISIS
Also in June/July, articles editor Ryan D'Agostino presented a haunting portrait of former congressman Eric Massa ("The Congressman's Secret"). Before his resignation amid scandal, Massa came to Esquire with a story about what he said was a potential coup d'état. He alleged that Dick Cheney was attempting to recruit General David Petraeus to run for president, potentially putting him in the position of running against his own commander in chief.
It's great journalism when you can tell the story of Eric Massa in a way that makes us abhor him and feel sympathy for him at the same time.
CHRISTOPHER RUFFOLO Alexandria, Va.
Regarding the "coup," so what if Petraeus had political ambitions? Has Massa never heard of George B. McClellan, the former general-in-chief of the Union Army who ran unsuccessfully against President Abraham Lincoln, the commander in chief, in 1864? We've had a number of former generals elected to the office of president, none of which resulted in a constitutional crisis.
SCOTT RYE Mobile, Ala.
THE MAKING OF DR. DEATH
For years writer at large Chris Jones's father, John, took on the burden of other people's horrors. In the June/July issue, he finally got to tell his own tales-to his son ("The Madness of Men").
I would never wish pain on anyone, but if pain helped to form a man like John Jones, well, wow. Best article you've ever published.
MARTY VAN TOL Courtenay, British Columbia
WE'RE STARTING TO THINK TEXANS ENJOY DRINKING
The June/July issue included our fifth annual collection of the best places to drink in the United States ("Esquire's Best Bars in America"). 
You missed a small treasure: Rio 24 is a fine cigar bar in an upscale area north of Houston. It is extremely well ventilated, the atmosphere is dark and ambient, and the staff will help you perfectly pair your cigars with your drinks. No other bar comes close.
ZACH SCARDINO Conroe, Tex.
Lee Harvey's is a crazy little bar with a huge front yard in southern Dallas. It is nestled in a pretty shady part of town, where razor wire fills the air, but it offers a great gruff-roadhouse atmosphere. On the weekends you get live music on the large front porch, and in fall, winter, and early spring you'll find roaring firepits and s'mores. You can even bring your dog.
BILL CROSS Dallas, Tex.
You missed out on two great bars. The first is Anvil in Houston: homemade infused liquors, more than a hundred cocktails on the menu, legit egg whites whipped in front of you, and the best Sazerac I've ever had. And there's Lala's in Austin: Christmas-themed, preserved exactly as it was in the seventies, with a kick-ass jukebox.
KARLENE BERGER Austin, Tex.
TWO VIEWS ON DRINKING
"Esquire's Best Bars in America" also included a complaint against the inherent stinginess of the measured pour and a case for the weak drink.
Regarding writer at large Tom Chiarella's endorsement of the weak drink, I agree with him that thinking "the more booze, the better" is misguided. But I believe that a drink must always be stiff. You should be able to taste the devil lurking in your tumbler, and you should know that as a man, you have the power to consume him-not the other way around.
PATRICK CUNNINGHAM  Phoenix, Ariz.
For five years, I have tried to articulate to my girlfriend exactly what David Granger stated in "The Complaint: The Measured Pour." Give me a drink, not a splash! I'm there to have a nice drink, and I'll pay for it. Otherwise, tell me of an establishment close by where I don't feel ripped off.
LOU SCHECHTER Baltimore, Md.
WE ALSO WOULD HAVE ACCEPTED CAROL ALT, THE OREGON TRAIL, OR EVEN SLAP BRACELETS
Every month I look forward to Stephen Marche's "A Thousand Words About Our Culture." But his thoughts on the eighties (June/July) made me angry. While the decade did have its low points, there was plenty to counterbalance them: Tom Cruise in Risky Business, Huey Lewis and the News, and the decline of communism, to name a few. Our current culture is far more screwed up than the eighties ever were.
RYAN DEVLIN Syracuse, N. Y.
SAME GOES FOR TANDEM BIKES
The "List of Things Not to Do Before You Die" (June/July) included "ride on a motorcycle with your arms wrapped around another man's waist" and "voluntarily see Sex and the City 2." I am usually pretty laid-back, but these homophobic swipes angered me. I and my motorcycle-riding boyfriend now have one more thing not to do before we die: give money to your magazine.
JEFF SEAMAN New Hope, Pa.
Sorry, but regardless of your feelings for the person in front of you, there's just no dignity in riding on the back of a motorcycle. Especially if you're on your way to see a movie as terrible as Sex and the City 2.  -Editors
TANDOORI FOR CARLTON
In "The Way to Cook Fish" (Man at His Best, June/July), there was one missing element in Eric Ripert's recipe: where to find tandoori powder. I didn't find it at a local or specialty national grocer. Maybe at an Indian specialty food store?
CARLTON URBAN Tampa, Fla.
An Indian specialty food store would definitely carry it. We can say definitely because our intern Eve checked, and India Bazaar on West Waters Avenue in Tampa has some waiting for you.  -Editors 
ELSEWHERE IN THE BIN
Nick Sullivan's style advice is always helpful, and it is good to know that rubber soles, with their extra traction, are acceptable on dress shoes ("Ask Nick Sullivan," June/July). However, if your well-shod feet may face the prospect of dancing, then the graceful glide of leather soles are a better choice.
MARK WEAVER Mexico, Mo.
I have a suggestion for the Vocabulary (Man at His Best): grill anxiety. It's when men constantly fret over how food is or isn't cooking properly on the grill. One of the symptoms is frequently lifting the lid to poke around. It is also characterized by spending an unnecessary amount of time worrying about the order in which food is put on the grill and what to do with food that finishes cooking before the rest. The condition is treatable only by gaining grilling experience. Or by consuming more alcohol.
JOHN F. WHALEN
Albuquerque, N. Mex.
A few days ago, my girlfriend demanded that I shave because my stubble was irritating her skin. That was the last thing I wanted to do-until she said she'd read me something from Esquire while I shaved. It was the most generous thing anyone has ever offered to do for me. So I shaved, slowly and carefully, as the most beautiful woman I know read me Answer Fella (Man at His Best). I was floored by how much it meant to me. I thanked her, and now I am thanking you.
JOHN SPIGGLE Rochester, N. Y.
Letters to the editor may be mailed to The Sound and the Fury, P. O. Box 1704, Sandusky, Ohio 44870. Also, Esquire encourages the use of e-mail (to  or via the Web at ) and fax (212-649-4305). Include your full name, address, and daytime phone number. Letters may be edited for length and clarity. For subscription questions, please go to            .
+ Esqire = (At the App Store now)
CONTEXT-FREE HIGHLIGHT FROM A LETTER WE WON'T BE RUNNING
"You may have shoes, but you will never be shoes."
CONTEXT-FREE HIGHLIGHT FROM A LETTER WE WON'T BE RUNNING
"I hold the neighborhood record for consecutive free throws made on the basketball hoop at my parents' house."
CONTEXT-FREE HIGHLIGHT FROM A LETTER WE WON'T BE RUNNING
"At twenty-five I was one of the top fourteen mink designers in the world."
CONTEXT-FREE HIGHLIGHT FROM A LETTER WE WON'T BE RUNNING
"I highly recommend you interview and photograph my two children."
CONTEXT-FREE HIGHLIGHT FROM A LETTER WE WON'T BE RUNNING
"If you haven't already checked out the U. S. Pole Dance Federation, you might want to."
What You Wrote About
Best Bars in AmericaTom CruiseCongressman Eric MassaYour testiclesThe eightiesGay bikers
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF JAMES VICTORE, ABRIDGED
This month MoMA-exhibited artist and Esquire contributor James Victore releases his first book, Victore, or, Who Died and Made You Boss? (Abrams Books, $40). In it he tells the stories behind his greatest works. The greatest of those greatest works (in our opinion, at least) are included below.
A sign Victore made and hung in the New York City subway as part of a guerrilla campaign against the city's own signs discouraging donations to panhandlers.
From a 1999 issue of Mother Jones, for which Victore was asked to create an imaginary poster on any topic. He chose the availability of handguns.
One of the many hand-drawn plates Victore created as mementos for friends or in exchange for a beer that were exhibited in a show called "Dirty Dishes."
Bar Refaeli, as inscribed by Victore with the words of a new Stephen King story for the July 2009 issue of Esquire.
How a Man Continues to Age YOUR 60S
Our recent guide to the specific transitions men should make as they get older ("How a Man Ages   Or Should," June/July) stopped at fifty-nine. This frustrated a few readers who are just concluding their fifties. For them, we offer this addendum. 
AGE 60
Feeling neglected by magazines.  Feeling appreciated by magazines.
AGE 61
Racquetball.  Bocce.
AGE 62
Comedy Central.  The History channel.
AGE 63
Right Guard.  Gold Bond.
AGE 64 
Appreciating a couple more hours of sleep.  Appreciating the sunrise.
AGE 65
Watching Antiques Roadshow as entertainment.  Watching Antiques Roadshow as a retirement plan.
AGE 66
Working for the Man.  Feeding the fish.
AGE 67 
Reading labels for calorie content.  Reading labels for fiber content.
AGE 68 
Dressing up.  Dressing comfortably.
AGE 69 
Trying to find things to talk about with other people.  Letting other people find things to talk about with you.
A Letter from the Editor
WOW  ARE THINGS BAD? Or are things good? In this magazine, as in our lives, we toggle back and forth on that question.
On one side of the ledger, when we send writers like Tom Chiarella to Haiti (as we did for last month's issue) or Tom Junod to the Gulf (on page 130), we address tragedies of immense impact, and in so doing, we also address our sneaking suspicion that the problems we face as individuals and as a society are insurmountable. For months, the oil gushing into the Gulf was a daily metaphor for all the things we don't have the resources or the wherewithal to fix. From immigration to the economy to the unspeakable violence at our southern border to the ongoing struggles in Iraq and Afghanistan and on and on, one can feel as though no progress is being made. Especially when political representatives in state capitals and in Washington are as deadlocked as ours. One can feel as though we're stuck in a morass of our own making.
But then you consider your life. Eh. It's not so bad. The weather's been great. You did something fun this past weekend. The World Cup was pretty good to watch. Culturally, musically, stylistically, culinarily there are people committing thrilling acts of creation everywhere and every day.
And so it is with this month's issue. We find ourselves interested in everything across a broad spectrum. Having Francine Maroukian (see left) ask several of the great female chefs in America to cook for us? Yes! Poetry (among many other things) about James Franco? Why not? The Encyclopedia of Now? The resurgence of classic values in men's fashion? The most charming actress on television? A new American novel of sweeping ambition? Shatner? A scientifical survey of the drinking habits of men?
And, of course, Newt Gingrich-as contradictory and possibly insane a figure as has ever fomented a political revolution, destroyed his own career, and, now, emerged resurgent and triumphant as the philosopher king of the conservative movement and a possible presidential candidate.
Wow.
The first story I ever edited by Tom Junod took place on the Gulf of Mexico. It was about oysters-oysters as a metaphor for postindustrial America, a shellfish and a country that we had besmirched to the point that the oysters in New Orleans could, on occasion, kill. Despite the danger, Tom ate the oysters and in that act affirmed that despite everything, it's all pretty damn good.
Esquire, like the lives we lead each day, is a little like that-a whipsaw between the worrisome and the wonderful. We're constantly amazed by the sadness and the delight inherent in our world, while trying to remain unconvinced by either.
-DAVID GRANGER
Four New Facts About Sex
As gleaned from the amusingly crude, absurd, and occasionally hilarious new book cowritten by frequent Esquire contributor Mike Sacks, Sex: Our Bodies, Our Junk (Broadway Books, $19).
1 The male sex pheromone is most closely replicated by the scent of a spicy chicken sandwich from Wendy's.
2 Since 1964, there have been seven documented cases of women impregnated by waterslides.
3 Soft kissing is a natural diuretic.
4 Up until 1953, a good long stare was considered "getting to second base."
How to Run 250 Miles, Part 1
In November, our grooming expert, Rodney Cutler, will run from the coast of Kenya to the top of Mount Kilimanjaro to raise money for a children's hospital. (To donate, go to .) And over the next few months, he'll be testing gear for it in This Way In. First up: grooming. 
Jack Black Jack's Dry Goods powder ($18; )
Running can lead to chafing, which leads to pain, sometimes blood. If you want neither, or it's just a hot day, shake this onto anything you really care about.
Mission Skincare Anti-Sting Sunscreen SPF 30+ Facestick ($9; )
I can't stop to rub on lotion every time I need more sunscreen. Facestick is sweatproof and simple to apply-even while running.
AN OLIVE BRANCH
June/July's Man at His Best included a beautiful woman, Yaya DaCosta, but not a monthly staple: Funny Joke from a Beautiful Woman. Quite a few of you felt slighted. So for those guys-for all of us, really-this month has two funny jokes and two equally beautiful women. (For the other, see page 68.)
As told by Aly Michalka: A cop approaches a man he's just pulled over after a long chase and says, "It's Friday, and it's the end of my shift. I don't feel like doing any more paperwork, so if you can give me an excuse I haven't heard before, you can go."
The guy thinks for a second and says, "Last week my wife ran off with a cop. I was afraid you were trying to give her back."
"Have a nice weekend," the officer says.
About the jokester:After getting her start on the Disney Channel (and onstage as half of sugary pop-duo Aly & AJ), Aly Michalka has taken a transitional step toward her adult career: the CW. This fall, the twenty-one-year-old California native stars in Hellcats as a feisty student forced to join the cheerleading squad in order to keep her scholarship. It's a role you could say she was born into, considering that her mom is a former Raiderette. Lucky for Michalka, her future is a little more promising than the Raiders'. 
JAMES FRANCO, TWO MORE WAYS
This month we take a look at prolific cover subject James Franco from five perspectives-as a profile, a short story, a memoir, an art exhibition, and even a poem (page 122). At , you can find two more. 
As a video: Franco's brother Dave is also an actor. So we gave them an assignment: Interview each other.
As a living art exhibit: For her exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, performance artist Marina Abramovic sat in a chair in the museum every day for seven weeks. Across from her was a chair on which patrons could sit. Franco stopped by to participate and was filmed as part of a larger documentary, Marina.
How to Be Stylish, Internet Edition
To coincide with our style issue, the Style Blog () will host an extravaganza of complementary (and complimentary!) fashion advice. A brief guide:
1 If it's possible to celebrate fabric, we're doing it on page 176, where we showcase the most important cloths this season, along with how to wear them. The celebration continues online.
2 On page 174, we deconstruct the Dolce & Gabbana suit on the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of its men's-wear collection. Accompanying the deconstruction is insight from the founders, which is kind of like what you'll find in the survey of designers from around the world that we'll be posting in September.
3 If you're a fan of the dark, classically tailored suits on runways this fall (worn by Mark Ronson on pages 162 to 173), follow the Style Blog's up-to-the-minute reports from Fashion Week in New York, starting September 9. There will also be runway women, in case you're a fan of those, too.
PHOTOGRAPH BY NIGEL PARRY
PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO ANELLI, COURTESY SEAN KELLY GALLERY, NEW YORK
    

Load-Date: October 5, 2010


End of Document
