




 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
February 15, 2002 Friday,
Home Edition


Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Metro News;
Length: 387 words
Body


First Elvis, then Dale and now Waylon. Nobody's left.
 
When Hollywood finally discovers me, maybe I'll finally find out what a best boy does best and what a grip grips.
 
I am a bartender and a waitress. Unless you want me to serve your 17-year-old who looks like he's 30 because he has facial hair, don't get upset about the fact that I card everyone.
For the Journal-ConstitutionGrandma called Grandpa on his cellphone to warn him of a wrong-way driver reported on the Perimeter. "That's nothing," he replied. "There are hundreds of them out here!"
 
She's sexy, but not very bright --- a real foxymoron.
 
The person in charge of our road repairs must be a conehead.
 
I find it hilarious that the senators rip all these Enron people for ripping off their employees when they sit up there and rip off all of us every day.
 
My wife told me on Valentine's Day that she loves me more now than when I first met her because there is more of me to love.
 
Three sounds I should never hear in a radio commercial: car horns honking, cellphones ringing and water running.
  
I now know what you get when you cross Dwight Yoakam with Elmer Fudd: Bob Dylan.
 
I just heard that Queen Elizabeth will soon have been sitting on the throne for 50 years. Isn't there somebody over there who can help her up?
 
Instead of getting the answering machine and no callback, you caught me in a lie about having plans. So do you get the hint yet?
 
I used to be blond and men I didn't know were always so nice to me, but women were usually rude. Now I am a brunette and men don't even notice me. But women I don't know are suddenly very friendly.
 
I got exactly what I ordered today from a fast food drive-through. Now I think I might know what it feels like to win the lottery.
 
I think that any man who has watched his wife go through childbirth, yet refuses to have a vasectomy when the time comes, is a big wimp.
 
The reason there is not a parking space for menopausal women with overactive bladders and bad attitudes is that no one wants you around.
 
Note to self: After returning from vacation, read all missed vents from Day One on. The Vent is like a soap and you can't miss a single episode.
 
Didn't I hear that DeKalb has a budget crisis? How about one garbage collection per week like us poor folk in north Fulton?
 
Need to Vent? Call 404-222-8338 e-  

Load-Date: February 16, 2002


End of Document
