




Atlantic Online
January 31, 2019 Thursday


Copyright 2019 Atlantic Monthly Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Length: 819 words
Byline: Saahil Desai
Body


What We're Following
Two very, very different ways to prepare for a 2020 run: Michael Bloomberg, the billionaire former mayor of New York City, has flirted with a presidential bid for nearly a quarter century. Though he hasn't yet announced if he'll make the plunge, Bloomberg is already pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into  Beto O'Rourke skyrocketed into a potential Democratic front-runner by raising record-breaking sums of money that brought him close to winning a Senate seat in Texas. But he's stopped fundraising in recent months, which means he            
After an Instagram user posted an image of, simply, a lone brown egg, it quickly became a quirky internet phenomenon and the most liked photo of all time on the site. Since then, the account behind the photo, which has accumulated nearly 10 million followers, has posted a series of photos of the egg with a crack that progressively grows in size. One marketing company is trying to turn the viral post into a branding opportunity, shopping around the idea that             Staking claim to the soon-to-crack egg could cost tens of millions of dollars-so while the creator of the egg remains anonymous, it's clear that the wacky posts will likely make this person very rich.
White Americans can often struggle to understand Black English, and that has consequences far beyond just serving as an impediment to casual conversation. An upcoming study finds that stenographers in Philadelphia, when presented with recordings of Black English,  Those errors, however innocent in intent, can prove enormously harmful, especially in the courtroom: African Americans are overrepresented in the criminal-justice system, and equality is elusive if they're routinely misunderstood.
-            
Evening Reads           
(Elise Amendola / AP)
Nothing is certain in life but death and taxes-and, perhaps, that the New England Patriots will make it to the Super Bowl. The team will appear in the big game this weekend for the third year in a row, but one of its perennial stars, the tight end Rob Gronkowski, is finally showing the wear and tear of a long football career:
Gronkowski isn't quite what he used to be-namely, a four-time All-Pro, Brady's preferred crunch-time target, and one of the best players at his position of all time. Years of physical play and resultant injuries have piled up; even before this season, the 29-year-old was rumored to be considering leaving the game. So if Gronkowski remains a useful contributor in this diminished state-a smashmouth blocker and an occasional downfield game-breaker-he also gives the Patriots a needed narrative heft, and fans a reason to watch. Brady and Belichick make lasting look easy; Gronk stands as proof that it isn't.
           
           
(MRS / Getty)
Americans who are stuck at home during the polar vortex could soon start feeling the malaise of boredom and restlessness known as cabin fever.
How the body reacts to that stress seems to be key to how cabin fever rears its ugly head. In the years since I saw people pulling random sporting goods out of storage in Atlanta, I've also watched people ski down New York City's streets during snowstorms and concoct ill-conceived makeshift transportation devices involving sheets of cardboard, garbage-can lids, and whatever else is lying around. Granted, some people might just find this fun, but many with cabin fever are very intent on getting out.
           
Urban Developments           
(Kiichiro Sato / AP)
Our partner site             explores the cities of the future and investigates the biggest ideas and issues facing urban dwellers around the world.             shares today's top stories:
Should these train tracks be on fire? Actually, yes. The polar vortex is so cold that Chicago is            , but even 20 below            
How do you incorporate the specific needs of homeless children into the design of a school? You ask them to "dream big"-           .
"The way we plan cities may be undermining the desire of young couples to start families," Nolan Gray and Lyman Stone write. A former Massachusetts state senator coined a term for this: vasectomy zoning.            
Keep up with the most pressing, interesting, and important city stories of the day. Subscribe to the            .

Looking for our daily mini crossword?            -the puzzle gets more difficult through the week.
Concerns, comments, questions, typos? Email Shan Wang at            .
Did you get this newsletter from a friend?            .

Load-Date: February 2, 2019


End of Document
