




Brandweek
August 7, 2006


Copyright 2006 VNU Business Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: NEWS; ARTICLE
Length: 320 words
Body


Grown men dressed as babies and a Britney Spears impersonator were on hand last week at the Newark Bears' "Britney Spears Baby Safety Night." The minor league baseball team has been working hard to build its fan base using a variety of unusual promotions, like bird flu night. (This involved a chicken wings eating contest, quarantined sections of seats and renditions of the chicken dance.) 
For the evening that honored Spears, who was photographed recently with her infant sitting on her lap as she drove, those who brought a baby, baby toy or dressed like a baby got in free. Attendees also received baby car seat information and could enter to win a free car seat from AAA.
Mark Gallego, the assistant marketing GM for the Bears, said such antics are necessary to compete with the 15 other minor league baseball teams in the Tri-State area for attendance -- not to mention the New York Mets and Yankees.
In the past the club relied on former famous major leaguers like Ricky Henderson and Jose Canseco to draw fans, but now it is looking to publicity stunts for its home runs. 
Gallego channels the St. Paul Saints for inspiration. Mike Veeck, son of famous promoter Bill Veeck, has offered up such memorable stunts as as "Vasectomy Night," Minnesota Vikings boat scandal replicas and he even closed the gates to fans so the club could set the lowest attendance record. "They are the gold standard of promotions," he said.
The only event that didn't make the cut was "Dick Cheney Outdoors Night" because "we found out somebody had already done it," said Gallego. The club, averaging 1,000-plus
per game, will look to "Scientology Night" this week to help convert fans. Anyone dressed like a famous scientologist -- such as John Travolta or Tom Cruise -- will get in free. Copies of Battlefield Earth will be distributed throughout the game. Not that the legendary box office bomb will serve as much of an incentive. -- K.H.

Load-Date: August 13, 2006


End of Document
