




 Variety
April 5, 2004 - April 11, 2004


Copyright 2004 Reed Business Information, US, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All Rights Reserved


Section: SPECIAL REPORT: SPECIAL SUPPLEMENT: VLIFE APRIL; Pg. 58
Length: 3170 words
Byline: Andrew Berg
Highlight: Jerry Harvey was a man who lived and breathed movies - and found the ultimate place to practice his passion in the Z Channel. But when the big players started to ace the service out, he began to unravel
Body


On the late afternoon of April 9, 1988, Jerry Harvey was deeply disturbed. He was the chief programmer of the Z Channel, the Los Angeles pay TV service that was a cinephile's dream come true, but with a future that was in doubt. An alcoholic, Harvey had started drinking again. From his Westwood home, he called his psychiatrist: He was frantic. He had to see him.
The psychiatrist asked if he had been drinking. "No," Harvey lied.
He then asked Harvey about his wife, Frederica Rudulph, "Deri" for short. "I believe she is dead," Harvey told him.
Then Harvey hung up.
When the police arrived, they found Rudulph on the floor of the kitchen, with a gunshot wound to the head. Harvey was face up in bed, with a .38 caliber revolver in his left hand. Later tests showed that he had a blood-alcohol level of .20%. He had killed his wife and then himself.
Just over a year later, Z played John Ford's "My Darlin' Clementine" and signed off for good.
People had always wondered whether Z was so linked to Harvey that it couldn't exist without him - or visa versa. As Harvey's boss, Joseph Cohen, says:"He was the culture of the company."
Others have lamented the loss of an original, pioneering voice.
"Nothing now embraces the possibilities of expression like Z did," says director Jim Jarmusch. "There isn't anything that has the generosity of openness for all different kinds of films."
The story of Z, which was launched in 1974, is the story of the freewheeling days in an era before media conglomerization and consolidation, when those who ran the pay service, unlike their counterparts at HBO and Showtime, could do what they wanted, largely free of corporate interference. For years, Z had such a foothold on Los Angeles' and the Movie Channel concentrated on getting the latest releases, Z ran film festivals, saluting everyone from Klaus Kinski to Phoebe Cates. Many of the ideas came from the mind of Harvey, who despite his troubles was so passionate about film that he convinced reluctant studios to open their vaults to the channel.
"What Z Channel was was a link to the industry, a great service," says Bill Rosendahl, the former public affairs host and Adelphia cable executive, who knew Harvey. "What he created was truly visionary. HBO, Cinemax, AMC - you could say that all the other channels are offshoots of Z."
Back then when broadcast TV still dominated market share and homes were just getting wired for cable, Z was run bare-bones out of a red-brick studio in an industrial area of Santa Monica. It never expanded much beyond L.A.'s Westside, but its viewership was influential, made up of studio execs, directors, writers and producers.
Even years later, those who worked at Z recall getting calls from the likes of Cary Grant, upset he hadn't received the latest copy of cinephile-oriented Z Magazine. Or there was the lore about Barbra Streisand. Aware that Z was going to play one of her movies on the night of one of her dinner parties, she made sure that the channel had a print with one scene cut the way she wanted it - not the way the studio had it in the final release.
"The corporate higher-ups didn't understand what Jerry was doing," Rosendahl says. "They had no corporate office in L.A., so he was left to do his own thing. And here was a guy who really believed in the community and the market."
Harvey could make commercial disappointments like "Somewhere in Time" into cult hits, just by airing them repeatedly for the channel's audience. He ran silent movies, foreign films, box office bombs. He could juxtapose a slate of films in ways no one had ever dreamed of, like a variety of potboilers dubbed Sexpots and Sorcerers, or a slate of movies by Luis Bunuel.
Publicist Jerry Pam, who worked for Z, remembers coming into the office one day and Harvey telling him, "Do you want to see the only scene in a movie with Humphrey Bogart and Spencer Tracy?" "They never were in a movie together," Pam responded. But Pam was wrong. Somehow, Harvey had unearthed 1929 jailhouse comedy "Up the River," featuring the film debuts of the two legends, and the channel played it. "I think he saw every movie ever made," Pam declares.
Born in 1949 and raised in Bakersfield, Harvey graduated magna cum laude from UCLA. When he first joined Z in '79, he had already established a reputation as a hero among L.A. cineastes. "He was running the Beverly Canon Theater on Wilshire Boulevard, and the first big coup of his career was getting hold of Sam Peckinpah's cut of 'The Wild Bunch' and showing it to packed houses," says film critic F.X. Feeney, who was a consultant to the channel.
Through his work, Harvey became friends with Peckinpah, and when Harvey's screenplay was produced as the 1978 Western "China 9, Liberty 7," the famed director was in the cast along with Peckinpah regular Warren Oates. By this time, Harvey had a job in distribution at Robert Altman's Lions Gate Films, and was well on the way to becoming an executive or making movies of his own.
But his family's troubles altered his career trajectory. Both of his sisters had taken their own lives. (In his 20s while a student at UCLA, he underwent a vasectomy because didn't want his children to inherit this legacy.)
When his sister Anne killed herself in her apartment in the late 1970s, Harvey went into self-imposed seclusion. He would watch SelecTV and fire off scathing letters to the station, ridiculing their programming. Its response was to offer him a consultant job. He took it. From there, he wrote disparaging missives to Z Channel, which at the time only ran programming for two hours a night, screening a handful of mainstream movies and repeating them five times a week.
So taken were Z executives that its programming director, Hal Kaufman, hired Harvey full time. Within a year, the channel was on 24 hours a day. By then, Kaufman had left and Harvey was in full control of programming.
He had found his calling. "Jerry did want to be a filmmaker," Feeney says. "He had dreams. He wrote a lot of scripts. But he was not somebody who lamented his lot in life. The sense he always projected, the sense he always confided was that he had found something that he was really great at."
Even before Harvey came aboard, Z had gained a loyal following, initially for the novelty of seeing uncut, uninterrupted features on TV.
Residents in hillside and canyon areas such as Santa Monica, Brentwood and Hollywood had been hooked up to Theta Cable, but little was offered beyond regular broadcast channels and public access shows. So the cable operator launched Z, at $ 6.95 a month, as a way to expand cash flow, and it became one of the first successful pay channels in the country.
Studios at first were reluctant to license their titles - and some believed that doing so would diminish their value to broadcast networks, says Ed Michaelove, the channel's first programmer. But Michaelove convinced them, starting with "Save the Tiger" and "Play It Again, Sam," and gradually studios relented. "It was always a battle getting the best movies we could," recalls Bob Strock, who marketed the channel through much of the '70s.
It didn't take long before publicists saw it as an effective way to remind viewers of Oscarworthy films. One of the first to run on the channel was "The Conversation," a box office disappointment and one that Paramount didn't want to promote. But Pam, who then represented Gene Hackman, helped Z get the actor's copy of the film, and it got four nominations.
Pam once estimated that some 80% of Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences voters subscribed to Z. When "Annie Hall," nearly forgotten after its spring release in 1977, played nonstop during the following year's Oscar season, it landed five nominations and, ultimately, best picture.
Z back then did do some original programming. Pam produced Champlin's show, a forerunner to Bravo's "Inside the Actors Studio," which drew a who's who of figures like David Lean and George Cukor as well as Martin Scorsese and George Lucas. "It was all quite casual," Champlin recalls. "Almost everyone was glad to come by and talk to us. We were sort of like Adam and Eve, looking around at the trees. There was no one around to say no."
It was so casual and such a money-tight operation that the cable company ended up erasing many of the master tapes: It needed the spare cassettes.
While the channel was certainly unique, it was not until Harvey became programmer that Z's signature range and arrangement of programming began to emerge.
He came just as the cable TV landscape of Los Angeles was changing. New owner Group W was plotting ways to add premium services HBO, Showtime and the Movie Channel to its lineup. That upped competition for Z - with its mere 85,000 paying customers - in getting movies from the studios.
"There was a misconception - there was at the time and there still is - that Z was this quirky little station that showed foreign films or old films," says Tim Ryerson, who worked for Harvey and headed programming after his death. "Jerry insisted that Z was possible because first and foremost, it showed contemporary movies, the movies that were also being shown on HBO and Showtime. So the first thing we always thought about was, 'What are the big new movies of the month?' That was absolutely vital. Then from there we looked at all the foreign, independent, and American classics to piggyback on top of the new movies."
Harvey's love of film art soon eclipsed the station's mainstream gloss, and the big Hollywood movies became the ones doing the piggybacking. Feeney still seems boggled by the scope of Harvey's originality. "He was pulling off all of these unusual festivals. You'd find every movie that Klaus Kinski was in including 'Doctor Zhivago'; 'Aguirre the Wrath of God'; 'The Important Thing Is Hello," a movie nobody had ever heard of, which Jerry loved, a great film from France from 1975. Kinski was in a couple of popular horny youth comedies from the early '80s, so you'd wipe those in too. That would turn everyone on to Klaus Kinski."
Even more inventive was the way he linked movies together. "You'd get a blockbuster in that era like 'Frances,' " Feeney says. "Then we'd dust off the Dino De Laurentiis 'King Kong.' Then you'd go to 'The Postman Always Rings Twice.' Then you'd go to 'Obssessione' by Luchino Visconti, which was the
original 'Postman Always Rings Twice.' "
Harvey's festivals were a resounding success, but by far the most significant of his innovations was showing director's cuts. Back then, "the 'director's cut' was a kind of Holy Grail that you'd read about in film magazines," Feeney says. "Jerry actually said, 'Where is it? Where are those director's cuts?' "
He nagged the studios to dig in their vaults for long-lost films, or even parts of movies cut out of current versions. Z found and aired the director's cuts of "Once Upon a Time in America"; "1900"; and a restored version of Karel Reisz's "Isadora," commissioned exclusively by Z.
No other director's cut attracted greater attention, than "Heaven's Gate," the much-maligned Michael Cimino film that all but crippled United Artists in the early 1980s. (Even though in today's dollars, the film's $ 40 million budget would total the hefty but not record-breaking sum of $ 95 million.) Harvey's friend David Chasden had found the last extant version of Cimino's cut in a warehouse in England. Harvey ran it on Z in December 1982, and it was a sensation, Feeney recalls.
Many of the industry viewers had never seen Cimino's version. "There were still people who disliked it, but there were a lot more who liked it," Feeney says. "The following month, it came out on video in director's cut form, and it came out because of the success of Z Channel."
In the meantime, Harvey continued the practice of running a slate of Oscar contenders as the Academy Awards approached, and nominees appeared on special editions of Champlin's talkshow. It's a tradition that continues today on a myriad of skeins including "Charlie Rose."
"Jerry made sure that our end-of-the-year December programming was always about Oscar potential," Feeney notes. "Salvador" ran on Z in December 1986 and the film went on to win a screenplay nomination. "James Woods gave us credit for his nomination for best actor."
But by then, the channel's fortunes were changing. While Z initially held its own against competitors, subscriptions started to dip. Group W placed it on the block in 1987.
That same year, an American Film Institute tribute - in which filmmakers sang Z's praises - attracted the attention of the Rock Group, a Seattle-based consortium. It ended up buying Z and made plans to take it national. Hopes were raised that the channel would not only survive, but expand.
Then, the stock market crashed, and the Rock Group immediately scaled back its plans. It decided to merge Z with Spectacor, a cable sports network on the East Coast. For the first time, Z's format was altered to include sporting events including Dodgers and Angels baseball games.
Harvey took a while to warm to the plan, but he eventually was convinced of the need to change the format. "Jerry loved sports," Feeney recalls. "He thought there'd be a way to program for sports fans the way Z Channel did for film fans. But then the sports guys wanted to run commercials during the games and that detonated a lot of understandings around town."
What it also did was escalate a battle between Z and the much bigger pay TV players. At the time, pay stations were precluded from showing ads of any kind. HBO eventually stepped in, Feeney recalls, and executives informed the studios "that if they kept selling movies to Z Channel they weren't going to buy from them anymore."
The Z Channel responded in March 1988 by suing HBO, MGM/UA, Paramount, Fox and Warner Bros. for unlawful restraint of trade. Harvey - who through the years had forged close ties with studio contacts - was suddenly up against longtime friends and associates.
Harvey started to unravel. But his personality had been unstable to begin with. A few years before his death, he had threatened his first wife, Vera Anderson, with a gun, and had been treated with lithium for manic depression.
His psychiatrist, Joseph Lebenzon, said Harvey had been diagnosed as having a bipolar effectation disorder/borderline personality, and had prescribed Desyrel and Xanax.
Author Susan Strong, who edited Z Magazine, recalls that when she joined the channel, Harvey didn't speak to her for six months, apparently suspicious of her abilities. But they soon warmed up to each other, and he "really trusted me. He left the magazine in my hands."
"He was a great man," she says. "But he also was an alcoholic. When he was sober he was fine. But when he was drunk, he was awful."
Although the troubles with Z clearly bothered him, Harvey didn't seem to be having problems in his marriage, friends say.
An accomplished photographer and publisher of the Westwood Insider, Rudulph by all accounts was a gentle person and dedicated to her husband. "My impression," says Ryerson, "was that she wanted to take care of Jerry. With women, Jerry had that syndrome of needing to be taken care of."
According to friends of the couple, Rudulph badly wanted to have children, and when it looked like Z Channel was going national and its prospects were improving, Jerry relented. He had his vasectomy reversed.
The last time Feeney saw Harvey and Rudulph together, "they looked radiantly happy."
But the lawsuit, the stress and his family background proved too much.
Just two days before he was to be deposed in the lawsuit, he had been drinking in his Westwood home. Sometime that day he loaded his .38 caliber revolver, and shot Rudulph.
Distraught, Harvey called Lebenzon, and asked him to come and pick him up. By the time Lebenzon summoned the police, at about 5 p.m., and officers broke into the home, it was too late. Harvey was in bed, dressed in pants, shirt and shoes, with a gun in his left hand. One of the shots he aimed at himself had misfired, but the second was to his left temple, with no exit wound. No note was found. Harvey and Rudulph were both 39.
The following morning, Cohen summoned all of the staff to the channel's offices to tell them the news.
"My own feeling is that when the studios started to deny us product, he took it personally," says Cohen, himself a legend in the cable business as the co-founder of USA Network and Madison Square Garden Network. "A lot of business people learn to intellectualize these things, but he didn't understand. He was suffering because of this conflict with the studios."
Ultimately, Z failed to win its suit against HBO and the studios. Caught in a catch-22 - air commercials, get no movies; air movies, get no revenue from sporting events - Z could not make it.  The assets of Z were sold to Cablevision, which turned it into SportsChannel L.A. Even that channel couldn't withstand the competition from ESPN and other outlets and went defunct in 1992.
Through the unending consolidations, mergers and financial woes, cable TV is an entirely new universe from what it was when Z blinked off. Z's Westside headquarters became the home of Century Communications, and later Adelphia. Subscribers can get a smorgasbord of channels celebrating the spirit of filmmaking, including Sundance, Independent Film Channel, American Movie Channel and Turner Classic Movies. Along with HBO and the other premium services, they are the legacy of Z.
The DVD business has thrived on extras, including director's cuts and filmmaker commentary. More than ever, Oscar campaigns are dependent on screeners and a nominee's TV appearances.
Several years ago, filmmaker Xan Cassavetes, the daughter of John Cassavetes and Gena Rowlands, set out to make a documentary about the channel, not knowing much about it other than having watched it back then. "Why is it ? I'd heard it had this genius programmer who committed suicide, but that's all I knew."
She teamed with producers Rick Ross and Marshall Persinger and have produced a documentary that will be shown this summer on IFC, which along with Sundance and AMC and Bravo and the pay services are the legacy of Z. (IFC is owned by Cablevision.)
None of the current cable networks have had anyone so unique as Jerry Harvey in the programming seat. Cassavetes says that for Harvey, movies were "almost a replacement for religion, and he turned to this alternative world. There was some kind of morality that he learned from films and some kind of admiration for men who went against everything and fought for things and did things their own way."
Would he have self-destructed anyway, even if Z had survived its legal storm?
"The light in Jerry's life was those films," Ross says. "Nurturing, restoring and rescuing these films was what he could give to the world. That couldn't ultimately overcome the darkness that was in him."

Load-Date: April 5, 2004


End of Document
