




Atlantic Online
January 28, 2014 Tuesday


Copyright 2014 Atlantic Monthly Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Length: 623 words
Byline: Jennie Rothenberg Gritz
Body


The poet in October 1932, arriving in New York aboard the S.S. Europe (AP)
Seventy-five years ago todayon January 28, 1939William Butler Yeats died at a boarding house on the French Riviera. He was 73 years old, at the height of his fame and glory. oeMr. Yeats frequently let his mind roam far afield in the realm of fancy, gushed the oeand it is for the gentle beauty of such works that he was hailed by many as the greatest poet of his time in the English language.
But there was no gentle beauty in the three poems by Yeats that appeared in The Atlantic in January 1939, the month the poet died. All of them are brutal pieces of deathbed reckoning. In oeMan and the Echo, the poet stands in front of a blank cliff face, racked by guilt over his role in the 1916 Easter Rising:
I lie awake night after night
 And never get the answers right.
 Did that play of mine send out
 Certain men the English shot?
 Did words of mine put too great strain
 On that womans reeling brain?
 Could my spoken words have checked
 That whereby a house was wrecked?
 And all seems evil until I
 Sleepless would lay down and die.
The echo advises him, oeLay down and die.
In oeThe Circus Animals Desertion, the poet mocks his entire career as a writer. oeMy circus animals were all on show, he writes, bitterly describing how he tried and failed to live up to his purest visions. By the end, hes lying in a garbage pit filled with broken, hideous things: oeNow that my ladder's gone, / I must lie down where all the ladders start / In the foul rag and bone shop of the heart.
And in oePolitics, Yeats presents himself as a pathetic old man, lusting in vain after a younger woman. This wasnt far from the truth: Yeats spent his last decade carrying on with women half his age, and even had a  to improve his sexual oevigor. (oeWhen you are dead, people will talk about your love affairs, wrote Yeatss much-younger wife, George, in a             to her husband, oebut I shall say nothing, for I will remember how proud you were.)
All these years later, the three poems are still deeply unsettling. After all, Yeats was a Nobel Prizewinner, an Irish senator, and a cofounder of            . If a man like that could look back on a lifetime of accomplishments and chalk them up to empty vanity, what hope is there for everyone else?
At the same time, theres something mesmerizing about watching a great man ripping his own ego to shreds. Yeats was never fully at home in the material world. His poems are filled with references to hidden things: the fairies, the Druids, the             Just before he died, Yeats was especially taken with the Indian philosophy of Vedanta, which teaches that the whole universe is an illusion. In a 1935            , introducing a translation of the Mandukya Upanishad, Yeats explained the Vedantic vision of reality:
Whereas we are fragmentary, forgetting, remembering, sleeping, waking, spread out into past, present, future, permitting to our leg, to our finger, to our intestines, partly or completely separate consciousnesses, it is the oeunbroken consciousness of the Self, the Self that never sleeps, that is never divided, but even when our thought transforms it, it is still the same.
At the end of his life, Yeats seemed to be loosening his grip on that small, fragmentary self. The three Atlantic poems show him shedding the very last vestiges of his pride and dignityhis literary greatness, his sexual magnetismeverything that made him William Butler Yeats. As W.H. Auden put it, after his friend and mentor was buried in the ground: oeLet the Irish vessel lie / Emptied of its poetry.
           


Load-Date: March 4, 2014


End of Document
