




Newstex Blogs
Foreign Policy
December 1, 2015 Tuesday 3:32 PM EST


Copyright 2015 Newstex LLCAll Rights Reserved
Length: 1817 words
Body


Dec 01, 2015( Foreign Policy: / Delivered by Newstex) 
 The Year of Changing Our Minds: The Leading Global Thinkers of 2015 | The Iran Deal Wasn't Revolutionary

Those clarion pivots   Nelson Mandela's walk to freedom or the fall of the Berlin Wall   are enchanting. It's tempting simply to credit a visionary leader, the human spirit, or a historical trajectory. 
Change, however, is often foggier. It takes a convergence of causes also selfish, crudely commercial, strategically pragmatic, and more reactive than altruistic. In apartheid South Africa and the communist states of Eastern Europe, isolating societies and economies indefinitely proved too expensive, too impractical, too unsustainable. After a war that killed millions of people, Washington and Hanoi restored relations over the economic lures of new Asian markets for America and of foreign investment for Vietnam. Despite enduring ideological differences, they also shared a common fear of a rising China.
This year, Iran illustrates the density of change. For almost two generations   through six American presidencies   relations between the United States and Iran have been toxic. Revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini warned against 'Westoxication,' or infection by foreign culture and political ideas. In 1979, he praised the Iranian students who seized the U.S. Embassy in Tehran (to the students' surprise, prolonging the crisis) after Washington agreed to take in the ailing shah. Khomeini pronounced, 'America is the Great Satan, the wounded snake'   a label that stuck. Final negotiations to free the 52 diplomats were so tortured that American and Iranian envoys wouldn't meet in the same country, much less the same room.
Yet this July 14, top U.S. and Iranian diplomats shook hands to seal a deal to check Iran's ability to make a nuclear bomb. Over 20 months of talks, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif spent more time with each other than with any other foreign leader. Relationships bloomed across their staffs. After 36 years   almost twice as long as it took for the United States and Vietnam to restore relations   minds had changed: This August, 76 percent of Iranians surveyed said they approved of the deal with the Great Satan.
The United States likes to claim credit for forcing Iran to the negotiating table under the most punitive international sanctions ever imposed on any country. Many other factors intersected, however, to produce conditions conducive to real diplomacy. It was a long slog to cooperation   and one that's far from over. Change can be change without being a pivot.
*** Iran's shift was partly due to the natural course of revolutions. The feverish early rage inevitably fades, priorities change, and zeal fizzles, as Harvard University historian Crane Brinton chronicles in The Anatomy of Revolution. The original movement fragments into factions that no longer speak or see as one; rivalries emerge over what the future will be and who will control it. The Islamic Republic is no exception.
Consider the case of Mohsen Mirdamadi, one of three ringleaders of the U.S. Embassy seizure in 1979. He later led the Islamic Iran Participation Front, the country's largest reform movement. He was elected to parliament in 2000 and became head of its foreign affairs committee. Although he was unrepentant about the hostage crisis, he started promoting a dialogue with Washington more than a decade ago. 'Our emphasis originally was on winning independence from foreign influence and creating an Islamic state,' he told me in 2000. 'But today our emphasis is on freedoms.  Our tactics have shifted too. Before, we carried out a revolution. Today, we're trying evolution.'
In 2004, the Guardian Council, which vets candidates, banned Mirdamadi from running for office again. In 2009, during the Green Movement protests over election fraud, he was arrested. He was tried in a mass, Stalin-esque event along with 100 former officials, including a vice president, cabinet members, and presidential advisors, on charges of being mohareb (God's enemy). He was sentenced to six years in prison   a hostage-taker taken hostage. He was released a month before the nuclear deal was sealed.
But Iran's evolution isn't the only factor that facilitated this summer's agreement. Diplomacy was never just about Iran's nuclear program, whatever the rhetoric. It was also, implicitly, about the future of the morphing Middle East. The first modern theocracy feels threatened by a growing array of rivals: al Qaeda, the Islamic State (which in 2014 came within 25 miles of Iran's border), al-Nusra Front, the resurgent Taliban, and dozens of smaller militias. In an interview a month after nuclear talks began in 2013, Ibrahim Asgharzadeh, another ringleader of the U.S. Embassy takeover, described these groups as forming a 'cancerous tumor.' The regional map today faces more changes than at any time since its borders were defined a century ago, and while the United States and the Islamic Republic compete for influence, often supporting rival parties, they also now share a broader strategic goal: preventing the Middle East from disintegrating into dozens of unstable mini-states. 'We have common ground in fighting terrorism,' Asgharzadeh told me.
The new flash points have deepened sectarian tensions as much as at any time since the original schism 14 centuries ago. Iran is the world's largest predominantly Shiite country, but Shiites are only about 15 percent of the Islamic world's 1.5 billion members. In a numbers game, against Sunni powers or militias, Iran could be the loser. Already, from Tehran's vantage point, the so-called Shiite crescent   running from Tehran through Baghdad and Damascus to Beirut   is being replaced by a Sunni circle surrounding the Islamic Republic.
'Iran is a lonely country and a lone country,' Abbas Maleki, a former deputy foreign minister, told me when the nuclear diplomacy started. As a result, despite stubborn Persian nationalism, Tehran now seeks better ties with the West, both to balance the strategic scales and to prevent the United States and Europe from siding solely with Sunni governments.
Undoubtedly, economic hardship has also been a major factor in Iran's decision-making. But Tehran assumes more of the blame than U.S. sanctions do. During the two terms of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran earned around half of all petroleum revenues since oil was discovered under its soil in 1908. Yet his government blew threw it   with irresponsible fiscal policies, mismanagement, waste, shoddy public projects, and corruption. The value of the rial was halved. Inflation exceeded 40 percent, with some people claiming that it went as high as 60 percent. In 2013, Hassan Rouhani won a six-way presidential race by promising to fix the economy and conclude the nuclear dispute. Shortly after taking office, he acknowledged on national television that Iran's coffers were virtually empty. Sanctions only compounded Tehran's failings. Within two months of taking office, Rouhani embraced diplomacy   and spent 15 minutes on the phone with U.S. President Barack Obama.
Epic excesses, however, were not the final cause of change in Iran. The government of God also plummeted to Earth because of its successes, most notably in shaping its flock. After the revolution, the ruling clerics called on Iranian women to breed an Islamic generation. They did: The population grew some 55 percent in a decade. The regime soon realized it couldn't feed, clothe, house, educate, and eventually employ these numbers of people, so it reversed course with a drastic family-planning program. Clerics preached the benefits of limiting children per family to two (the average was then about six). Thousands of women were recruited to go door to door to reinforce the message. Everything was made free: condoms, birth control pills, Norplant, tubal ligations, and vasectomies. The campaign worked; the birthrate plummeted.
Yet today, the baby boom from the 1980s   close to 20 million people now between 25 and 35 years old   accounts for more than half the electorate. It formed the backbone of the Green Movement protests. It is far more engrossed in generating tech start-ups than debating the ideal Islamic state; it gets globalization and wants to be part of it. Over the next 50 years, it will be the largest determinant on almost any political or social issue.
The original revolutionaries, now in their 60s and 70s, can't afford to ignore public sentiment and consumer demands among society's largest sector without endangering their own survival. The baby boomers' thirst to live a normal life in a normal country was thus a factor in Iran's decision to sit at the table with the Great Satan's envoys.
The United States was driven by realpolitik considerations too. The rise of the Islamic State imperiled America's eight-year investment in Iraq and created a new threat, to the region and the homeland, more dangerous than al Qaeda. The Arab Spring exposed the frailty or vulnerability of all 22 Arab governments, including key allies, without presenting viable alternatives. Iran, by comparison, appeared more stable.
In groping for solutions to regional conflicts, Tehran was ever a factor for America. In Iraq, U.S. and Iranian advisors who once targeted each other suddenly found themselves supporting the same side. Meanwhile, going to war with Iran over its nuclear program was neither appealing nor popular. On a balance sheet, diplomacy with Iran was cost-efficient, the least bad option.
*** The nuclear deal may be historic, but that clarion moment of change has not yet been reached. Suspicion between the two countries still runs deep. Since July 14, Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei has regularly spewed anti-American vitriol on his Twitter account and in public appearances. 'We will not allow the U.S. to influence [our] economy or politics or culture. We will stand against such penetration with all our power,' he said in an August speech. On the anniversary of the U.S. Embassy takeover this November, more than 190 members of Iran's parliament issued a statement vowing, 'The martyr-nurturing nation of Iran is not at all prepared to abandon the slogan of 'Death to America' under the pretext of a nuclear agreement.' And the Islamic Republic still holds four Americans of Iranian descent   a Washington Post correspondent, a Christian preacher, a former Marine, and a businessman   on trumped-up charges of subversion or no charges at all. They are the equivalent of hostages.
The fog, in other words, has only barely begun to clear.
Robin Wright (@wrightr[1]), a distinguished scholar at the U.S. Institute of Peace and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, is the author of Rock the Casbah: Rage and Rebellion Across the Islamic World.
 [ 1]: 

Load-Date: December 1, 2015


End of Document
