




The San Diego Union-Tribune
April 29, 2007 Sunday


Copyright 2007 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: LOCAL; Pg. B-2
Length: 411 words
Dateline: DEL MAR 
Body


DEL MAR: Two 3-year-olds -- a dark colt named Steamboat Bay and a chestnut filly named Passion for Gumbo -- on Monday became the first thoroughbreds to exercise on the Del Mar Racetrack's newly installed Polytrack surface. The artificial surface should make the track safer for horses and riders, and less expensive to maintain. Race fans will see it July 18, opening day of the Del Mar Thoroughbred Club's 68th summer meet.
LA MESA: The La Mesa City Council on Tuesday reversed its decision to rename a two-block stretch of Allison Avenue, named for city founder Robert Allison, to something like Civic Center Drive. The change came after La Mesa resident Grace Fradenburg handed over a petition with 386 signatures. "I was outraged at the thought that they could do something like this," said Fradenburg, a member of the La Mesa Historical Society.
SAN DIEGO: Brisk sales of cell phones that surf the Internet, download video and play 3-D games helped Qualcomm achieve a 22 percent increase in its second-quarter profit, the company said Wednesday. The wireless giant bested stock analysts' expectations and raised its earnings forecast for the fiscal year.
EAST COUNTY: Three African lion cubs settled into their new home east of Alpine last week. They were the latest addition to Bobbi Brink's sanctuary, called Lions, Tigers & Bears. The animals came from a Louisiana sanctuary where a lioness had been impregnated after two males had faulty vasectomies. Brink has two tigers, a leopard, a bobcat, a serval and other animals at the sanctuary, so she agreed to take the lion cubs.
CARLSBAD: Sporting-goods equipment maker K2 said Wednesday that it was being acquired by Jarden Corp. in a cash-and-stock deal worth $1.2 billion. Jarden, which has consumer brands such as Mr. Coffee, Coleman and Sunbeam, will pay about $15.50 a share and assume K2's debt. K2 shareholders will receive $10.85 per share in cash and the rest in Jarden stock.
SAN DIEGO: Lisa Maree Gaut, 26, was convicted Thursday of assault with a deadly weapon and misdemeanor drunken driving in a confrontation in which ex-Charger Steve Foley was shot by an off-duty Coronado police officer. But the San Diego Superior Court jury acquitted Gaut of assault with a deadly weapon on a peace officer. Jurors agreed that a trip the court made to the cul-de-sac where the shooting occurred was an important factor in their verdicts. They also said they found testimony by the officer, Aaron Mansker, convincing.

Graphic

 
1 PIC; CAPTIONS: A review of events, including how three lion cubs from a Louisiana sanctuary came to their new home near Alpine. (B-1)

Load-Date: May 2, 2007


End of Document
