




 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
February 21, 2002 Thursday,
Home Edition


Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Section: Metro News;
Length: 439 words
Body


My philosophy for living with my husband: I want to spend the rest of my life with him --- if we make it through the week.
 
I'm a man and I believe in thank you notes. I expect my wife to send them promptly.
For the Journal-ConstitutionWhat is Canadian bacon called in Canada?
 
The Vent is an accurate barometer of my mental health. If it doesn't make me laugh, I know I am depressed.
 
"Coke Wins Over Pepsi," said the Business section headline. I didn't even know Coke had a crush.
 
You just know the same guy who invented curling also discovered hypothermia.
 
Positive thought for the day: Don't cry because it's over; smile because it happened.
 
If you clone a cat, will it have 18 lives?
 
"Overboard" cartoonist Chip Dunham is amazing. He has authored a daily strip for several years and has only used 10 different punchlines.
 
What kind of a jerk actually spends all day sending spam?
 
How could my ex, who has returned to his wife and son, still find time --- even on Valentine's Day --- to stalk me?
 
Please don't say vasectomy. Every time I see that word I have an urge to shuffle to the refrigerator for an ice pack.
  
I was married to a best boy at Warner Brothers, and believe me he wasn't.
 
I just saw a "baby changing station." I didn't know we were allowed to swap our babies like that.
 
Now I understand why Texas leads the country in executions. It's the only way to keep them from escaping.
 
A lawyer once told me there is one surefire way to avoid serving on a jury. When they ask what you do, reply that you write for the AJC. That's why I send in so many Vents.
 
Another sound we should never hear on the radio: police sirens.
  
Sign seen on a Caravan in Marietta: "Driver carries no money. He's married."
 
I don't want to be cremated; I want to be buried at sea. I can trust those sharks.
 
Urgent memo to Shirley Franklin: The honeymoon is over. How about getting rid of some of the fat on the city payroll?
 
I like combining my wife's horoscope with mine. Today it said, "You will be dealing with legal experts. Be ready to enter dark areas."
 
My boyfriend thinks I should be more patient when my dog endlessly sniffs tree trunks during our walk. He says the dog is just reading his p-mail.
 
As an Atlanta taxpayer, I for one am delighted that some of Bill Campbell's minions have lost their imaginary jobs.
 
When will the AJC consider putting Douglas County on the Close to Home map? We can get to downtown in 20 minutes. Can you? I love my monster, gas-guzzling SUV, and what I love even more is taking up two parking spaces designed for the pathetic, scrawny little cars you losers drive.
 
Need to Vent? Call 404-222-8338 e-  

Load-Date: February 21, 2002


End of Document
