




USNEWS.com
April 3, 2013 Wednesday


Copyright 2013 U.S. News & World Report All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Susan Milligan; Blog; Vol.; No.
Length: 603 words
Byline: Susan Milligan
Body


It's not that the  heart-tugging subway ads in New York City warning against teen pregnancy are  misleading - although they are. It's that they are making the wrong argument,  at least from a strategic perspective.
The ads depict  crying, miserable-looking babies, with grim  predictions for their futures, such  as "I'm twice as likely not to  graduate high school because you had me as a  teen." That may be  statistically accurate, but it's not necessarily true. That  is, it may  be the case that children born to teenage mothers (or fathers -  though  it seems clear the ads at directed at girls, expecting them to be the  ones  to put on the sexual brakes) are less likely to graduate from high  school. But  it does not prove a cause-and-effect relationship. The  real factor there may  quite possibly be family income. For all the  national outrage over teacher  quality and test scores, for example, the  research shows that income is a far  more significant driver in terms  of how children perform in school. It stands  to reason that a teenage  parent isn't pulling down a law partner's salary, so  it's not a  surprise that kids born to teenagers are less likely to finish  school.
[.]
But does that  argument stop children from having children?  Tragically, it seems not. Nearly  one in five children born to mothers  aged 15-19 is not the first child of the  young parents, according to a  report by the Centers for Disease Control.  There's some improvement -  of the 365,000 teens who gave birth in 2010, some  18.3 percent were on  their second child, down from 19.5 percent in 2007. The  CDC points out  that part of the problem is the failure to use the most effective  forms  of birth control, and lists tubal ligations and vasectomies as options.
That's hardly  rational - a young person is not going to have surgery  to avert a second,  unwanted pregnancy, even if the surgery is  reversible with another surgery.  Having both potential parents use  barrier forms of birth control makes more  sense, and instills a sense  of responsibility for both, instead of leaving it  all to the female.  But how to discourage young teens from having sex at all,  and older  teenagers from having unprotected sex? Bemoaning the future for the   children is not going to do it.
[.]
How about showing  a picture of some loser boyfriend, the guy who  seemed so cute and impressive  when he was playing sports and talking to  you at your school locker, lying on  the couch with an ever-growing pot  belly and drinking beer while the girl takes  care of the kid? How  about listing the statistics not of the kids' educational  futures, but  those of the parents? Not finishing high school is indeed a sad   prognosis for the children of children, but let's not forget the damage  done to  the mother herself. What chance does she have of finishing high  school - let  alone going to college and getting a decent job? What  choices will she  realistically have if she wants to dump the father -  assuming he decided to  stick around - if she has no economic security  of her own?
New York is smart  to discourage teen pregnancy, which puts a burden  on society as a whole as well  as the individuals. But the message  should be directed at the realities of young  parenthood for the  teenagers.
Read Peter Roff: Congress, It's Time for Corporate Tax Reform
Read Pat Garofalo: It's Opening Day for Major League Teams Asking for Tax Giveaways
Check out U.S. News Weekly, now available on iPad

Graphic

 
Picture, (iStockPhoto) 

Load-Date: April 4, 2013


End of Document
