




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
June 18, 2016 Saturday


Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: ; Pg. B2
Length: 519 words
Byline: ByAlexandra Mester
Body


Dodge, a Kodiak bear at the Toledo Zoo, is part of an exhibit that also includes two Yellowstone grizzlies named Cody and Montana. The exhibit has opened to the public.
Three brown bears at the Toledo Zoo seem to have forgotten their worries and their strife and can rest at ease with more than bare necessities in their new home.
The two female grizzly cubs and a male Kodiak cub recently went on public exhibit in the former lion enclosure in Tembo Trail. All about 1 1/2 years old, the active bears have been off exhibit for months as they acclimated to a new environment, zoo staff, and each other.
"We're very happy with how they've adjusted," zoo director Jeff Sailer said.
Grizzlies and Kodiak bears are brown bears, a species the zoo has not had in its collection for about 30 years.
"They are going to be awesome ambassadors for an issue that is popping up more and more - human-wildlife conflict," Sailer said. "It's a worldwide problem."
The grizzly sisters, Cody and Montana, arrived in early September from Yellowstone National Park. They were orphaned in August when wildlife officials killed their mother after identifying her as the bear that killed and fed on a hiker.
Dodge and his two siblings were found in May, 2015, after their mother was killed by hunters on Kodiak Island off the southern coast of Alaska. The cubs had never left the den and were hand-reared at the Alaska Zoo for six months. Two were sent to Wildwood Park & Zoo in Marshfield, Wis., and Dodge came to Toledo in late October.
Dr. Randi Meyerson, assistant director of animal programs, said Toledo's bears were allowed to adjust at their own pace. Cody and Montana were older and spent more time with their mother, so their acclimation took longer.
"We took it very slow," she said. "We've given them the time to do what they feel they need to do. There's so much trust now. They understand we are here to provide for them and nothing bad will happen to them here."
Dodge's adjustment period was much shorter because he was already used to people. After careful introductions, the three playful cubs are getting along famously.
Sailer noted the exhibit is at least 50 percent larger than what the public can see. In addition to having access to an indoor, off-exhibit area, their enclosure includes the other side of a hill where the cubs can retreat from visitors.
About 120 brown bears are kept across the country in 37 zoos accredited by Association of Zoos and Aquariums, according to a spokesman. Associated zoos do not breed brown or black bears, leaving space open for rescued bears. Dodge had a vasectomy to prevent any breeding in Toledo.
The bears haven't been stressed by smaller crowds and are comfortable being close to the viewing glass, which has a gap at the top allowing them to hear people and for people to hear them.
But because the zoo does not want them to be overwhelmed, the flow of visitors will be controlled at first and whenever needed, Sailer said.
The enclosure had held three geriatric white lions. Wisdom died in 2013, with brothers Legend and Courage following last year in June and December, respectively.

Load-Date: June 18, 2016


End of Document
