




Marketing Dive
July 10, 2023 Monday 1:16 PM EST


Copyright 2023 Industry Dive.  All Rights Reserved


Length: 419 words
Byline: Chris Kelly
Body


Dive Brief:
Truly Hard Seltzer has planned what it is billing as the first-ever zero gravity drinking experience, . 
Consumers can visit a  and explain why drinking Truly makes them feel "lightly fantastic" for a chance to win a reservation for the Truly Zero Gravity Bar on a specialized Boeing-727 operated by Zero-G and dubbed the "G-Force One."
The Boston Beer Company hard seltzer brand is looking to break through an increasingly crowded hard alternative category with a splashy experiential activation that keys in on its "light, fun and joyful" brand positioning.
Dive Insight:
Truly Hard Seltzer is taking flight for a summer campaign that looks to convince consumers that its product is so light and refreshing that it defies the laws of gravity. The Truly Zero Gravity Bar will bring five contest winners and their guests to 32,000 feet to the same zero gravity environment utilized by astronauts.
"At Truly, we believe in embracing the lighter side of life, whether that's crafting the most refreshing flavors or creating unforgettable, unique drinking experiences for our fans," said Matt Withington, director of marketing at the brand.
The activation comes as marketers increasingly return to an experiential tactic that was commonplace before the pandemic caused shutdowns and diminished consumer appetites for in-person events. Truly is collecting submissions - and valuable first-party consumer data - on a microsite in exchange for reservations on the Aug. 28 flight, lodging, $500 in cash and a post-flight reception at Truly's innovation lab in Downtown Los Angeles.
Truly is not the first brand to use a zero gravity flight -  in 2021 teamed with social video app Triller to bring 20 influencers on a similar flight - but the gimmick is a logical, if extreme, extension of the brand's "Lightly Fantastic" brand platform. Previously, the brand  for its "No One Is Just One Flavor" campaign.
Along with Truly Hard Seltzer, Boston Beer has invested in hard alternatives including  as it looks to balance its portfolio for younger drinkers who favor alternatives to beer. The category also features Anheuser-Busch InBev brands like  and  and Molson Coors'  Hard Seltzer and has been ripe for creative marketing campaigns - featuring everything from  to  - as marketers look to break through on crowded shelves.

Load-Date: August 18, 2023


End of Document
