




Lawyers, Guns, and Money
July 19, 2019 Friday 11:15 PM EST


Copyright 2019 Newstex LLC All Rights Reserved
Length: 492 words
Byline: Paul Campos
Body


Jul 19, 2019( Lawyers, Guns, and Money: / Delivered by Newstex)  Because of course[1]:President Donald Trump renewed his attacks on a Somali-born congresswoman Friday while reversing his previous criticisms of a North Carolina crowd who chanted 'send her back,' defending them as 'patriots' while again questioning the loyalty of four Democratic lawmakers of color. In a week that has been full of hostile exchanges over race and love of country on both sides, Trump returned to a pattern that has become familiar during controversies of his own making: Ignite a firestorm, backtrack from it, but then double down on his original, inflammatory position. 'You know what I'm unhappy with?'
 Trump answered when reporters at the White House asked if he was unhappy with the Wednesday night crowd. 'Those people in North Carolina, that stadium was packed. It was a record crowd. And I could have filled it 10 times, as you know. Those are incredible people. They are incredible patriots. But I'm unhappy when a congresswoman goes and says, 'I'm going to be the president's nightmare.'' . . .[O]n Friday, he made clear he was not disavowing the chant and again laced into Omar, the target of the chant. 'You can't talk that way about our country. Not when I'm president,' Trump said. 'These women have said horrible things about our country and the people of our country.' He also tweeted that it was 'amazing how the Fake News Media became 'crazed' over the chant 'send her back' by a packed Arena (a record) crowd in the Great State of North Carolina, but is totally calm ...cepting of the most vile and disgusting statements made by the three Radical Left Congresswomen.'This is pure cult of personality Oceania has never been at war with Eurasia stuff. Ivanka is going to have hit the speed dial again to explain to Maggie that she's not OK with this and you know how Daddy gets when he's been tweeting.On a closely related topic, Alan Dershowitz wrote an exam hypo[2] in which a woman was unambiguously raped, but decided that in retrospect nothing really bad happened to her because the rapist had had a vasectomy.'I feel violated, because I didn't want to have sex with him then, but I guess there's no real harm done.'Also, while the victim's name is Mary Smith, the rapist's name is Willie Jones. Not Bill or William Jones. Willie. Like Horton. (Exam is from 1990-1991.)The hypo is also full of gratuitous details whose only point seems to be to demonstrate that Mary was a horny slut who was sort of asking for it if you know what Alan means which I think I do. [ 1]:  [ 2]:             

Load-Date: July 19, 2019


End of Document
