




Dayton Daily News (Ohio)
April 1, 2015 Wednesday


Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.
Section: LIFE; Pg. D3
Length: 299 words
Body


8 p.m. on NBC: Kathie Lee Gifford normally inhabits NBC's weekday lineup, as a co-anchor of the fourth hour of "Today" but she makes her way into the network's prime-time lineup as a guest star in the new episode "The Mystery of the Sunken Sailor." She plays a psychiatrist who consults on the case of a slain seaman, which coincides with Laura's (Debra Messing) birthday - an occasion Laura doesn't want to acknowledge, in the worst way. "The Dovekeepers" 9 p.m. on CBS: In the conclusion of the new miniseries based on Alice Hoffman's novel, the captive Shirah and Yael (Cote de Pablo, Rachel Brosnahan) manage to provide Josephus (Sam Neill) with their takes on what has occurred at Masada. 
The Romans continue to strategize their siege on the fortress, while Eleazar (Mido Hamada) rallies fellow Jews to mount a defense against General Silva's (Sam Hazeldine) forces. Kathryn Prescott, Diego Boneta and Luke Roberts also star. "Storage Wars" 9 p.m. on A&E: As a new season opens with "Padian: P.I." Ivy is particularly excited when the buyers return to Fontana, California, since past experience has shown him this market is rich with items he's looking for. Jarrod and Brandi struggle for the right strategy to snag a good locker, though, while Darrell and Brandon look to score heavy. Meanwhile, Mary works her way up from the bottom. "blackish" 9:31 p.m. on ABC: Dre (Anthony Anderson) gets caught in a lie by Bow (Tracee Ellis Ross) in the new episode "Sex, Lies and Vasectomies" She learns from another source that Dre never had a certain procedure he was supposed to undergo long ago - check that subtitle again - so she decides to test him on how long he'll perpetuate the fib. As a likely indicator of how that goes, consider that talk-show host Maury Povich guest stars as himself.

Load-Date: April 1, 2015


End of Document
