




University Wire
February 6, 2007 Tuesday


Copyright 2007 Cavalier Daily via U-Wire
Length: 478 words
Byline: By Courtney Kessler, Cavalier Daily; SOURCE: U. Virginia
Dateline: CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Body


For over 20 years, researchers in the University of Virginia's Center for Research in Contraceptive and Reproductive Health have been working toward developing a male contraceptive drug, and thanks to recent advances in the center's research, this goal continues to be promising.
John Herr, director of the Center for Research in Contraceptive and Reproductive Health, explained that his research focuses on targeting certain sperm proteins.
"We've been working for many years to identify proteins that are unique to the process of spermiogenesis," said John Herr, director of the Center for Research in Contraceptive and Reproductive Health. "Spermiogenesis is the terminal step in sperm production in the testes, and we have identified some unique proteins located in the sperm flagella that appear to be useful drug targets."
Patents involving several of these proteins and their encoding genes have been filed by the University of Virginia Patent Foundation, Herr said.
Research on male contraceptives that will target these proteins is currently underway, but this will be a long-term project, he said.
Worldwide, researchers are conducting trials to test a male contraceptive formula that uses a combination of long-acting androgen and progestagen hormones.
"In the shorter term, it is likely that this traditional form of steroid-based male contraceptive ... may be marketed for men," he said.
The advent of a male contraceptive product has opened doors for a new industry of diagnostic products, Herr said.
Several years ago, Herr founded ContraVac, Inc., which has developed products in anticipation of this new industry, according to Robert MacWright, director of the University Patent Foundation.
One of these products, called SpermCheck Vasectomy, is intended for males who have recently received a vasectomy, a procedure to stop sperm flow, MacWright said.
SpermCheck Vasectomy will enable these men to check their fertility levels in the privacy of their own homes after the procedure in order to ensure that the procedure was successful, he added.
The other product, SpermCheck Contraception, will be used by men taking a male contraceptive to determine when their counts have fallen to infertile levels. Antibodies in the device will detect if sperm are present, MacWright said.
He added that since 40 percent of couples' infertility problems are due to the male, the company has also come up with a product, SpermCheck Fertility, which would more easily detect men's fertility problems. According to MacWright, this product would allow women to avoid extensive and expensive procedures that, in cases of male infertility, are unnecessary. Herr said these products will bring more gender equity into the arena of infertility testing.
MacWright said he is hopeful that the home sperm diagnostics will be available within the next year.
(C) 2007 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE

Load-Date: February 6, 2007


End of Document
