




Congressional Quarterly HealthBeat
December 20, 2016 Tuesday


Copyright 2016 CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Length: 470 words
Body


The Obama administration on Tuesday released updated guidelines outlining which preventive services health insurers should cover for women, including for the first time screenings for breast cancer and cervical cancer.
The 2010 health care overhaul (PL 111-148, PL 111-152) required insurers to cover preventive services as determined by the Health Resources and Services Administration, which released the guidelines on Tuesday.
The guidelines will require coverage of breast cancer screenings for women in their 40s who choose to get mammograms, and say that screenings should be conducted every year or two starting from age 50 through age 74. Screenings for cervical cancer should be conducted every three years for women in their 20s and either every three or five years, depending on the screening procedure, for women aged 30 to 65.
Some health advocates say the guidelines are problematic because of the ambiguity about exactly when women should begin screening for breast cancer or how frequently they should be screened for cervical cancer.
While too-frequent cancer screenings could lead to false positive results and unnecessary treatments or procedures, screening less frequently could result in higher-risk women finding out their diagnosis later.
"Black women and Latinas will have higher rates of late-stage cervical cancer diagnoses, which will translate into higher mortality," Linda Goler Blount, president of the Black Women's Health Initiative, said in an e-mail to CQ. "The wording related to screening mammography puts the burden on the woman to determine if screening is appropriate for her. Most of us have no way of assessing that."
The guidelines also will require coverage of contraception methods approved by the Food and Drug Administration, including sterilization, intrauterine devices, birth control pills and emergency contraception commonly known as the morning-after pill.
While these coverage provisions were met with praise, some family planning advocates hope that access to contraception can be expanded even further in the future.
"Policymakers must work to expand access even further to include vasectomies and condoms, and over-the-counter methods without a prescription," Clare Coleman, president of the National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association, said in a statement.
The updated guidelines released Tuesday also require health plans to cover screening for diabetes during pregnancy; support related to breastfeeding; testing and counseling for HIV; human papillomavirus and other sexually transmitted infections; and screenings to determine whether a woman has been subject to domestic violence. All of those requirements had been part of the first set of guidelines published in 2011.
Source: CQ HealthBeat
Copyright 2016 Congressional Quarterly Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Load-Date: December 23, 2016


End of Document
