




Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn
August 5, 2011 Friday


Copyright 2011 Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News
Section: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS
Length: 352 words
Byline: Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn.
Body


Aug. 05--Dr. Zvi Levran will be joining the Lake Region Healthcare team of healthcare professionals in August. He is committed to providing urologic services to the region on a long-term basis.
Originally from Israel, Levran obtained his bachelor and master degrees in biology from Wayne State University, Detroit, Mich. After graduating from Wayne State University School of Medicine with his Doctor of Medicine, Dr. Levran completed his general surgery residency followed by his urology residency at William Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, Mich. Prior to moving to Fergus Falls Dr. Levran was in private medical practice in Livonia, Mich.
Levran's urological expertise includes treatment of all genitourinary tumors, both benign and cancerous, male infertility, sexual dysfunction and impotency, scalpel-less vasectomy, vasectomy reversals, kidney stone disease, voiding dysfunction, urinary incontinence and urinary tract infections in both pediatric and adult patients.
He is a member of the American Urological Association, American Medical Association, International Society of Sexual Medicine, American Association of Clinical Urologists, and Society of
He and his wife, Joy, have three grown children.
In addition to the above areas of expertise, Levran's professional interests include adult and pediatric plastic surgery, erectile dysfunction, microscopic surgery, female urology, urologic endoscopies, hand assisted laparoscopic surgery, and repair of all urologic pediatric anomalies.
His interests include hockey, power yoga teaching, skiing, operas, concerts, soccer, hiking, traveling all over the country and the world, and other sports-related activities.
Appointments can be made by contacting Lake Region Healthcare Clinic Services.
To see more of the Fergus Falls Daily Journal or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to . Copyright (c) 2011, Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit            .

Load-Date: August 6, 2011


End of Document
