




Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)
March 14, 2018 Wednesday


Copyright 2018 Woodward Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: A; Pg. 1
Length: 609 words
Byline: JEFF MONTGOMERY , 
Body


It turns out that basketball nets might not be the only thing getting snipped this time of year.
Medical professionals in the tri-state area said they generally see an uptick in vasectomy procedures in March, a trend also chronicled in other parts of the U.S.
Ben Roling, a general surgeon at Medical Associates in Dubuque, believes the annual uptick in procedures likely is linked to the tip-off of the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament, often referred to as March Madness.
"(Vasectomy) is a popular procedure year-round, but there always seems to be a surge in interest at this time," he said. "It always seems to correlate with March Madness. We do our best each year to accommodate the surge and meet the demand."
The annual tournament started Tuesday, but it won't kick into full gear until Thursday, when a full slate of 16 games being played across the country will start at about 11 a.m. and last late into the night. Sixteen more games will be played Friday, and eight apiece are scheduled for Saturday and Sunday.
Roling said he generally recommends three days of rest following a vasectomy, providing a perfect window of time to digest hours of televised hoops.
And this opportunity isn't lost on sports-crazed guys.
Alex Horchak, a urologist at UnityPoint Clinic Urology in Dubuque, said he has had patients specifically ask if they could get a vasectomy performed during March Madness.
"I think it makes them feel justified to be able to sit down and watch all these games," he said.
RECOGNIZING A TREND
A vasectomy is a sterilization procedure for men. It generally takes a half-hour or less.
Most of the men who get vasectomies are in their 30s or 40s, according to Roling. They tend to be married and have come to a conclusion with their spouse that they no longer want children.
Local medical professionals said they have not crunched the numbers to analyze how much the demand for vasectomies increases come March.
National studies, however, have found the correlation.
Officials at Cleveland Clinic tracked data from 2014 to 2016 and found their doctors generally see a 10 percent increase in vasectomies around the time of March Madness.
Researchers at AthenaHealth reported an even sharper uptick. Vasectomies increased by 30 percent during the first week of March Madness in 2016 compared to a typical week, according to an analysis of 173 urology practices across the AthenaHealth network.
MARKETING TO MEN
Horchak believes the growing attention surrounding vasectomies in March is largely the byproduct of targeted marketing initiatives.
He noted that many men are understandably apprehensive about getting such a procedure done. By associating it with a positive event such as March Madness, it increases the likelihood that men will consider the option.
"I think these ad campaigns are something that have caught on nationwide," he said. "Lots of urology practices have started to market this as a good time to get the procedure done."
Count Crossing Rivers Health in Prairie du Chien, Wis., among them.
Its website features an image of two basketballs, each adorned with a bandage. In case the imagery didn't get the message across, the site offers the following message: Been thinking about a vasectomy? Schedule it during March Madness!
Chief Medical Officer Steven Bush said Crossing Rivers started offering urology services in 2017.
"The ad campaign is meant to introduce people to the fact that we have these services," he said. "I think it's also an effective ad campaign to capture the attention of men. Women tend to do a much better job of going to see doctors. This is a way to attract men and get them to think about their health."

Load-Date: March 15, 2018


End of Document
