




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
May 19, 2020 Tuesday
Main Edition


Copyright 2020 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: C; Pg. 007
Length: 334 words
Byline: Eve Glazier, M.D., and Elizabeth Ko. M.D. Andrews McMeel Syndication
Body


Ask the doctors
 Dear Doctor: After three planned children and one unexpected (but much-loved) arrival, my wife and I think a vasectomy is a good idea. What will happen? How permanent is it?
 Dear Reader: A vasectomy is a safe and effective kind of birth control that works by disrupting the pathway that carries a man's sperm. This is done via a simple elective surgery in which the vas deferens are cut or blocked. The procedure is close to 100% effective, with just one or two pregnancies per 1,000 procedures. The surgery can be reversed, but the success rate of future pregnancies varies.
 A vasectomy is done on an outpatient basis. It's likely that your doctor will ask you to avoid blood-thinning medications in the week leading up to the surgery. This is done to limit bleeding during the procedure. It's important to note that you should never stop taking prescription blood thinners without first consulting with your doctor.
 The procedure itself is done under a local anesthetic, so the patient is awake. In the traditional method, the surgeon uses a scalpel to make either one or two incisions in the scrotum in order to reach the vas deferens. A segment of each tube is cut away, and the open ends are sealed shut.
 A newer type of vasectomy, known as the "no-scalpel" method, uses a small puncture to access the vas deferens. Studies suggest that the no-scalpel method results in less pain and fewer post-surgical complications.
 Following the surgery, you'll be asked to wear a supportive garment for a day or two. Ice packs will be used to reduce swelling, and your doctor will advise you on any pain meds you may need. If at any time you experience signs of infection, call your doctor immediately.
 Sperm continues to be present after a vasectomy. That means it's important to keep using birth control until a follow-up semen analysis gives you the all-clear. And remember, a vasectomy doesn't protect against sexually transmitted diseases.
 Send your questions to 

Load-Date: May 19, 2020


End of Document
