




Pharma & Healthcare Monitor Worldwide
March 1, 2017 Wednesday


Copyright 2017 Global Data Point. Provided by Syndigate Media Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 673 words
Body


(PRWeb) - In 2014, Harvard researchers published a report suggesting a link between prostate cancer and vasectomies. In studying approximately 800 deaths from prostate cancer, the researchers found that men who had undergone a vasectomy were 10% more likely to get prostate cancer and 20% more likely to get fatal prostate cancer. Although the increased risks are small, they seem to be contradicted by epidemiology findings published in the latter part of 2016 by the American Cancer Society.
The American Cancer Society results are positive and should go a long way to easing the anxieties of any man whos had a vasectomy, said Dr. Michel, founder of Prostate Cancer Institute of Los Angeles. What I think is significant about the American Cancer Society`s findings is that they came after an extensive, exhaustive study that spanned over two decades. Additionally, this much larger study provides more evidence that there is no increased risk of prostate cancer due to a vasectomy.
Among men who die from cancer, prostate cancer is second only to lung cancer as a culprit. Since around 15% of American men have had a vasectomy, the news that the surgery does not increase the risk of prostate cancer is welcomed. As one of the top birth control methods available in the U.S., the vasectomy procedure has a nearly perfect track record of both efficacy and safety.
Although research is ongoing to find more definitive evidence, this is still excellent news. If a man is considering, or has considered, getting a vasectomy in the past, but has held off due to concerns of increasing his risk of prostate cancer, Dr. Michel said, these results should encourage him to undergo the vasectomy if thats what he and his doctor decide. As always, thats the goal  making the right choice to maintain or improve your health based on your unique needs.
Men over the age of 50 are encouraged to regularly undergo screenings for prostate cancer, which test for higher levels of PSA (prostate-specific antigen) that can indicate prostate cancer. A diagnosis at the early stages can mean the difference between succumbing to or surviving the disease. To find out more about prostate cancer, as well as testing and preservation options, visit  /Focal-Treatment/.
Prostate cancer patients have an excellent chance of outlasting the disease but only if they get regular screening tests, Dr. Michel states. At Comprehensive Urology, however, we dont suggest waiting for a screen test to spring into action. Preventative measures are still the most effective and its what we encourage all men to do  keep fit, eat right, exercise, reach and maintain your optimal weight, and if you smoke, stop. These will help reduce your prostate cancer risk.
Kia Michel M.D. earned his medical degree at the University of Washington School of Medicine and completed his residency at UCLA. He has also been recognized as a National Pfizer Scholar. As one of the founding members of the reputable Comprehensive Urology Medical Group, located in the Cedars-Sinai Medical Towers in Los Angeles, California, Dr. Michel treats a host of urological diseases. One of the few urologists who is both an acclaimed vaginal reconstructive and minimally invasive surgeon, Dr. Michel is a compassionate doctor who has dedicated his career to providing state-of-the-art care for his patients with a warm, nurturing touch.
Prostate Cancer Institute of Los Angeles is a renowned urological practice in Los Angeles that provides state of the art urological care in a personalized and compassionate environment. The physicians at Prostate Cancer Institute of Los Angeles are board-certified urologists with specialty training in a number of different aspects of urology and provide tailored care for their patients with outstanding results.
Call them today at (310) 341-2557 or visit their website:  /.
Prostate Cancer Institute of Los Angeles 8631 W 3rd St #715e Los Angeles, CA 90048 (310) 341-2557 CUInquiry(at)gmail(dot)com 2017 Global Data Point.

Load-Date: March 1, 2017


End of Document
