




University Wire
March 28, 2006 Tuesday


Copyright 2006 Montana Kaimin via U-Wire
Length: 365 words
Byline: By Danny Bobbe, Montana Kaimin; SOURCE: U. Montana
Dateline: MISSOULA, Mont. 
Body


Eighty-five percent of the University of Montana student body has had sex during the school year, according to a Curry Health Center survey. Childbirth, being one the most natural consequences of sex, has inspired a variety of ways to prevent unwanted pregnancies. One of the more permanent ways to stop conception was performed on UM student Mark Flatt, 32, last Wednesday.
"I've thought about it for the last five years," Flatt said. "I'll rest easier at night knowing an unwanted pregnancy cannot happen."
The medical procedure Flatt underwent, a vasectomy, is generally done in about 20 minutes with local anesthetic. The operation severs the male vas deferens, preventing the ejaculation of sperm.
"Most of our patients aren't looking for that," said a clinical assistant at Planned Parenthood of Missoula, although his clinic will soon provide the procedure using lasers. Hopefully, the assistant said, the lasers will "make it less scary for the patient."
But for many men like Flatt, there is nothing scary about a vasectomy's procedure or its results. Flatt said he knows himself well enough to recognize that he will never want a child.
Many doctors shy away from doing the procedure on men younger than 40 because of concern that they may change their minds. Vasectomy reversals are not guaranteed and the chances for a successful reversal decrease the longer a man waits.
Although reversals are possible, "that's not the attitude you should have going into the procedure," Flatt said.
That may be why vasectomies are not particularly popular among most college students.
"For a lot of people sexually active (student) age, using condoms is one of the best things to do," said Linda Green, director of Health Enhancement at the Curry Health Center.
Condoms are preferred because they are effective at both reducing the risk of pregnancy and contracting sexually transmitted diseases, said Green. They also have the advantage of not permanently stopping one's ability to reproduce.
Flatt's procedure was done at the Blue Mountain Clinic and, because it was booked in February -- the month that contains Valentine's Day -- it was greatly discounted at $300.
(C) 2006 Montana Kaimin via U-WIRE

Load-Date: March 28, 2006


End of Document
