




The San Diego Union-Tribune
February 20, 2002, Wednesday


Copyright 2002 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: SPORTS;Pg. D-2
Length: 476 words
Byline: UNION-TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICES
Body

Hide the Motown CDs.
Mike Veeck, son of the legendary Bill Veeck and mastermind of the infamous "Disco Demolition Night" in 1979 at Chicago's Comiskey Park, was hired by the Detroit Tigers yesterday as a marketing and promotions consultant.
"Mike has a very creative mind," club prez Dave Dombrowski, who worked with Veeck with the Florida Marlins, said in a world-class understatement.  "I think what we can expect from him is controlled craziness."
Veeck said his promotions at Comerica Park will be "two-thirds tradition-based and one-third quirky."
Added Veeck to the Detroit Free Press: "I think somewhere along the line we'll have a night honoring Henry Greenberg.  Since my days with the White Sox, I haven't had a chance to fool around with 100 years of tradition."
Coincidentally, Detroit was the opponent on "Disco Demolition Night," when Veeck planned to have disk jockeys blow up a pile of disco albums in the outfield between games of a doubleheader.
About 80,000 fans showed up, 60,000 in Comiskey and 20,000 outside, and a near riot ensued.  The White Sox ended up forfeiting the second game.
Add Veeck
Some of the lesser-known promotions Mike Veeck brought to his various minor league teams in recent years:
[] Greased Pig Night.  The Charleston (S.C) RiverDogs greased up a pig named Tommy so kids could chase him around the field.  But Tommy ran down the right-field line and out of the ballpark, right into a swamp.  "Helicopters from the SPCA looked for Tommy for two days," Veeck told The Associated Press.
[] Vasectomy Night.  The RiverDogs planned to give away a free vasectomy on Father's Day in 1997 but canceled the promotion after getting complaints.
[] Mime-O-Vision.  Veeck hired five mimes in St. Paul, Minn., to re-enact plays and make instant replay obsolete.  Veeck: "By the fifth inning the fans were throwing everything that wasn't nailed down."
[] Also in St. Paul, Veeck had Saints part-owner Bill Murray rake the infield between innings.
When Veeck was with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays he held Lawyers Night, on which attorneys were admitted free but billed by the inning.
The hole truth and nothing but
Playing golf for UCLA has its perks -- playing Bel-Air Country Club, for instance -- but it has its downside, too.
PGA Tourist Scott McCarron told AP that in exchange for playing the historic course, UCLA players had to carry buckets of sand and fill six divots on every hole.  When they got to the green, they had to repair four pitch marks.
And whenever club members were in sight, the Bruins had to wave them through.
"They would be eating lunch, and as soon as they saw us go off, they'd get their clubs," he said.  "It could take us eight hours to play Bel-Air."
Parting shot
Bud Geracie, San Jose Mercury News: "While watching Olympic curling, it occurred to me that I should get a couple of those guys over here to sweep the garage."

Load-Date: February 22, 2002


End of Document
