




The Bismarck Tribune
March 9, 2024 Saturday


Copyright 2024 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises All Rights Reserved
Section: C; Pg. 008
Length: 521 words
Body


D30 incumbents are compromised
Compromised. You said it, not me. But it’s true and your Jan. 31st editorial proves just how compromised the District 30 incumbents are.
First, they were not “pushed aside” for three other candidates. The incumbents had the same opportunity to appear at the convention as the challengers did. They just decided not to attend. In fact, one of the incumbents actually canceled the venue where the convention was to be held 22 days before the convention date. The district committee has the actual proof of this cancellation and shared it at the Jan. 24 meeting.
Second, they were censured because they did not show up to the convention to account for their actions and their voting records.
Third, according to District 30 bylaws, candidates seeking endorsement at convention are to notify in writing the district chair of their intentions 20 days before the meeting. None of the three notified the district committee and in fact made it known “through the grapevine” that they would not be attending but going straight to the primary. 
Fourth, the chair, Justis Amundson, did indeed run the convention until handing over the convention to parliamentarian Mike Blessum temporarily for the endorsement portion of the meeting.
Fifth, as indicated in writing at the convention, the “conservative” incumbents have voting records that do not support conservative values. All of us attending the convention would have benefited from their explanations for said votes and bill sponsorship, but they chose to not face the music.
Lastly, the District 30 Senator and one of the Representatives have expressed their desire to attend Convention in Fargo and have been added to the delegate list. Compromised. Their actions and the gaslighting of both their constituents and their challengers demonstrate their integrity and it is certainly compromised.
Karen Wolfer, Bismarck
Republicans need to understand rights
The Republican Party must be repeating the old phrase, “barefoot and pregnant” in their sleep.
I do not think the Republican Party members are calling the Attorney Generals Office in ND if a member of the party is getting a vasectomy.
Medical facts clearly indicate a woman needs twice the health care a male needs.
The Republican Party of ND needs to understand a woman in ND has the right to due process, right to privacy and equal protection under the law.
Strange but true, the ND legislature created the state abortion law and the Trump supporting Governor Burgum signed the bill into law. The Governor never mentioned putting the abortion law on the ballot for a vote.
Mark Bollinger, Jamestown
It’s critical to know whom you vote for
In the simplest of terms, Hoeven, Kramer, Armstrong, Burgum, and Miller, have wrapped themselves in loyalty and support of a MAGA pro-Putin anti-woman political Frankenstein. This is our North Dakota face to the country. Is everyone Okay with that?
And now the Supreme Court has torpedoed the timing of Jack Smith’s insurrection trial.
It is more critical than ever to really know whom and what you vote for.
Carol Russell, Bismarck

Load-Date: March 9, 2024


End of Document
