




Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)
August 21, 2010 Saturday


Copyright 2010 The Deseret News Publishing Co.
Length: 490 words
Byline: Jim Yardley New York Times News Service
Body


 SATARA, India ? Sunita Laxman Jadhav is a door-to-door saleswoman who sells waiting. She sweeps along muddy village lanes, calling on newly married couples with an unblushing proposition: Wait two years before getting pregnant, and the government will thank you. 
It also will pay you. "I want to tell you about our honeymoon package," began Jadhav, an auxiliary nurse, during a recent house call on a new bride in this farming region in the state of Maharashtra. Jadhav explained that the district government would pay 5,000 rupees, or about $106, if the couple waited to have children. Waiting, she promised, would allow them time to finish their schooling or to save money. Waiting also would allow India more time to curb a rapidly growing population that threatens to turn its demography from a prized asset into a crippling burden. With almost 1.2 billion people, India is disproportionately young; roughly half the population is younger than 25. The sheer size of India's population poses looming pressures on resources and presents an enormous challenge for an already inefficient government to expand schooling and other services. In coming decades, India is projected to surpass China as the world's most populous nation, and the critical uncertainty is just how populous it will be. Estimates range from 1.5 billion to 1.9 billion people, and Indian leaders recognize that that must be avoided. India is an unruly democracy where the central government has set population targets but where state governments carry out separate efforts to limit the birthrate. Many national politicians have been wary of promoting population control ever since an angry public backlash against a scandal over forced vasectomies during the 1970s. It was considered a sign of progress that India's parliament debated "population stabilization" this month after largely ignoring the issue for years. The program here in Satara is a pilot program ? one of several initiatives across the country that have used a softer approach ? trying to slow down population growth by challenging deeply ingrained rural customs. Experts say far too many rural women wed as teenagers and then have babies in quick succession ? a pattern that exacerbates poverty and spurs what demographers call "population momentum" by bunching children together. In Satara, health officials have led campaigns to curb teenage weddings, as well as promoting the "honeymoon package" of cash bonuses and encouraging the use of contraceptives. India averages about 2.6 children per family, far below what it was a half century ago, yet still above the rate of 2.1 that would stabilize the population. Many states with higher income and education levels are already near or below an average of two children per family. Yet the poorest and most populous states, notably Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, average almost four children per family and have some of the lowest levels of female literacy. 

Load-Date: August 22, 2010


End of Document
