




Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Washington)
January 11, 2018 Thursday


Copyright 2018 Walla Walla Union-Bulletin
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency
Section: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS
Length: 953 words
Byline: Andy Monserud, Walla Walla Union-Bulletin, Wash.
Body


Jan. 11--The Walla Walla City Council once again deferred on expressing the city's support in writing a letter approving Providence Medical Group's planned repurposing of facilities on the former Walla Walla General Hospital campus.
The letter to the Washington State Department of Health would affirm the use of a building for outpatient surgeries. But some Council members cited the Catholic medical group's stance on birth control and concerns about the role the city would be taking in expressing an opinion on Providence's plans.
The Council voted to affirm their support for Providence's proposal in general, but declined to sign a letter drafted by former Mayor Allen Pomraning supporting its Certificate of Need application. Instead, the Council favored discussing a new draft, to be written by Mayor Barbara Clark, at the Council's Jan. 24 meeting.
Providence, which operates St. Mary Medical Center, first approached the Council in early December to request that the mayor sign and send a letter of support to the DOH. At the Council's Dec. 6 meeting, some members said that endorsing Providence's purchase and operation of the former Adventist Health facilities fell outside the role the city ought to play in health care markets. Others were wary of making a mayoral endorsement so close to the end of the terms of three Council members, including Mayor Allen Pomraning.
Discussion was tabled until Wednesday's meeting, the first for new Council members Yazmin Bahena, Riley Clubb and Myron Huie and the first with Clark, whom the Council voted back into the mayor's seat since after last holding the position in 2011.
At the meeting, Clark, her husband Dan Clark, and Council member Tom Scribner expressed concern that Providence, a Catholic organization, does not allow its surgeons to perform certain procedures, particularly those which contradict the church's stances opposing birth control, including vasectomies, tubal ligation and abortions.
"If, obviously, the City Council is, I'm assuming, looking at the interests of all the citizens, not simply a particular church, it seems to me it might be reasonable for this City of Walla Walla governmental endorsement of your application for services to all the citizens of Walla Walla, to have a condition that you accommodate all licensed physicians and their patients who choose lawfully authorized procedures in this facility," said Dan Clark, a lawyer. "Otherwise, you're asking the city to endorse the use of a major medical facility not available to its citizens for lawful, necessary ... procedures."
Scribner and Barbara Clark both expressed similar concerns.
St. Mary Medical Center Chief Administrator Susan Blackman noted that Providence's plans wouldn't represent a change to the services already being provided
"We are a Catholic facility, and we have to abide by the Catholic religious directives," she said. "And so there are certain procedures that we're not allowed to do at the hospital, but they're currently being done at the Walla Walla Clinic ambulatory surgery center. Us opening the ambulatory surgery center on Second Street would have no impact on that."
Ultimately, Barbara Clark said, she would rather sign a revised letter.
"I am uncomfortable with a governmental agency endorsing medical care that's going to not allow its facilities to be used for procedures which are legal and which physicians may wish to perform, understanding that physicians are not also necessarily going to be of the same faith background as the hospital itself.
"It causes concern to me when we're talking about moving to a one-hospital system," she said. "If my name is going to be on it, I'd rather like to be comfortable signing it."
The Council ultimately voted 6-1, with Clark opposed, to express the city's support for the center. Council members then voted 7-0 to have Clark as mayor draft a letter expressing that approval but acknowledging some of the concerns brought up at the meeting. A draft will be presented for Council scrutiny at its Jan. 24 meeting.
Rob Watilo, Providence's chief strategy officer for Southeast Washington, said the planned outpatient surgery center would provide medical care off the main St. Mary campus without the overhead costs associated with operating a 24-hour hospital
Since the closure of Walla Walla General last year, he said, "we've added a number of physicians to our group, we've added staff, we've added beds that we can bring online and extended our hours for our existing facility.
"But creating this ambulatory campus will allow for patients to seek care at an easier location to access. It's also at a lower cost setting, so that we bill at an ambulatory rate rather than a hospital rate."
To build or open ambulatory surgery centers, health care providers in Washington must go through a regulatory process known as the Certificate of Need Program. Administered by the state Department of Health, the program is designed to ensure that facilities and services proposals are needed for quality patient care
The letter from the city is not actually a required part of the process, Watilo said. "It's nice to have, and I think the state would like to see that there's community support behind a project that they're going to weigh in on, but it's not required."
He said the Council's extending the period of the letter's writing and signing would not harm Providence's application. The certification process, he said, could take anywhere between nine and 12 months.
Andy Monserud can be reached at  or 509-526-8326.
___ (c)2018 Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Walla Walla, Wash.) Visit Walla Walla Union-Bulletin (Walla Walla, Wash.) at union-bulletin.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

Load-Date: January 12, 2018


End of Document
