




Suffolk Voice: Suffolk University
July 2, 2014 Wednesday


University Wire
Copyright 2014 UWIRE via U-Wire All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. 1
Length: 1328 words
Body


Tweet
I have always been unlucky when it comes to getting my period.
I got it for the first time on my eleventh birthday... on vacation on the coast of Maine - where I spent the remainder of the week enjoying the beautiful weather sitting next to the pool with my feet in the water - a towel wrapped around my waist.
I got it for the second time on my first ever away trip with my school - a camping trip, to a campground that was usually used for an all boys summer camp, complete with bathrooms void of trash barrels, and the looming possibility of bears coming into our cabins at night.
Needless to say my early experiences 'becoming a woman' were less than romantic.
But it wasn't until my sophomore year of high school, that my health took a serious turn in this regard.
Amid transferring schools because of systematic bullying from some of my teachers, my anxiety began spiraling out of control.  I have a weak stomach that completely self-destructs in the face of any sort of stress and as a result of what I was going through I spent every morning, and even some nights, throwing up from nerves.  I would go to school and barely eat - a combination of a lack of sufficient choices, and a general resent of anything that could upset my stomach - and come home bewildered often with barely the energy or motivation to get down a full meal for dinner.
I remember my advisor remarking, "You look so tired, and you look like you're losing weight, really fast."
I began having excruciating pain in my groin - which I later found out were ovarian cysts - and stopped getting my period, for three months.
I finally saw a doctor and she surmised what I was going through was a result of my skewed eating, and the nervous vomitting.
When I learned how adversely my anxiety was affecting my health I started packing a light lunch, and trying my best to coddle my nervous stomach.
Within a month I was healthy again.
My junior year of high school however, perhaps with the stress of college admission on the horizon my bad luck in the menstruation department once again reared its' ugly head.
Only this time I had my period...for three months.
When I visited my OBGYN I recounted my previous trouble and she decided it would be best for my health going forward if I went on birth control.
This is not why the recent Supreme Court decision in the Hobby Lobby case - which ruled that employers with religious affiliations cannot be required to provide contraception to their employees - is important to me.
This is not why the Supreme Court decision in the Hobby Lobby case is wrong.
This is my story, and I cannot imagine having to endure the pain, or anxiety I suffered without the relief of birth control.
I'm sharing my story to illustrate how personal the decision to go on birth control is - and why every woman should be entitled to make that choice privately.
Now, as a sexually active woman, the birth control pill saves me from much more than a tiresome, sickening and irregular cycle.  It prevents me from getting pregnant - it entitles me to my future without impeding my life now, and it levels the sexual playing field with my condom-using male counterparts.
Most importantly it allows me to have sex - because it helps ensure I have safesex.
So, since when did the word safe denote a negative connotation?
The only thing the availability of birth control leads to is more safe sex - not more sex.
Since the dawn of time humans have had sex - and the amount of sex they have is not diminished by propaganda like abstinence-based sex-ed, or misinformation about contraception and abortion, or a lack of access to either.
The only thing those practices lead to is an increase in unsafe sex, usually engaged in by uninformed, or poorly informed parties, which can have grave consequences.
However, in light of all this resent for the unholy act of sexual intercourse the Hobby Lobby has no objection to covering Viagra, and vasectomies.
According to the Viagra website, it "can help a man with ED get and keep an erection when he becomes sexually stimulated."
And according to Planned Parenthood - where men's health services, including vasectomies are offered - they are defined as "a form of birth control for men that is meant to be permanent."
They are even listed under the "Birth Control" section of their website, along with 'Birth Control Pills' and the 'Morning After Pill.'
You see, unfortunate but obvious truth about the outcome of the Hobby Lobby case is that it is not the result of a prudish attitude towards sex - it is the result of a prudish attitude towards women having sex.
In her column this past Monday, Jessica Valenti of The Guardian US said this:
"More than 30 years after women thought the right to birth control was fought and won, we are still having to justify why we'd like to have sex - and why that doesn't make us bad, immoral or disgusting people."
We live in a world where womens' sexuality belongs to everyone but women.  We are objectified in advertisements, put on trial when we are the victims; when we are violated, and raised to be ashamed or secretive of our sex lives in an attempt to keep a pure facade - to not draw 'negative' attention to ourselves.
We live in a world where fellatio in films, and even some TV, is ubiquitous compared to cunnilingus - and where cunnilingus often warrants a more mature rating.
When it comes to taking ownership of our own sexuality and our sex lives we must abide by a set of rules dictated to us by, as in the Hobby Lobby case, and so many other cases - a group of men who wouldn't know the difference between an IUD and a diaphragm.
The government overreach in the Hobby Lobby case is grotesque - essentially dictating whenwomen can and cannot have sex - or start a family, for that matter - and is especially abhorrent when you consider the Hobby Lobby covers a drug whose purpose is to keep men hard during sex.
The notion that an employer can impose his religious beliefs on his or her employees - that in theory, a for-profit can uphold some sort of religious belief is preposterous.  The Hobby Lobby is a chain of craft stores - it is an inanimate object.  It cannot feel pain, or sadness, or betrayal, and it certainly can't read or interpret the Bible and pass judgement.
And while the precedent set in this case is certainly a dangerous one, in his ruling Justice Alito, and Justice Kennedy in his concurrence assert that it will not be used in other realms, such as denying vaccination coverage.
Read: 'This only applies to religious objections that have to do with women, and their sex lives.'
On the supposedly narrow scope and precedent of the ruling, Justice Ginsburg remained unconvinced saying in her applaudable dissent:
"Would the exemption the Court holds RFRA demands for employers with religiously grounded objections to the use of certain contraceptives extend to employers with religiously grounded objections to blood transfusions (Jehovah's Witnesses); antidepressants (Scientologists); medications derived from pigs, including anesthesia, intravenous fluids, and pills coated with gelatin (certain Muslims, Jews, and Hindus); and vaccinations (Christian Scientists, among others)?"
Aside from the unfathomable disrespect implied by the outcome of this case - the financial burden placed on women whose birth control is not covered adds yet another layer to the blatant discrimination.
As Ruth Bader Ginsburg so eloquently pointed out:
"It bears note in this regard that the cost of an IUD is nearly equivalent to a month's full-time pay for workers earning the minimum wage."
A 36 count box of Trojan condoms: $23.49 at CVS.
The birth control Hobby Lobby objects covering: a month's salary for a minimum wage worker - and that 2/3 of minimum wage workers are women.  That is a burden no woman should have  to face simply to have the same assurance of safe sex men have.
But the cost of being treated equally - like a human being capable of making our own choices; of making responsible choices:priceless.

Load-Date: March 11, 2015


End of Document
