




Road & Track
Feb 2021/March 2021


Copyright 2021 Hearst Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: THE GRID; Pg. 0132; ISSN: 0035-7189
Length: 2878 words
Byline: By Matt Farah

-chris Perkins

As Told To Mike Duff

-Md

Www.porterpress.co.uk
Body


McLaren probably shouldn't be allowed to sell this car to regular people. But it does. State authorities probably should set up some sort of tiered licensing system, whereby people who want to drive a thinly disguised race car on public thoroughfares will need a bit of extra training and certification. But they don't. Instead, the only skill a person needs to drive one of these psycho death-missiles on the street is the ability to earn (or inherit) tons of money.
It's called the 765LT, and it's way over the line. Not that this development should come as a surprise to anyone. McLaren's previous foray into the way-too-fast-for-the-street realm, the Senna, was a bit more extreme and significantly weirder looking than the 765LT. The problem with the Senna-if anything in the rarefied world of a $1 million-plus track-day special with see-through doors could be considered a problem-is that except for a few very select places, say, a Hermann Tilke-designed F1 circuit, the standard 720S is just as fast, for a quarter the cost.
The 720S is the car from which the Senna and the 765LT descend. And three years after its debut, the 720S remains a supercar game changer.
Last year I took a comfort-spec 720S Spider to a track day at Auto Club Speedway in Fontana, California. It wore street tires, regular wheels, and cushy seats. I'm an average, club-level driver, but armed with the heaviest, most comfort-oriented version of 720S, I had a track-day cheat code that allowed me to make literally any pass I desired. It needs none of the additional track-day goodies offered by McLaren Special Operations (MSO). Like, at all.
But McLaren, doing the thing that McLaren does, pushed the limits of the 720 platform's performance, both for pride and for profit. The result is the 765LT, a device whose accelerator pedal carries a 1_1 ratio of pressure to poo-extraction. I can confidently say that this is the quickest production vehicle I have ever driven, by a noticeable margin. Just take one metric, quoted from McLaren's press release: In a 0-124 mph acceleration test, the 765LT is 1.6 seconds quicker than the Lamborghini Aventador SVJ, 1.4 seconds quicker than a Porsche 911 GT2 RS, and 0.6 seconds quicker than a Ferrari 488 Pista or a McLaren 720S. Yowza. Those are enormous gaps compared to some of the world's quickest production vehicles. And typically, McLaren's performance estimates are a little conservative. Similarly, McLaren says the 765LT makes 755 hp and 590 lb-ft-of torque. I say this number is quoted at the wheels on a hot day. It's likely closer to 800 hp in cool, California fall conditions. Compared to the standard 720S, the 765LT's twin-turbo 4.0-liter V-8 has upgraded pistons, gaskets, a more powerful fuel system, and a new tune. But it also has its own shorter gear set, which means in-gear acceleration is improved 15 percent compared to the 720S, a car that needed absolutely no help in that department, whatsoever.
In McLaren-ese, "LT" is an abbreviation for "Longtail." It's meant to call to mind the 1997 McLaren F1 GTR Longtail race cars that amped up the already amply amped F1 GTR with stretched bodywork, a bigger rear wing, and a sequential-shift transmission. But the LT badge is a misnomer. Truth is, the only added length is from extended front splitters and rear wings. When applied to the 765, or the two other recent McLarens that have worn the LT badge, it actually means_ lighter, faster, angrier, and more engaging. But an LFAME badge would be too heavy.
The LT line is the company's factory performance custom series. Nothing has been left alone. Virtually every body panel, save for the windshield and roof, has been either changed or materially replaced, compared with the 720S.
The 765LT is the first McLaren to feature carbon-fiber body panels created in-house. And what a body it is. The 720's lines are as smooth as river rock. But the LT's are jagged and aggressive with exaggerated skirts, jutting jaw, various vertical aerodynamic fences, and raspy-looking louvers atop the front fenders.
The entire backlight assembly, four individual pieces, is now made of polycarbonate. The exhaust is titanium and 40 percent lighter than the one used in the 720S, with four tips. Most interior surfaces, including the two seats, are sculpted carbon-fiber panels. The wheels are lighter and affixed to the car with titanium bolts.
By default, McLaren deletes both air conditioning and the stereo, but they are no-cost options to add back. Without them, the LT is lighter than the standard 720S by 176 pounds. But since the Venn diagram of "People who spend $400,000 on cars" and "People who are willing to not have air conditioning in their $400,000 cars" is just two circles near each other, most 765LTs will sit at the curb only 151 pounds lighter than Mr. Jones's 720.
The LT's brakes come directly from the Senna, and are, ironically, 10 pounds heavier than the standard 720S brakes. According to McLaren, the performance improvement is worth the heft. The 765LT also brings specific shock calibration.
The 720S delivers impressive grip from standard Pirelli P Zero tires. Naturally then, the 765LT comes with Pirelli P Zero Trofeo Rs, a barely legal street slick that requires some heat before delivering anything resembling grip. They also throw a shocking amount of gravel and road grime into the door assembly, which tumbles down like a souvenir-store rain stick when you open the door at the Mastro's valet.
After a short, 4-5 mile warm up, I pointed the 765LT down a highway at a reasonable speed, manually engaged third gear, and stomped the go pedal. It absolutely blew the tires right off, even with traction control fully enabled. Rather than lift, I upshifted, and the burnout continued well past 100 mph. Even crossing 110, 120, the 765LT fought for traction. That's just not the kind of thing you see from a mid-engine production car. I did it again, rolling on the power in third gear, and at 90 mph it stepped sideways a bit before straightening out and continuing to spin its rear tires and fight traction well into the middle of fourth. Welcome to crazytown.
I took my wife out in the 765LT and, upon merging onto an entrance ramp, floored it in fourth gear. She immediately got nauseated and told me never to do that again. I took a friend out for a quick spin. He turned ghost-white and, sensing the fourth-gear wheelspin, promptly echoed my rhetorical question back to me_ "They just sell this thing to people? What are they, nuts?"
The performance of this vehicle, even to a jaded man such as myself, is beyond anything folks should be able to just buy and drive on the street. I went to the biggest, fastest, emptiest road in Southern California, just after sunrise, and drove basically as fast as the 765LT, and my nerves, would allow. Even after 12 minutes of highly focused, sweaty-palm, heavy-breath driving, ol' Macca's tire temp indicators showed BLUE. I had just gone up this hill as fast or faster than I ever had and even that was not enough pace to warm up the tires in this thing.
Even if the tires won't come up to temp, the handling is telepathic and the steering is chattery, alive. And, my God, the brakes are spectacular. The intelligent active Air Brake system, which flips the spoiler to near vertical, makes the 765LT unbelievably stable while shedding speed. And it doesn't even require that you tap the pedal to activate. A quick lift off the throttle after hard acceleration will kick the Air Brake into action, stabilizing the rear end as weight shifts forward. It's brilliant.
There isn't a public road anywhere on the entire planet on which you can safely approach the performance limits of this car. And while that's likely true of the 720S as well, the differences in execution are stark. The 720S shines not only because of its performance, but because of its flexibility and comfort. It is, in the grand scheme, the more impressive accomplishment.
With the LT, the focus is narrowed. Dialing up the motorsport theater diminishes the usability of the car. The hard carbon bucket seats leave bruises after a day of casual trundling. The harsh suspension is by no means unbearable; it's now in line with the ride quality of the Lamborghini Huracan Performante, but the "magic carpet ride" of the 720 is absent. In four days, I didn't move the chassis knob from Comfort for more than five seconds. For the 765LT, McLaren relaxes some of the powertrain NVH attenuation that make the 720S so livable. The stiffer engine mounts and bushings mean that more vibrations find their way into the cabin. That sounds good at first, but over the course of a couple hours' drive it adds up. It's a level of intensity best experienced in small, glorious doses.
I leave with the utmost respect for this car. The 765LT delivers, absolutely and unequivocally, on everything it promises. Its performance is simply staggering. Sure, $433,000 (as tested) is a seriously high price tag, and for that money, it had better do everything but tie your shoes for you. But, to get anything faster, or even as fast, you'd have to spend between six and 10 times as much. It is typically the nature of custom-built cars that their areas of specialization narrow, but also deepen. Such is the case with the 765LT. It gives up some of the 720's balance in favor of intensifying some of that car's already intense characteristics. But we can appreciate a car with a range of talent that's spread a mile deep and an inch wide. The 765LT is the best pseudo-race car for the street that McLaren has ever made. It's the best of the LTs.
How McLaren turns the 720S into a 765LT.
Trimming 176 pounds from the already featherweight 720S required detail work that borders on the absurd. Perhaps most absurd is the deletion of the air-conditioning and audio systems. Don't worry. Adding them back is a no-cost option that everyone will get. Also in the absurd column are carbon-fiber interior trim surrounds. But there are meaningful efforts, too. Ten-spoke forged alloy wheels with titanium bolts [1] trim 48.5 pounds from the car (the optional big brakes add some of that back). The 765LT's seats are 39.7 pounds lighter than the 720's buckets. Masochists can opt for the super lightweight carbon-fiber racing seats, [2] which were standard on the Senna and trim another 26.5 pounds. The titanium exhaust system [3] shaves 8.3 pounds compared to the 720S. And a new lithium-ion battery sheds 6.6 pounds. But that's not all. Buyers can also opt to swap out the aluminum hood, doors, and rear fenders for lighter carbon-fiber pieces. All 765LTs have thinner window and windshield glass plus polycarbonate rear windows [4]. McLaren also strips out the 765LT's carpet and uses a manually adjustable steering column. Point is_ Go ahead and have that second pastrami sandwich.
A front end that sits 5 mm lower [5] gives the 765LT a bit more rake. The 765 uses lightweight main springs at each corner plus small helper springs. This reduces unsprung mass compared to larger dual-rate springs. Those springs are stiffer compared to the 720S. The 765LT retains the familiar linked hydraulic dampers from earlier Super Series McLarens, but these are now controlled by new software algorithms that deliver greater precision and control, says McLaren. The 765LT trades the 720S's Pirelli summer tires for hyper-aggressive Pirelli P Zero Trofeo R track tires [6]. Common side effects of this treatment include compromised ride quality and non- existent wet-weather traction.
It wouldn't be an LT without a power bump. There's an additional 45 hp from the twin-turbo 4.0-liter V-8, [7] which brings the total to 755 hp. And it's a screamer, too; that peak power hits at 7500 rpm, 500 higher than in the 720S. Maximum torque still arrives at 5500 rpm, but now totals 590 lb-ft instead of 568. Much of the increase comes from a 1.7-psi boost in turbo pressure, but the 765LT also benefits from a healthy injection of Senna. The LT gets lighter forged aluminum pistons, a three-layer head gasket, and a second fuel pump from the alien-looking hypercar.
It might not be designed for the Mulsanne Straight like the original Longtail race car, but the 765LT produces 25 percent more downforce than the 720S, according to McLaren. That's thanks largely to the protruding front splitter, [8] a longer diffuser, [9] and an articulating rear wing [10] that, even while retracted, stands taller than the 720's. Other aero doodads, such as the "door blades" [11] and redesigned floor, contribute as well. All that downforce means the 765LT's top speed is a piddling 205 mph, down from 212 on the 720. Factor that into your work-commute ETA. McLaren also redirects air to keep the front brake pads 50 degrees cooler. -mack hogan
b. A 720S on steroids, the 765LT changes every body panel in the pursuit of downforce and speed.
McLaren Longtails
One of the few people ever to race an original F1 GTR Longtail, GT and Touring-car ace Steve Soper gives us his driving impressions.
I drove the F1 GTR short tail in '96 and the Longtail in '97. They were very different cars. The biggest difference between the two had to be downforce. The Longtail had a lot more.
Until that point, most of my career had been in touring cars. In the short tail I was immediately fast. It was just a big, powerful GT-type car, the sort I was used to. But with the Longtail I had to reprogram my brain and learn how to get the downforce working. My style of driving was wrong. I'd be playing with the throttle and using curbs on corner entry. That's not how you drive an aero car. You turn in with lots of speed and then smoothly and gently pick up the throttle, and you stay well away from curbs since you don't want to alter the pitch of the car.
Luckily my teammate was F1 and Indycar driver JJ Lehto. He had an awful lot more experience in high-aero cars than me, so he really helped get my head around it. We shared data, which was obviously beneficial to him, too, since we were driving the same car. It worked pretty well. In the '97 FIA GT Championship there was only one other F1 that won a race; JJ and I won four times. [And finished the driver's championship tied for second place.]
Le Mans was a disappointment, though. After two or three hours we knew we had a competitive car, but the engine blew a coolant hose right at the beginning of the Mulsanne straight. I had to drive the whole way back to the pits with no water, and by the time I got there it was on about four cylinders and making a horrible noise. But the team shoved another hose on and filled it with water. It lasted another 16 hours until JJ had an accident.
I've never liked Le Mans. I did it five times, but I always thought it was too dangerous. I love driving a car like the Longtail around there in the daylight by myself. I hate having to race at night with 70 other cars and huge speed differentials. The McLaren was doing over 200 mph in four different places each lap. It was a huge buzz, but I didn't like the lack of safety, let's say.
I'd say the Longtail is in a tie for the best car I ever raced. Wherever we went it was competitive, and it was thoroughly enjoyable to drive. The center driver's seat gave a completely different perspective, and it was pretty much bulletproof. It also had a roof so you didn't get wet, and even the airflow was brilliant-you could have cold air on your body. The only other thing I drove that matched it was the car that came after, the BMW V12 LMR, the open-topped prototype that Williams built. That means I went from a McLaren to a Williams without ever racing in Formula 1.
Okay, there was one negative with the Longtail. It had a better, stronger transmission than the original GTR. It also went from an H-pattern manual layout to a proper sequential-which was more robust and nicer to use. But Gordon [Murray] made the gearbox on the factory cars work the wrong way around_ You had to push the selector forward to change up and pull it backward to change down, the opposite of how it should be. The privateer teams all changed it, but because we were the factory team Gordon wouldn't let us. He's a genius, but he's also quite stubborn. I would get confused in qualifying and pull it the wrong way. I never broke the engine, but I did lock the rear wheels a few times.
For those eager to learn more about the GTR Longtails, as well as the earlier cars, a two-volume history has just been released. McLaren F1 GTR_ The Definitive History by Mark Cole gives pretty much every detail of the car's racing exploits-in total it won 41 of the 131 races it entered and took two international championships. With extensive interviews and race reports, it is certainly comprehensive, but it also includes some intriguing details. Apparently the Ueno Clinic GTR that won Le Mans in 1995 was nicknamed "Snippit" by the team, as the Japanese sponsor's business included vasectomies. It's good that such ephemeral minutiae has made it into the historic record. The book isn't cheap, though-£450 for the standard edition and £1500 for the limited- to-50 leather-bound collector's edition, which gets a metal McLaren badge on the cover.
$433,000 (as tested)
4.0-liter twin-turbo V-8
755 hp @ 7500 rpm 590 lb-ft @ 5500 rpm
7-speed dual-clutch automatic
2709 lb (mfr)
2.7 seconds (mfr)

Graphic

 
A. Lightweight wheels and titanium bolts hide brakes that come straight off the Senna hypercar.
B. The flowing lines of the 720S are interrupted on the 765LT by vents, scoops, and fins, all in the name of more cooling and downforce.
c. Quad exhausts help the 4.0-liter V-8 breathe easier, which means more power and more glorious noise.
A. After the immense concentration needed for an L.A. canyon run, a quiet moment to cool the mind.
a. The supercar that bucked so many supercar norms. The 720S lacks scoops and vents and is easy to see out of. An amazing thing.
A. F1 GT/GTR "Longtail" (1997)_ The F1 GTR dominated GT1-class racing in the mid-Nineties, winning Le Mans in 1995 and the BPR Global GT Championship in 1995 and 1996. Not originally intended to be a race car, the F1 was perfect for the production-based regulations. Then, in 1997, Porsche created the 911 GT1, a mid-engine prototype with a handful of road cars made to homologate it for the FIA GT Championship. "Porsche built a racing car and forced us to do it," McLaren designer Gordon Murray said in Driving Ambition. In 1996, Murray sketched what became the Longtail. The new car was 22 inches longer than earlier GTRs to increase downforce. McLaren built 10 race cars and three F1 GT road cars to satisfy homologation requirements. McLaren's 1997 entries, run primarily by BMW Motorsport, won five races. But AMG won the remaining six with the radical CLK GTR, giving Mercedes the championship.
B. 675LT (2016-2017)_ For its more track- focused version of the 650S, McLaren Automotive resurrected the Longtail moniker and built a car spectacular enough that you could forget it had nothing to do with the original Longtails. In fact, the 675LT was only 1.5 inches longer than the 650S. Hardly a Longtail, then. But it was nearly 300 pounds lighter than the base car. Numerous aerodynamic tweaks generated more downforce, and McLaren extracted 25 additional horsepower from its 3.8-liter twin-turbo V-8, for 666 in total. This was a watershed car for the modern McLaren Automotive, the car that showed the company was fully capable of beating Ferrari at its own game. McLaren sold 500 675LT coupes worldwide, and 500 675LT Spiders in 2016 and 2017. The 675LT was such a critical and commercial success for McLaren that the company decided it would continue making hardcore LT variants.
c. 600LT (2018-2020)_ The second modern LT applied the formula to the entry-level 570S. Compared to the base model, the 600LT was 212 pounds lighter, had 30 more horsepower, a stiffer suspension, ultra-sticky tires, more downforce, and a length increase of three inches. Oh, it also had top-mounted exhaust outlets that shot flames. Once again, there were coupe and Spider versions of the new LT, with the drop-top weighing 110 pounds more than its fixed-roof counterpart but no less excellent to drive. The 675LT was a tough act to follow, but the 600LT lived up to the Longtail name with a thrilling driving experience and performance that kept even the 720S honest. McLaren built more 600LTs than 675s, but the company won't reveal sales figures, though it says fewer than 500 coupes and 500 Spiders made it to the U.S. While it's the most common Longtail, a 600LT is still a rare sight.
A. The LT is at the limit of street-car performance. A machine so quick in every scenario that you'll struggle to see its full potential on the road without a trip to jail.
A. This McLaren F1 GTR Longtail-chassis 26R-as shared by Steve Soper and JJ Lehto for the 1997 FIA GT Championship.
a. Where most supercars are laden with scoops along the doors, McLaren hides them behind a decoy panel. A moment of restraint.
b. Not many cars are brave enough to show off what lurks underneath. But, then again, not many cars are the 765LT.

Load-Date: April 12, 2021


End of Document
