




The San Diego Union-Tribune
July 7, 2013 Sunday


Copyright 2013 The San Diego Union-Tribune
Section: Local; Pg. NC-2; NI-2
Length: 470 words
Byline: IRV ERDOS
Body


Perhaps you read the story about the doctor offering free pizza with every vasectomy. It’s an article recounting an actual promotion by a urology group in Massachusetts attempting to drum up additional business.
Just how shallow do they think we men are? The idea that we could be lured into a surgery of that nature for a pizza is rather stunning. Do they honestly think people are that small minded?
In the first place, they don’t even mention the size of the pizza. What if it’s one of those small individual-sized portions? And what about the toppings? What if you wanted extra cheese, or mushrooms, or sausage? There’s no clarification about that anywhere in the ad.
Clearly, even if it was an extra-large with everything, that shouldn’t be the only determining factor for deciding about such a drastic procedure. Yes, I love pizza, and the thought of getting a free one is extremely enticing, but you don’t just jump into these things without careful contemplation.
Even more paramount than the size, or if it includes pepperoni, is the question of just how necessary such a procedure is. You have to be able to set aside your passion for pizza and ask yourself, do I really need the surgery? That’s why, as a prudent person, I would never make such a decision without doing a little research. So I checked the Internet where I was able to find information that would be valuable for anyone faced with such a question.
I am referring to those fertility tables that carefully compare people’s ages with the probability of conception. The chart I surveyed lists the optimum periods when couples can achieve a successful pregnancy, along with those times when such prospects begin to wane, fertility starts to decline, and then eventually evaporate. I’m glad I consulted those charts because, as it turns out, we missed the boat by approximately 30 years. I’m just grateful for the children we already have, a feat we were fortunate to pull off successfully even though there was no Internet at the time.
However, on that same website there was an article about a woman by the name of Ellen Ellis from Wales, who in 1776 gave birth to her 13th child at the age of 72. Granted, that was 237 years ago, and an extremely unusual case, still the story gives added deference to the pizza promotion, so no final decision on that surgery has yet been rendered.
The other interesting accompanying article was the one called “13 signs you may be pregnant.”
What I found so remarkable about that list was the fact that I actually matched 12 out of the 13 signs, including such things as fatigue, headaches, mood swings, constipation, weight gain and darkening areolas.
Add intense cravings (like for pepperoni pizza). If I come up with one more sign, I’m going to have to pee on a stick.
Contact humor columnist Irv Erdos at 

Load-Date: July 9, 2013


End of Document
