




The New York Times
August 21, 2013 Wednesday
Late Edition - Final


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company
Section: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6
Length: 747 words
Byline: By ADAM W. KEPLER
Body


12:50 P.M. (TMC) COOL RUNNINGS (1993) Three Jamaican sprinters -- played by Leon, Malik Yoba and Rawle D. Lewis -- fail to qualify for the Olympics in track and field but earn a second chance at a gold medal when they enlist a pushcart racer (Doug E. Doug, above, far left, with, from left, Mr. Yoba, Mr. Lewis, John Candy and Leon) and a disgraced former bobsled champion (Mr. Candy) as their coach to become Jamaica's first bobsled team. Writing in The New York Times, Janet Maslin described the film, very loosely based on events at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, as ''a cute, buoyant sports fantasy, jolted along by a reggae soundtrack and playfully acted by an appealing cast.'' She added: ''This new Disney comedy is slick, funny and warmhearted, very much in the old-fashioned Disney mode.'' She also commended the performance of Mr. Candy: ''His obligatory Big Speech defending the Jamaicans' right to compete is handled with a minimum of self-righteousness or corn.''
4 P.M. (HBO) CRAZY, STUPID, LOVE (2011) Steve Carell portrays Cal Weaver, an Everyman whose wife (Julianne Moore) has just revealed that she cheated on him with a co-worker (Kevin Bacon) and wants a divorce. Ryan Gosling is Jacob, the pickup artist who tutors Cal in the art of seduction so he can even the score. And Emma Stone, left, with Mr. Gosling, is the recent law school graduate who catches -- and holds -- Jacob's wandering eye. ''It is possible to wish that 'Crazy, Stupid, Love' were sharper and also to admire its decency and its unshowy skill,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. This romantic comedy, directed by Glenn Ficarra and John Requa, ''opts for mildness, modesty and chastened optimism,'' he said. ''At the same time, though, it seems to know that a crueler, more cynical rendering of its story -- a 'Bitter, Hopeless, Love' -- lurks between the lines. What makes it worth watching, and worth liking, is the sense that it arrives at its warm and comforting view of things not by default but by choice.''
8 P.M. (CMT) BIKER BATTLES This special highlights competitions from the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally, which is held annually in Sturgis, S.D.
8 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) MEGAMIND (2010) Will Ferrell lends his voice to this movie's blue-tinted, eggheaded title character, below, a hypersensitive brainiac who faces an existential crisis after one of his evil schemes to vanquish his nemesis, the Elvis-coifed Metro Man (Brad Pitt), actually works. And Tina Fey is Roxanne Ritchi, the beautiful and fearless news reporter. Writing in The Times, Stephen Holden said, ''Typical of DreamWorks Animation toons, 'Megamind' is crammed with pop culture references and jokes invented to show how up-to-the-minute it is in its slang and encyclopedic comic-book know-how.''
8 P.M. (Travel) BBQ CRAWL The former world champion of pork, Danielle Dimovski, explores the Missouri barbecue circuit in preparation for her next big competition, the American Royal in Kansas City, Mo.
10 P.M. (A&E) DUCK DYNASTY The Robertsons dole out advice to Martin before his big date, and Phil teaches his granddaughters how to fish. In the new reality series ''Modern Dads,'' at 10:30, four stay-at-home fathers who have been friends since college help one another balance their parental responsibilities and social lives. In the premiere episode, the guys plan a birthday party for Rick's twins, and Stone contemplates getting a vasectomy.
10 P.M. (Comedy Central) FUTURAMA The Professor (voiced by Billy West) forces the Planet Express crew to attend a corporate team-building retreat to work on trust issues.
10 P.M. (Lifetime) BECAUSE I SAID SO (2007) Diane Keaton plays Daphne Wilder, an overprotective single mother who worries that her youngest daughter, Milly (Mandy Moore), will end up with the wrong man, or no man at all. She takes out a personal ad on behalf of Milly, without her knowledge. Soon Milly has two men: her mother's Mr. Right and her own Mr. Right, who has already failed to pass her mother's inspection. ''The rules of romantic comedy dictate a few wrong choices on the way to the right one; an alternation of giggles, tears and hugs; and 'Because I Said So' plays cautiously by the rules,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''Directed by Michael Lehmann from a script credited to Karen Leigh Hopkins and Jessie Nelson, it is a mild exercise in deliberate mediocrity, with chuckles and heartwarming moments distributed as carefully as nuts in a factory-made brownie.'' ADAM W. KEPLER



Graphic

 
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)       

Load-Date: August 21, 2013


End of Document
