




Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)
February 12, 2008 Tuesday
Main Edition


Copyright 2008 Spokane Spokesman-Review
Section: D; Pg. 1
Length: 418 words
Byline: Paul Turner
Body


We've all heard the old Jim Murray line about the only trouble with Spokane is that there's nothing to do after 10 in the morning.
 Well, if you were going to rewrite that, what would you suggest is the only trouble with Spokane?
 *Slice answers: Katherine Chew's computer must not be the latest and greatest because it is the possession of hers that prompts people to say "I can't believe you are still using that."
 For Linda Barge, it's a hand-crank meat grinder that belonged to her great-grandmother.
 *First sign of cabin fever: "Sharpening the hooks in my tackle box," wrote angler John Petrofski.
 "Calling something in to The Slice," said a couple of others.
 *Re: that Montessori fundraiser: "When I was in practice in Aberdeen, the Rotary Club asked us to donate vasectomies for their charity auction several times," wrote Dr. Craig Whiting. "We were glad to comply, but we noticed at the auction it was always the wives doing the bidding, and we had about a 50 percent no-show rate."
 *No notebook awarded: A number of readers knew that the famous line from the movie "Network" is, "I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!"
 But no one performing a version of that on my phonemail actually sounded all that angry. In fact, more than a few came across as downright mellow.
 My theory? Sunday morning is the wrong time to expect people to pretend to be mad as hell.
 *Slice answer (being under fire from icicles): "When I was a child I used to hide under the covers to read with a flashlight when I was supposed to be sleeping," wrote Pat Felch. "One winter night I was reading a book about the Merchant Marine during WWII. I'm 70 years old now and I haven't forgotten how scared I was when an icicle fell off just outside the bedroom window.
 "I was too scared to scream, for a couple of reasons. One being that I wasn't supposed to be reading that late, and I guess the second was I didn't want the enemy to hear me.
 "The second icicle fell right after the first. It took me a few minutes to realize we weren't being bombed."
 *Standing committee: By a wide margin, responding readers agreed with the fellow in Saturday's Slice who said he wants the KXLY news team to sit back down.
 "Having them standing gives the feeling that they are anxious to leave," said Peter Lucht.
 "I think it looks stupid," said Sandra Turtle.
 *Today's Slice question: How many couples eventually cancel their Netflix subscriptions after facing up to the fact that agreement about what to watch is not possible?

Notes

Write The Slice at P.O. Box 160, Spokane, WA 99210; call (509) 459-5470; fax (509) 459-5098; e-mail  Several readers told about creating "potty paths" in the snow for their dogs.

Load-Date: February 16, 2008


End of Document
