




Newsweek.com
March 28, 2025 Friday 2:59 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 318 words
Byline: Effie Orfanides
Highlight: Nick Cannon has decided to take a break from having kids.
Body


 is taking a break from having children.
The father of 12 has decided to hold off on adding more kids into his life at the present time for a couple of reasons. In an interview with  magazine that was published on Friday, March 28, the America's Got Talent host shared his decision.
"I really don't know. I'm being honest," he told the outlet when recalling a phone conversation that he had with his grandmother about having "another" baby. "I'm having so much fun in this space right now, and the way my bank account is set up, I'm going to press hold on this 12 for right now. But. I was just speaking of three years from now [or] five years from now, who knows? I'm not against it."
"There was a point in time where I was just like, 'Nah, I'm done.' And, then I was like, 'Who am I to say that?' It seemed like it was such an emphatic thing. I never imagined that I would have 12 kids. So, it's one of those things where I love children. I love my life, and if it could keep going in the direction that it's going, why not?" Cannon added.
Earlier this month, Cannon went on the  podcast. On the show, he was teased about getting a vasectomy, to which he said he wouldn't do because he's "not done" having kids. When podcast co-host Courtney Bee asked Cannon if he'd consider having another baby with one of the six mothers of his 12 kids or if he was thinking of having a child with a seventh woman, Cannon replied, "I don't know! I leave it to the Lord."
Cannon shares twins Moroccan and , sons Golden and Rise and daughter Powerful with Brittany Bell; twins Zion and Zillion and daughter Beautiful with Abby De La Rosa, son Legendary with Bre Tiesi, and daughter Onyx with LaNisha Cole.
Cannon also has a daughter named Halo with Alyssa Scott. The former couple's son Zen died in December 2021 after being diagnosed with brain cancer.


Graphic

 
Nick Cannon
Bruce Glikas/WireImage
Nick Cannon poses at the opening night of the new play "Thoughts of a Colored Man" on Broadway at The Golden Theatre on October 13, 2021 in New York City.

Load-Date: March 28, 2025


End of Document
