




The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)
January 18, 2005 Tuesday


Copyright 2005 Dolan Media Newswires
Section: NEWS; Legal activity (lawsuits etc.)
Length: 837 words
Byline: Alisa Bralove
Body


A woman who became pregnant after her husband's vasectomy cannot maintain a separate cause of action against the doctor who provided his follow-up care, the state's highest court has said.
"A duty of care to a non-patient is not one which Maryland law is prepared to recognize under these circumstances," Judge Irma S. Raker wrote for the Court of Appeals. To hold otherwise could "expand traditional tort concepts beyond manageable bounds."
The decision affirms the Court of Special Appeals, which held that Corinne Dehn's action could not proceed once a jury found her husband contributorily negligent for not carrying through with post-surgery tests.
Larry N. Burch, the attorney who represented the Dehns, said the decision leaves the family in deep financial trouble because James W. Dehn is disabled and unable to work due to a heart condition.
"This is a man and a woman who have a crushing financial burden. It was important that they limit the number of children they raise," he said. "It seems absurd that the wife of a man who receives a vasectomy is not a party who is foreseeably injured. In fact, she's the party most likely to be injured."
Michelle R. Callender, an attorney for Dr. Glenn R. Edgecombe, declined to comment on the case.
James Dehn spoke to Edgecombe, his family practitioner, about having a vasectomy after his wife gave birth to their second child. Edgecombe referred him to Dr. Samuel F. Mazella, who performed the procedure in October 1995.
Following the vasectomy, Mazella told Dehn that he should not engage in unprotected sexual relations for six months and would have to undergo a series of three semen evaluations to determine whether the procedure was successful.
Dehn did not use any of the prescriptions he was given for semen analysis, and in December 1996, his wife became pregnant, later giving birth to a healthy baby -- their third as a couple and James Dehn's fourth.
The Dehns sued Edgecombe, saying James Dehn had visited the family practitioner several times on unrelated matters and the doctor declined to give him the semen analysis he requested.
Dehn's recollection was that he asked the doctor on three separate occasions to refer him for semen analysis -- the first at six months, the last in November 1996, just a month before his wife conceived -- and that Edgecombe was emphatic that Dehn should "go home, [and] tell your wife I personally assure her you cannot father any children."
(Burch noted that the family did not file suit against Mazella because they don't feel he was negligent in any way. "He did everything right," Burch said. "He told him you need to have a follow-up semen analysis, but it was his primary care physician who said he didn't need one.")
At trial in Prince George's County Circuit Court, Edgecombe recalled telling Dehn that he had "never heard of a vasectomy failing," but testified that he did not know Dehn hadn't had any follow-up tests done when they spoke.
Dehn, however, testified that Edgecombe told him he did not need the tests, even telling him that he himself had a vasectomy seven years earlier and never had a sperm analysis done.
At the close of testimony, the trial judge granted Edgecombe's motion for judgment on Corinne Dehn's claim. Ultimately, the jury found Edgecombe and James Dehn both negligent. The judge therefore entered judgment in the doctor's favor and the Dehns appealed.
In a reported opinion, the Court of Special Appeals said that because Corinne Dehn was never Edgecomb's patient, he owed her no duty of care and she could not maintain a claim against him.
The Court of Appeals granted the Dehns' petition for cert and, on Friday, affirmed, saying that a malpractice action can survive only when the doctor has a duty to the person bringing the action.
"Whatever arguments might exist for extending the duty of care to a spouse in some other negligent sterilization case, the case sub judice is not the one for doing so," Raker wrote, emphasizing that Edgecombe did not perform the vasectomy.
The court also said that to impose a legal duty on Edgecombe just because the Dehns are married would require the same extension for non-married partners.
"Based on these rationales alone, a family practitioner who ostensibly provides after-care following a sterilization procedure performed by another physician would owe a duty of care not just to the patient who underwent the operation but every sexual partner the patient encounters after the operation -- a possibility the law does not countenance," she wrote.
WHAT THE COURT HELD
Case:
Dehn et ux. v. Edgecombe, et al., CA No. 117, Sept. Term 2003. Reported. Opinion by Raker, J. Filed Jan. 14, 2005.
Issue:
Can a wife who became pregnant following her husband's vasectomy maintain a separate cause of action for negligence against the doctor who provided post-vasectomy care?
Holding:
No. The doctor has no duty of care to the woman and without that duty she can not maintain a separate cause of action.
Counsel:
Larry N. Burch for appellants; Michelle R. Callender for appellees.

Load-Date: January 18, 2005


End of Document
