




Newsweek.com
April 24, 2024 Wednesday 11:28 AM EST


Copyright © 2024 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 525 words
Byline: Maria Azzurra Volpe
Highlight: "Tell me you gave your husband PTSD without telling me you gave your husband PTSD," the poster joked.
Body


A woman from Texas has gone viral on social media after revealing how she accidentally gave her husband "PTSD" during pregnancy.
In a  on  in March under the username @daffneychekki, Daffney Cseke explained that at one point during her pregnancy, she craved a can of Coke Zero she'd been saving at home. When she couldn't find it, it was her husband who paid the consequences.
"That one time I was pregnant, craved Coke Zero, and almost divorced my husband because he drank the last Coke Zero and I thought I could never have a baby with someone that selfish," the post says.
"Wrote up a budget on how I'd be a single mom and everything. To this day, 13 years later, he still texts me where he hid the last can of Coke Zero so I can have it."
A caption shared along with the clip reads: "Tell me you gave your husband PTSD without telling me you gave your husband PTSD."
Cseke, a 42-year-old mom from Plano, Texas, told Newsweek that she was "basically insane" when she was pregnant and this was the reality her husband was faced with.
"This is a 100 percent true story," she said, "and to this day, my husband saves me the last Coke Zero! Pregnancy emotions are so real, and so ridiculous and I am fortunate to have an incredibly supportive husband that handled all my craziness.
"I had seen stories on TikTok of people and their pregnancy stories and wanted to share mine. I have never felt so seen reading these comments. It's so nice to see women coming together and sharing their stories so that we all feel a little less alone."
Mood swings are quite common during pregnancy, due to the hormonal changes that the body goes through.
As reported by the National Childbirth Trust, during the early stages of pregnancy, estrogen and progesterone levels in the blood increase, causing side effects including sickness and mood swings, among others.
This often happens in the first trimester. Once the body has adapted to the higher levels of these hormones, the symptoms usually wear off, although for some women this goes on through the entire pregnancy.
The video quickly went viral on social media, getting viewers from across TikTok. It has so far received over 5.2 million views and 578,800 likes on the platform.
One user, Meganmunoz, commented: "My husband had a cold and would breathe out of his mouth. I made him stay one room away at all times because it made me violently angry."
Courtney said: "My husband did this with Snickers ice cream bars; it was my only craving. He ate the last two and left the empty box in the freezer. I called him at work crying."
Another user, Jen, commented: "I left with my daughter when I was pregnant with my son bc my husband didn't get me the right size fry from Wendy's. Like, packed and left. Them hormones..."
Natalie wrote: "I am actually in tears reading these comments and they're all so valid." And casualporcupine added: "Me reading these comments, looking up cost of a vasectomy."
Do you have funny and adorable videos or pictures of your pet you want to share? Send them to  with some details about your best friend and they could appear in our Pet of the Week lineup.


Graphic

 
pregnant woman gives husband ptsd
getty images
Stock image of a pregnant woman arguing with her husband. A pregnant woman accidentally gave her husband PTSD over a can of Coke Zero.

Load-Date: April 24, 2024


End of Document
