




Newsweek.com
April 6, 2022 Wednesday 5:08 PM EST


Copyright © 2022 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 447 words
Byline: Alexandra Schonfeld
Highlight: The woman labeled a bottle of Mountain Dew to read "No more Dew dates," among other pun-filled gifts.
Body


A woman has gone viral on TikTok after sharing the gift basket she created for her fiancé who was undergoing a .
TikToker @hippiekay21, whose first name is Kayla, posted a  of the pun-filled gift basket stocked with snacks late last week and it has since been viewed over 33 million times.
At the beginning of the video, Kayla is seen placing a label on the basket that reads "snip snip hooray,"
"My fiancé is getting his vasectomy tomorrow so I made him a little care package," she wrote in text overlaid onto the video.
On a box of Ding Dongs Kayla placed a label that's shaped like sperm and says "Sorry about your" to create the phrase "sorry about your Ding Dongs."
On a bottle of Mountain Dew, she placed one label above and below the word "DEW" to create the message "No more DEW dates."
According to the , approximately 5 percent of all married men of reproductive age have had a vasectomy. More than  every year in the U.S, the clinic said.
Late last month a team of scientists announced that an "in-development male birth control compound has been 99 percent effective in animal tests," as previously reported.
According to a press release from the American Chemical Society (ACS) when the compound was given to male mice for four weeks, it was found that it worked to reduce sperm counts and was 99 percent effective in preventing pregnancy without any observable side effects.
Commenters loved how the woman chose to honor the occasion with some humor.
"[T]his is so creative [I] love it," one commenter wrote.
"[W]e NEED a reaction video," wrote another.
As the video goes on Kayla puts labels on various other snack items.
On a box of Swedish Fish she placed a tag that read "time to retire the swim team"
On a box of Sour Patch Kids, she placed a large label over the words "Sour Patch" to create the phrase "No more Kids."
In a video posted the following day, Kayla is sitting in the car with the couple's son waiting for him to complete the appointment.
She addresses some comments that she said accused her of "forcing" her fiancé to receive the procedure.
"He wanted to get a vasectomy, it was his idea, not mine," she said in the video. "He made his appointment, he wanted to do it. I didn't even bring it up, he did."
She said they decided as a couple that they were done having kids and the procedure was his decision as a form of "birth control."
She also addressed claims that she stole the idea from another creator but said she got the ideas from Pinterest. She said while she has seen similar videos on TikTok they've been from multiple people.
Newsweek contacted @hippiekay21 for comment.


Graphic

 
Gift basket
nikkytok/Getty Images
A video has gone viral on TikTok after a woman shared the care package she made for her fiancé who was undergoing a vasectomy. Above, a stock image shows a gift basket.

Load-Date: April 6, 2022


End of Document
