




Newsweek.com
February 11, 2025 Tuesday 1:49 PM EST


Copyright © 2025 Newsweek Inc. All Rights Reserved


Length: 480 words
Byline: Lucy Notarantonio
Highlight: Elise Morrison, 32, told Newsweek that she is grateful her husband had a vasectomy before the election.
Body


When Elise Morrison tells people that her husband, Kurt, had a vasectomy, the first reaction is often surprise, followed by a flurry of questions: "How did you convince him to do that?" or, "Why are you making him do this?"
The assumption that Kurt needed persuading reflects the societal stigma surrounding male sterilization. However, no convincing was necessary, Morrison explained on  (@), saying he was fully on board after they decided not to have children.
Morrison, 32, a professional dancer and administrative coordinator from New Jersey, had been on birth control for 15 years when she and Kurt began discussing family planning. She brought up vasectomy, a procedure that prevents pregnancy by cutting the tubes that carry sperm, and there was no hesitation from him.
She told Newsweek: "We decided we weren't going to have kids after our engagement in 2021. At first, we were unsure—50/50—then it shifted to 70/30 (70 percent no kids), and eventually we decided to be completely childfree."
In the U.S., approximately 500,000 vasectomies are performed annually. A  found a significant rise in vasectomy rates from 2014 to 2021, possibly linked to increasing concerns over restricted abortion access before the 2022  ruling overturning 
Using health insurance data, researchers observed a 26 percent relative increase in vasectomies among privately insured men aged 18-64. While overall numbers remain low, the trend highlights the need for health care providers to offer better counseling and support for permanent contraception.
Morrison told Newsweek: "I was grateful Kurt  before the election—I wanted to be protected from pregnancy in case my options were limited."
She also acknowledged the stigma surrounding vasectomies and the assumption that women pressure their partners into the procedure.
She told Newsweek: "I thought sharing our experience might help even one person feel less alone."
"Why is it always 'how did you convince him?' WE make choices together and for the benefit of each other. He wanted to get one without me doing any convincing!! Ahhhh I feel this!" said one user. Another wrote: "It never even ends. My husband and I are happily one and done and  when our baby was 7 weeks old. People are still horrified."
Reflecting on societal expectations, Morrison said women are often raised to believe that marriage, homeownership and 
"I used to think I wanted kids because I thought that's just what you did," she told Newsweek. "But when it came time to decide, I realized how much society had shaped that belief. When I truly reflected, 
If you have a family dilemma, let us know via  We can ask experts for advice, and your story could be featured on Newsweek.


Graphic

 
Elise Morrison
Elise Mestichelli Morrison/TikTok/@eliselm___
Two screenshots from the viral video showing Morrison speaking to the camera. Many TikTok users have commented to say they've also been sterilized and received the same response.

Load-Date: February 11, 2025


End of Document
