




USNEWS.com
December 3, 2015 Thursday


Copyright 2015 U.S. News & World Report All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Debate Club; Vol.; No.
Length: 744 words
Byline: Laura Chapin
Body


So here's a question: If the hostility directed at Planned Parenthood doesn't incite people, why aren't there protestors screaming at doctors and patients outside vasectomy clinics? Why no protests at fertility clinics, which  and provide fetal tissue? Why are reproductive health care providers the only aspect of the medical profession in which doctors are             of physical violence and harassment? Why are women the sole consumers of health care subjected to screams and sexual slurs as they go into a clinic? 
 If the hostility directed at Planned Parenthood doesn't incite people, why did the FBI send out a warning about increased attacks on clinics just as the rhetoric was ratcheting up? 
 According to , "an FBI intelligence bulletin went out to law enforcement agencies nationwide with that warning. It came as Congress was debating Planned Parenthood funding and on the heels of the release of a series of videos by Center for Medical Progress that purported to show Planned Parenthood doctors discussing the harvesting of fetal tissue from abortions. 
 The intelligence bulletin warned of 'lone offenders using tactics of arsons and threats all of which are typical of the pro-life extremist movement.'" 
SEE: []
 And as  reported, "According to the intelligence memo, a Denver physician working at Planned Parenthood reported harassment and suspicious activity following the release of the video shot in Denver." 
 In September, a   editorial accused Planned Parenthood of "wheeling and dealing to sell body parts of aborted babies." The congressman from Colorado Springs, Rep. Doug Lamborn, links on his website to a video of him titled, "Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO) on Planned Parenthood selling baby body parts." 
 So is it a coincidence that the domestic terrorist from Colorado Springs reportedly told police, 
 It's becoming more and more apparent that the violent attack on the Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs was a product of giving license to the unhinged. Three people were killed -- police officer Garrett Swasey, Jennifer Markovsky, a mother of two, and Iraq war veteran Ke'Arre Stewart. According to The New York Times, the accused gunman "had praised people who attacked abortion providers, saying they were doing ' .' In 2009 ... Mr. Dear described as 'heroes' members of the Army of God, a loosely organized group of anti-abortion extremists that has claimed responsibility for a number of killings and bombings." 
 The whole thing is circular. The people behind the Center for Medical Progress' fake videos are the same ones on the violent fringes of the anti-abortion, anti-woman movement that have been stalking and harassing women for years. It's largely an outgrowth of the radical group . Operation Rescue founder             is on the Board of the Center for Medical Progress, has just endorsed Ted Cruz and has defended Paul Hill, who murdered abortion provider John Britton and an escort in 1994. You can see video of            , the Center for Medical Progress' chief financial officer, stalking a Sacramento clinic worker            
 The videos were released and energetically flagged , unleashing a torrent of anti-Planned Parenthood threats resulting in the aforementioned FBI warning. 
 The Colorado Springs clinic attack is simply the culmination of that orchestrated onslaught against Planned Parenthood and women's reproductive health care that's been going on for years. According to the  , which compiles statistics on clinic violence, "including the recent attack in Colorado, there have been 11 murders and 26 attempted murders due to anti-abortion violence." 
 The most recent campaign to vilify abortion providers and women seeking health care has resulted in  losing a parent. And unless the violent anti-abortion rhetoric stops, the attacks won't either. 
Laura Chapin is a Democratic communications strategist based in Denver, advocating for progressive causes and candidates in the Rocky Mountain West. She has previously worked for Gov. Bill Ritter and before escaping to God's Country, she spent 15 years (and way too many late nights watching the floor) in Washington, D.C. Follow her on Twitter: .

Load-Date: December 4, 2015


End of Document
