




USA Today
October 14, 2022 Friday
1 Edition


Copyright 2022 USA Today All Rights Reserved
Section: NEWS; Pg. A4
Length: 1724 words
Body


Alabama Montgomery: The federal government on Wednesday said the state illegally discriminates against children in foster care with behavioral and emotional disabilities.
Alaska Anchorage:  Gov. Mike Dunleavy has indicated he'll vote in favor of calling a convention to consider amending the state's constitution.
Arizona Phoenix: The state can move forward with the execution of death row inmate Murray Hooper next month, the Arizona Supreme Court ruled Wednesday.
Arkansas Fort Smith: The sounds of the DC and Marvel cinematic universes will be on display Saturday as the Fort Smith Symphony offers its "Symphonic Superheroes" concert.
California Sacramento:  The state has again pushed back a decision on whether to list the western Joshua tree as threatened in a unanimous  Fish and Game Commission vote.
Colorado Leadville:  The Utah-based Ute Indian Tribe criticized the White House late Wednesday for not adequately consulting its leaders ahead of the creation of a national monument on ancestral lands. The Ute Indian Tribe is one of three Ute tribes in the West that  operate independently. Representatives from the other two in Colorado  were on board with the plan for Camp Hale.
Connecticut Bristol:  Two police officers shot dead Wednesday night were apparently drawn into an ambush by an emergency call about  domestic violence, authorities said Thursday. A third officer was injured.
Delaware Wilmington: Drivers heading south through the city on Interstate 95 will need to find a different route starting Friday, the state Department of Transportation said.
District of Columbia Washington:  The district filed a lawsuit Thursday against chemical manufacturer Velsicol Chemical LLC, claiming it violated city environmental laws by polluting a major waterway, the Anacostia River and the surrounding area for decades.
Florida Tallahassee:  Gov. Ron DeSantis on Thursday issued an executive order expanding voting access for the midterms in three counties where Hurricane Ian destroyed polling places and displaced thousands.
Georgia Atlanta:  A jury is being assembled to decide whether Clayton County's sheriff, accused of punishing detainees by having them strapped into a restraint chair for hours even though they posed no threat, violated the men's civil rights.
Hawaii Honolulu: An Oahu project aimed at at-risk youth has won a $20million Kellogg Foundation grant, HawaiiNewsNow reports.
Idaho Boise: A nuclear waste treatment plant that has had numerous setbacks will likely start operating in early December, a U.S. Department of Energy official said Wednesday.
Illinois Springfield: Seven months after it purchased a former Pillsbury Mills plant, the nonprofit  responsible for clearing the property provided a first look at its progress  Wednesday.
Indiana Indianapolis:  The state Supreme Court issued an order Wednesday that prevents the state from enforcing a Republican-backed abortion ban while it considers whether the new law violates the state constitution.
Iowa Des Moines: Domestic violence deaths in the state are declining  after spikes in 2020 and 2021.
Kansas Topeka:  A committee is proposing  the  State Board of Education  recommend  that all high schools remove any Native American-themed mascot and imagery.
Kentucky Frankfort: Startup bourbon producer Jackson Purchase Distillery is boosting its investment to nearly $26million and creating 54  jobs, Gov. Andy Beshear said.
Louisiana New Orleans: Transparency in reporting incidents of violence and other problems at the city's  jail has improved recently, but only slightly, a federal judge told sheriff's office officials Wednesday.
Maine Portland: A former Navy SEAL  seeking to unseat Democratic U.S. Rep. Chellie Pingree apologized for comparing federal fisheries regulators to rapists, saying the statement was "over the top."
Maryland Baltimore: An appeals court refused Wednesday to intervene in a lower court's decision to free Adnan Syed,  who served over 20 years in prison for a murder in which DNA exonerated him.
Michigan Jackson:  Prosecutors raised concerns Wednesday about a female juror who apparently has been smiling at one of three men on trial in connection with a plot to kidnap Gov. Gretchen Whitmer.
Minnesota Minneapolis: A  man pleaded guilty Tuesday to filing fraudulent insurance claims for a staged arson he tried to portray as  a political attack linked to Antifa.
Mississippi Jackson: Some legislators say they will renew efforts to clarify that possession of strips to detect traces of  fentanyl is legal.
Missouri Springfield: Planned Parenthood  is offering free vasectomies to the uninsured  in Springfield on Nov.4 and in Joplin on Nov.5.
Montana Helena:  The commission that oversees the Montana State Library voted Wednesday to accept a new logo with slightly altered colors after worries about a resemblance to  LGBTQ pride flags.
Nebraska Omaha: Average ACT scores for this year's high school seniors were the lowest in decades, the Omaha World-Herald reports.
Nevada Reno:  Fourteen members of GOP U.S. Senate candidate Adam Laxalt's family have sent a letter endorsing his opponent, Democratic U.S. Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto.
New Hampshire Rye: The state Department of Environmental Services issued a boil-water order Wednesday for some in the city after  E. coli bacteria were detected.
New Jersey Trenton:  Lawmakers unveiled new legislation Thursday to rewrite the state's firearm carry laws after the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in June expanding gun rights.
New Mexico Santa Fe: An expert in  Indigenous art has been named  the new executive director of the Museum of Indian Arts & Culture.
New York New York: A federal appeals court on Wednesday allowed the state to keep enforcing a new gun law as it weighs a lower court ruling against key provisions.
North Carolina Raleigh:  Two history-making Black politicians and country music star Eric Church are among the six latest recipients of the state's highest civilian honor.
North Dakota Williston: Over 1,000 pounds of homemade explosive materials were recovered in a home, authorities said Wednesday.
Ohio Columbus: The state Supreme Court has agreed to hear a case in which a probate judge rejected a transgender woman's request to correct her birth certificate, leading to a split in court rulings and guidance on the issue.
Oklahoma Oklahoma City: A district attorney debate took a bizarre turn Tuesday when the Republican candidate accused his Democratic opponent of being complicit in the disappearance and possible murder of two people.
Oregon Portland: Voters in at least four counties have complained to local election officials about people knocking on their doors, questioning residents and looking for evidence of 2020 voter fraud.
Pennsylvania Philadelphia:  Two supporters of then-President Donald Trump arrested after driving a Hummer with guns and ammunition to a site where votes were being counted in November 2020 were convicted of weapons charges Wednesday but acquitted of election interference.
Rhode Island Providence: Rhode Island police departments are poised to spend $16million in state and federal grants to equip police officers with body cameras and cover the costs of managing and operating the equipment.
South Carolina Columbia:  A pregnant Black activist serving four years in prison over comments she made to police during racial justice protests in the summer of 2020 will not receive a lesser sentence, a judge has ruled, citing prior  convictions.
South Dakota Sioux Falls: The state's Public Utilities Commission on Tuesday authorized its staff to begin reviewing an application for a pipeline designed to transport carbon dioxide from ethanol refineries to an underground site in Illinois, assessing a filing fee of up to $400,000. The pipeline is the second proposed in the state.
Tennessee Nashville:  Tennessee Secretary of State Tre Hargett has taken a plea deal after he was charged with driving under the influence after leaving a bar in June.
Texas New Boston:  Prosecutors asked a jury Wednesday to sentence a woman to death for killing a pregnant woman and stealing her unborn daughter from her womb.
Utah Salt Lake City:  The two candidates challenging U.S. Rep. Burgess Owens  laid into the first-term Republican on Wednesday evening for announcing at the eleventh hour that he wouldn't participate in the sole general election debate.
Vermont Waterbury:  A drop of blood that was subjected to modern DNA testing enabled Vermont State Police detectives to make an arrest in the 1989 murder of a Danby couple found stabbed to death in their home, police said.
Virginia Dinwiddie: Three students and a teacher were taken to hospitals Wednesday after a fire broke out during a demonstration in a high school chemistry classroom, officials said. Students were dismissed early, and Thursday was designated an asynchronous learning day.
Washington Seattle: Poor communication, deception, bad judgment and a lack of leadership contributed to tension, violence and killings  in 2020, according to a review of the city's response to racial injustice demonstrations that year.
West Virginia Charleston: K-12 students  across the state have been invited to enter the First Lady Student Ornament Competition this fall with "Nutcracker"-themed creations.
Wisconsin Madison: Wildlife officials estimate the state's wolf population currently stands at about 970 animals, demonstrating that a much-maligned February 2021 hunting season had little impact on the population as a whole.
Wyoming Green River: A new soda ash mining operation is planned near an existing site outside the city, the Casper Star-Tribune reports.
From USA TODAY Network and wire reports
Boston:  Boston Common, America's oldest public park, is getting a multimillion-dollar makeover that includes an expanded visitors' center, more restrooms, additional sports facilities, and even a sit-down restaurant at the famed Frog Pond, city officials announced Wednesday. The goal is to make the 50-acre swath of green space in the heart of the city more welcoming, convenient, fun and accessible for both city residents and tourists. "Boston Common's gorgeous tree-lined paths and open spaces have hosted so many moments marked in history, from shaping our collective conscience to celebrating our communities," Mayor Michelle Wu said in a statement. Founded in 1634, it draws millions  every year.

Graphic

 
People walk on Boston Common in 2020. The park has seen public executions, civil rights marches, protests and a Mass celebrated by Pope John Paul II.
AP

Load-Date: October 14, 2022


End of Document
