




The Tampa Tribune (Florida)
February 18, 2002, Monday,
FINAL EDITION


Copyright 2002 The Tribune Co. Publishes The Tampa Tribune
Section: NATION/WORLD,
Length: 679 words
Byline: DANIEL RUTH, ; Columnist Daniel Ruth can be reached at (813) 259-7599.  
Body


In a nutshell, it was a tiny moment, which vividly captured what the annual Tallahassee gathering of elected officials, more appropriately viewed as a massage parlor of legislation, is really all about.
A few days ago, St. Petersburg state Rep. Frank Farkas, R-Mink Oil, was chairing a meeting of his House Health Regulation Committee, otherwise known as the committee of insurance industry lotion boys.
This august group of public servants was pondering a bill mandating or eliminating certain health insurance benefits in its ongoing commitment to really stick it to the little guy and/or people who have no juice.
As you might know, this particular session has been rife with various proposed bills aimed at taking the state's public records and meetings-in-the- sunshine laws and turning the process of governance into something that would make the National Security Agency look like a bunch of blabbermouths.
This might come as something of a shock to Farkas, R-Get Out of My Buffet Line, but at the moment, the public still has a right to attend his committee meetings and, even more disturbingly, actually speak to him.
Really! It's true!
Farkas' committee was pondering legislation that would eliminate a state law requiring coverage for the treatment of cleft palate, mammograms, vasectomies and extended maternity stays.

Sick People?!?
The insurance industry supports dropping the coverage for these items because when people have stuff like a cleft palate, which requires surgery and postoperative care to treat, well, insurance has to cover the costs.
And what's the point of being in the insurance business when sick people expect stuff like, well, insurance to help them with their problems? Where's the profit there?
Making every effort to explore this insurance crisis, Farkas' committee held a public hearing to hear from those most affected by the bill - the insurance industry.
In painstaking detail, Farkas, R-Is Not Available, heard from Herb Morgan, the insurance industry lobbyist, who detailed the gut-wrenching tragedy the insurance industry faced if it had to continue to pay for all these sick people to get treatment.
Also in the audience waiting to comment were several other people, parents of children with cleft palates, who wanted to voice their opposition to having their coverage dropped. A number of the members of the (eeeuuwww!) public (how gauche) had traveled hundreds of miles to address the Farkas committee.

For The People
But they never got to speak because Farkas, R-The Royal We, blew off the parents, pushed the insurance legislation through with a quick vote and brought the hearing to a close.
Needless to say, the parents, the public, were a bit miffed over not getting to speak.
Yet, in a sort of perverse way, Farkas, R-The In-Crowd, did these folks a favor.
You hear politicians all the time offer up the palaver about "being for the people," "fighting for the people," "representing all the people." Claptrap.
At the very least, Farkas, R-Your Table Is Ready, exposed the ugly but unavoidable truth that most politicians don't give a rat's patootie about the average Joe Blow citizen's opinion on legislation, especially big-ticket legislation affecting a powerful and deep-pocket interest group like the insurance lobby.
Eventually, State Rep. J.D. Alexander, R-Lake Wales, who also held hearings on the insurance bill, let opponents of the measure speak against it, which was certainly more polite than the treatment from Farkas, R-Bow & Scrape.
Will it make any difference in the outcome of the insurance bill?
Let's see here. Farkas - R-Yessir, Mr. Farkas; Anything You Say, Mr. Farkas - the insurance bill's sponsor, treated the legislation's opponents like irritants for their attempts to petition their government. The gall of it all.
Meanwhile, compared to the insurance industry's political clout, the cleft palate lobby is like Bambi taking on that thing from "Alien."
What better insurance policy to assure passage of the health care deletions could you want than Frank Farkas, R-Has Left The Building?
That's government at a premium.

Notes

DANIEL RUTH

Load-Date: February 20, 2002


End of Document
