




Glamour
February 2009


Copyright 2009 The Conde Nast Publications All Rights Reserved


Section: YOU SAID IT; Pg. 20; Vol. 107; No. 2; ISSN: 0017-0747
Length: 599 words
Byline: Uncredited
Body


I love that GLAMOUR is more than fashion, fun and relationships. It also brings women's issues from around the world to the forefront [“Meet Our 2008 Women of the Year,” December 2008]. Not only do these stories open eyes—they make people take action to change the world.
Kara Kargel, Jacksonville, Fla.
I am in awe of winner Nujood Ali, the child bride who fought for divorce. At age 10, she's already changed the future for women in Yemen. We take so much for granted in America. Women need to read stories like hers to be thankful for what we have.
Sandra Johnson, Shakopee, Minn.
Thank you for including Jane Goodall. She is an inspiration to all, especially to women who choose to work in the male-dominated arena of environmental conservation and animal protection.
Andrea Bourque, Lethbridge, Alberta
I have great admiration for winner Condoleezza Rice. It makes me sad that, as one of the most powerful women in the U.S., she is often overlooked. She's a beacon of what women can accomplish.
Francesca Tenconi, Los Angeles
A Bedroom Boost
Thank you for “We're About to Make Sex Better for 66% of Women” [December 2008]. After a year of pain and uncomfortable sex, I found out I had vulvodynia. It started out as a UTI, but because of multiple misdiagnoses and wrongly prescribed medication, it escalated into a painful condition that no woman should have to live with.
Anne S., Chicago
Here are my four rules for better sex: (1) Stop worrying about petty details, such as “does my stomach look flat?” (2) Be willing to try something new and shake things up. (3) Never, ever fake it. And (4) it's a give-and-take. Sex should be about sharing passion and pleasure, not hogging it. It's not all about you, and it's not all about him.
Tiger234, on glamour.com
Men, Explained
I was disappointed that you included the trend of twentysomething men getting vasectomies in “Guys' Weird New Habits: Why? Why?” [December 2008]. I had a vasectomy at age 25, and now at 35, I have no regrets. Overpopulation is a real threat to the environment and to the quality of human life. GLAMOUR devotes a fair amount of coverage to a woman's right to choose. If a woman's right to choose what to do with her body is no joke, why is a man's right to choose what to do with his body a joke?
James Murray, Jackson Heights, N.Y.
A few of my female friends back in high school did not want kids, but it's not uncommon for physicians to refuse to tie a woman's tubes if they are childless or under 30 years old. I am the same age as the men in your article, and I think it is unfair not to have the same access to sterilization as they do.
Sarah Steinhoff, Portales, N.M.
WHERE HAS YOUR GLAMOUR BEEN?
“I am spending the semester volunteering at a school for the deaf in Tamil Nadu, India's southernmost state. It is taboo for women to drink alcohol, so my friends sent me GLAMOUR as a twenty-first-birthday gift instead. Not a bad way to celebrate if you ask me!”
—Katie Tygielski, Cambridge, Mass.
GONE SOMEPLACE SPECIAL WITH YOUR GLAMOUR? SEND US A PHOTO! SEE DETAILS BELOW.
To read all these articles, go to glamour.com/magazine. Share your thoughts on stuff in this issue at 
GOT AN OPINION? Sure you do—and we want to hear it. Send your submissions and photos to GLAMOUR, 4 Times Square, New York, NY 10036-6593; fax to 212-286-6922; or send an e-mail to  Include your name, address and phone number. Letters may be edited for clarity and length. All submissions to GLAMOUR become the property of the magazine and won't be returned; they may be edited and published or otherwise used in any medium.

Graphic

 
Picture, Ten-year-old Nujood Ali's (center) story moved fellow honoree Hillary Clinton so much, she visited her and her lawyer, Shada Nasser, at their hotel the next day to hear more.

Load-Date: February 24, 2009


End of Document
