




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
July 15, 2014 Tuesday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2014 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. A15
Length: 772 words
Body


University of Phoenix proud to help veterans
Saul Newton's recent guest column, "For-profit colleges prey on veterans," relied heavily on a controversial media story we dispute.
The University of Phoenix is proud of our service to our country's military community. We do indeed dedicate resources to helping those who have defended our freedom - and we make no excuse for that.
Veterans often need - and benefit from - tailored assistance to help them navigate the challenges of higher education. There should be more help, not less.
- Mark Brenner, senior vice president and chief of staff, Apollo Education Group, Phoenix, Ariz.
Court pushes 'divine' rights of corporations
A letter in Wednesday's newspaper expressed a degree of delight in the recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions. It stated President Barack Obama was losing to the Constitution.
Perhaps that letter writer is so pleased with the court's decisions because none of his rights have been abrogated.
After all, he can enter a health care facility unharassed by a gauntlet of "street counselors" while many women cannot.
He still has full insurance coverage from his employer (for now), and it is evident he has never needed the protection of a union.
Obama has made far fewer recess appointments than George W. Bush. Why is it constitutional for the white guy to make recess appointments but not the black guy?
The people who came to the New World stepped off a cliff. They had no idea what to expect here.
But they chose to leave Europe rather than face religious persecution in countries with state religions. These countries believed in the divine right of kings to rule.
The Supreme Court has abandoned any pretext of upholding our constitution for individual citizens. It is busy crafting the divine right of corporations.
- Dianne Haskins, Mount Horeb
Do birth control coverage opponents oppose Viagra?
A recent letter to the editor argued that women who need contraceptives should pay for them without insurance reimbursement.
I wonder if the gentleman who wrote this letter is also of the opinion that men should no longer be covered for Viagra or prostate exams or vasectomies or even dialysis if their doctors so prescribed?
- Elizabeth Palay, Madison
Democrats can choose between fibber and clown
Reading the letters to the editor in Sunday's newspaper about how Wisconsin is so bad under Gov. Scott Walker, I want to congratulate the Democrats for their fine choices in the upcoming primary.
It reminds me of an old radio program, "Fibber McGee and Molly."
The upcoming Democratic primary features Fibber McBurke and Hulsey. Fibber McBurke got yet another "Pants on Fire" rating from a major Wisconsin newspaper on her recent political TV ad. Her weak and extremely incomplete financial reports leave an impression of her being almost broke, with very little income. Did she not invest hundreds of thousands of her own money early in her own campaign?
Burke makes many accusations about Walker's doings yet participated in similar issues at Trek and during her days in former Gov. Jim Doyle's Cabinet.
It's a good thing she now has a campaign bus with a driver who can get her to places outside of Madison and Milwaukee without becoming lost.
Hulsey deserves the "clown" Molly designation for his costumes, outrageous statements and poor behavior.
So for Democrats it's Fibber or Clown. Enjoy the truthful reality of the opportunity your choices give you.
- Verne Siverling, Reedsburg
With IRS scandal, it's time to end income tax
It is time to close the IRS.
A report from the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration shows between Oct. 1, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2012, the IRS paid $2.8 million in bonuses to employees cited in the past year for such things as drug use, making violent threats, fraudulently claiming unemployment benefits, misusing government credit cards and - get this - failing to pay their taxes, according to The Washington Post.
The report said more than 1,100 employees who failed to pay their taxes received discretionary awards of more than $1 million in cash bonuses and more than 10,000 hours in extra paid vacation.
The New Media Journal reported IRS employees spending all of their time on union business and wrote, "lawmakers said more than 40 of the workers doing union business make six-figure salaries."
The costs of an income tax are confiscatory. There are compliance costs, non-compliance costs, losses related to underground or shadow market economies, and hidden costs buried in the prices of goods and services.
Your income is your very first property, and you may not gain another without it. We must end the income tax.
- Al Ose, Wisconsin Rapids

Load-Date: July 16, 2014


End of Document
