




Chicago Daily Herald
December 17, 2022 Saturday
WEB EditioneBlast EditionCLFM EditionMC1 EditionML2 EditionNC EditionNC1 EditionNC14 EditionNC14C EditionNC2 EditionNC3 EditionNC4 EditionNL1 EditionNM1 Edition


Copyright 2022 Paddock Publications, Inc.
Section: NEWS; Pg. 6
Length: 1244 words
Body


Gun control plans will make state safer The Illinois General Assembly is expected to vote on the Protect Illinois Communities Act in January. This law has essentially three components: it outlaws assault weapons and large capacity magazines, it extends the duration of a firearm restraining order to a year and makes it easier for prosecutors to obtain a firearm restraining order, and it raises the age requirement for a FOID card to 21 years except for individuals who are active-duty military. All of these initiatives will make our communities safer. Assault rifles are designed as weapons of war and to kill humans. Period. 
An AR-15 bullet delivers far greater energy and destruction than a handgun. Such a bullet's exit wound can cause a wound several inches in diameter. These weapons are designed to cause massive tissue and organ damage; hence, they are not suitable for hunting and have no business in civilian hands. I encourage everyone to investigate and support this common-sense law and contact their state legislators urging their support of it. While enacted, the prior federal assault weapons ban saved countless lives — this Illinois law will do the same. Charles Nozicka Libertyville Wasteful spending adds to heating bills While rising natural gas prices are contributing to higher home heating bills, they are not the only cause. Heating bills are also going up because of Nicor's wasteful spending under a bill surcharge granted by the state legislature in 2013. The surcharge was intended to fund projects to replace risky cast iron pipes, but Nicor continues to spend under the surcharge even though it replaced all of its cast iron pipes years ago. This wasteful spending has contributed to Nicor's delivery rates increasing by 77% in under four years. The combination of delivery rate hikes and the higher cost of gas bills will have a major impact on customers as we prepare to heat our homes for the rest of this cold winter season. The legislation that enabled the bill surcharge facilitating the program is set to expire in 2023. Gov. Pritzker and Attorney General Raoul have called on the legislature to not extend this surcharge. This is a great opportunity to bring some much needed relief as natural gas prices continue to rise. Byron Wright Chicago Avoid divisiveness on school boards In what have always been nonpartisan elections, at the last D211 Board of Education meeting Board members Mark Cramer and Peter Dombrowski voted against foregoing political contributions to school board candidates. Why? Cramer has previously received a $5,000 campaign donation from conservative billionaire Dick Uihlein. Dombrowski has been pledged support from the Palatine Republican Township Organization (PTRO). It's disturbing to know that Uihlein has also donated $300,000 to Sons of Liberty (an organization whose leader approved of the execution of homosexuals) and that the PTRO has allowed the Proud Boys to meet at their office. These two board members seem intent on pushing an extreme political agenda in the largest high school district in the state instead of objectively serving the futures of our students. Sadly, in the past year we've seen the havoc created by right-wing extremists all over the suburbs. As our schools try to recover from the disruptions of the pandemic, the emphasis should be on getting back to the business of responsible steady progress in our school. Let's not indulge the agents of further divisiveness and chaos in our community. Jerry Freda Inverness Public funding would improve campaigns To get huge TRUMP lettering on his International Hotel and Tower, Donald Trump contributed $50,000 to then-Mayor Rahm Emanuel and $5,000 to Ald. Brendan Reilly of the building's ward. We will probably never know if the contributions were decisive, although Donald Trump evidently thought they would be helpful. If election campaigns were publicly funded — at a nominal cost per person — we could have much greater confidence that this and myriad other decisions were not bought, but rather decided on merit and the public interest. Richard Barsanti Western Springs Getting all sides After reading Jim Slusher's Dec. 8 column, one can only wonder how a light bulb didn't go off in his head. The real story here is SNL actually made a joke regarding Biden's senility. Of course SNL made a joke about Herschel Walker. They make jokes about Republicans and conservatives every week of the year, year after year, with many of them just awful and disgusting. They totally ignore any news story that is unfavorable to Democrats. Also, the NY Times, CNN, MSNBC, USA Today and others, mostly do the same. That is why the majority of people who only get there news from them, never read or hear the other side of the story. Judy Dudek Streamwood A man's responsibility ?I'd like to know why no one ever suggested for a man to have a vasectomy so there are no unwanted children, or for health reasons for the child or mother of the child. A vasectomy can be reversed if children are wanted at that time. I'd like to see if women would be allowed to make that vote. No one ever brings this up. Or is that the only way men can make decisions on a women's life and take away their rights as a human being. I'd like a man to answer that question. Kathy Stenger Arlington Heights What's wrong with this picture? As these days have unfolded, I am increasingly saddened/disturbed/alarmed by the lack of focus on the birth of Jesus, without whom we would not have had Christmas. Various rites of spring, customs, holidays, some more recent than others, decoration contests, lists for Santa, drives for toys, clothing, food banks, thoughtfully prepared warm meals, caroling groups, gift exchanges, group gatherings, theater groups, musical performances, seasonal movies, featured restaurant meals, bar celebrations, travel and innovative experiences all fill our schedules. I am so glad that Charles Schultz insisted on including a reading from the Bible in his Charlie Brown cartoons. I am so glad for the childhood memories I have of plays enacted in our church of the travails and travels of Mary and Joseph to reach Bethlehem to pay their taxes — and the recorded angelic celebration shared with the shepherds, the royalty from the east following a significant star display in the sky — who, sensing Herod's evil eagerness to know of the location of the new "KING" avoided returning by that route. And how their gifts perhaps paid for the prolonged time for Joseph to protect his wife and her son to safely remain in Egypt. Oh, how the mothers' hearts had to have ached when Herod decreed their baby sons to be killed. What are we excluding — or including in our holiday observations? Ruth Reynolds Buffalo Grove Horrendous trade With what will go down in history as one of the most disastrous trades of all times with Viktor Bout, the Merchant of Death arms dealer, considered one of the most dangerous men in the world for an entitled professional athlete who has self professed her despising of America and knowingly was violating Russian law when arrested, the Democrats have now lost any and all rights to call for, discuss or further any agendas for gun control. Much like Obama and Holder's Fast and Furious policy that sent weapons to drug cartels who in turn murdered American citizens, we can expect Bout to return to his ways and those weapons too will be used against this country and citizens. Tony Atkins Wheaton

Load-Date: December 19, 2022


End of Document
