




St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)
December 4, 2012 Tuesday
THIRD EDITION


Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12
Length: 1072 words
Body


Excessive spending now will cripple future generations
In "Science and arithmetic prevail in election" (Dec. 1), letter writer Richard Buthod makes the case that the Democrats were on the right side of arithmetic, the rich are the bad guys, and after saying that the government has brought jobs back offers the incredible statement that "long-term debt doesn't come close to the biggest issues facing our country."
Well, here's some additional interesting arithmetic he might consider: The public debt is now more than $16 trillion - more than 100 percent of the GDP of the country and about $142,000 per taxpaying family. But that's not the worst of it. The unfunded liabilities of the entitlement programs, the shortfall in projected revenues vs. promised benefits (assuming current demographics hold), are about $16 trillion for Social Security, $21 trillion for the prescription drug liability and $84 trillion for Medicare - that almost $122 trillion, or over $1 million per taxpaying family. And the Obama/Democratic position is that they will not cut "guaranteed benefits."
Our government has made promises that it can't possibly keep unless future generations are crippled with much higher taxes. All this haggling about the top rates are noise compared to these realities - spending is the problem. And yet you've got Dick Durbin and Harry Reid taking excessive Social Security COLAs off the table, and AARP running ads basically saying we won't be the ones to sacrifice.
Don't hold your breath waiting for Mr. Obama to propose any real reform in the entitlements. I fear for our children and the incredible mess we are leaving them.
Mike Micotto - Webster Groves
Christians should be advocating same-sex marriage
In response to Pastor Doug Elders' letter (Nov. 30) criticizing pro-gay statements made by Pastor Scott Stearman and Rev. Rebecca Ragland, I must say that his position is biblically indefensible.
He stated that "a true Christian does not live a blatant lifestyle of sin, trying to justify it through laws and social acceptance." Biblically, the "true Christian" is determined on the basis of faith in Jesus (Romans 10:9), as a result of God's free gift of grace through faith, not on the basis of works (Ephesians 2:8-9). Elders' phrase, "true Christian," betrays the very judgment Jesus warned against in Matthew 7:1. We do not have the right to examine someone's lifestyle and pronounce him a "true Christian."
Elders' letter is founded on tradition, not sound biblical interpretation. Scripture does not condemn people who are naturally (not by choice) attracted to the same sex, though it rightly condemns ancient expressions of idolatry and sexual exploitation. Consequently, as Christians, we should be advocating same-sex marriage, so that homosexuals can be given a means to enjoy God's gift of sex through the holy state of matrimony.
Finally, Pastor Elders claims that the duty of the church is to "challenge people to live according to (the Bible's) standards." The apostle Paul expressly contradicts this in 1Corinthians 5:12-13, saying that it is for God alone to judge non-Christians. Even if Elders is right in his contention that homosexuality is a sin (and he is not), what good does it do to publicly condemn or legislate it at the expense of non-Christians' perception of Christianity as tyrannical, making them antagonistic toward the very gospel that is the hope of their salvation (Romans 1:16)?
I am a Christian and a pastor, and I support same-sex marriage. My congregation is open to people of all sexual orientations and gender identities because it is the right thing - the Christian thing - to do. I publicly challenge Pastor Elders to respectful discourse on this important issue, which he chose to publicly inject himself into.
Pastor Romell Weekly - Kirkwood
Gov. Nixon's Medicaid proposal is meant only to satisfy Democrats
Is Gov. Jay Nixon blind, deaf, or just stupid?
The majority of Missourians have made it crystal clear that they do not want Obamacare. This is the most unaffordable legislation ever passed. The CBO continues to adjust the projected cost upward.
The only possible explanation for Nixon proposing to expand Medicaid is to stay in step with the Democratic Party's agenda. I wonder why he did not voice his intentions before the Nov. 6 election.
The governor has to know that there is no hope of getting this legislation passed. Why therefore is he making this proposal? Is it possible that he hopes to secure his political future with his party? How does President Nixon sound to you?
Jim McLaughlin - Pasadena Hills
Keep religious dogma out of secular laws
Two recent news stories reminded me of the importance of keeping religion out of secular laws.
A few weeks ago there was a story from Ireland, a country with a Catholic tradition. A couple from India who were living in Ireland were expecting a child. The woman was experiencing pain and sought medical care at a hospital. They were told she would lose the baby. There was nothing medically they could do to help. The couple asked to have the pregnancy terminated if there was no hope. Because there was a heartbeat, medical staff refused, knowing they could face legal problems. She did lose the baby and her life from an infection associated with the miscarriage.
Last week I heard about the death of Dr. Joseph Murray, 93, a Catholic, who won a Nobel laureate for his work in medicine. In the 1950s, he was instrumental in making organ transplants successful after many failed attempts. He performed the first successful kidney transplant in 1954. Dr. Murray was criticized by religious groups for playing God and interfering with nature. Because he was free to push on with his research, 600,000 people worldwide have benefited from transplant surgery.
There are those in our county who sincerely believe that their religious dogma should be made the law of the land. We have faith groups (some well-funded) in our country that don't believe in contraception, in vitro fertilization, immunizations, blood transfusions, vasectomies, tubal ligation, gender reassignment treatment and certain types of stem cell research. Should all citizens be denied medical treatments because some citizens don't believe in them?
I think fear, the fear that our government could be taken over by those who would impose their religious views on all of us, had an influence on the outcome of the Nov. 6 elections.
Rosemary Bagin - O'Fallon, Mo.

Graphic

 
 Editorial Cartoon by Signe Wilkinson - U.N. Recognizes Palestinian "State"   Old Mideast Map: (Israel, Palestine and Gaza tied in a knot)   New Mideast Map: (Israel, Palestine and Gaza tied in the same knot) 

Load-Date: January 11, 2017


End of Document
