




Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)
July 26, 2014 Saturday
ALL EDITION


Copyright 2014 Madison Newspapers, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; Pg. A15
Length: 937 words
Body


Avoid concert gridlock by taking the bus
The answer to gridlock at Wednesday's Concert on the Square is so easy.
All concert-goers should park their cars, hop on a Metro Transit bus and head for the Square. No search for a parking spot, no burning gas sitting in traffic. Walk a block from the bus to the concert.
Commuter traffic proceeds normally. After the concert, hop a bus back to your car and be on your way. No gridlock after the concert, either.
- Marlene Hardick, Madison
Downtown gentrification pushes people out
It's safe to predict Doug Moe will be recycling the title of his Wednesday column - "Last call for State Street landmark: Building renovation spells doom for shop" - many, many times in the years to come as State Street (and the rest of Downtown) hurtles headlong into a future where rapacious landlords push out small businesses such as the College Barber Shop and replace them with luxury high rises and pricey boutiques.
The trend in Madison mirrors what's happening in San Francisco, where tech employees from Silicon Valley are pushing low- and middle-class residents out of neighborhoods they've lived in for decades and driving real estate prices up.
Check out local rental prices. It's not unusual to see studio apartments Downtown renting for over $1,000 per month.
For a city that pays assiduous lip service to "diversity" (a term that presumably includes socio-economic class as one of its markers), the hyper-gentrification of its Downtown should be a cause for considerable soul-searching.
- Gary L. Kriewald, Madison
Opera in the Park promises wonderful evening
I heartily invite all Madisonians to Opera in the Park 2014 tonight at 8 p.m. at Garner Park in Madison.
This is my third year as a volunteer for this incredible event and I'm as excited as a child on Christmas morning to help those attending.
I cannot adequately describe the beautiful voices in this event. They are absolutely enchanting. Please, folks - forget about any bias against opera and listen to these voices singing arias which are familiar to most anyone, even me!
As former Lutheran clergyman, I take some pride in my speaking and singing voice. However, I dare not compare myself on my best day to these incredible voices.
I promise you a night of entertainment you will never forget.
- Rev. Carter A. Dary, Madison
No such thing as free birth control
The author of Wednesday's letter "Birth control trumps need for foster care" exhibits the soft thinking that plagues politics in America. She opines "there is free and easy access to birth control."
Declaring that employers' health plans must cover the cost of birth control does not make the birth control free of charge. It simply foists the cost of the birth control onto others.
There is a legitimate public policy debate over whether health plans should be forced to include coverage for birth control. But whether they do or do not provide such coverage is irrelevant to the cost of producing and distributing the birth control drugs. The issue is over who pays for the birth control drugs.
- Joseph T. Leone, Brooklyn
Walker's security costs reasonable, given threats
It seems no one remembers Gov. Scott Walker and his family were all targeted by hate mail and serious threats. His wife and kids were even accosted where they lived, and nasty messages were left for them.
And what about the bullets found just outside the state Capitol? Is there any wonder security around the governor had to be beefed up?
I also remember several mom-and-pop stores being threatened because they had the audacity to donate small amounts of money to Walker's campaign. And boycotts were threatened against some companies because some of their workers donated to Walker's campaign.
Because of all the meanness and threats against Walker and his family, I find the costs for protection reasonable.
- Virginia Foulk, Mazomanie
Jet-setting governor gets more security
The Phil Hands editorial cartoon about increased security costs for Gov. Scott Walker implies the increased costs are due to the massive protests against Walker.
That is misleading. The protests took place in 2011, but the costs have continued to rise since then. According to state data, the costs were higher in 2013, two years after the massive peaceful protests ended.
Perhaps the cartoon could have more accurately portrayed the governor jet-setting around the nation on his quest to raise out-of-state campaign money.
- Daniel Young, Madison
Supreme Court should reverse Hobby Lobby ruling
The Friday letter titled "Hobby Lobby still offers birth control coverage" fails to mention that the complete array of female contraception is not available to Hobby Lobby employees, according to the National Review Online piece cited by the author.
The "morning-after" pill and intrauterine devices are missing from Hobby Lobby insurance coverage. The out-patient procedure required to insert IUDs is expensive. I suspect most men could use some education on this topic.
The writer states, "The liberals expect the government and corporations to hand them everything on a silver platter." This statement is unfounded. The low-income women who work hard for Hobby Lobby deserve to be treated fairly when it comes to insurance, given that vasectomies are covered for their male counterparts.
The U.S. Supreme Court discriminated against women with this decision.
This larger issue is missed when the letter-writer suggests women have the right to work "someplace else." Such an exclusionary attitude cannot and will not be tolerated in America.
I am hopeful Congress will eventually overturn the Supreme Court Hobby Lobby ruling.
- Paula Dent, Madison

Load-Date: July 27, 2014


End of Document
