




Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)
December 7, 2012 Friday


Copyright 2012 Tribune Review Publishing Company All Rights Reserved
Length: 537 words
Body


The problem of rebuilding the Little Knights Kingdom in Irwin Park (킲Ð‚ÑšIrwin seeks help for Kingdom,킲Ð‚Ñœ Nov. 26 and TribLIVE.com) can be solved by the youth of the community. A series of Boy Scout Eagle and Girl Scout Gold Award projects would serve to make the area useful again for its intended purpose. 
Both types of projects, by their nature, require teamwork and can flourish when the community gets involved. As it would require a series of projects, it is necessary to have coordination by the local government as the entire project is beyond the scope of one young person킲Ð‚â„¢s endeavors. 
I encourage young people coming up through the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts to consider this task for their Eagle Scout and Gold Award projects. Local government must also be receptive and encouraging as young people come forward with plans. And finally, the community must provide support financially, with work hours and with materials for this to be a success. Here is an excellent opportunity for our young people to shine and have a lasting positive impact. 
Ken Koncerak 
North Huntingdon,Men in minority 
I think we should allow males in our country to retire at a younger age than females, since males do not live as long as females. We deserve a longer retirement like women have. 
We also should spend more money on men킲Ð‚â„¢s health care, since again, we don킲Ð‚â„¢t live as long as females. This of course means that black males should be able to retire even younger, since their lifespan is shorter than white males킲Ð‚â„¢. 
Males are a minority in this country, so the majority (the females) should stop taking advantage of us. It is unfair. It is time for men to stand up for their rights. 
More men should get help to go to college, since a larger percentage of females go to college than men.  
Also, the fields that have a higher percentage of men should pay higher wages to make up for their lack of education, such as construction and manufacturing. 
We need to form men킲Ð‚â„¢s studies programs at universities. We also need birth control help; condoms and vasectomies should be free. 
Jim Nichol 
Ligonier Township,The problem of rebuilding the Little Knights Kingdom in Irwin Park (킲Ð‚ÑšIrwin seeks help for Kingdom,킲Ð‚Ñœ Nov. 26 and TribLIVE.com) can be solved by the youth of the community. A series of Boy Scout Eagle and Girl Scout Gold Award projects would serve to make the area useful again for its intended purpose. 
Both types of projects, by their nature, require teamwork and can flourish when the community gets involved. As it would require a series of projects, it is necessary to have coordination by the local government as the entire project is beyond the scope of one young person킲Ð‚â„¢s endeavors. 
I encourage young people coming up through the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts to consider this task for their Eagle Scout and Gold Award projects. Local government must also be receptive and encouraging as young people come forward with plans. And finally, the community must provide support financially, with work hours and with materials for this to be a success. Here is an excellent opportunity for our young people to shine and have a lasting positive impact. 
Ken Koncerak 
North Huntingdon 

Load-Date: December 9, 2012


End of Document
