




USA Today Online
June 3, 2023


Copyright 2023 Gannett Media Corp  All Rights Reserved
Length: 1339 words
Byline: Isabel Hughes, Delaware News Journal
Body


Editor's note: This story describes domestic violence and includes descriptions of violent acts. Readers experiencing domestic violence can call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 800-799-7233.
The two pink lines were the last things Amanda wanted to see.
Just a few months earlier, she had decided to begin dating again. Her daughter was only about eight months old at the time, but she felt ready.
Prior to downloading dating apps, she promised herself that she’d take it slow. Her daughter’s father wasn’t supportive and being a single mom was hard. She had no interest in doing it again.
Thus, she was pleasantly surprised when she met a man who respected her choice to be abstinent.
Based on his dating profile and their conversations, Justin Chaffier “seemed like Mr. Perfect.” His willingness to forgo sex only added to his charm.
Yet that changed soon into their relationship.
Within several months of dating, 34-year-old Chaffier no longer took “no” for an answer, Amanda said.
The USA TODAY Network does not typically identify victims of sexual violence and is choosing to identify Amanda only by her first name. Chaffier, currently in prison, did not respond to a mailed request for comment.
If he wasn’t pushy and forceful, she said, he’d create a sob story to elicit pity. He’d also make her feel silly for her decision to refrain from sex.
One night in early 2020, she finally gave in.
Though she didn’t exactly consider it assault, she felt violated. She’d been disappointed with herself afterward, and felt even worse the few other times it happened.
Now she was pregnant and faced with an impossible choice: Keep the pregnancy and have a child with a man who had repeatedly lied to her about having a vasectomy, or have an abortion and go against everything her religion had taught her.
She chose the latter.
“I really thought that the decision was going to kill me,’” Amanda said recently as she recounted her time dating Chaffier, who was convicted in March of murdering the woman he dated after Amanda.
“It was especially hard because I have a daughter so I know how much love you can have for a child, but I was just like, ‘I can’t have a baby with this man,’” she continued. “Looking back, I thank God that I didn't and that our relationship didn't develop deeper.”
Though she didn’t realize it at the time, Amanda is now convinced that Chaffier was trying to get her pregnant – a tactic domestic violence experts say offenders use to trap women in relationships. 
Chaffier, Amanda would later learn, had a history of intimate partner violence, including stalking and sexual assault. It wasn’t until March of this year, however, that he was convicted of murder.
While Amanda feels vindicated in her decision to have an abortion – something she never told Chaffier about – and was relieved when their relationship later ended, she also carries what she calls “survivor’s guilt.”
“I was in Nicole (Crawford’s) shoes before she was, and if he hadn’t shifted his obsession from me to her, would it have been me who was killed?” she said. “For me, him finding her was a blessing – but sadly, it came at a cost.”
‘Like getting out of quicksand’
Though Chaffier didn’t know Amanda had gotten an abortion, things changed following that decision, she said.
As she began to pull away, his “odd, controlling” behavior intensified, she said. He began playing “mind games,” where he would text her various messages and then un-send them so she didn’t have a record of what he’d said, she remembers.
One day, she received a particularly alarming text.
In the message was a sequence of nine digits that Amanda immediately recognized as her social security number. Taken aback, she asked Chaffier why he had that information. He replied that he didn’t know what she was talking about.

“What do you mean?” Amanda recalls Chaffier telling her. “It’s just a random number. I don’t know what you’re getting so worked up about.”
This gaslighting – a type of manipulation where someone tries to get a person or group of people to question their own reality, memory or perceptions – “was so extreme,” Amanda said.
She knew those weren’t just any numbers, and she certainly hadn’t given him that kind of personal information. She also didn’t leave legal documents out in the open, meaning he would have had to find her social security number another way.
Yet his response made her feel “crazy,” she said.
“It was all psychological, and that‘s what was so hard,” Amanda said. “Like, there wasn’t anything where you could say ‘He did this terrible thing,’ so you just kept questioning yourself, like, ‘Is this so bad?’”
Despite this, Amanda said, there was something about Chaffier that she couldn’t pull away from.
When he “acted normal,” he was sweet, showering her with gifts and attention. Sometimes, he’d bring her flowers. Other times, he’d show up with chocolate covered strawberries or other “lovey-dovey things.”
“It made it so it was like getting out of quicksand,” she said.
Domestic violence experts say they hear these kinds of stories often.
Psychological manipulation, they say – especially when coupled with acts of kindness – is a common tactic used by offenders to make victims feel powerless.
Like stalking, which Delaware Coalition Against Domestic Violence Executive Director Sue Ryan said “takes normal behavior and makes it criminal,” this kind of behavior is often difficult for outsiders who are not trained in intimate partner relations to recognize as problematic.
As a result, victims don’t get the help they need.
“Someone’s going to look at it like, ‘What’s the problem?’” Ryan said. “But the problem is that they’re engaging in a behavior that makes the victim afraid or unsettled, and it becomes this hidden message that often only the offender and the victim know.”
‘You’re losing your mind’
By the time Crawford and Chaffier met in June 2020, Amanda was actively trying to end things with him. 
Though he tried to use the two women against each other – Amanda remembers after learning that he was seeing Crawford, Chaffier would often position his phone in such a way that she could see the text messages between him and his new love interest – Amanda was relieved.
If there was a new woman, Amanda thought, Chaffier might finally leave her alone. Yet she would come to learn that while their relationship would eventually end, it would be on his terms.

That summer, she and her daughter moved back in with her parents. If Chaffier couldn’t get a hold of her at work, sometimes calling dozens of times in a row, he would drive by her parents’ house to keep tabs on her, she said.
Once or twice, Amanda said, he even snapped a photo from a nearby ice cream shop to ensure she knew he was nearby. She felt like she was “constantly looking over (her) shoulder.”
While Amanda never contacted the police, she said she became so afraid of Chaffier that one night when the electricity went out, she believed he had cut the power to the entire street just to get to her and her daughter.
She spent the entire night worrying, then feeling bad for panicking. 
“You feel like you're losing your mind,” she said.

Fortunately, Amanda said, by the night of the power outage, Crawford had become Chaffier’s main focus. Soon after, he left her alone for good. 
While Amanda still struggles knowing that she made it out alive while Crawford didn’t, she’s also glad that he will spend the rest of his life in prison. While Chaffier has not yet been sentenced – that will occur early next month – Delaware law requires a life sentence.
Amanda is thankful he can’t hurt anyone else from there.
“He’d just been doing this stuff to women for so long,” she said, “that I really think if it wasn't Nicole, it would’ve been the woman after.”
Got a tip? Send to Isabel Hughes at   m or 302-324-2785. For all things breaking news, follow her on Twitter at @izzihughes_
This article originally appeared on Delaware News Journal: 

Load-Date: June 5, 2023


End of Document
