Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Party Aches and Pains
by Raymond Moley

As I watched the Hon. Paul M.
Butler, the Democratic chairman,
perform on television, I was amazed,
not by what he said, which was more
of the same, but by the transmogrification of the man. Gone was the
skinny, wrinkled 1956 Butler. He
seemed heavier by pounds, and the
wrinkled front was smoothed. The
sharp answer, the whining complaint,
the rasping retort, and the corny quip
were gone. This cannot be due to
vitamin indulgence or introduction of
donkey glands by a national committee which kept him as chairman.

No, the new Butler is not a miracle
of physical therapy. Happiness is not
born of anything new in the Democratic Party. It is a catalysis produced
by something away and apart. The
chairman is witnessing the disintegration of what he jauntily calls "the
opposition." Those sensitive Indiana
nostrils catch the scent of long-
delayed victory—the aromatic fumes
of spoils to come.

If long observation had not proved
the utter indestructibility of the Republican Party, I might predict an imminent breakup and death. But there
is acute attrition, internal distress
caused by the absorption of pathogenic political bacteria, and a digestive tract nauseated by the effort to
assimilate incongruent elements.

THE TOY ATLAS

Nothing so dramatized the paucity
of Republican leadership as the
presence of Assistant to the President
Sherman Adams as headliner at a
$100-a-plate fund-raising and party-inspiring dinner in St. Louis. This
suggests nothing so much as the selection of an undertaker as emcee at a
college football rally.

On second thought, it may be
worth $100 to see this toy Atlas who
bears on one shoulder the Executive
power of the United States and on
the other, the national committee of
the Republican Party.

The official center of the Republican Party, the national committee's
headquarters in Washington, stands
at attention when "Sherm" is on the
line. Callers are dismissed, conferences are halted, and telephones to
the outside world click shut.

Except for a rising tone of querulousness in the Adams-Hagerty comments for publication, there is no
evidence that the imperial guard is
aware of the unhappiness in the rank
and file of the party at this sort of regency, or aware of the sharp perception of impending disaster by those
professionals who carry party burdens
in the states. There is an insistent demand for sympathetic, responsible national leadership.

RESPLENDENT FUTURE

The electorate is deeply concerned
about confusion in our defense establishment, the spotty business outlook,
our shaky international relations, and
the evidences of a turn to the Democrats in the recent election and the
confirmation of this trend in private
polls. The election of Knowland and
Knight in California is no longer to be
taken for granted. In addition to
Knowland, four other Republican stalwarts are retiring from the Senate—in
Indiana, in Pennsylvania, in New Jersey, and in Maine. Only in Indiana is
there some assurance of Republican
successors. In New York, Connecticut,
and Michigan re-election of Republican senators is not bright. Goldwater
faces a terrific fight in Arizona.

If the Washington command in the
party hopes to get by with "modern"
Republicans backed by the endorsement of the President, it is blind to
what has happened in Colorado, Oregon, New Jersey, and elsewhere.

The President may well carry on
the bare essentials of official Executive
decision-making, but it would be fatuous, not to say unkind, to expect him
to provide vigorous national and party
leadership. Vice President Nixon,
while always willing and able for what
he may be called upon to do for either
the government or the party, has been
downgraded by the Adams regency to
a point where he can hardly speak or
act with authority.

Chairman Butler’s Democratic Party
has internal troubles peculiar to itself.
But it is assured, in every critical Senatorial and House race next year, of
the powerful, well-financed, and skillful auxiliary help of the AFL-CIO
Committee on Political Education.
Small wonder that the chairman and
his party brothers in Congress anticipate a resplendent year ahead.

Newsweek, December 23, 1