Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

A VOTE OF CONFIDENCE

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

At this election in New York City there will be a vote on an amendment to the City Charter, the effect of which would abolish a police review board with a majority of civilians and restore the hearing of complaints of police misconduct to a board consisting of officials of the Police Department. The present review board was created by direction of Mayor John V. Lindsay and has been operating since July.

The creation of this hybrid board was a politically inspired reflection upon the competence, fairness and dedication to duty of the uniformed police of New York.

The issue is drawn between the factual record of the New York police force and the alleged unhappiness of a minority within the Negro and Puerto Rican communities. On the one hand, a proved fact; on the other, a hypothetical guess.

There has been no major police scandal in New York for more than half a century. Outbreaks of civil disorder have been met with firm and restrained competence. It is true that the rate of crime has risen. But that has been the record of every other large urban center. The mayor has not charged the police with that.

During every visit of Presidents, the Pope and controversial foreign potentates, security has been assured by the police. Compare this with the disorder in Australian cities during President Johnson's recent visit there. Our men in blue, like our firemen, in a city like this must risk their lives constantly in their line of duty. My conviction is that the New York police force is the best in America and probably the best in the world.

MAYOR INJECTED POLITICS

This is not the snap judgment of a mere police buff. As a university professor my field of interest was criminal-law administration. I was research director of Governor Smith's state crime commission and I served in several similar capacities under Governor Roosevelt. Prior to that, I had a major part in surveys of law enforcement in Missouri and Illinois. I promoted the first survey of criminal justice in Cleveland. And for 30 years I was an associate member of the International Association of Chiefs of Police. My concern was in the professional training of police officers and, since then, several universities have placed in their curricula serious studies of law enforcement. My conclusion, then and since, is that the major threat to good law enforcement is politics.

It was John Lindsay who first plunged the New York police into politics when, in order to appease minorities and civil-rights zealots, he promised to create a civilian review board. Obviously, he had not studied the social and political implications involved. For a civilian police board is not the answer to the fundamental problem. Politics begets politics, and now there is this referendum which cannot but exacerbate racial tensions.

LEARY REVERSES HIMSELF

If the Lindsay board is rejected, we shall be back where we were before Lindsay made his unfortunate campaign promise. Police Commissioner Broderick at that time had provided a board to receive complaints, composed of officials competent to review them and to recommend action by the commissioner. That board operated in a place and in a manner which assured complainants a fair hearing. It should have been continued and strengthened. When Commissioner Leary succeeded Commissioner Broderick, he opposed a civilian majority on the board as unnecessary. But now he has been plunged into this political campaign and has taken the stump in its support. That in itself is most unfortunate.

The statistics of the new board since July show that there were 113 complaints heard and only three were referred to the commissioner for action. Presumably an equal or greater number would have been referred by the Broderick board.

If the Lindsay board is sustained by the voters, the problem of racial tension will not be solved. What is more deplorable, it will become increasingly difficult to bring recruits with the essential character and capacity into the police force. And trained and tested officers will seek earlier retirement.

Our uniformed men deserve a vote of confidence.

Newsweek, November 7, 1966