Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separated to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

A Road Away From Socialism
by Raymond Moley

SANTA BARBARA, CALIF.—The late
Harold Ickes, for thirteen years
Secretary of the Interior, will be re-
membered as a personally incorrupt-
ible public servant. Graft never
tainted the vast operations and ex-
penditures over which he presided.
Whether he will also be known as an
"incorruptible corrupter of all" will
depend upon what happens in the
field of public electric
power. For he instituted
policies which, if continued,
would create a huge Fed-
eral monopoly that would
ultimately crush not only
private enterprise in that
field, but also local self-
government and a large
part of economic liberty.
Those policies, so ruth-
lessly and tirelessly pur-
sued, are now challenged by a new
statement of power policy which
follows President Eisenhower's oft-
repeated views on the subject. That
statement, issued under the name of
Secretary McKay and elaborated for
the press by Under Secretary Tudor,
makes it clear that Federal support
will still be available for multipurpose
projects which are "beyond the means
of local public or private enterprise,"
but that the primary responsibility for
providing electric power must be with
private companies and state and local
agencies. The Under Secretary states
that under the former regime cost was
the "least consideration... We are
today faced with the problem of not
bankrupting the Federal government...
The Federal government is not
big enough to get all the power
needed in the country today."

These expressions, together with
the decision no longer to insist upon
a Federal dam in Hell's Canyon, defi-
nitely set the course of the govern-
ment away from socialistic plans to
monopolize power. This policy, which
will have the hearty backing of many
Democrats and nearly all Republicans
in Congress, will have violent opposi-
tion from the public-power zealots
both in the Democratic Party and in
its auxiliaries in the ADA and the
PAC. It will be a major issue in the
campaigns in 1954 and 1956.
The newly announced policy is in
the true tradition of reclamation. It
was the decisions and pronounce-

ments of Ickes which reversed rec-
lamation policies initiated under T.R.
and continued under five succeeding
Presidents. Originally, reclamation in-
volved the conservation and manage-
ment of water primarily for irrigation,
flood control, and navigation, all le-
gitimate Federal concerns. The gen-
eration and sale of power was to be
incidental. It was a firm principle of
progressive thought before
Ickes that stricter regula-
tion of private companies
and not deadly competition
with government was the
proper remedy for the
abuses which we all must
admit were plentiful.
But Ickes placed all em-
phasis on power. Before
1942 he said: "I am not
interested in reclamation-I'm inter-
ested in power." In 1946 he stated his
policy in a memorandum for his de-
partment which not only projected
the government into the power busi-
ness with hydroelectric plants with
stand-by steam plants, but announced
that his department would actively
participate in the creation of public
power and cooperatives to use Fed-
eral power. The result of the latter
was the setting up in the Bureau of
Reclamation of a tremendous propa-
ganda machine. His choice for head
of the Bureau of Reclamation was not
an engineer but a publicity man.
The Ickes policies were vigorously
pursued by his two successors. In the
seven and a half years after the 1946
memorandum, the Bureau of Recla-
mation spent one and a half times
as much as it had spent in the 44½
years before.

Two other policymaking declara-
tions must be repudiated by the
department and by Congress. The
one is an administrative order issued
in 1940 by the head of the Bonneville
Administration. The other is an opin-
ion by the Solicitor of the Interior De-
partment in 1944 creating a fantastic
theory of bookkeeping in power proj-
ects. Only by a thorough clearing out
of such orders and directives and of
the scores of subordinates still in the
department who are ministers of the
Ickensian gospel can the Eisenhower
philosophy be made effective.

Newsweek, September 7, 1953

Page 895 of 1197