Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


What Are We Fighting For?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

HE Korean operation once more
reminds us of the critical needs of
considering again the distinction be-
tween immediate military victory and
the steady pursuit of long-term inter-
national political objectives.

This broad question is the subject of
a little book, "Great Mistakes of the
War," by Hanson W. Baldwin, perhaps
this country's most penetrating military
writer. Baldwin's criticism is
pregnant with meaning for
the present and the future,
as well as the past.

The deep meaning of in-
ternational politics is that we
live in the midst of living
forces, movements, and all
sorts of national ambitions.
The absence of war does not
mean freezing these forces.
Nations guided by wise and
far-reaching foreign policy take ac-
count of them and adjust their perma-
nent policy to the ultimate preservation
of their interests and ideals. Since they
generally seek peace on terms favor-
able to their own security, they take
account of the possible aggressions of
other nations. There was plenty of
evidence of Communist purposes long
before the second world war began.
But brushing this danger aside and
ignoring the more worldly wise
Churchill, Roosevelt and his military
high command concentrated upon the
quickest military decision against the
German and Japanese alliance.

Baldwin puts his point in these
words: "Our major American wartime
errors were all part and parcel of our
political immaturity. We fought to win
-period. We did not remember that
wars are merely an extension of poli-
tics by other means; that wars have
objectives; that wars without objectives
represent particularly senseless slaugh-
ters; that unless a nation is to engage
in an unlimited holocaust those objec-
tives must be attainable by the avail-
able strength, limited by the victor's
capacity to enforce them and the wil-
lingness of the vanquished state to
accept them; and that the general ob-
jective of war is a more stable peace."

It seems strange that two master
politicians on the domestic scene
like Roosevelt and Truman have been
unable to comprehend this point. But
in domestic politics the candidate looks only to the next election or two. He
cannot chart a course for decades
and generations.

Some of the mistakes that resulted
from mistaken policy were the un-
ready Philippines, the refusal to adopt
Churchill's "soft underbelly" strategy,
unconditional surrender, the Morgen-
thau plan, the pause before Berlin,
Prague, and Vienna, Winant's permis-
sion for Russian encircle-
ment of Berlin, and the
unnecessary use of the atom
bomb on Japanese cities.

Then there was capitulation
to the Russians at Yalta.
The Truman regime con-
tinued this course in the
wanton destruction of Ger-
man and Japanese industry
under the direction of the-
oretical social reformers and
of military people ignorant of either
politics or economics. Finally, there
was the Acheson policy in Asia.

All this is not second-guessing, as
the record will show.
Years of war and years of peace are
indistinguishable when the course of
a nation's policy is unrolled. Wise na-
tions have had such policies. There
was Bismarck's Germany, and England
from Chatham to Churchill. Changes
in party ascendency should not alter
these deep currents of foreign policy.
But in the past two years Acheson has
reversed Seward, Blaine, Hay, Root,
Hoover, and Stimson in the Orient.
And the nation stands perilously on
the edge of an uncharted wilderness,
without a policy and with still in-
determinate resources.

The question is now raised whether
vast expenditures shall be made in
lives and matériel in land operations
or whether we shall continue the oper-
ation with the Air Force and the Navy.
Baldwin makes the point that Japan
was reduced to the point of surrender
without a land invasion and before the
atom bomb was dropped. Korea is
smaller, and we are based on Japan.
We must also consider this operation
as a background for future possible
engagements on a similar scale or on
the wide continent of Europe. The
road ahead is long and our resources,
however great, are limited. Let us
look to our political objectives and
guide ourselves accordingly.

Newsweek, August 7, 1950