Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

Who Believes Whom?

by Raymond Moley

FROM time to time in this space
and elsewhere I have commented
upon what I have called the "businessmen's complex." There is an obsession among the leaders of the business world that they have little influence in public affairs, that what they say is neither believed nor heeded by the generality of citizens and especially by those who work in their companies.

Certainly there has been no lack of public acceptance of the products they make and sell. For the public spends its billions buying the products of industry, it entrusts its savings to bankers, and invests in companies headed by businessmen.

But when it comes to public acceptance of the businessmen's views on economic and political issues before the nation, it has seemed that businessmen have little impact. At least, that is what businessmen feel and why they fail to project their ideas with more conviction. This is altogether unfortunate, because their training and experience give them a singular capacity to evaluate such issues. Thus their restraint is a bar to the free communication of ideas vital to the national interest.

Fred Rudge, a management consultant, has recognized this problem for a long time. Through his extensive contacts with business he has sought to dissipate the inhibitions of his business friends and associates.

STUDIES OF CREDIBILITY

A year ago he discussed this problem with an agency which has been concerned with communication for a long time, the Purdue Research Foundation. Since 1952 the Communication Research Center, which operates under the auspices of Purdue University and the foundation, has been responsible for more studies of industrial communication, as such, than all other universities together.

In 1962 Rudge, with the cooperation of the Purdue Center and Belden Associates of Dallas, undertook surveys of what they call "credibility" in California, Illinois, Connecticut, Kentucky, and Pennsylvania. The results of those surveys were very encouraging. They clearly show that a wide variety of those questioned put high credibility in business leaders. The relative rating in credibility was business leaders, family or friends, elected officials, national union leaders, and local union leaders.

The relatively low rating of political leaders checked with a study made in Los Angeles three years ago which found a high rate of public doubt, even cynicism, so far as what politicians say is concerned.

The Purdue Pennsylvania study among workers indicated that while the "sources of information" rated in this order: immediate supervisors, fellow workers, company officials, and union officials, the people placed "credibility" in this order: immediate supervisors, company officials, local union officials, and fellow employees. Thus while workers believed company officials, they got relatively less information from them.

FUTURE PLANS

The most interesting fact shown by answers eliciting opinions on a long list of economic and political issues was that a heavy percentage wanted more information and discussion. This contradicts certain polls which would lead us to believe that most people have fixed opinions on such questions. It is encouraging to know that so many lack fixed opinions but desire more information.

The latest development in this enterprise has been the formation under the leadership of Dr. Frederick L. Hovde, president of Purdue, of the Industrial Communication Research Council to advise and direct further comprehensive studies in greater depth in this field. The purposes of such long-term studies would be, first, to extend and finalize conclusions as to the sources from which people get believable information on economic and political questions, and, second, to develop methods of better communication between citizens and opinion leaders. It might be added that the most important of the results of such studies would be to induce businessmen to shake off their long-held inhibitions which have restrained them from communicating freely with a receptive public. This would be a consummation which would be invaluable to a free society.

Newsweek, April 1, 1963