Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Vandenberg's Problem
by RAYMOND MOLEY

THE undeniable fact that age and
physical stamina are basic quali-
fications of a Presidential nominee is
deeply disturbing to those Washington
writers and commentators who are pro-
moting a draft-Vandenberg movement.
Their effort to meet this fact takes two
forms: first, assurances that their fa-
vorite can stand the strain of office;
second, suggestions that the ideal ticket
is Vandenberg and a young-
man-in-waiting for Vice Presi-
dent. Since Stassen's Oregon
trial, the suggested heir ap-
parent seems to be Dewey.

It is well that the health
issue has been brought
into the open. The country
learned a sad lesson in the
cases of Wilson and F. D. R.
In the former instance, the
tragedy was not death but
incapacity, which, under our Constitu-
tion and laws, leaves the Executive
Department without head or direction.
Moreover, the health and vigor of the
Chief Executive become more and more
significant as the country grows larger
and burdens of office grow greater. The
average age at death of the fifteen
Presidents before Lincoln was some-
thing over 74 years. The average age
at death of the Presidents since then
has been 63.3.

This decline in Presidential longevity
has been running against the national
mortality trend. According to the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., the
average length of life in 1900 was 49.2.
In 1945 it had reached 65.8. Thus, sci-
ence and knowledge are working for a
longer life, but are losing the battle
against the growing burden of the
Presidency.

Tis not a pleasant task to set down
these facts in the face of continu-
ous talk of Vandenberg in his 65th year,
Martin in his 64th year or MacArthur
in his 69th year as "compromise" can-
didates. Several Vandenberg advocates
have dwelt upon the senator's health.
James B. Reston in Life magazine offers
an authorized statement that in 1932
the senator was disturbed by what was
diagnosed as a "slow heart." Doctors
prescribed digitalis, a heart stimulant
which he has been taking ever since,
and he has had no further trouble.
Mr. Reston adds that the senator is
"plagued with annoying headaches from
time to time." Recently, his doctors
have stated that the senator is in sound
physical condition.

The proposal of a young Vice Presi-
dent has a weird, not to say gruesome,
logic. It is the "if-anything-should-
happen" logic of the insurance salesman.
Since the Vandenberg advocates favor
him because of his international views,
they suggest Stassen or Dewey as Vice
President because they share
those views. That is to make
a silly assumption. A conven-
tion selects a Vice Presiden-
tial candidate to appease an
ideological or sectional wing
of the party that fails to
nominate its own candidate
for President. Hence, if Van-
denberg were nominated for
President, the Vice Presiden-
tial choice would more likely
be Green, Wherry or Millikin than
Dewey or Stassen.

THE most untenable suggestion, in
order to make the Presidential job
bearable for an older man, is that
"President" Vandenberg should place
the administrative burdens upon "Vice
President" Dewey or Stassen. That
would be unconstitutional, since the
Vice Presidency, up to the grim hour
of succession, is a legislative office. That
it is also glaringly impractical was
shown when Vice President Wallace, as
head of the Bureau of Economic War-
fare, ran head on into Jesse Jones, Hull
and other department heads.

The White House is a place of per-
petual emergencies. The man in it must
work long hours. And in the next
four years the President must deal with
the most exacting administrative tasks
in history. This will require both great
vitality and administrative experience.
Since the argument for Vandenberg
comes down to (a) continuity of for-
eign policy and (b) friendly relations
with Congress, the logical plan is to
make Vandenberg Secretary of State
under a new President. That would be
a return to the great Republican tradi-
tion. Seward, Hamilton Fish, Blaine,
Hay, Root, Hughes were all Secretaries
of State whose historical positions are
more secure than those of the Presi-
dents under whom they served. Van-
denberg would, no doubt, find a place
among those great names. That is where
he belongs.

Newsweek, June 7, 1948