Perspective

Control of Education III

by Raymond Moley

My two articles preceding this established the points (a) that the demand for Federal aid for education comes from professional educators, their associations, and other lobbies, not from governors and local school boards; (b) that the pressure groups are in close collaboration with the U.S. Office of Education; (c) that the degree of Federal control is already considerable and would proliferate under Federal aid and (d) that such control would mean centralized thought control.

But some sincere people believe that the risk should be undertaken if (a) there are drastic shortages in the school plant and (b) deterioration in the number and quality of teachers because of poor salaries.

Three Presidents and a number of members of Congress have believed that these needs exist. But the information upon which these conclusions have been reached is based upon propaganda from the USOE and such organizations as the NEA. The basic data are from official sources, and prove that no emergency exists. The USOE recently estimated that we shall need 607,800 new classrooms over the next ten years, or 60,780 classrooms a year. But the states and local communities have been building at the rate of 70,000 classrooms over the past five years. The public schools have been adding proportionately more teachers. The number of pupils per teacher has declined.

Over the next ten years the annual enrollment rate will drop in the elementary and high schools, while the number of college students will rise. The output of teachers from the colleges will rise.

STATES CAN DO IT

That there is no classroom or teacher shortage was proved by the prodigious research of Roger Freeman and presented in 1958 in his book "School Needs in the Decade Ahead." This did more than anything else to forestall crash programs in Congress. His new book, "Taxes for the Schools," presents with incontestable documentation the financial situation.

Freeman says that in 1958 the public schools cost the states and local districts $12 billion. He estimates that with pupil-teacher ratios declining and teachers' salaries rising, by 1969-70 the annual school expenditures will reach $24 billion. Freeman's estimate is almost exactly the same as that of the Rockefeller Brothers' Fund and the Committee for Economic Development.

The state and local communities will have less difficulty in raising adequate money in the 1960s than in the 1950s. Enrollment jumped 43 per cent in the 1950s, but will rise only 20 to 22 per cent in the 1960s. In the 1950s school expenditures rose faster than the national income. During the 1960s a fair estimate is that the national income will rise at twice the annual rate of school enrollment-i.e., 4 per cent against slightly over 2 per cent. Since states and local communities were able to increase their school expenditures by $1 billion a year in the past ten years, there is no reason why they will not easily be able to raise the necessary funds in the ten years ahead. That is, they will if they are not deterred by the prospect of "free" money from Washington.

REFORM, NOT MONEY

There will be more children, but there will be more parents. Those parents will have the same or better incomes and live in more taxable houses. New private construction alone may total close to half a trillion dollars in the 1960s. If reasonable property-tax adjustments are made, and land enhanced by the growth of communities is properly taxed, there will be ample money. If more is needed, the states have more tax resources to tap than the Federal government. The "take" from the Federal income tax is about at its limit. The Federal government has run a deficit 80 per cent of the time in the past 30 years.

Moreover, if teachers want to make more money, school authorities must rearrange the school year so that they can work as many weeks as people in other forms of white-collar employment. Teachers are generally paid well for the portion of the year that they work. The real need is not Federal money but a combing of frills out of the curriculum and a more efficient use of school facilities.

Newsweek, February 27, 1961