Perspective

The House After 1962

by Raymond Moley

THOSE gifted men of substance and
stature who framed the Constitu-
tion sought a middle ground between
the tyranny of a king and the tyranny
of a democratic majority. They sought
order without autocracy, representa-
tion without discrimination. Hence
they provided for a Senate, supposed
to be composed of elder statesmen
representing the states. This was to
provide deliberation and stability.
The House was to be representative
of the people. Conservative men, like
Hamilton, believed the people to be
the creatures of "passion" and ca-
price. There would, they said, be less
deliberation in the House.

Consider how far astray these cal-
culations seem in the Congress now
assembled. The liberal Democratic
Senate majority has behaved like a
collection of well-trained dogs. Mem-
bers at the word of command have
obediently jumped through a hoop
held by the occupant of the most
famous rocking chair in Christendom.
The House, on the other hand, has
been circumspect, stubborn, and se-
lective in its actions. For the most
part, it is dominated by cautious
chairmen. Among House Republicans
are a score or more of the most prom-
ising young men in political life.

It will take a net Republican gain
of 44 seats to win control of the House
in 1962. To make that gain is not an
impossible task.

In the 1960 election, with a Demo-
crat winning the Presidency, Republi-
cans gained more than twenty seats.

REPUBLICAN HOPES

Considering the redrawing of dis-
trict boundaries in many states, it is
difficult to estimate how many of the
present Democratic districts will be
defended by "marginal" holders-that
is, by those with majorities of 5 per
cent or less. In question, too, are mar-
ginal Republican districts. But it
seems quite possible now that there
will be an anti-Democratic trend. My
best guess is that the result will be a
small majority either way, with the
chances favoring the Republicans.

It is notable that the Republican
National Committee will be geared as
seldom before to winning House
seats. For William E. Miller, the new
national chairman, is a member of the
House, was the chairman of the Na-
tional Republican Congressional Com-
mittee, and thus is "House-minded."
He has brought over as his chief as-
sistant William S. Warner, who was
the executive Secretary of the Con-
gressional Committee.

Since this is to be the first year un-
der a new drawing of district boun-
daries, several changes are likely to
affect the net result.

In some states the old political
game of gerrymandering has assumed
a particularly virulent form. In Cali-
fornia, a Democratic legislature re-
designed the districts to permit the
election of a Congressional delegation
with a solid Democratic majority. Bar-
ring a big anti-Brown, anti-Kennedy
trend, Republicans may well lose a
few seats there. Three Southern states
will lose altogether four seats now
held by Democrats. Nebraska and
Maine will each lose a traditionally
Republican seat. A Democratic seat
will be definitely lost in Iowa.

ILLINOIS THE KEY

But the battle royal will be in Il-
linois and Minnesota, where disagree-
ment prevented the passing of any
redistricting at all. Illinois' legislature
reached an impasse as Republicans
fought a naked power play by Chi-
cago's boss and mayor, Richard J.
Daley, which would have retained in-
tact all ten Democratic districts in
Chicago, despite the fact that the
population of Chicago is shrinking
while the suburbs grow apace.
Democrats fought the Republican
plan, which would upset two down-
state Democratic incumbents. In Min-
nesota, Republican Gov. Elmer L.
Anderson, a shrewd tactician, has felt
that an election at large would result
in a Republican sweep of the state's
eight districts and a net loss for the
Democrats of three seats.

Probably 24 House members from
Illinois and eight from Minnesota will
be elected at large. Thus Illinois will
be the center of attention by both
parties in 1962. National party lead-
ers will battle it out, with the chances
strongly favoring the heavy Republi-
can vote outside Chicago. If the Re-
publicans win in Illinois, the control
of the next House may well swing
away from the Democrats.

Newsweek, September 11, 1961