Inflation, a Moral Issue
by Raymond Moley

THE President has declared that inflation is to be a major Republican issue in the 1960 campaign. The Vice President's Committee on Price Stability for Economic Growth in an interim report has stated the broad economic specifications. It makes clear that inflation, in all its consequences and implications, involves the entire life of the nation. The virus will not only infect and kill the healthy prosperity now developing, but frustrate future growth. With inflation in prospect, the individual may not save and invest with assurance, nor can business plan with safety.

The report stands squarely on the Constitution. There must be firm Federal control of money and credit-a need which, in fact, gave rise to the movement for the Constitution itself in the 1780s. But the makers of the Constitution would have abhorred any idea of government control of prices in the market place. These precepts have served us well. They have delivered the goods.

THE SEEMING TRUTH

The liberals in Congress and elsewhere would repudiate this philosophy which dominates the Constitution. They have been captured by a new economic jargon which holds that greater government outlays for public works and private benefits, and more taxes to "channel off" savings and private investment, with indifference to the growth of debt, will produce more national product and thus provide more income to tax. It holds also that it is safe to cut ever more sharply the hours of those who work and produce. If, as they admit, higher prices are the result, then crack down with rigid government controls-first, of prices; later, inevitably, of wages.

If doubt exists about this prescription for bureaucratic tyranny, read the writings of those economic seers who advise Paul Butler's Democratic National Committee. A major, perhaps a controlling, faction of that party has been entrapped by this "seeming truth that cunning times put on."

But when, as the President promises, these fallacies are attacked in a political campaign, millions of voters will be either confused by or indifferent to purely economic arguments, in which the glib gush of partisan economists can drench the simple rules of common sense. A political campaign must vividly portray the moral as well as the economic consequences and implications of inflation. These are universally understandable and challenging:

Inflation thwarts the individual's means of self-help and personal security by withering his savings and the value of his income.

It transforms the normal transactions of business into speculative gambles, especially for small businesses which lack the means of hiring high-priced economic advice; future commitments, plans, outlays, and contracts must be guided by mere guessing as to how politics may affect values.

THE DEATH OF CREDIT

It spawns demagogues who make the processes of politics and government a compound of false promises, deceptions, hidden taxes, and worthless benefits.

High taxes make swindling the government a national habit; the rich learn how to avoid, the poor are driven to evade.

Inflationary spending rots the fabric of constitutional government when Congress, as is its growing habit, bypasses public appropriations by authorizations to tap the Treasury. As Appropriations chairman Cannon puts it, "while we are shoveling money out the front door, the spenders are carrying it out the back door of the Treasury...without let or hindrance."

When inevitably prices get out of hand, slick economists promise controls, which in peacetime means a reeking mess of black marketeers, cheats, and hoarders, thus further polluting the moral atmosphere.

The nation's credit is the final, ultimate sacrifice. This means economic disaster, a consummation confidently predicted and eagerly awaited by Communism. If we thus fail, the world can have no peace.

These are understandable moral consequences of economic policies piously expounded by liberals in Congress, speculators everywhere, and by powerful pressure groups that infest Washington. Here are the specifications for a real campaign.

Newsweek, July 27, 1959