Here's a text version of the article, attempting to preserve the column structure:

**Bundles for Labor Leaders?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Not so long ago government's sole concern with unionism was limited to its determination to assure to unions the right to recognition and collective bargaining. How long a road we have traveled since those dear old days has become dramatically clear in the past two weeks.

The handing down of the WLB decision in the S. A. Woods Machine Co. case on Aug. 1, and the news that White House influence was responsible for the AFL and CIO's latest sidlings-up to one another (NEWSWEEK, Aug. 10), suggest that a relationship once simple and uncomplicated is now growing so intimate, so intricate, that one of the principals therein is on the way to being swallowed up by the other.

First came WLB's formula for "parity wages." Not long after, there developed the WLB's encouragement of the "maintenance-of-membership" policy, which came in response to the plea of union officers that the unions must be saved from "deterioration" in wartime. Now we have WLB's opinion in the Woods case, in which W. H. Davis, chairman, announced: "The board in granting the maintenance-of-membership clause in this particular case satisfied itself that the union was responsible...."

The important thing to note is that the board, in this case, found a union "responsible." In so doing, it has already gone farther than the SEC ever went. The SEC never assured investors that a particular company was responsible. It merely decided whether the offering of a company conformed to certain standards of financial conduct. It was scrupulously careful not to endorse a company or an issue.

Already the Woods opinion has had the effect of strengthening the belief in Washington that unions must ultimately submit to some supervision of their accounts and internal affairs. Obviously, if union members are assured by the board that their union is "responsible," the board will have to exercise some sort of continuing supervision to prevent derelictions in future by union officers.

But whether or not WLB's endorsement of certain unions turns out to be an opening wedge to closer governmental supervision of the conduct of the unions, it is clear that the steps that preceded it point to a growing governmental control of the course of unionism in the United States.

Now that "recognition," "parity wages" and "job security" are on the way to being achieved with government help, what, union leaders wonder, are they going to hold out as inducements for keeping the rank-and-file interest in unions alive? All the things for which unions fought, government is now beginning to assure. What is there left for union leaders to do? So some of them are asking themselves whether the labor-union movement in the United States is in process of becoming a state-labor union movement, just as the churches, in some countries, became state churches.

There is irony in this situation. It was their fear of "deterioration" that made the labor leaders ask the WLB for maintenance of membership. But how far will unionism "deteriorate" if the state looks out for wages, dues and all the rest? Officers of the unions would remain as mere tax collectors under a quasi-governmental status or they would fall from the tree like dead blossoms that had served their purpose. Perhaps they will be pensioned by the government. But how sad the role of saviors after everyone is saved! What can Gen. William Booth do in heaven?

Ultimately the unions themselves will realize that marriage to old Bluebeard Government is the way to death for any organization that was once private and self-dependent. Even when government is friendly, as the New Deal is, the end is tragic. In "Of Mice and Men," Lennie the giant loved the mouse, but his loving paw crushed it.

And if government ceases to be as friendly as it is now, awakening comes even more quickly. Representative Smith of Virginia beat a New Deal purge 3-1, in 1938. Last week he won 4-1. This is a grim warning to labor. The people are tired of union coddling. Should November see the fire that started in Smith's district spread, there will be real consternation in labor circles.

In a hurricane a friendly harbor becomes a death trap. Labor will yet rue the succession of "gains" that started in 1935 when government began to take over its functions.