Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


NEWSWEEK, FEBRUARY 4, 1946

Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

The State Is a Faithless Trustee

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The President's course these days
sweeps government deeper and deeper
into the realm of private rights and personal freedom. Quasi-compulsory arbitration, government seizure of plants, a long series of recommendations in the annual message, covering subsidies, housing, Federal power projects and socialized medicine, mark the conduct of an Administration which is scarcely reckoning how difficult it will be to retrace its steps from the jungle of state power. Even more disturbing is the absence from the President's message of any clear intimation that powers long ago invoked for emergencies will be surrendered now that those emergencies are past.

It is, however, not my intention here to argue that current extensions of government power are unnecessary or unsound. I want to raise a broader question of ultimate policy.

There would be less concern in people's minds about the present conduct of government if, in the past, governments here and everywhere had faithfully observed their duties as trustees to return personal liberties to their owners when the reasons for their seizure were past.

The record of the state as a trustee is bad. If a trustee acting for a private individual had such a record, he would be a common swindler, ripe for prison. But men in the mass, people acting as a state, observe none of the moral principles which they manifest and demand as individuals. Promises are broken, good faith is forgotten and liberty and property are callously stolen. Compare, if you will, the long-term financial promises of governments with those of banks and insurance companies. In any such comparison governments are black. And this applies not only to monarchy, totalitarianism and Communism, but even to the most benign of democracies.

The way of a state with men's freedom follows a common pattern. It begins with an emergency. "Politics," says Ralph Roeder, "is a perpetual emergency." If a genuine crisis does not exist, politicians pretend that it does and convince people that it does. And the state which enters through a demagogue stays as a bureaucrat. It is like a policeman who, having stopped a fight between a bartender and a customer, decides to settle down as the saloon keeper and quit pounding a beat.

There is in legislation something known as an "emergency clause." When government acts to set up some new instrument of power, it adds a provision to the law saying that "said" action is taken because of an emergency. This is done so that nine black-robed judges may then find "said" action constitutional. But the emergency clauses, the law and the enforcing bureaucracy outlive the emergency. And when anyone suggests that the law be repealed and the agency abolished, he is screamed at as a reactionary and a traitor to progress.

But it is not alone in these technical emergencies that governmental anachronisms prevail. It is everywhere in the sprawling tax-supported organism called government. We are told by President Truman to prepare for normal governmental expenditures several times as large as in 1940. Yes, we have had a war which has added to the burdens of government. Yes, the country is bigger. But where is the assurance that sometime, somewhere, someone will go back through the growth of a century and a half and root out the weeds and parasitic growths which encumber our liberties and waste our money?

This is not just a plea for more economy and efficiency. It is a claim on government for an expression of common honesty. Once the prodigious snout of government gets under our back fence, it never leaves. Soon the fence is gone, and new broods of trespassers are at our door. The process is continuous. It goes on in all countries. According to Marx, the dictatorship was to be a step between autocracy and democracy. But once established, the dictatorship lingers on.

I suggested on this page two weeks ago that political progress is not to be measured in terms of more government or less government. The point of this piece is that it isn't a matter of quantity It is a matter of freeing the state from its concern with dead issues so that it can act with vigor on living issues. We should free the state from the past. Weed it out. Fumigate it. Put it back on the job of serving the present.