Here's a text extraction of the provided article, respecting the column layout to avoid overlaps:


**After Minnesota**

by Raymond Moley

MUSKEGON, MICH.—The remarkable write-in vote for General Dwight D. Eisenhower in Minnesota was more significant than the result in New Hampshire. For in the earlier contest the core of the general’s support was the compacted strength of a Republican machine, from the governor on down, in a small Republican state. Taft’s managers, despite their professional training, defied that power and sought to take over in the short space of a primary fight. They sought to work through people who were politically unacceptable to the state and local political leaders. The result was disastrous.

In Minnesota this advantage was not held by the Eisenhower people. That part of the Republican machine which depends on the state Executive was committed to Stassen. That part of the Republican organization which is centered in Roy Dunn, national committeeman, favored Taft, but from this distance it is not clear what action the Dunn group took.

The relative size of the vote in the two states may have been another factor. In New Hampshire about 36 per cent of the eligible vote was cast; in Minnesota, 23 per cent.

The Eisenhower vote, however, was not wholly spontaneous. It had behind it some organized effort. Like the miracle in Mark Twain’s “A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court,” this one required some “preparation.” The Eisenhower group was helped also by the mounting disinclination of the people of Minnesota to rally year after year behind the seemingly endless but futile political adventures of their native son, Harold Stassen. That state of mind in Minnesota was noted in this space last summer. It was violently denied at the time by Stassenites.

But after all possible allowances have been made, the Eisenhower vote remains a sign of the general’s strength among rank and file Republicans. The effect of the repetition of the guess that “Taft can’t win the election” has been serious. It has created a great fear among Republicans, despite the fact that it has no real basis.

The effect of these two primaries is apparent here in Michigan. I found among many Republicans a preference for Taft’s personality and policies and a belief that he is better qualified for the Presidency. But these same people now have far less hope of nominating Taft. And among those who prefer Eisenhower, there is rising confidence.

Taft people, however, are confident about the results in the forthcoming primaries in Wisconsin and Illinois. The Nebraska trend is not yet clear.

The return of Eisenhower to enter actively into the campaign will present difficulties as well as advantages. His supporters who have been urging his return seem to have underestimated the former and overestimated the latter. It is fairly late now for him to master the problems of policy and organization that can confront him on his return. If he had returned in January, he might by now have prepared answers to the innumerable questions on policy that he must meet. He could have created a more effective campaign organization.

However, he must face these problems sometime. If he is nominated they will be vastly greater than they are now. For the expectations of his supporters are so varied and so great that to satisfy them will require the skill and wisdom of a superman. Moreover, if he is to compete with Taft, Stassen, and Warren, he must, as they have, submit himself to press, radio, and television inquisition by keen and inexorable reporters. The answers he must make in such interviews and in set speeches must be clear-cut or the convention will be anticlimactic.

EISENHOWER will have to choose among the views held by variegated groups of supporters. To offer one example, he will have to disappoint either Ernest Weir, ultra-conservative, or Stanley Isaacs, ultra-radical. He can’t please both.

Aside from his interests or those of Taft, the interests of the country and of the Republican Party will be best served by Eisenhower’s early return to the United States. It may not be expedient, but it will generally contribute to clearer thinking, stronger policies, and the wisest decision.

Newsweek, March 31, 1952