Here's a text extraction of the provided image, respecting the column structure and omitting the advertisement:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Socialism in the Gas Business
by Raymond Moley

THIS week the Liquefied Petroleum
Gas Association is holding its 25th
annual convention in Chicago. The
business which it represents was born
in the days of depression but has
reached immense proportions in the
years since. It has to do with what is
called "bottled gas."

Unlike the electric-power or the
natural-gas businesses, this one has in
general none of the characteristics of a
natural monopoly. Except in small
municipalities, its product is
distributed and sold as
competitively as milk or
gasoline. It is competitive
within itself and also with
the electric-power business.
However, even this industry has not
escaped the threat of public ownership.
In the amendments to the Housing
Act passed by Congress last summer,
someone slipped in some language
which escaped the notice of the press
and, no doubt, of a great majority of
the members of Congress who voted.
This language paves the way for
the same sort of socialization in "bottled
gas" as has made such progress in
electric power.

The law passed last summer provides
for a revolving fund of $100 million for
Federal loans to municipalities for the
construction of water, sewer, and
gas-distribution systems "for which there
is an urgent and vital public need." Thus,
the Federal treasury is opened to towns
and cities to build their own gas
distribution systems. Of course, the law
incorporates the usual soporific words
designed to allay any fears of those who
believe in private enterprise. It is
provided that the government shall not
make loans unless money is "not
otherwise available on reasonable terms,"
and that "all securities and obligations
purchased and all loans made... shall be
of such sound value or so secured as
reasonably to assure retirement or
repayment." But history shows that
government loans tend over the years to
become gifts. Moreover, as far as the
words "need" and "reasonable" are
concerned, the interpretation will be made
by bureaucrats eager to add to the power of
government and to please local interests.
In this legislation, priority is given to
municipalities under 10,000, which is
exactly where the liquefied-gas industry
is most active.

It is interesting that the forces tending
to socialize this business include some
elements of private business itself.
Municipal bond houses and their
engineering advisers eager to sell tax-free
securities are active in selling the idea of
municipal ownership to towns and small
cities. Their most potent selling
argument is that municipalities, by
building their own distribution systems
with tax-free money, can get from
consumers the money to enrich the town
treasury.

The growth of public ownership in the
gas business has been most notable in the
small towns not now served by gas but
lying adjacent to natural-gas pipelines. In
the state of Washington, in which public
ownership in electric power has long been
well established, eight towns voted two
years ago to establish municipal systems
whenever natural gas comes to their
communities. In Idaho, which is about to
get natural gas, municipal ownership has
become such a threat that the State
Chamber of Commerce has sent out a
warning to local chambers which clearly
points out the trick in municipal
ownership.

"There is," it says, "a basic philosophy
involved. That is the question whether it
is truly equitable for municipal
government to furnish services to certain
citizens at a reduced cost when such a
reduction can only be attained through
operation of a tax-free utility. If privately
owned, such utility would be contributing
its tax dollars toward the total cost of
government for all citizens."

THE Federal legislation which permits
this should be regarded as "special" in the
most pointed sense of the word. The
further evil is that waste and inefficiency
inherent in any business operated by a
political government are paid for by
national taxation, while the public is
deluded into believing that it is getting
something for nothing. In a private
enterprise investors constitute a continuous
means of surveillance and review.

Newsweek, May 14, 1956