Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Federal School Aid
by Raymond Moley

PRESIDENT EISENHOWER probably
has more, and more widely publi-
cized assistants than any of his prede-
cessors. However, there is a great
difference between multiplicity of as-
sistants and real assistance, and noth-
ing could show this more than the
humiliating situation into which the
President has been led in connection
with Federal aid for school building.
On Feb. 8, the President
sent a message to
Congress which was, no
doubt, prompted if not
prepared by the Secretary
of Health, Education,
and Welfare and the
Commissioner of Education.
This message contained the
alarming news that American
school children were
being taught in what practically
amounted to over-aged and
tumble-down shacks. It was said that
there was an accumulated deficit of
300,000 classrooms and, in addition, a
need for 50,000 more annually to
keep up with the growing population.
The program which went to Congress
called for an estimated expenditure
of $7 billion by Federal, state, and
local governments.
In the two months which followed
the message, there were violent denials
of the accuracy of those figures, and
finally Secretary Hobby made the
amazing admission that the original
figures were all wrong and that only
176,000 rooms were needed. It appeared
that the figures that had been given to
the President were taken from a report
of a School Facilities Survey which had
been ordered by an act of Congress
during the Truman Administration. That
report was shown to be grossly inaccurate.
It was also brought out that the President’s
assistants had apparently forgotten
that the President had appointed and
had given great acclaim to a Commission
on Inter-governmental Relations which
had an excellent task force at work on
this very problem of school construction
aid. The report of this task force, the
chairman of which was the informed and
able Roger A. Freeman, had a point of
view concerning the need quite different
from that of the President’s advisers.
Meanwhile, the House Committee on
Education and Labor had begun hearings
on various bills and heard testimony from
representatives of at least fourteen state
taxpayer organizations. These witnesses
seriously challenged the validity of the
School Facilities Survey.
At this writing, the House committee
is still fumbling with the program,
confronted as it is by differences of
opinion within itself and by a lack of
specific information upon which to act.
Mr. Freeman, testifying before the
House committee, used figures from the
twelve top income states and the twelve
lowest income states. While there are
more children per 100 adults in the low
income states, the actual improvement in
the economic condition of these states has
risen faster than in the high income states.
School conditions, including teachers’
salaries, have improved relatively faster
than in the low income states. The low
income states have received more help
from the Federal government in their
public assistance programs and therefore
presumably have more of their own funds
that they can use for education.
The net of the problem is that while
there may be states which need help, they
may not necessarily be states which have
low incomes. If Congress is to give to all
states, with no consideration of need or
means, there will be vast waste of Federal
money. It was made abundantly clear in
the House hearings that many states have
not yet adequately used their own borrowing
capacity, that most states and all school
districts can borrow money at lower interest
rates than can the Federal government, and
that restrictions on the borrowing power of
states and districts can be removed by the
states themselves.
CONGRESS may decide that, since
the facts are not yet available on
which to base Federal aid to school
building, the whole thing should go over
into the next session or the next Congress.
Meanwhile, the 48 states and the 63,000
school districts could look a bit more
sharply at the means already at hand to
build and pay for their own schools.

Newsweek, June 20, 1955