PERSPECTIVE

Party Unity and Strength

by Raymond Moley

Two weeks ago I commented on
the new National Republican Citi-
zens Committee and said that Senator
Goldwater's objections were based
upon reconcilable points of difference.
I then received a friendly letter
from the senator restating his dis-
agreement. That has been supple-
mented with a long telephone
conversation. With the senator's per-
mission, I shall discuss his objections.

I am still convinced that such ob-
jections as he has can be reconciled
through mutual understanding and full
communication between the senator
and the group created under the
auspices of Dwight Eisenhower.

Goldwater's criticism rests upon
three points. One is that the individ-
uals who have been publicized as
sponsors of the Citizens Committee
are the same as or similar to the
"modern" Republicans who were
around Eisenhower in the first years
of his Administration and who gave
a liberal or me-too tinge to the party.
Another is that the official Republican
organizations, national and local, are
sufficient and that the people who
formed the committee should work
exclusively in the party itself. Finally,
that the Citizens Committee will im-
poverish the party by drawing avail-
able contributions to itself.

These considerations are too
weighty to be disposed of in one
article. The third one, party finances,
I shall reserve until later.

AUXILIARY GROUPS

I dismiss as utterly unfair the claim
of some of the more ardent Gold-
water partisans that the Gettysburg
plan is really a conspiracy to block a
Goldwater nomination in 1964. The
senator himself does not say this. And
common sense and history tell us that
discussion of 1964 cannot be useful
until after 1962.

The stated purpose of the Citizens
Committee is to mobilize those mil-
lions of individuals who are unhappy
with the present liberal Democratic
majority in Congress and with the
Kennedy Administration, but who are
not presently identified with the Re-
publican Party. These, under the di-
rection of a small national organization,
would be induced to form Republican
auxiliary groups in many large urban
centers, similar to the Republican As-
sociates in Los Angeles and like agen-
cies in other cities and states. Such
auxiliaries can bring help to the sup-
port of candidates officially selected
under the law by regular Republican
organizations. They can provide vol-
unteer workers for precinct activity,
training facilities, research, and other
vital party services. I have called this
process "operation beef-up."

HELP WANTED

Someone had to start this process,
and under the stimulus of the former
President and Vice President a num-
ber of public-spirited people formed
the initial committee. These sponsors
will be augmented with many others
representing many points of view.

I have assured myself that this is
the real purpose of the Citizens Com-
mittee after talking with the sponsors,
with National Chairman William
E. Miller, Republican Congressional
Chairman Bob Wilson, and others. Mi-
nority Leaders Dirksen and Halleck
have endorsed the movement.

There is need for such groups as
the Los Angeles Republican Associ-
ates in many urban areas. Senator
Goldwater says that most enthusiasti-
cally in his letter.

The regular Democratic Party with-
out the help of such auxiliaries as the
AFL-CIO's COPE, the ADA, and oth-
ers would not now be in power in
Congress and the White House. Such
help for the Democrats was recog-
nized and action was taken by Presi-
dent Roosevelt 27 years ago.

Senator Goldwater must know from
his travels over the country that in
many states and innumerable lo-
calities Republican organizations are
weak, understaffed, and underfi-
nanced. In some places they are im-
potent and reconciled, almost happy
in the face of perennial defeat. This
is despite a potential which, if enlisted
in auxiliaries, would provide the mar-
gin of victory. Countless thousands
would help, but do not and in some
cases cannot. These potential sup-
porters of Republican candidates need
some stimulus to bridge the gap be-
tween them and the Republican
Party. That is the need the National
Republican Citizens Committee is de-
signed to meet.

□ Newsweek, July 30, 1962