Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


**The Party of the Cities**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Last week's Democratic National Convention marked another step in the transformation of the President's party into an alliance of groups, all of which take their character and draw their strength from the larger cities of the country. It also marked a somewhat smaller step in the direction of the passing of the President's power over the party into the hands of a group of leaders of large city organizations and of labor groups. A third trend was the further decline of the influence of the South in Democratic affairs. All these tendencies have great significance for the future, and this Democratic Convention, which brought them into view, may well have been one of the milestones in the political history of the nation.

A curious similarity in the two party conventions this year was the marked decline in the party influence of the Democratic and the Republican members of Congress. In the Republican Convention, the governors took over. In the Democratic Convention, city leaders prevailed. Senators and representatives were little more than bystanders at both shows.

when the bosses came to the National Chairman to ask such things, but that time seems long ago.

The ascendency of the bosses of labor and politics, after so many years of presidential domination, was the result of a decline in the President's disposition to hold the tight rein over the party which characterized other years. In 1940, through Mr. Hopkins and the long-distance wire, the President called all the plays. This time, the control was remote, casual and almost indifferent. The President's letters to Messrs. Hannegan and Jackson had none of the old-time zing and authority. One old-timer said sadly, "The Roosevelt who fought Murphy would never have agreed to take Truman." And it is one of the eternal laws of politics that as authority declines in one spot, another force grows elsewhere. The bosses are always there. It is their business to maintain a perennial reach for power. They were there before the New Deal. They will be there after it is gone. They need the President to help carry their local tickets. Now he needs them to hold his party together.

At the Democratic Convention, the superficial aspects of the trends suggested above were colorful and exciting. Never at any convention has organized labor made so formidable a showing of political influence as that revealed by Messrs. Hillman and Murray through their Political Action Committee. They failed to get all they asked, for the price of their militant support was very high. But they spoke with the authority of men with millions of votes, a big and highly skilled organization and a tremendous war chest. It was a significant moment in our time when National Chairman Robert E. Hannegan and Postmaster General Frank C. Walker went figuratively hat in hand to ask Mr. Hillman if he would accept Mr. Byrnes for Vice President. Time was when that order of things was reversed. And it may be added that Mr. Hillman's "no" was spoken so positively that the President passed it along to Mr. Byrnes, who thereupon smothered his own ambition to run. Mr. Hannegan also made profound gestures of deference to the powerful political leaders of Chicago, New York, Jersey City and elsewhere. Once there was a period

The role of the Southern States in this convention was in almost pathetic contrast to their old-time importance in the Democratic party. They realized --they have realized it for a long time --that they have been taken for granted because of their inability to find any way of maintaining "white supremacy" except through their unchanging allegiance to the Democratic party. They may find a way now, considering the seriousness of this crisis. Good observers were freely predicting a new party in the South, even this year, with its own candidate for President. It is too early to predict what will happen in the weeks ahead. But it is clear that a spirited people has been challenged on an issue that runs exceedingly deep.

The pattern of the campaign and of the election will follow this capture of the Democratic party by the great cities. The Democrats can win if the votes cast in the urban centers are large enough to overcome increasing losses in the small towns and the rural districts. Never have the two groups in our population been so clearly aligned against each other as now.