Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

“Mother of Monopoly”

by Raymond Moley

“AND monopoly is by far the great-
est of all monopolies—it is per-
petual monopoly, and it is the mother
of all forms of monopoly. Unearned
increments in land are not the only
form of unearned or undeserved
profit, but they are the principal form
…not merely not beneficial, but
detrimental to the general public.”
These are not the words of Henry
George, although they echo his be-
lief. They appeared many years after
Henry George wrote his books. They
apply to the emergent national prob-
lems of today with even greater force
than when Winston Churchill wrote
them decades ago. The same idea
was presented by Lloyd George. The
same thing has been said within the
past two months by many leaders
in England.

The unearned profits of land specu-
lators have a vital relationship to the
issues in this Presidential campaign—
housing, urban renewal, subsidies for
developers of real estate, highway
construction, and even the subsidies
to farmers.

This affects every taxpayer in the
country, every city and suburb, every
person who wants a home of his own,
every child who should grow up in a
decent community, and every senior
citizen who seeks a spot to pass his
sunset years. And the gigantic Fed-
eral spending proposed in this cam-
paign would aggravate and expand
the evil of unearned profits.

IGNORED BY PARTIES

But the platforms of both parties
ignore this essential truth. Congress
has ignored it or does not realize it.
And the vast projects now advocated
to control urban decay and aid the
needy merely accelerate this ex-
ploitation of the many for the few.

It is time to speak out on this sub-
ject. And fortunately there has ap-
peared a major article in House &
Home which does just that. It is richly
documented with facts about our cit-
ies and suburbs and amply illustrated.
Two notable land economists worked
on it, and it was brilliantly edited
and rewritten by the editor of the
magazine, P.I. Prentice.

The basic evil involved is that the
tax and assessment laws and practices
regard land as an unimportant source
of revenue and put the burden on
those who improve the land.

The result is that there is a vast
windfall for landowners and specu-
lators who toil not and neither do
they spin. As the community grows
and there is demand for new housing
and industries, they reap great profits.
Those who apply risk capital, brains,
and labor are penalized.

The Federal government, with
fancy words about eradicating slums
and helping the poor, pours billions
into the cities and suburbs for build-
ing and rebuilding. Speculators reap
the gain. The nation’s taxpayers pay
the costs. The very “liberals” who
promote this are creating a new class
of the very rich which has done noth-
ing to promote the nation’s growth.

UGLY SPRAWL

One example will show what is
happening. In New York on Fifth
Avenue there are two large pieces of
land enjoying exactly the same ad-
vantages in accessibility. On one, the
owner erected a $65 million office
building. On the other are some small
structures. Before the improvement,
the land was assessed the same. Aft-
erward, the tax on the land under the
big building was raised 300 per cent.
The tax on the other, although its
value was greatly increased by the
improvement across the street, re-
mained the same as before. The rem-
edy is to equalize land taxation and
force squatters to improve or get out
or pay higher taxes, and also to lower
the taxes on improvements.

As far as the cities and suburbs are
concerned, inequitable taxation re-
sults in an ugly and wasteful sprawl.
This is clearly evident to anyone who
flies into almost any American city.
It is also shown in the fine series of air
photographs in the House & Home
article. There are revealed in the
cities spots of fine developments sur-
rounded by slums; in the environs,
groups of homes surrounded by great
areas of weeds, stones, and dirt.

The government spends billions to
help the poor and beautify cities. Its
methods enrich the rich and create a
crazy patchwork. Equitable taxation
would drive out speculation, lift the
burden on the taxpayer, and create
more beautiful cities and suburbs.

Newsweek, September 12, 1960