Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Revolt on the Farms

by Raymond Moley

T was like a shaky dam in a flood.
It had to break somewhere, sometime, and it was the President’s ill
luck that it broke at a spectacular
spot with a force and authenticity
that precluded all softening explanations or doubts.

Not all, but almost all doubts! For
there are two or three things that
should be said, which provide no real
alibi but a workable guide
for the future course of Administration policy. Those
things have to do with the
character and history of
the Ninth Wisconsin District and the candidates
in this election and the
issues which they presented to the voters.

In the first place, the
people of the Ninth District,
like most Wisconsin people, are exceedingly well educated in public
problems and are highly sophisticated
politically. In the first quarter of this
century there was a renaissance in
political thinking without parallel in
our history. And it centered in Wisconsin, just as the great revival four
centuries ago centered in Florence.
There was “Old” Bob La Follette,
who gave his people no political
palaver, but great, heaping doses of
economic data. Sometimes in such
farming sections as the Ninth District
he held those Scandinavian farmers
spellbound for hours, until the unfed
and unmilked cattle bawled to the
high heavens.

La Follette could count upon a
high degree of economic and political
literacy because the University of
Wisconsin was already a tremendous
force in every corner of the state.
At the head of that institution was
Charles Van Hise, whose great book,
“Concentration and Control,” probably
more directly and profoundly influenced the progressive movement than
any other economic work in America.
It inspired Herbert Croly, who in
turn inspired Theodore Roosevelt. It
is not without significance that the
other major economic influence in that
period, Thorstein Veblen, the brilliant but embittered and sardonic son
of Norwegian immigrants, was born
and raised in Wisconsin.

The Ninth District is heavily of
Norwegian descent. Its farmers believe in a very large measure of state
interference in the economy. The
benign paternal socialism of Scandinavia is in their tradition. Merlin Hull,
who represented the district for two
decades, fitted this picture perfectly.
The voters of the district last week
were confronted with a choice between a Republican who promised
to support Eisenhower’s policies and
a Democrat who promised
to follow in the Hull tradition. Quite rationally, they
voted as they had been voting for years, with a good
bit of additional indignation
against Secretary Benson
thrown in for good measure.

If it can provide any comfort for the Eisenhower Administration, it can therefore
be said that the result of
any election in this district is not a fair
measure of judgment of an Administration which is seeking to take the
heavy hand of government from the
operations of the economic system.
But any such comfort must not be
interpreted as a relief from facing the
political and economic consequences
of a very widespread revolt on the
farms over the entire Mississippi Valley. The fact should be stressed that
the trouble is not all the simple issue
of price supports. Nor is the complaint
of the farmers uniform. In Nebraska
and Iowa the dissatisfaction stems
from a feeling that the Secretary has
not fulfilled the 1952 promises of
Eisenhower to enlarge the Soil Conservation Service.

IN A series of articles by Raymond
McConnell Jr. in the Nebraska
State Journal this point is stressed,
and, in addition, it is charged with
considerable supporting evidence that
the Secretary does not properly appreciate the complex agricultural difficulties of the great food-producing
states. McConnell fears also that the
projected reorganization of the Department of Agriculture will follow
the lines of the Secretary’s present
notions of farm policies, rather than
what McConnell calls the realities of
the Midwest.

In other regions other complaints
arise. There is, therefore, no farm
problem; there are farm problems, all
loaded with political perils.

Newsweek, October 26, 1953