Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  Please note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the original image's layout.


PERSPECTIVE

LAWS. THEN WHAT NEXT?

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

At the rate Lyndon B. Johnson is
going in exacting what he wants
from Congress, he will not only out-
strip his predecessors but rival such
famous lawgivers as Hammurabi,
Moses, Justinian I and Napoleon. Of
these, I select Justinian as a warning
to our energetic President. For while
Justinian became immortal because of
his promotion of the great Corpus
Iuris, he made an unholy mess of his
job as an administrator. James Bryce
tells us that Justinian was so ex-
travagant that he stirred up revolts
throughout the Empire because of
his fiscal exactions through taxes and
confiscations. "His changes were all in
the direction of greater centralization
...in some cases limiting the powers
and appropriating the funds of the
municipalities." Lavish sums were re-
quired to buy off the barbarians and
for his wars. And his bureaucracy
was not only wasteful but corrupt.
It is relatively easy for a President
possessed of such political power as
LBJ to jam a great volume of laws
through Congress. The real test
comes when the new projects are
administered. We already have a
portent of what is to come in con-
fusion, waste and the political use
of the antipoverty program. Prepara-
tions for medicare are meeting se-
rious problems. And the education
program finds great overlapping with
state and local operations, but there
is overcentralization in Washington.

EFFICIENCY ISN'T NEWS

The President is already asking
subordinates to think up new pro-
grams for 1966. His appetite for new
government enterprises at home and
abroad seems to be boundless. But
the digestive apparatus of his bu-
reaucracy is suffering internal pains
and retchings. Competent adminis-
trators to organize new agencies are
scarce. But, as in the Shriver case,
when LBJ finds no one for the new
program, he spreads the energies and
ingenuity of one administrator over
two jobs.

Good and efficient administration is
a prosaic job. Headlines in that de-
partment are made only when some-
thing goes wrong. The President is
demanding that all good news should
be announced by the White House.
But one can imagine the President's
unhappiness when some bureau head
provides such items as the firing of
200 employees or the cutting down
of a benefit. Only the invention of
some new program rates a Johnsonian
homily on the nightly television show.
Majority Leader Mike Mansfield
has called for a moratorium on new
projects. He says: "We have passed
a lot of major bills at this session, some
of them very hastily, and they stand
in extreme need of a going-over for
loopholes, rough corners and particu-
larly for an assessment of current and
ultimate cost ... [there is need to]
evaluate the degree of efficiency with
which they are being administered
by the executive." That task alone
would occupy Congress throughout
the entire year 1966. But the Presi-
dent is the one who is responsible for
seeing that the new programs are
properly manned and competently
administered. This sort of labor will
yield little political appeal-and 1966
is an election year. Only by making
sure that the benefits so joyfully an-
nounced will actually reach the pro-
spective beneficiaries will the many
promises come true.

ENACTING GOOD INTENTIONS

What we have had this year is
only the enactment into law of the
good intentions of the President and
his friends in Congress. Very few
members of Congress had the slight-
est idea how these beneficial ges-
tures were going to be realized. They
merely voted for the bills and
dumped the job of management
upon an already overburdened bu-
reaucracy. In many cases that bu-
reaucracy had and has no idea how
the beautifully phrased purposes of
these measures could be realized. In
such cases the administrators make a
great fuss of hiring new people, set-
ting up complicated charts and mak-
ing sure that the appropriation will
be spent.

Good intentions alone will never
create a great society. I have on an
earlier occasion cited the comment
of Santayana (which he applied to
William James's pragmatism): "Love
is very penetrating, but it penetrates
to possibilities rather than to fact."
Often the broad highway paved with
legislative good intentions ends in an
administrative swamp.

□ Newsweek, October 11, 1965