Here's the text extracted from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible:


NEWSWEEK FEBRUARY 17, 1941

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Murray Super-Plan

Any suggestion by a labor leader
that doesn't have to do with a specific la-
bor dispute, these days, is apt to be greeted
with whoopings and hosannas as states-
manship of the purest ray serene. The re-
sponse to Mr. Philip Murray's "CIO De-
fense Plan" is no exception. Hailed as
proof that labor is far ahead of manage-
ment in its awareness of the larger implica-
tions of defense, the plan turns out, on ex-
amination, to be a shortsighted piece of
special pleading.

The plan proposes that the President set
up "industry councils"—one for each basic
and vital defense industry. These councils
would be government agencies and would
consist of an equal number of representa-
tives of (a) management, (b) labor, and
(c) government. Their job would be to
ascertain the domestic and armament re-
quirements of each respective industry;
coordinate the production facilities of each
industry and expand production facilities
where they are now inadequate; reemploy
unemployed workers; train workers; real-
locate armament contracts in order to em-
ploy to the fullest extent the entire facili-
ties of the industry; and promote indus-
trial peace through the perfection and ex-
tension of sound collective-bargaining re-
lations. And the stated objectives of the
councils would be (1) to guarantee the
production of armaments through coop-
eration; (2) to guarantee the production
of domestic or non-military goods so as to
"extend the American standard of living
through a more equitable distribution of
the national income"; and (3) to preserve
the basic democratic rights of freedom of
speech, assembly, worship and collective
organization.

When the time comes to surrender pri-
vate industry and private rights to a su-
per-state, the transfer will probably be
made in some such form as this. Mr. Mur-
ray makes the NRA originators look like a
bunch of Adam Smiths. Here is no wishy-
washy talk of voluntary codes. Here is the
pattern for an industrial government im-
posed from above, backed by the full force
of law and directing the entire peacetime
and wartime activities of American indus-
try. Here is no recognition that there can
be labor unions—in the plural. The Mur-
ray councils' labor members will represent
"the labor union in the industry."

The Murray plan does not bother to de-
fine what it means when it says that there
should be "full production of armaments
for the needs of the United States . . .

subjugation to rigorous and unjust con-
trols when an administration comes along
that is not so partial to it as this one is.
The more labor contributes to the growth
of a super-state, even though that may
seem to be in labor's immediate interest,
the more it prepares the way for its own
exploitation. No super-state has yet been
created that did not ultimately invade la-
bor's freedom far more devastatingly than
it has invaded the freedom of private en-
terprise.

'Usurpation'

The hope that the President will ap-
point an experienced and nonpartisan jur-
ist to fill the vacancy on the Supreme
Court is intensified by last week's 5-2 de-
cision on the intra-AFL controversy at the
Anheuser-Busch plant in St. Louis. For,
as the Hughes-Roberts dissent pointed out,
that decision is clear evidence that the
Court majority is engaging in judicial law-
making—the same sort of judicial law-
making that advocates of the Court Bill
four years ago so bitterly condemned. It
apparently makes a lot of difference whose
ox is gored.

The astute Justice Felix Frankfurter,
speaking for the majority, insisted upon
reading into the Norris-La Guardia Act of
1932 a meaning which he claimed was in-
tended but not stated by Congress. Thus,
Justice Roberts pointed out, the action of
Congress in amending specific items in a
previous act (the Clayton Act of 1914)
permits the Court "to spell out an implied
repeal of the whole of the previous statute
as applied to the conduct of the sort here
involved." Justice Roberts flatly char-
acterizes this as "a usurpation by the
courts of the function of the Congress . . .
fraught with most serious dangers to our
constitutional system of division of pow-
ers."

The newest Frankfurter decision sub-
stantially says to the employer that,
whether or not his business is injured, not
to say ruined, he or anyone else is powerless
to do anything about a jurisdictional fight
between unions.

With this kind of lawmaking going on
in the Supreme Court, Congress is faced
with an almost impossible task: it will not
only have to say what it means but what it
does not mean—and say it in such iron-
clad language that even the subtleties of
Justice Frankfurter cannot unravel it. The
immediate injustice may be remedied by
Congress. But a dubious principle is laid
down that opens a long vista which be-
lievers in constitutional government cannot
view with anything but foreboding.

Some of us wasted no words in con-
demning the Court of five years ago for
"usurpation." The same goes for this
"new" Court. No economic theory, how-
ever seductively advertised, should be
above the Constitution.

without disturbing the adequate produc-
tion of domestic goods." Yet how much
defense is enough? The answer, of course,
is that on the basis of the present emer-
gency enough defense is no less than all
that the nation is capable of creating.
And what is an "adequate production of
domestic goods"? Is it every bit of non-
military goods now being produced and
consumed? Or is it enough to "improve
and extend the American standard of liv-
ing through a more equitable distribution
of the national income"?
And what of the "duty" of "reallocating"
armament contracts and "eliminating bot-
tlenecks created by one concern having a
disproportionate amount of armament con-
tracts"? Are these not powers of the Office
of Production Management? Are they to
be shared by the OPM and the Murray
councils or is the OPM merely to exercise
them until such time, after the war, as the
OPM no longer exists and the Murray
councils become permanent?
There is a grim irony in this proposal to
change our concept of management. Gen-
erations of labor leaders have advocated
the divorcement of management and own-
ership so that management—free and inde-
pendent management—could act as media-
tor of the varying claims of labor, consum-
ers and owners or investors. In no small
part because of the advocacy of these labor
leaders, management has gone far toward
achieving that position in the past twenty
years. The Murray plan would destroy the
new balance in the industrial structure. It
would substitute for the nineteenth-cen-
tury subserviency of managers to owners
a subserviency of managers to labor and
government. Independence, and the bene-
fits it brings, would go aglimmering. The
cycle of reaction would be complete.
The Murray plan, however vague and
tentative it may now be, is important as an
indication of what the future seems to hold.
It suggests what many labor leaders are
thinking about. It is the first of a number
of plans which will be called plans for "in-
dustrial democracy" by their friends and
"fascism" by their enemies. It is evidence
of a trend in which there will probably be
no serious slackening for years to come,
though labor runs the gravest of risks in
pushing such plans.
It is the same risk that labor has been
taking again and again over the past few
years. The more labor ties in and identi-
fies its legitimate activities with any ad-
ministration, the greater the danger of its

Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Page 395 of 1087