Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Getting Out the Right Vote
by Raymond Moley

COLUMBUS, OH)—In my travels dur-
ing the past few months I have
been impressed not only by the sharp
interest of people in the political de-
cisions to be made this year, but by
their desire personally to have some
part in those decisions. This is unusual,
even in a Presidential year when pub-
lic interest, if manifested at all, re-
sembles the detached concern of
people in a World Series or
a championship prizefight.
This year more people
seem to feel that the elec-
tion has a vital bearing on
their personal lives, their
fortunes, their welfare, and
their future. This concern in
the great majority of cases
will not manifest itself in any
activity designed to affect
the result, for Americans are
deeply afflicted with what has been
called "the fatalism of the multitude."
They live in such an immense congre-
gation of human beings that they feel
that what an individual is able to do
surely cannot matter much.
Occasionally in this vast mass of
political inertia a restless, determined,
exceptional person appears—a person
who is not willing to accept the con-
clusion that he can do nothing and
who sets out to do something. These
exceptional people deserve whatever
recognition can be given them, for
they may well muster the forces that
will end the long line of the present
dispensation in Washington. This rec-
ognition is especially appropriate
because the election of a Republi-
can this year—any Republican—Taft,
Eisenhower, or Whosis—will depend
on the capacity of strong leaders over
the nation to beg, prod, or inspire
some of the 40-odd million who ha-
bitually refuse to vote. The result lies
among these people. If enough selec-
tive efforts are made to get some
millions of them to vote, the course of
our history may be changed.
I have in the past weeks mentioned
some of the people who are organizing
citizens for political action. It is my
intention from time to time in the
weeks and months ahead to mention
more. This time, I want to describe
the work and ideas of Freeman L.
Guerin of Columbus.
Back in 1950, as Guerin told it to
me, he got together some people who,
like himself, were determined that
Ohio would keep Bob Taft in the Sen-
ate, despite the money and organized
effort of Green, Murray, Lewis, et al.
Guerin said: "Instead of wringing our
hands, we decided that ringing door-
bells would be a more effective way
in combating this growing intrusion
into our liberty." And so they formed
what they called the Active Citizen-
ship League. This volunteer
group set to work in 222
precincts, secured workers
for almost every block, and
aggressively and skillfully
reached practically every
potential voter. They added
6,500 to the registration
rolls, and in the follow-up
work they got 85 per cent
of the registrants to vote.
Like every zealous person
who has an idea and the energy to
back it up, Guerin has developed his
method into what is called the Ohio
plan and he is urging people in other
states to adopt it. Several adaptations
have already been created. In Tulsa
last week I investigated one which is
headed by Opie Dimmick, a business
leader in that city.
The Ohio plan is designed to mo-
bilize voters against the present trend
toward socialism in our government.
It is ingeniously divided into what are
called the red, white, and blue cam-
paigns. The red campaign is the be-
ginning, in which businessmen and
others are called together and by their
joint efforts a campaign is planned and
organized. The white campaign is the
next phase. It is educational. It carries
to the potential voters information es-
sential to their participation in politics.
Notably, it aims to teach volunteer
workers the best ways of generating
political understanding among voters.

THE final, blue campaign, is openly
partisan. It undertakes not only to
get voters to vote but to vote "right."
This part of the campaign is carried on
outside individual industrial plants,
and no business firm is connected with
it for reasons that will be obvious.
The blue campaign is the real payoff.
Freeman Guerin of Columbus, Ohio,
has a real idea. People elsewhere who
want to exercise influence in this de-
cisive political year might well look
into what he has accomplished.

Newsweek, May 26, 1952