Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

THE BATTLESHIP RETURNS

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It has taken an intolerably long time
to bring more of our great naval
potential into the war in Vietnam.
Chairman Richard B. Russell of the
Senate Armed Services Committee
has been urging the reactivation of
one or more of our four powerful battleships, which since the Korean War
have been resting in Navy yards. The
Chief of Naval Operations for some
time believed this to be unnecessary.
But two months ago a noted retired
admiral told me that the subject was
high on the list of decisions to be
made at the President's conference at
Guam. Apparently no decision was
made at that time, for Russell argued
once more for the subject in the Senate on April 10. Now it is reliably reported the Defense Department has
decided that the battleship New Jersey
is to be reactivated and used.

These ships have been carefully
preserved. What is needed is to remove the plastic cocoons and oils,
check and supplement their wiring
systems, install modern radar equipment, put them to sea and after gun-
nery practice attach them to the fleet
off Vietnam.

VULNERABLE COASTLINE

Hanson W. Baldwin in *The New
York Times* estimates that the New
Jersey could see action in something
more than nine months. But some
Navy men believe, because complete
battle capability is not necessary to
attack targets on the Asiatic coast,
less than that time will suffice.

The battleship can powerfully supplement almost all the elements we
are using in the war. To destroy rail
tracks, tunnels and bridges on the
north coast of Vietnam naval guns are
perhaps the most effective of our arsenal of conventional weapons. The
complement of battleships includes
nine 16-inch guns and four times the
number of 5-inch guns and anti-aircraft firepower of one destroyer. The
weight of a 16-inch projectile is something more than 2,000 pounds, more
than eight times that of the projectiles
of 8- or 6-inch guns of cruisers now
in use over there.

The range is more than 20 miles,
but Senator Russell claims that with
modern propellants the range can
approach 40 miles. This would bring
under pinpoint bombardment 500 to


600 vital targets along the strategic
routes from north to south. From
Haiphong and Hanoi south there are
two routes. One of these at this time
is used against the marines south of
the DMZ. It would be within range
of the 16-inch guns.

A glance at the map suggests that
at the narrow neck of North Vietnam
the range of the battleship spans almost the whole breadth of the country, cutting across vital road and railway lines from the north. With this
access closed, only jungle roads remain to the aggressor.

SUPERIOR ACCURACY

Our destroyers have come under
the damaging fire of shore batteries installed by Hanoi. These could be put
out of action by battleships.

Unlike aircraft, battleships can operate in bad weather and around the
clock. The accuracy of their fire is superior to that of aircraft, which must
contend with ground fire and enemy
aircraft.

The cost of reactivating one battleship is estimated at between $11 million and $20 million. But over a period
of time a battleship off Vietnam can
put more weight of shells on targets at
less expense than other arms. Lives of
air crews, which cannot be measured
in dollars, and their aircraft that may
cost more than $3 million each are being expended on targets that could as
well be erased by naval guns. The
battleship can accomplish supremely
well a number of missions unfulfilled
by other effective support weapons—
artillery, aircraft and tanks.

These immensely powerful ships
seem to have nine lives. In the late
1920s it was believed, after Gen. Billy
Mitchell had destroyed an old dreadnought with aircraft, that their day
was done. In the 1930s they were regarded as obsolete. But in the Pacific
island war the battleship rose phoenix-like from Ford Island to take its place
in the line. It was supplanted as the
first ship of the line by the carrier. But
it proved itself an almost invulnerable
anti-aircraft platform in protecting the
carrier and as an incomparable shore-bombardment as well as close-support
weapon. Then after a few years of inactivity it proved itself in the Korean
conflict. Now, once more, it may well
prove its value in Vietnam.

Newsweek, May 29, 1967