Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

California—No Vacancy

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—If all the people who
favor Harold Stassen for President
but are worried about his chances—if
all these people were laid end to end,
cold feet on furrowed brows, the Min-
nesota man would have a pathway to
the White House. This becomes more
and more evident to me as I travel
from one state to another. Stassen was
here recently on an avowed political
pilgrimage. Republican lead-
ers and others who talked
with him were impressed. He
has grown. He has ideas and
is forthright. He is likable.
The California attitude
toward Dewey is not unlike
that of other states I have
visited. There is no real hos-
tility toward him, but every-
where influential politicians
have a basic preference for
someone else. In Wisconsin it was
Stassen and MacArthur; in Montana,
Raymond Baldwin; in Washington,
Bricker; in Oregon, Vandenberg; and in
California, Warren. Dewey's strength
is born of a belief in his inevitable
nomination. Once anything impairs
that belief, he is gone. The deep roots
may not be there.
Every Republican with whom I have
talked in California says Dewey is weak
here. He lost the state disastrously in
1944. His appearance in Los Angeles in
the campaign was not successful. Mem-
ories of a huge meeting there, which
wilted during an inappropriate speech,
still haunt those who were locally re-
sponsible. Perhaps Dewey's California
friends have told him this. They should,
in any event. The damage is not irrep-
arable. But Dewey probably cannot
repair it by a barnstorming visit. Gov-
ernor Warren is not favorable to active
efforts in his state by outside Republi-
cans. And Warren will have the last
California word in Philadelphia next
year.

WARREN himself is silent about his
ambitions. He will head the dele-
gation and will direct its action. Beyond
this, he will not commit himself. But
those who know him draw a number of
pertinent inferences. He is more inter-
ested in the subject of his Presidential
possibilities than he was in 1944. He
seems to like to have his name men-
tioned. He will hold a firmer grip on
the delegation than he did before. He
probably has not committed himself to
Dewey or Stassen, with whom he has
talked. Above all, he believes in timing
and is quite certain that the time is
not yet ripe for a movement in his favor.
Some of Warren's personal traits
must be understood in evaluating his
intentions and his chances. He is an
extremely friendly and cordial person
to meet. At first glance, there is every
evidence of perfect frank-
ness. But he knows what he
is saying, and he keeps his
deepest counsel for himself.
He ponders issues and deci-
sions a long time before he
moves. No one can hurry
him. He explores all the evi-
dence. And his sense of pub-
lic opinion is exceedingly
good.
In appraising Warren's at-
titude toward a Presidential nomina-
tion, it is important to note that he
has never been defeated for public of-
fice. During nearly 25 years in public
office he has always moved upward
with apparent ease. He waits until op-
position is light and then moves to a
better job. Each of his elections has
been easier than the preceding one.
Suffice it to say that if and when he
seeks the Republican nomination, it
will be because he thinks he has a good
chance to get it. And it is probable
that his attitude toward a Vice Presi-
dential nomination will be what it was
in 1944. He thinks the governorship of
California is a better job.

WARREN'S dominance in California
is made easier by the agonies of
the opposition. A terrific fight is going
on in the Democratic party. A virile
and aggressive movement, headed by
Robert W. Kenney, former attorney
general, is under way to carry the state
for Henry Wallace over President Tru-
man in next year's Presidential primary.
This drive will be important, but it is
not likely to succeed. Whether the Wal-
lace faction will form a third party, if
Truman gets the delegation, is not
clear. The Wallace people promise to
fight to the bitter end. If that end is the
primary, Truman may carry the state.
If it is the election, any Republican can
carry it. Meanwhile, James Roosevelt,
as state chairman is trying to hold his
party together. But that is a task only
James's father was able to do.

Newsweek, August 18, 1947