Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting column breaks and omitting the advertisement:


Perspective
Democratic Prospects
by RAYMOND MOLEY

It's no surprise to observers of politics that the Democratic party, which was returned to office by so overwhelming a majority in 1936, now looks like a vastly poorer bet for 1940. As soon as the returns of the 1936 election were in, it was apparent that Mr. Roosevelt's victory was the product of a coalition whose like this country had never seen before. It was clear that Mr. Roosevelt would have to employ all his political genius to hold on both to the normal Democratic voters and to the millions of heterogeneous recruits that made his smashing victory possible.

No wise person expected that he could succeed in discovering the least common denominator of the wishes of all his supporters that year. The surprise is how many he has succeeded in alienating. The surprise is the increasing evidence of bad political judgment—a judgment that expressed itself in insistence upon Court-packing long after that cause was lost, in an attempted political "purge" which was foredoomed to failure and, most recently, in a refusal to recognize the real meaning of last November's elections.

It is Mr. Roosevelt's recent capacity to make mistakes that makes it difficult to determine what he will do about the nomination in 1940. By examining the weather charts and the orders under which a boat is sailing, an experienced seaman can pretty easily predict what the captain is likely to do, unless the captain is in the habit of making mistakes. In that case, anything may happen. Well, almost anything may happen between now and the convention in 1940.

But there are a few things that are more likely to happen than others. Mr. Roosevelt could conceivably:

1—announce, say next fall, that he positively will not consider accepting renomination, that, if renominated, he will not run and that if reelected he will not serve;

2—permit it to be pretty generally known that he is not a candidate, allow members of his official family to come out as candidates themselves (at this writing at least five of his Cabinet are putative candidates), but avoid a commitment as to his own course in order to prepare the way for a possible subsequent entry himself;

3—come out squarely for some specific candidate and throw his entire influence behind that candidate, as Theodore Roosevelt did with Taft;

4—say that he is for anyone who favors his policies, while, at the same time, he privately seeks to eliminate candidates by condemning them, as he has done in one or two cases;

5—remain a factor up to the last minute, either by making an equivocal statement as to his own candidacy or by saying nothing, thus keeping at a tremendous disadvantage those candidates bound by ties of official loyalty.

But of these five courses, I suspect that (2) and (4) are much more likely than (1), (3) and (5).

Meanwhile, what will the rest of the party leaders do? They are already quietly going ahead and trying to line up delegates. At this time it seems a pretty safe bet that, while Garner, Hull, Farley, Clark, McNutt and Wheeler will have some delegates, no one will have a majority before the convention begins. It also looks as though Garner will have considerably more than the others. If Roosevelt keeps hands off, either Garner or Farley could prevent the nomination of anyone, and, if the two join forces, they probably could succeed in nominating someone.

Mr. Roosevelt will unquestionably have a hard time getting a hand-picked candidate, if he should decide on that course. He might like either Hopkins or Murphy, but it is quite unlikely that either could be nominated, even if Roosevelt got frankly behind one or the other. Two years ago I would have expected him to single out Alben Barkley, but there is every indication that in elevating Barkley to the leadership of the Senate he extinguished him as a potential candidate. Roosevelt might conceivably favor the nomination of Stanley Reed of the Supreme Court, but party members are quick to point out that Reed was a Hoover appointee with a rather ambiguous political past. There are, in short, few likely candidates around Roosevelt to whom he'd be willing to give his blessing, and it is difficult to see how Roosevelt can force upon the party a candidate that he might personally pick out of obscurity.

While the power of a sitting President over a convention made up at least in half of government jobholders is very great, the Roosevelt influence will be almost wholly negative.

That is true in part because of the increasing doubt of his political astuteness within the party and in part because Roosevelt has not yet achieved the recovery promised the people six years ago. Exceedingly shrewd party leaders are now saying privately that Roosevelt could not be elected at this moment even if he were running for a second rather than a third term. As this feeling spreads, his positive influence in the party dwindles.

It is difficult for those who know him well to see how he is going to prevent it from declining more. He is so far from willing to confess political error that he is still explaining to his friends how the November election result in each state and Congressional district was due to some local circumstance unconnected with him. He is so reluctant to admit that many of his policies in the past four years have retarded recovery that he balks even over the use of the word "appeasement." These deeply significant facts are well known to the leaders. They bode ill for the maintenance of preeminent influence.

As an objective politician, Mr. Roosevelt has lost caste. As a reformer he has outstayed the market.

His policy of business appeasement has been forced upon him by a dominant public opinion and a mildly militant Congress. Even his more radical advisers accept its necessity, although there are unfounded rumors that they are bitter at Hopkins and Morgenthau. They reason that, if business improves as a result, Roosevelt can take credit; if it doesn't, they can blame business.

The policy of appeasement is based upon a sound premise—both politically and economically. The only question is whether it has come too late.

If, within four or five months, the evidence is that it has, we may expect the radical members of the Administration to announce that they have reconciled themselves to seeing the party defeated in 1940 in order that there may be a big purge and a new New Deal party headed by Roosevelt in 1944. That will actually represent their hopes—hopes sure to be blasted. History teems with instances of renunciation intended to be temporary but proving to be permanent.

The Democratic party, if it is to meet the confidence of the country in the next election, must be a living organism with a vital but not radical program. It must promise the country not a superman as President, but responsible, reasonable party government by men experienced in public affairs. Its candidate must be a person who can stand on his own feet. The voters are not going to elect a stooge. They are not going to permit the country to be governed from Hyde Park.

All in all, it would seem that Garner, Clark and Farley come closer to meeting these requirements than any of the others who have yet appeared. But it would be a rash man who would venture to predict now that any of them would be nominated. Fifteen ominous months lie ahead.