Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and column layout. Some minor manual adjustments might still be needed for optimal formatting.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

No Lenins

It now appears that the chances of
England's turning violently to the left are
less than they seemed to be a year ago.
Despite the extremism of the Labor party's
declaration of policy in 1940 and despite
the clamor of left-wing Americans the pos-
sibility of "a revolution within a war" has
grown dimmer.

This does not mean that there has been
any lessening of the radicalism of certain
self-styled intellectuals in English labor
circles. They still sing their songs of social
change. But a closer inspection of the La-
bor members of the Cabinet itself reveals
that there, significantly, there is no mate-
rial for flaming revolutionary leadership.
And when such leadership is lacking, the
danger of violent change is decidedly
lessened.

Bevin, Attlee, Morrison and the other
Labor leaders are hard-working, loyal to
the traditions of Parliamentary govern-
ment and eager to carry on the war effort
with a minimum of domestic reconstruc-
tion. They do not seem to like the formula
of "a revolution within a war." There does
not appear to be a Robespierre or a Lenin
among them.

Ernest Bevin, for instance, has been
much publicized in this country by Harold
Laski and others. He has been heralded as
the true leader of a new order. It has been
said over and over that he would be Prime
Minister if "something should happen to
Churchill." But that is not the belief of
people who know the political situation in
England best.

Before the war Bevin was little known
outside of labor circles. He was not a mem-
ber of Parliament. He had been secretary
of the Transport and Service Workers
Union which is said to be the largest union
in the world. As such, he possessed great
power. He possesses great power still, but
not the capacity for political leadership.
Although Bevin and Churchill now work
effectively together in a common cause,
Bevin's union activities in the past twenty
years have frequently been opposed by
Churchill. Trade unionism is Bevin's life,
and he hates and wants to fight totalitar-
ianism especially because it destroys trade
unionism. In the course of that fight, he
has shown himself to be a strong, steady,
fundamentally conservative Labor leader,
personally ambitious, but scarcely the man
to wade through mobs to power. He is not
only incapable of winning the enthusiasm
of masses of the people but, as Patricia
Strauss points out in her book, Bevin &
Co.: "He has no time for political theories,
and regards the Labor party as an annoy-
ing necessity to the furtherance of the
trade-union movement. He resists every
effort of the political side of the move-
ment to strengthen itself in relation to
the trade-union side."

This is not the picture of a revolutionist.
Such men are invaluable in emergencies,
but they do not create emergencies. There
is, of course, a leveling of fortunes in Eng-
land and, in the peace to come, there will
be an increasing effort to set up more fa-
vorable conditions for labor. But that is
not revolution. All this will disappoint
Americans who believe in "a revolution
within a war." But it is reassuring to those
who are determined to maintain a re-
public here despite what may happen
abroad.

Tough Going

From every side come reports of in-
creasing tension and confusion in the de-
fense organization in Washington. It is a
fair guess that they will get worse before
they get better. The appointment of Judge
Samuel I. Rosenman to report on the con-
flict over priorities between the OPM and
the OPACS is tacit recognition of one of
the sharpest criticisms that has been made
about the defense organization. But the
critical reports suggest that there are trou-
bles even deeper than the OPM-OPACS
conflict. So the talk of reorganization in-
evitably covers more ground.

Unfortunately, the long-delayed reor-
ganization begins to seem imminent just
when it is necessary to convince the public
that the defense agencies are doing all that
is humanly possible to see that the amount
of economic dislocation caused by the de-
fense effort is being held down to a mini-
mum. That the public's spirits are low no
one can doubt after reading last week's
statements about morale by the President
and Mr. Knudsen. And it is regrettable
that reorganization should have been put
off to the point where it coincides with the
pinch the civilian population is beginning
to feel.

That pinch is showing itself in many
ways other than rising prices. To begin
with, scarcities of metal are becoming more
severe. With the coming of those scarcities,
we are beginning to see the fallacies that
lay behind the expectations that our indus-
trial plant could be made over in a few
days to provide defense materials. It is
true, of course, that American manufac-
turing industries were built around the
fabrication of metals. It is also true that
they were developed to produce at great
speed and in great quantities. But beyond
the fact that they dealt in metals, that
they understood mass-production methods
and that they were fast-moving, they had
few points in common with the arma-
ment-producing system the war effort re-
quires.

The American genius for working in
metals has built up a special kind of civi-
lization here, and perhaps a somewhat brit-
tle one. It ran to skyscrapers-almost ex-
clusive with us to automobiles, to house-
hold appliances, farm machinery and so on.
Our machinery has been specialized for
the American scene, and its workers are
specialized too. Shifting the men and the
machines to the manufacture of the heavy
material needed in the armament race
means retooling, sometimes retraining and
often shutdowns of plant while all this
goes on. Some of the shifts are as vast and
time-consuming as the job that Henry
Ford tackled when he made his change
from Model T to Model A.

Then comes the discovery that since
metals are scarce, the users who are not
engaging in defense production will have
to cut down their demands or even go
without. And what is true of metals is true
in some degree of other materials needed
for defense. The result is more shutdowns,
actual or threatened, in which small manu-
facturers and their employees are partic-
ularly hard hit.

Beyond this, the squeeze is being felt in
ways anticipated by only a few. One of the
most serious of them is a shortage of ex-
ecutives, managers and supervisors. For
over a year many of these men have been
working feverishly, dealing with Washing-
ton, with labor and with subcontractors at
the very moment that they were being
compelled both to plan and carry out
enormous production changes and to begin
training more men equipped to handle
managerial jobs. Some of them are plainly
showing the effects of these grueling
months, and yet, in many cases, the
new men who are being trained to re-
lieve and supplement them are not yet
prepared to take over. Strange as it may
seem, then, the measure of improvement
in the rate of armament production for
some months to come will depend in no
slight degree upon how much human be-
ings can stand by way of overwork and
nervous strain.

In such circumstances, hardships are im-
posed upon great numbers of the Amer-
ican people. Irritated and more than a lit-
tle bewildered, they give the appearance of
apathy that prompts Mr. Knudsen to de-
plore their failure to show "proper spirit"
in the defense effort. But it is important
to remember that hardships are difficult
for them to bear with fortitude when they
believe that more efficient defense organ-
ization could somehow make the burden
lighter.