Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the original image quality and layout.


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

It Came to Dinner
by Raymond Moley

LOS ANGELES—You might, if you
wanted to illustrate this piece
with a cartoon, draw the figure of a
Trojan horse. Or you might draw
something to suggest that dramatic
character who came to dinner and
stayed on and on. Either would suggest
the problem of the state of California
seeking to maintain its sovereign
authority over its own resources, despite
the presence of a vast
Federal establishment in its
very vitals which is seeking
constantly to enlarge its
hold and to expand its already
great power through
Federal money.

The Central Valley of California
extends from Goose
Lake on the Oregon border
to the edge of the mountains about 40
miles north of
Los Angeles. The drainage basin of
that area comprises some 40,000
square miles, about the area of the
state of Virginia.

The Central Valley Project is regarded
as a part of an ultimate master
series of public works to conserve and
develop the resources of the great
Central Valley. It includes multiple-
purpose dams, reservoirs, canals, electric-
power plants, and transmission
lines. The Sacramento River flows
down from the north and the San
Joaquin from the south. The former
has a surplus of water; the latter, a
serious deficiency. The project contemplates
the redistribution of water.

In the course of damming up and
redistributing water, a great deal of
electric power is developed and sold.
This power business, which was originally
regarded as incidental, has become a
vast business operation.

In 1933, the project was authorized
by the California Legislature as a
state undertaking. However, instead of
attempting to finance the project
through the credit of the state, efforts
were made to get Federal assistance.
Roosevelt gladly moved in with emergency-relief
money in 1935, and from
then on the Federal government practically
took over. It should be noted
that while the 1936 contract provided

unable to insist upon this right. Rapidly
the Federal Bureau of Reclamation
reduced the state authority to
complete impotence.

Meanwhile, the tax-free Federal
bureau entered into ruthless competition
with private-power companies. It has
been taking a loss in the original cost
of production but also absorbing
the cost of transmission and line loss.
Power is sold to various
Federal enterprises; municipal-
public-power organizations,
irrigation districts, and
the Rural Electrification
Authority. This is a large
subsidy at the expense of
the nation’s taxpayers.

The threat presented by this great
Federal establishment
is deeply disturbing to
conservative people, and
the Farm Bureau Federation, the
State Chamber of Commerce, and
others have formed a statewide committee
to carry on a drive for state
ownership of the entire project to be
secured through the issuing of bonds.

Formidable opposition to the further
extension of the Federal government
is also presented by the Pacific
Gas and Electric Co., which is most
directly affected, the Southern California
Edison, and other companies in
the southern part of the state which are
affected by other Federal projects.
These companies conceive the
greatest public advantage to come
from cooperation between them and
the Federal and local establishments.
Moreover, private companies are ready
to undertake most of the proposals
of the reclamation bureau that will be
a further burden on the Federal
Treasury. Since the installations of
such companies are privately financed
and are subject to taxation, they
certainly offer a favorable opportunity
for Federal economies. And since the
rates charged the public for electric
power are subject to strict legal regulation,
there could be no exploitation of
consumers by such private expansion.

It is about time to face the extravagance
as well as the dangers
of the further socialization of electric
power. The fallacies of the extreme
advocates of public power have held
the stage too long.

Newsweek, June 1, 1953

Page 937 of 1197