Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

**Senator Kerr's Trojan Horse**

by Raymond Moley

THE President, in his budget message last year, made a guarded reference to the possibility of permitting the Tennessee Valley Authority to issue its own revenue bonds in order to relieve the budget of annual appropriations and presumably to avoid the ceiling on the national debt. He said that the TVA should make certain studies of the subject. Later the Hoover commission recommended that the TVA be permitted to sell its own bonds to the public "for their future improvements, when authorized by the Congress...without subordinating the present Federal investment."

Following the President's suggestion, the TVA bureaucracy prepared a bill for submission to Congress. The Bureau of the Budget found this bill to be not in accord with the President's ideas and prepared an alternative draft. When the subject came before a subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Public Works, the chairman, Robert S. Kerr, under the guidance of that ardent sponsor of the TVA, Albert Gore, produced S. 2373.

Never was an innocent and sound idea so transformed. Instead of strictly keeping the TVA responsible to Congress it would remove any effective control by Congress. Instead of lowering the level of public debt, it would create new and unlimited obligations. Instead of limiting the growth of the TVA to the area for which it was originally created, the Kerr bill would give it the means to proliferate in all directions. In short, the Kerr bill is a charter of monopoly.

Two factors must be considered: The permissive authority and the means available to exercise that permissive authority. Let us consider first the powers and then the means.

Under the Kerr bill, revenue bonds could be issued under the sole authority of the TVA board in what Comptroller General Campbell says would be "unlimited amounts." The money realized could be used to expand present facilities, to buy or lease competitive private electric utility companies in states and communities beyond the present immense area of the TVA. No private utility within hundreds of miles of the Tennessee Valley would be safe from subsidized competition.

Comptroller General Campbell in a powerful letter condemning the Kerr bill points out that since the Federal government will presently, through the AEC, buy half the output of the TVA, it is of great importance to have Congress examine its past and proposed operations annually. Campbell also points out that, since the proposed borrowing authority would be outside the Federal debt ceiling, the true financial obligations of the government would be obscured. Both Campbell and Kerr say that while nominally these bonds would not be guaranteed by the United States, they would in fact be moral and equitable obligations of the government. Kerr states that they would have "the dignity and obligation of a government bond." Finally, the provisions of existing law, which require the TVA to pay back to the Treasury what has been invested, would be repealed.

The present financial structure of the TVA shows that the taxpayers of the entire nation have already been tapped for approximately $2 billion for the TVA's subsidized services to a relatively small part of the nation. That figure includes its admitted investment in plant, in unpaid interest and taxes, allowances for write-offs, and other items.

The means to expand can be appreciated by noting that in the fiscal year 1955 after all obligations were paid (without, of course, payment of taxes or interest), there was a remainder of something more that $50 million. Under the Kerr bill this or a similar amount could be used annually for interest on TVA revenue bonds. That could mean a capital sum annually somewhere between one and two billion dollars to be used, among other things, for expansion.

THESE bonds, incidentally, would be tax exempt, which would place a heavy handicap on private utilities seeking to sell their own taxable bonds in the same financial market. Senator Norris, the departed father of the TVA, would never have dreamed of such a future for his child.

Newsweek, March 5, 1956