Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Peace That Kills
by Raymond Moley

WHEN I was a member of the
Roosevelt Administration for a
short time in 1933 and new agencies
of government were appearing almost
every hour, I had a letter from a friend
suggesting that we were "making the
world safe for bureaucracy." This annoyed me, because for the moment it
seemed that the President and Congress were buying recovery, economic
stability, and some social justice at a
tolerable price. Two years later, from
a detached position outside the government, I wondered about the price.
Before long, my doubts became a conviction that the price was very great,
not just in money, but in many more
intangible but more important forms.
The reminder of my friend in 1933
came back to me as I read a most impressive address by the great historian
of the ancient world, Arnold J.
Toynbee, at the 50th anniversary of
the Harvard Business School.
The speaker reminded his audience
of the immense change that has taken
place in business management in those
50 years, and drawing from his knowledge of Roman history offered a suggestion of things to come. Britain since
1908 has become semisocialist. In the
United States we have traveled a considerable distance on that road, and
we are moving fast. To be sure, our
objectives are deep in the heart's desire. The voters have been saying that.

BUSINESSMEN OF ROME

Without too much emphasis on the
old argument which climaxes every
argument—that this or that is why
Rome fell—Toynbee carried his hearers back to the businessmen of Rome.
They were a rough, predatory, and
parasitic lot in the two centuries
before Caesar and Augustus. The Roman government, busy with military
conquest, was incredibly inefficient as
a civil institution. It was unable to
provide for itself what its military
power demanded. And so it farmed
out to the businessmen the job of
supplying its armies and of keeping
the people at home quiet. What we
now call procurement, as well as the
collection of taxes, and the operation
of farms and mines were turned over
to private persons. Ultimately, the
government became bankrupt and
was compelled to depend upon private usurers to supply its treasury.
These private businessmen were shockingly corrupt, and the august
senate and people knew it. But they
were indispensable and went their
crooked way.
When Julius and Augustus Caesar
obliterated all but the shell of the
bumbling republic, the progeny of
these faithless entrepreneurs were
simply made the tool of government
and were turned into domesticated
civil servants. Their slave trade was
taken over. Taxes were once more
collected by the government. Farming
out by contract was cut to a minimum.

NO MORE CICEROS

The Romans paid for their golden
age of peace with the very heart and
soul of their nation. For bureaucracy
breeds dullness and decay. Its very
instinct is hostile to creation, initiative,
and invention. The bureaucrat never
moves toward his objective in a
straight line. He must consult colleagues, committees, and precedents.
His motto is correct procedure, the
rules of which are inherited from a
long succession of earlier bureaucrats.
His marks for promotion are determined not by his ratio of failures and
successes, but by his avoidance of
breaking rules and precedents.
Rome in the imperial peace that
followed the accession of Augustus
lost fewer lives on the battlefield but
lost the spirit of its people. Its creative
art lapsed into mediocrity. Tacitus
wrote in the second century of the
Augustan peace that oratory had
withered. Everything was so nice and
well-ordered that there was nothing
worth talking about. There were no
more Ciceros. Rome might have had
unbreakable glass and a steam-turbine
engine, but the emperors suppressed
invention. The soldiers at the borders
were among the few who faced a
challenge. At home, the Christians
struggled for change, and they inherited the earth.
Are we on this Roman road? Do
the big corporations realize the danger? Corporations into which young
men and women go with the assurance of pensions, perquisites, and promotion—if they are true organization
men? Is the apple ripening for the
collectivist basket?

Newsweek, December 15, 1958