Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


**Is It Wrong to Be Big?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

ONCE more there is played that lusty perennial of the political stage, "Is It Wrong to Be Big in Business?" The production is offered this time by the House Judiciary Committee, and the active director is the chairman, Emanuel Celler. For the most part, the questions propounded to the witnesses hark back to far-off days when other political figures gained fame in this play. Long ago there was William Jennings Bryan, with a fistful of figures and an armful of words. Later there were Arsène Pujo and his counsel, Samuel Untermyer. Then there was Frank Walsh. And finally, before the recent war, there was Sen. Joseph O'Mahoney with his Temporary National Economic Committee.

The generalities that come from these inquiries make wonderful political oratory. A statistic or two torn from its context, mixed with a few provocative generalities, is guaranteed to inflame and excite the hearer and move him to vote for the speaker. Nothing much happens in Congress or in the courts, because when it comes down to making and interpreting law, mere oratory cannot suffice, and clichés vanish before facts.

That is not to say that evils were not present when the late Louis D. Brandeis made powerful arguments against monopolistic practices. But a careful rereading of the arguments he made 30 or more years ago reveals that the economic world which he confronted no longer exists. Some of the Brandeis disciples will not admit that and still use his name and fame to justify attacks upon situations which the great jurist never lived to see.

THE world has moved, but the political mind tarries. Moreover, there has been progress in economic research—cold, analytical, impartial—and a survey of the fruits of that research can provide answers, mostly reassuring, to the questions of public interest involved in business size. Without, it may be added, a Congressional investigation.

Government people concerned in law enforcement now hasten to assure us that there is nothing wrong in size per se. But in the course of their discussions the word "big" is so intermingled with the word "monopoly" that the inference is left that there is something in bigness which is inimical to littleness, to labor, to consumers, and to the republic.

That sort of idea prevails, despite the fact that authentic figures, mostly compiled by the Department of Commerce itself, disprove such inferences. For example, the number of business firms in operation has grown over the past 50 years at about the same rate as the nonfarm population. Corporations, large and small, account for about half the economic activity of the country, and in twenty years that proportion has not appreciably changed. Between 1939 and 1946 the largest manufacturing corporations grew at a slower rate than the small ones. There have been fatalities among big companies as well as among small ones.

As far as profits are concerned, the smalls earn about the same rate of return as the bigs. As far as competition is concerned, there seems to be as much evidence of that in fields occupied by big concerns as in others.

THE element of size, therefore, has no bearing on the questions of fair practices, monopoly, or price fixing— matters in which government has a legitimate concern.

Relative efficiency is a question with which the government has no legitimate concern. Bigness prevails in some fields; smallness in others. The advantage to the consumer of mass production in certain lines is self-evident. Also, in general, wages are rather better in large concerns. There is usually a point at which efficiency does not increase with size, but that must be determined by business judgment, not by government rules.

The question with which government should really be concerned is the influence of government policies on small businesses. In matters of taxation, regulation, and labor policy, a big and growing government is constantly pressing upon small business, restricting its operations and endangering its existence. That is where Chairman Celler and his committee should look for the danger of concentration.

Newsweek, December 19, 1949