Northwest Power Needs

by Raymond Moley

A WEEK'S visit to the Northwest—an
annual affair by now—once more
confirms my impression that this rapidly
growing region needs less politics and
more electricity. Peaceful coexistence
between the two seems at the moment
impossible. Two practical problems
are involved, and a third: The much
more difficult task of bringing regional
political interests within the orbit of
reason and common sense.

The first of the practical problems is
to provide, within the next ten or fifteen
years, sufficient electric energy for the
two states primarily involved, Washington
and Oregon. The second is to find a way
by which the power generated by Federal
agencies can be equitably divided
between the two states.

The major source of power for some
years must be from falling water. The
great Northwest Power Pool has 8 million
kilowatts capacity, of which only 450
thousand are steam generated. The great
rivers in the region make this relatively
cheap power. Generation of electricity by
oil, gas, and nuclear energy is around the
corner but cannot be counted upon in the
immediate emergency.

SEARCH FOR BILLIONS

But while hydroelectric energy is
relatively cheap, it costs a lot of money
to build the installations and buy
equipment to produce and distribute it.
In the next eight years, it is estimated,
$2.5 billion to $3 billion of capital will be
required to meet the needs of a growing
population. Three quarters of a billion of
this will come from the Federal government
to complete Federal projects under
construction such as Chief Joseph, The
Dalles, and Ice Harbor dams. That leaves
$2 billion to be found somewhere to make
up the difference. Beyond that, in the
period 1965-70, an additional $2.5 billion
will be required.

Despite all the piety and wit of the
politicians in Congress who are advocating
Federal spending for power, and all the
machinations of government bureaucrats
who, as one of them put it, "love to push
rivers around," Congress is not going to
provide two states anything like that
amount of money. In the past ten years the
Northwest has been getting 40 percent of
the Federal money spent for hydro
developments, and that means only about
$150 million a year. This average is not
likely to be increased in the face of the
critical attitude of congressmen from big
taxpaying states. The failure of the great
Hells Canyon crusade proves that.

To meet the need, everybody will have
to chip in—private utilities, public-utility
districts, municipally owned operations, and
cooperatives. The ultimate source of capital
must be the capital market, in which private
investors will be interested in good
management and a fair return.

PARTNERSHIP LOGIC

Thus there is need for the combined
efforts of all groups, with reasonable
Federal assistance. This plain logic of the
situation makes the President's partnership
policy good sense. The second problem has
to do with discrimination established under
Federal law which directs that in the disposal
of power generated by the Federal
government preference shall be given to
public bodies and cooperatives. This is
important to the people of Oregon, who are
largely served by private companies and
who, in election after election, have rejected
proposals to create public-power districts.

On the other hand, 60 per cent of
Washington's requirement is met by public
power. Therefore, with the growth of
population in the two states, Washington
will get a relatively larger share. At the
present time Oregon gets 37 per cent, which
is about right in respect to the relative
populations of the states. By 1960, however,
this will decline to 31 per cent, and in 1965
will drop to 15 per cent.

The companies in the Northwest are
building steadily to make up the difference,
however, and have under construction or
licensed their own hydroelectric facilities for
2 million kilowatts and have applications
pending before the Federal Power Commission
for 1,250,000 more.

The Federal preference clause discrimination
underlines the necessity that private
investors' money be permitted to meet the
growing needs of the region. But the
objective of the public-power politicians is
still all-Federal or nothing.

Newsweek, July 29, 1957