Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
In Again, Out Again

Last week the Administration's
basic confusion revealed itself abruptly
again.

Just when the list of White House visi-
tors—including, as it did, such men as my
old friends Berle and Tugwell, who are
noted for their pragmatic attitude toward
the problem of industrial size—fed the
hope that the President was seriously con-
sidering a course of action more construc-
tive than the trust-busting jihad we were
hearing about two weeks ago, the most
extreme expression to date of the theory
of Enforced Atomization came from the
White House.

Just when we were being told that it was
a mistake to lump all business, the good
and the bad, together, we were also told
that all holding companies of whatever
nature and in whatever field must be de-
stroyed—including, presumably, General
Motors, the American Telephone & Tele-
graph, United States Steel, General Elec-
tric and hundreds of others.

Just when there was promise that our
immediate problems of revising the tax
laws, releasing railroad and utility pur-
chasing power, stimulating the construc-
tion industries and getting men back to
work would be realistically dealt with, we
were invited to rush off in another direc-
tion and enlist in a new crusade.

Word comes from Washington that the
delighted advocates of Enforced Atomiza-
tion are assuring the alarmed members of
the Concentration-and-Control faction that
the abolition of all holding companies
would not be such a serious thing at all.
Holding companies, they assert, could be
transformed in short order either into
operating companies or investment trusts,
and all economic life would continue as
before the Great Pulverization.

If this were true, then the only object
of this policy would be to give all the
corporation lawyers of the country a picnic.
But quite obviously it is not true. Quite
obviously those who advocate this policy
intend to perform an operation on the eco-
nomic structure so extensive and so grave
that it would take a decade at the very
least to complete.

And what is this operation really cal-
culated to do? Will it loosen the floodgates
of investment capital? Will it stimulate the
heavy industries? Will it increase employ-
ment by increasing production, lowering
prices and expanding markets? Not in the
slightest. Such an enforced atomization of
big business would merely subject the eco-
nomic structure to stresses and strains so
much heavier than those it is with diffi-
culty withstanding now, that it would rock
on its very foundations.

What then can explain the proposal of
such a move at this time? The answer is
simple. Mr. Roosevelt is convinced that we
shall have recovery by April regardless of
anything the Administration says or does.

Which points to the final contradiction
—the ultimate in paradoxes.

If recovery will come in April regardless
of Administration policies, then recovery is
the product of "natural causes." (Remem-
ber them? President Hoover used to talk
about them.) And if "natural causes" de-
termine irresistibly and inexorably the
course of economic forces, why is it neces-
sary for government to direct and canal-
ize them? If, at any moment, the patient
is going to be able to pull himself to his
feet and, hale and hearty, go back to work,
why is it necessary for the doctor to send
him to the hospital for a major operation?

It is clear that Congress would fight any
legislation embodying a proposal of this
nature with all the determination that went
into the Court fight. But in the cross fire
of such a battle the remnant of business
confidence would be shot to bits.

Fortunately this is not likely to oc-
cur. We may expect to see a tempering,
toning down and "clarification" of the
holding-company pronunciamento. And ex-
pect, too, that every gesture of friendliness
and cooperation with trustworthy advisers
will be vitiated by some such expression of
economic nihilism in order to keep the
Mavericks and the Jacksons happy.

Mr. Justice Reed

The appointment of Stanley Reed
to the Supreme Court will live in history as
among the finest acts of President Roose-
velt. Learned in the law, humane in out-
look, pacific in method, Stanley Reed is
the very embodiment of those qualities
that bring respect and dignity to the
high court.

The 60 Families

It is a pity that Messrs. Ickes and
Jackson could not have exercised more dis-
crimination in their acceptance of the
book, "America's 60 Families," as a text.
Every day new evidence of the book's
NEWSWEEK
doubtful accuracy rolls in. Editorials in
various places have pointed out specific
misstatements of fact and uncovered spe-
cific sophistries. But the most devastating
dissection appears in The Annalist of Jan-
uary 14, 1938. The authors of this checkup
have wisely limited themselves to a presen-
tation of the statistical errors on which so
much of Mr. Lundberg's flamboyant super-
structure rests, and their evidence is con-
clusive that the book is shot through with
inaccuracy.

Yet much as I blame responsible public
officials for publicizing a work of this kind,
I feel that the reputable journalists and
historians who casually endorsed it in ex-
travagant terms are even more blame-
worthy. Politicians as well as the public
generally have a right to look to historians,
commentators and reviewers for critical
and unbiased judgments, and when they
do, such leaders of opinion, in the famous
words of the President, the Secretary of
the Interior and the Assistant Attorney
General, should not let them down.

Installment Buying

In 1934 the Federal Housing Ad-
ministration guaranteed the financing of
the purchase of hundreds of millions of dol-
lars' worth of oil burners, refrigerators,
stoves, sinks and the like with no down
payment, three to five years to pay and
at a 5 per cent discount rate. Its losses
proved to be only about 80 cents on $100,
and the success of this experience was
largely responsible for the astounding re-
laxation of consumer credit terms which
was made by private business in the last
two years.

More recently, the Federal Reserve
stimulated that tendency by making in-
stallment paper eligible for rediscount.

And yet only last week word came from
Washington that, in the view of the Ad-
ministration, installment selling is one of
the major devils in the economic miracle
play now in progress—this despite the fact
that there is no evidence that the cost of
consumer credit has been an economic loss,
a loss in the volume of wealth produced.

The consensus of opinion among econo-
mists is that installment buying has in-
creased rather than decreased the amount
of goods produced with a given amount of
labor and capital. It has, further, reduced
the price of goods by increasing the volume
of sales.

Whatever the abuses of installment sell-
ing, and there are abuses, it has diminished
with a vengeance these past months—not
because the brakes were applied by govern-
ment, the banks, finance companies or
businessmen, but because the public ab-
ruptly ceased buying. This cessation of
consumer buying is one of our troubles
now.

All of which suggests that this is a good
time to promote, not to discourage it.