Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to separate the columns and avoid overlapping text. Note that perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and column layout.  Some minor inaccuracies might remain.


**The Ghost of King Caucus**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It is ironical that at a moment when Italy has selected a government by democratic means, the big uncle of the West, the United States, may be moving toward the selection of two candidates of whom neither is the popular choice of his party. That President Truman would be the free choice of Democratic voters is highly doubtful. But an Executive in power can control the convention of his party. And on the Republican side, the prospect of a deadlock may mean the nomination of Heaven-knows-whom.

The political history of this country shows an interesting pattern of centripetal and centrifugal forces. For long periods, party power gathers at the center of government. Then comes an explosion, and party control is scattered over the country. Later control gathers again in Washington.

From 1800 to 1824 there prevailed what was known as "King Caucus." Under this Federalist invention the party members in Congress met in caucus and selected their candidate. Then the electoral college, already reduced to rubber-stamp status, voted for the candidates thus selected.

King Caucus was, in reality, a legislative oligarchy embedded in the political, social and financial life of Washington. It resisted outlanders like Jackson, distrusted the people of the states and contemptuously sought to arrogate to itself the powers and privileges of government.

Accordingly, the caucus system was subjected to violent attack in the growing nation outside the capital. Editor Duane of the famous Philadelphia Aurora called the caucus a "Jacobinical conclave" and was called before the bar of an enraged Senate for his "false, defamatory, scandalous and malicious" assertions.

In the second Monroe term (1821-1825), with the end of the Virginia dynasty in sight, there was a mad scramble for the Presidency. Andrew Jackson, the implacable enemy of the Washington "Autocracy," was nominated by the Tennessee legislature in 1822. Clay, later that year, was named by the legislature of Kentucky; John Quincy Adams was later nominated by several New England states; Calhoun by South Carolina; De Witt Clinton by several counties in Ohio. All these saw the coming of the end of King Caucus and realized, too, that they had small chance of winning its approval. William H. Crawford, Monroe's Secretary of the Treasury and the very flower of Washington bureaucracy, was the choice of a rump caucus in 1824. The subsequent election was a wretched mélange of trading and intrigue. Clay's votes put Adams across, and Clay became Secretary of State. Violent charges ensued, and Jackson always believed his rivals to be guilty of a deal.

In any event, King Caucus died in 1824 and, under Jackson, political power was scattered. The convention system did not emerge until 1832, although it was suggested in 1824. The coming of the railroads after 1824 made the convention a reality. After Jackson, the Democratic party again fell under Washington control. Until 1860 Federal jobholders dominated conventions. The Republican party again smashed the domination of the capital with the coming of Lincoln. But by the Progressive era, after 1900, the old ascendency had reappeared. Then came the Presidential primary, intended to bring nominations more nearly under the control of the rank-and-file members of the parties. After about a third of the states had adopted the primary system, the movement lagged. In recent years, it has been made all but a dead letter because of favorite-son movements and the disinclination of candidates to enter.

Now we are approaching a Republican convention in which no candidate may have anything like a majority and in which most delegates will have no clear instructions from the voters. Already, Washington brushes aside new outsiders like Dewey and Stassen and is comfortably anticipating a dead-locked convention. Then, it is assumed, the more practical players of politics in Congress will take over and Martin, Vandenberg or someone else will emerge, with the Vice Presidency traded as a price for Stassen's votes. Thus, popular rule, entangled in its own machinery, would yield once more to the modern equivalent of King Caucus.

Newsweek, May 3, 1948