Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure:

**The Essential Ingredients of Victory**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It is becoming more evident every
day that Russian diplomacy is as good
as the Russian Army, which is saying
a lot. For diplomacy must be an
instrument of war, just as war is an
instrument of diplomacy. Great na-
tions in modern times have always, in
their most successful years, articulated
diplomacy and military power. Wit-
ness the Bismarck-Moltke combina-
tion over the mid-Victorian years or
the articulation of Disraeli's conduct
of foreign affairs with the manage-
ment of Britain's great fleet. These
two functions of national power are as
interdependent as are the two hands
of a prize fighter.

The current Russian campaign can
be interpreted in terms of diplomacy,
as well as of military tactics. The mo-
ment Russian armies approached the
borders of the Baltic states, Poland
and Bessarabia, the battle to save
Russia ended. Then began the battle
to beat Germany and to dominate
Eastern Europe. Military strategy
thereupon began to show evidences
of diplomatic direction. Military move-
ments ceased to have single obvious
objectives and seemed aimed at many
secondary objectives.

At the north, Leningrad was re-
lieved, and Russian armies reached
Narva. That, for practical purposes,
removed Finland as a belligerent.
Russia now can afford to carry on
Finnish negotiations indefinitely with
little attendant military strain. This
military move swung Sweden from a
neutrality against Russia to a neu-
trality against Germany. That endan-
gered Hitler's whole Norwegian setup.

The Russian push in the center con-
centrated south of the Pripet Marshes
and was directed toward Lwów. It
should be noted that Lwów is not
only a railway center, but that it is
near a large oil field, which is now
beyond a doubt, if not already in
Russian hands, useless to Hitler. The
push into Poland immediately threw
the Polish question into the laps of
Mr. Churchill, whose guests are the
members of the exile government,
and of Mr. Roosevelt, facing difficul-
ties with the vast Polish voting popu-
lation in northern cities. Here, again,
Russia can pause, while others worry
over Poland.

Next, the Great Bear approaches
a field in which it is entirely at home—
the Balkans. The drive into Rumania
is now having enormous repercussions.
While the Anglo-Americans are strug-
gling for the sterile peninsula of Italy,
Russia is on the way to cutting off at
Ploesti a third of Hitler's oil. More-
over, Hitler loses large supplies of
sugar in Bessarabia, vast amounts of
wheat in Rumania, and also the trac-
tors and trucks he sent to Rumanian
farms. The Russian threat sets the
ancient enemies, Rumania and Hun-
gary, at each other's throats.

Bulgaria eagerly awaits the Rus-
sian approach as a means of getting
out of the war. Tito, in perfect under-
standing with Stalin, moves from the
west toward Hungary. And Hungary,
as a fighting potential, ceases to exist.
Precious divisions of Germans must
move in. And to show how short of
manpower Hitler must be, he uses
Rumanians to police Hungary. This is
convincing evidence of lack of Ger-
man manpower, for nothing could
more infuriate Hungarians than this
importation of hated Rumanians. To
make matters worse, Hitler faces
revolution in Rumania, and that will
take more German divisions. Mean-
while, the encircling tactics of the
Russians in the south, similar to
Moltke's tactics in France in 1870,
are leaving an indeterminate number
of German troops to wither along the
Black Sea.

At this point, the meaning of
Stalin's recognition of Badoglio ap-
pears. It was aimed at the traditional
friendship between the rulers of Italy
and those of Hungary, pointed out
on this page several months ago. Stalin
smiles at Badoglio, friend of Horthy,
and Horthy goes into exile.

We may next expect violent quak-
ings in Turkey. Anglo-American di-
plomacy could do little with Inönü.
But before long, Russia will find him
an agreeable negotiator.

It is unnecessary to contrast these
Russian moves with the perilous con-
fusion and indecision of American and
British diplomacy. The trouble is not
that the two English-speaking coun-
tries are at odds. Neither of us has
reconciled our own diplomatic aims
with our military strategy. Russia has
done so and, hence, she moves relent-
lessly toward clear purposes. We may
not agree with all those purposes, but,
fortunately, one of them is the defeat
of Germany.