Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Appeal to Heaven

Obviously, Japan's Son of Heaven
is not a dunce, if we may judge from the
profuse apologies and the extraordinary
eagerness to make amends which have fol-
lowed the Panay incident. There is every
indication, in fact, that he is fully aware
of the trend of American opinion, which,
while overwhelmingly opposed to any ac-
tion that might lead to the use of our
armed forces in China, is nevertheless far
from being proof against the inflammatory
effects of flagrant assaults upon American
citizens and American property.

It would be difficult, of course, to blink
the fact that the Panay affair was precise-
ly that kind of incident. Every scrap of
evidence indicates that it was not an acci-
dent. It was either a deliberate attempt to
test the extent to which the Western pow-
ers are willing to go in defending their com-
mercial interests in China, or a piece of
fanatical destructiveness perpetrated by a
military machine out of control.

But the notable difference in tone be-
tween the acknowledgments of guilt of-
fered by the Japanese to England and
those offered to the United States implies
thorough recognition of these facts. It sug-
gests, also, that the Japanese can afford to
be arrogant to the British because they
know the British are much too worried
about Germany and Italy to move any con-
siderable force to the Far East, and that
we, on the contrary, are in a position to
give Japan our undivided attention—which
is exactly what the British would like to
have us do and exactly what the Japanese
do not want us to do.

The shrewdness of the President's direct
appeal to the Emperor is apparent. It
makes it possible for the civilian branch of
the Japanese Government to contest the
irresponsible arrogance of the military and
naval leaders at the very foot of the throne.
But it is going to be unfortunate if the
Roosevelt Administration tries to use the
Panay incident to whip up support for a
stronger policy in the Far East.

Within the Administration there are in-
fluential men who variously are moved by
the importance of protecting our rights
and interests in China, by the necessity of
checking Japanese expansion before it goes
much further, and by the belief that the
world can be saved from chaos only by the
collective efforts of the so-called democratic
and peace-loving nations. Under the sway
of these influences, the Administration has
ignored the plain mandate of Congress set
forth in the Neutrality Act. If its failure


to invoke the Act has caused no great
clamor, that is because it is generally rec-
ognized that the specific provisions of the
Act, drafted with reference to our expe-
rience in the years 1914-1917, do not af-
ford any important safeguards against our
involvement in war in the Far East.

Yet there is a widespread fear that our
diplomats may be maneuvered into a lead-
ership that the country as a whole does
not wish to assume. This is shown by the
astonishing support that has been given to
the Ludlow resolution, which proposes that
the Constitution be amended to require a
popular referendum on any declaration of
war unless the United States or its pos-
sessions are actually invaded. Many Con-
gressmen who recognize the theoretical un-
wisdom of any war-referendum plan are
supporting the Ludlow resolution because
of their profound fear of war and their de-
sire to place any obstacle, however clumsy,
in the path of those who would send the
United States out on a new world crusade.

It is probable that the similar, but less
sweeping resolution of Senator La Follette
will ultimately receive even more atten-
tion than the Ludlow plan, although it is
unlikely that either will be adopted.

That this pacific demonstration in Con-
gress will exercise a restraining influence
upon the Administration is clear. Which is
one factor that makes serious trouble im-
probable. Another is the fact that Japan,
unlike Germany in 1917, is not fighting for
her life. Hence, even if the notes that the
State Department is addressing to Japan
sound ominously like those of 1914-1917,
the tragedy of twenty years ago is not apt
to be repeated.

Rifts Within the Lute

It has scarcely been a secret that
monopolistic practices are a restrictive fac-
tor in economic life. But the recent
speeches of Assistant Attorney General
Jackson on the subject seem to suggest
that Bryan, Borah and many another old-
timer never lived, campaigned or garnered
votes by holding forth on the evils thereof.
This seedling statesman of the Democratic
party neither added anything to the in-
choate philosophy of these hardy peren-
nials, nor promoted his own growth, nor
contributed to the efforts of government
and business to achieve peace in our na-
tional life.

It is indeed a choice collection of eco-
NEWSWEEK
nomic half-truths that he spins. The Clay-
ton Act, he says, has been vitiated by the
interpretations it has been given—pre-
sumably by the courts. Note here that Mr.
Jackson does not recall the fact that no
President in twenty years has provided his
Administration with an intelligent and ef-
fective Federal Trade Commission. The
NRA, he says, was the result of failure to
enforce the antitrust laws; whereas every-
one in Washington who participated in the
creation of the NRA remembers that it was
designed, among other things, to relieve the
uncertainty and capriciousness that char-
acterized the enforcement of the antitrust
laws. "For the first time in history," he
says, "American industry is beginning to
believe in a low-price, high-volume policy,"
blissfully ignoring Mr. Ford and thousands
of other men who have built their business
on that exact policy. Monopoly, he says,
is indicated by such facts as the purchase
of 64 per cent of the tobacco crop by thir-
teen tobacco manufacturers, without men-
tion of the economies which may result
from large-scale manufacturing, the fierce-
ness of the competition which may exist be-
tween large-scale manufacturers in the
same field, or the specific number of com-
panies he would prefer to see buying 64 per
cent of the tobacco crop.

When does bigness cease to be efficient in
any particular field? When does competi-
tion begin to be uneconomic? How is it
possible to draw the line? None of these
questions does Mr. Jackson pretend to
answer. And his vagueness on these essen-
tials adds in no small measure to the vast
uncertainty that every business enterprise
is facing.

Such vagueness, moreover, when it is ac-
companied by the glaring omission of all
reference to increased labor costs as a fac-
tor in the rise of prices, does not seem to be
the result of inadvertence. The conclusion
is inescapable that it is a purposeful dis-
tortion designed to foment class conscious-
ness and class hostility. There has already
been enough of that kind of political horse-
play. This is hardly the moment for more
of it.

Sniping either from the ranks of gov-
ernment or business is certainly not going
to help the common search for a way out of
the recession. Nor are superficial observa-
tions on a number of unrelated economic
facts going to solve the major problem of
our industrial economy. If democracy and
capitalism are to survive, we must estab-
lish a flexible control sufficient to assure
the stable and continuous operation of the
machinery of production and distribution,
encouraging competition where that best
serves the public, and encouraging con-
certed action where that best serves the
public. It is to this problem that Mr.
Jackson can most usefully and energetical-
ly address himself.