Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:


Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Earl (One-Job-at-a-Time) Warren

by RAYMOND MOLEY

SACRAMENTO—Knowing Earl War-
ren for sixteen years has taught me that
the new Governor of California can be
depended upon to mean exactly what he
says. Asked about 1944, he says: "I
make it a practice never to spoil one
job by thinking about another." Mean-
while, the manifest enjoyment he is get-
ting from his job as governor, his
experience in dealing with state busi-
ness, the excellent appointments he has
made and his statewide popularity have
provided the makings for an extraordi-
narily distinguished job. Whatever that
may mean in the speculations of the
country in the next fifteen months is
of no concern to Warren. He believes
that good service is its own reward—a
sentiment that should adorn the walls
of 47 other governors' offices.

Two tests suggest themselves for
judging the quality of a new governor.
What sort of people does he have
around? What problems does he attack
first?

In the primaries Warren won the Re-
publican gubernatorial nomination and
narrowly missed being the Democratic
choice, too. He ran as a professed non-
partisan. Of his major appointees, seven
are Republicans, five are Democrats
and two are career men whose partisan-
ship is not clear. Thanks to the privilege
of joining the group at lunch, I had a
good chance to get an over-all impres-
sion. They are a personable bunch—
clean, vigorous, free of the musty aroma
of long years in politics and fortunately
free, also, of the saccharine intensity of
professional reform. They are just good
men, who want to do a good job in a
state which has never been particularly
party-bound. One of them, a first-rate
district attorney whom I have known
for several years, struck me as typical.
When I visited his home town, I heard
a strange complaint: "Warren did us a
dirty trick—taking that guy away."
There will be more growling of this sort
among the counties of the great state
Warren knows so well.

Not even Mr. Roosevelt, ten years ago,
moved faster than Warren in using the
first bloom of his Administration to at-
tack the toughest problems first. As the
country well knows, agitation over old-
age pensions has messed up California
politics for years. Warren is not going
to quiet this squalling baby by doses
of paregoric or by crooning. He is going
to put through legislation raising the
present inadequate allowance slightly
and restoring the incentive to self-help
and part-time work by eliminating all
tests of necessity or means. He would
give a minimum subsistence to all old
people as a matter of right. Then he
plans to take the initiative from the
Federal government with a declaration
that the state will do thus and so if
the Federal government matches its
performance—a reversal of the present
Federal policy. Such a procedure should
cost less in the long run and insure the
state against chronic crackpot move-
ments. I venture to predict that never
again, in our time, will California be the
spawning ground of movements for the
delusion of the old and infirm.

If Warren has his way, returning
soldiers and war workers suddenly out
of work will find that the state has
saved for their proper assistance a large
part of the surplus it is piling up under
war conditions. This surplus, Warren
says, is abnormal. It comes from swollen
incomes and receipts from the sales and
use taxes. He calls this an "unripened
harvest" and he will stoutly resist raids
upon it.

Although no one would put a mill-
stone around his neck by calling him
"Honest Earl," Warren is utterly honest
in mind and heart. He indulges in no
stage stuff, no shouting, no table thump-
ing. He keeps his eye on the job, not
on the audience. As district attorney of
Oakland, he never picked the sensa-
tional case to make the headlines, but
his record was the best in the country.
When he moved quietly into the at-
torney general's office, after thirteen
years as district attorney, it seemed
perfectly natural, and, four years later,
he was so obviously the best candidate
for governor that his election, too,
seemed easy. He didn't actively seek
the job. In fact, he sincerely asked
another man to run.

Now in his 50s, Warren has a philoso-
phy of life and public service. His ambi-
tion raises no "secret tumult" in his
soul, for it is simply to be a bang-up
governor of a great state. Such a man
will not reach out for further promo-
tion. California has long needed that
kind of governor. Chiseled on one of
the state buildings that face the capital
here is the inscription: "Give me men to
match my mountains." For several
years that has seemed almost ironic.
It has meaning now, with Earl Warren
directing the state's business.