TODAY IN AMERICA
By Raymond Moley

Government and Labor

WHEN governors, mayors and Presidential boards have to bargain collectively to maintain order, it ought to be clear to everybody that the vision of tranquillity through union agreements which was held by high government officials and by a number of others, including several liberal newspaper editors, was naively incomplete. Optimists foresaw a world of peaceful self-adjustment in industry. Feet under the table, all the facts on the table, parties of equal strength would reach a decision based upon the rightful shares of each in the products of industry.

Unfortunately, this is not the way things have turned out. Collective bargaining in practice, as opposed to collective bargaining in theory, involves strikes, attempted lockouts of one union by another union and, sometimes, even violence. We have discovered that the value of employes' services can often be found out definitely only when they are withheld, and the emotional effects of their withholding ramify into problems for which local and national governments are unprepared. Nobody seems to have foreseen that the question of whether or not an agreement should be verbal or written would cause the stoppages of which we have been hearing. If such details of industrial relations can cause this confusion, if confusion can keep up until all possible details involving all possible circumstances are settled, then we must begin to rebuild our ideas of how industrial peace can be maintained.

MANY people believe that John Lewis is likely to organize everybody in sight before he is through. The policy of the national Administration being what it is, they say, it is futile to resist the forces he leads. But even if this theoretical view is correct, and there is much to support it, the great wave of the C.I.O. may sweep into unanticipated shoals and rocks.

There is much in the rapid growth of the C.I.O. to suggest other popular movements of the past. A leader, be he Peter the Hermit, Bryan, Dr. Townsend, or John L. Lewis, must quicken the spirits and appetites of his followers by radiant promises. His initial calculations of a safe and moderate development of support may go awry because the ground on which his words have fallen is more fertile than he suspected. The movement that he leads may outgrow his capacity to control it. Competent subordinate leaders are not available. He cannot multiply loaves and fishes fast enough. Internal dissension breaks out, and the crusading spirit dies in the ranks.

Labor unions will doubtless overestimate the possibilities of quickly enforcing a uniformity of wages, as may the Administration itself in enforcing a wages and hours law. The result will be more strikes. Even after the appearance of peace has been attained on many points, it will frequently be wrecked by the jealousy of one union toward another, or by competition between the products of entire industries.

ATTEMPTS to standardize wages either through great unions or through Federal legislation will have a tendency to drive industry toward further centralization. This is illustrated by what might conceivably happen in the textile industry if, in the face of unwise standardization, companies which have moved in the past few years to places where labor is cheaper pull up their roots and return to their old home. Rapidly diminishing employment will result in certain parts of the country. Demands will arise for greater differentials or the complete abandonment of standard wages. The repercussions will be not only industrial but political.

In any such sweep as ambitious labor leaders now envision, it should be clear that the government's part would become increasingly important. The events of last week explain why. Though Washington did nothing for a long time about the May-June series of strikes, it was finally forced to intervene when it became clear that labor organizations had taken on more than they could reasonably handle. In such situations, governments everywhere, even governments friendly to labor, are compelled to act. They act, because they know that if they failed to, they would be displaced.

If the present number of labor disputes in this country runs on through summer and autumn, we can look for public opinion to compel even more vigorous and formalized government intervention in labor affairs than last week's. But whether or not Mr. Lewis arouses public opinion to such a pitch, he must ultimately be forced to trim his sails.

Obviously, the public will not stand idly by and permit him to enlarge his organization unless he can guarantee more complete control over his followers than the recent unpleasantnesses in Ohio, Michigan and elsewhere would indicate. Mr, Lewis' excuses that his organization is young and growing at an unparalleled rate will not stem the tide of adverse opinion in the face of repeated violations of law, order and good faith. Governor Murphy and Governor Lehman have both proposed bills for more or less compulsory arbitration as a last resort.

THE same thing will happen nationally. Washington loves to utter sentiments favorable to labor and to leave the grief of ending industrial quarrels to the states. But even Washington can be pushed into making decisions and enforcing them on labor leaders if the public is outrageously damaged by the spread of little labor wars. It happens everywhere else and it has always happened here.

So far, our strike waves have always cured themselves. The present batch of strikes is confined largely to industries which have not been unionized: those plants which have long been organized are not experiencing any breakdown in labor relations. Peace will be restored as it always has been, and the democratic process will have an opportunity to function toward building up an effective machinery for adjusting disputes. It is not improbable that these current distresses will bear fruit in a revision of the Wagner Act to make the Labor Board genuinely useful. Congress may even give the Board the power to see that labor contracts are carried out.

It took a national strike in England to create sentiment for a National Labor Disputes Act, defining not only the rights, but the duties, obligations and responsibilities of labor. If, as now seems possible, the objectives of the C.I.O. cannot be attained except through the pressure of sympathetic strikes, such a sentiment can develop here and force Congress into action.

The recent policies of the national government, together with the decisions of the Supreme Court, have put large industry generally into the legal field of interstate commerce. Therefore, we may expect the same development in all industry that we have had in connection with railroads. There, a clear recognition of the public interest in all aspects of industrial relations has been written into the law, and labor, management and the public generally have profited thereby. Despite the gathering clouds in the industrial field at this time, there is no reason to distrust the essential strength of democratic processes in a country so large, so diversified and so accustomed to the ultimate sovereignty of public opinion

June 26, 1937