TODAY IN AMERICA
By Raymond Moley

The Case For Optimism

AS WE turn the half year, our factories are making goods at a rate just below that of the boom levels of 1929. Industrial employment and pay rolls are correspondingly high. The index of money pay rolls has at last crept up to join the index of employment, reflecting wage rises during the past year which have increased the purchasing power of an important proportion of consumers. Industry is working on a sizable backlog of accumulated orders. Carloadings run 15 per cent ahead of last year. Retail sales are rising.

Farm income runs from a fifth to a quarter higher than it was last year at this season, and the outlook for the farmer is excellent. We shall harvest the largest wheat crop in many years, barring unforeseen disaster in the spring-wheat area. The world needs wheat, and the crop will bring good prices. Cotton prospects are good, too.

THESE are the fundamentals of national prosperity. They are all encouraging. Yet Wall Street is pessimistic. The bond and stock markets are weak and dull. Judged by corporate earnings for the first six months of this year, stocks are a great bargain. Why aren't they being snapped up by eager investors?

There is the dangerous situation in France, of course. A good many observers felt that France had not devalued the franc sufficiently when she made her great decision last September. The flight of capital, inspired in part by distrust of the stability of the franc and in part by fear of a capital levy by the Popular Front, has brought France to a credit crisis. But even assuming a French debacle, it could not permanently interrupt our own economic progress.

Rumors of a possible change in the price of gold from $35 to $32 have disturbed the markets, particularly in London. But no well-informed economist here has put any credence in the reports. For one thing, commodity prices are still 15 per cent below the 1926 level, which, by common agreement, has been accepted as the goal of recovery. It is hard, indeed, to imagine the Administration's deliberately retreating from the $35-an-ounce gold price, thus engineering the deflation of agricultural prices which would inevitably follow. Furthermore, so long as the United States is the principal buyer of gold, a reduction in price from $35 to $32 would not stem the flood of gold into the Treasury.

As for Great Britain, any cut in the price she pays for gold would be a slap in the face of Canada, Australia and India and would deliver a knockout blow to South Africa. Canada and Australia are both gold producers and are both dependent on agricultural exports; India is a great hoarder; South Africa is the world's biggest gold producer. No matter if France is obliged to let the franc slide off, Great Britain must cooperate in maintaining the present gold price and the present dollar-pound rate.

The factor that is causing Wall Street to view the prospects for the rest of this calendar year with misgivings is the disturbed labor situation which is currently curtailing the output of steel and is harassing other industries, including the automobile industry which thought it had made its peace with the C.I.O. The fear that the government may be unwilling to intervene in these disputes in an impartial manner has, in turn, produced a deadlock in the investment market.

Virtually no long-term borrowing has been done since the slump in bond prices in March. It is significant that many new issues for which the SEC has granted approval never have been launched, but have been shelved for several months. Trading in seasoned issues is so small that quotations are hardly better than nominal. Private investors have largely withdrawn from the market, and institutional buyers are reluctant to reenter it until trends of interest rates become clearer.

THE importance of all this is that there can be no continuing high level of business for the heavy industries without long-term borrowing. It is through bonds that business finances the building of new plants and the modernization or expansion of old ones. The economists who believe the present deadlock in the long-term investment market will not soon be broken therefore expect a business recession to set in this summer or early fall, slowing down the heavy industries and possibly spreading until it affects the industries that make consumers' goods.

In support of this view of the pessimists, it must be pointed out that the Federal government is no longer pumping money into the country's total supply. The budget for the fiscal year 1938, upon which we are just entering, will show an accountant's deficit, after prayer, of, say, $400,000,000, but the Treasury will collect about a billion dollars in social-security and unemployment-insurance taxes, so that it will have an actual cash surplus and need do no borrowing. Therefore, any expansion in business must come from new public investment. Unless the investment market thaws, there is, then, good reason to expect a recession in the heavy industries at least.

It must be pointed out also that the forward buying which built up industry's backlog of orders has slowed down. The alarm over the swift rise of commodity prices which was impelling businessmen to increase inventories has subsided since the bubble of commodity speculation burst in London.

BUT the great basic tides of oncoming crops and the hunger of consumers for goods still work for prosperity. Profitable crops benefit not only the farmer, but also the railroads, the agricultural-implement industries, the mail-order houses, the automobile industry—in fact, every line of business. A great wheat crop with the world's storehouses bare and poor crops abroad more than once has heralded a strong advance in American prosperity.

Another thing—gold continues to pour in here at the rate of $140,000,000 a month, much of it representing the 35 per cent increase in world gold production since 1933, part of it gold coming out of hoarding in response to rumors that its price may soon be cut. It is all very well to talk of "sterilizing" the incoming supply. But, despite that and all other manipulations the government can contrive, the mere fact that the total supply of gold is increasing is a powerful force driving prices upward.

That businessmen do not share the pessimism of the financiers may be read from an unmistakable sign—the rapid expansion of commercial loans. The spring expansion in business borrowing from banks has amounted to $493,000,000, putting the total a billion dollars above the level of last year at this time. Businessmen borrow money because they intend to use it in their business; there is no surer index of their judgment of the immediate future.

Under pressure of better consumer incomes, both rural and urban, industries will demand funds to launch new enterprises and expand old ones. With the undivided-profits tax, they cannot do this out of earnings. The demand of American industry for funds with which to go forward cannot be denied indefinitely. Nor can American industry long be denied a safe place in which to live and work.

NEWS-WEEK July 3, 1937