Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Bricker Amendment —II

by Raymond Moley

THAT it is possible, even inevitable
that any President and Secretary
of State become the helpless victims
of the State Department bureaucracy
is the firm contention of J. Anthony
Panuch. Experience gives this man an
authority that arrests attention.

Panuch served the Federal govern-
ment from 1938 to 1950. In 1943 he
became the special and confidential
assistant to General Clay in
the War Department and
the Office of War Mobilization. In 1945 he was
appointed by Secretary
Byrnes as Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State. When
Byrnes resigned, Panuch
was drafted by General
Clay to serve with him in
Germany. In the State Department, his job, by direct
order of the Secretary, was to coordinate
the huge war agencies that were
dumped after the war into that department. The size of that job is
shown by the fact that this transfer by
Executive order enlarged the State
Department threefold.

Despite Panuch’s vigorous effort to
screen this immense personnel, the
department when he left was, according
to him, “a huge bloated organization
with a confused mission swamped
with inexperienced, untrained, unscreened personnel.” Things grew
worse after Panuch left.

Meanwhile, a new pattern of conducting foreign affairs evolved, which
was described by Panuch last week
in the following language: “Since
World War II the ‘traditional’ easily
controlled country-to-country treaty-making power has been shifted to a
system of uncontrollable ‘Executive
agreements,’ negotiated on a mass
production basis, in secret. The actual
negotiation of these agreements is the
product of a tortuous, labyrinthine, bureaucratic assembly line which formulates, determines, interprets, and
administers our foreign policy on a
day-to-day basis through: (a) the
huge postwar State Department bureaucracy in Washington; (b) its far-
flung system of foreign embassies and
special missions abroad; (c) its missions, representatives, and liaison
officers to the United Nations organization, its numerous councils, standing
committees, and affiliated international agencies here and abroad.
“The thousands of more or less
anonymous men on this assembly line
never see the President and Secretary
of State and seldom see an Assistant
Secretary but they do make the
mass of daily decisions that constitute
our foreign relations. The President
and his Secretary of State can announce policies and historical changes
in policy. But the State Department elite can make,
break, or sabotage them…
These elite are not foreign-service officers of the pre-
World War II variety,
trained in the national-
interest approach to foreign
affairs. Only a handful of
them remain in key positions. The overwhelming
majority in key positions are
members of the New Deal-Fair Deal
who assembled and mobilized by the
thousands during the war in temporary war agencies.”
The actions and decisions made on
that “assembly line” are so numerous
and complicated that no President,
occupied with a thousand duties, or
Secretary of State, away from his desk
a great deal at foreign conferences or
making speeches, can possibly know
them. Moreover, this process of legislating by thousands of agreements
almost completely by-passes Congress.
The problem here is not the occasional Communist who gets into a strategic point on this assembly line. The
real danger is in (a) people who are
committed to what they call “liberalism,” but what is really international
socialization, and (b) just officeholders, barren of ideology but greedy
for power.

The Bricker amendment or a reasonable compromise would at least
partially restore the traditional constitutional role of Congress in the conduct of foreign affairs and also make
certain that agreements and treaties
do not breach the Constitution.

PANUCH’S illuminating testimony on
this subject before the Jenner
committee is in Part 13 of the hearings
and can be secured from a member
of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
In another article I shall specifically
describe the sort of international
agreements now on the assembly line.

Newsweek, January 25, 1954