Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've done my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns, but some minor adjustments might still be needed depending on your specific requirements and layout preferences for the .txt file.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Fight for Britain's 'Middle Multitudes'
by RAYMOND MOLEY

LONDON—If efficiency in preparing for
a campaign were to be accepted by
voters as a means of judging parties,
there would be little doubt about the
outcome of this election. For all hands
agree that the Conservatives have done
a masterly job in getting ready for this
test. Perhaps that is because they have
had little else to do while the Labor
people have been struggling with in-
soluble problems under impossible con-
ditions.

Conservative campaign literature is
bright, attractively printed, and abun-
dant—incomparably better than Repub-
lican material in American national
elections. Party-headquarters service is
crisp, prompt, and friendly. Lord Wool-
ton, as wartime food administrator, was
highly competent. As a party manager
he shows equal skill.

Labor, on the other hand, which has
always excelled in propaganda, seems
on this occasion somewhat hurried, un-
doubtedly tired, and, despite its claims,
clearly apprehensive. As a fighting party
it has good and experienced generals
but is weaker in its supply of younger
subordinate officers than are the Con-
servatives.

The Liberal Party, which barely es-
caped annihilation five years ago, is
hopelessly divided. Its chance of mak-
ing a gain by a deal with the Conserva-
tives has been lost. And its principles
are only a pale reflection of the great
policies of Asquith and Lloyd George.

It is well that the Conservatives have
prepared themselves. For they enter
this campaign under a menacing cloud
of public skepticism. Their past history
as the party of the upper classes badly
prepares them to meet the emotional
needs of the great middle classes who
will decide this election.

Despite its war glories, the party has
many an economic blunder in its record.
It was turned out for those blunders,
and their memory has not faded. Con-
servative hopes rest upon the chance
that a distracted people may be willing
to give the old hands another try.

The situation suggests the perplexity
of a housewife some time after she has
sacked an old family cook for chronic
incompetence and is desperately trying
to get on with an unemployed school-
mistress as a substitute. There is a sick
child upstairs, there are leaks in the
kitchen plumbing, and a pile of un-
Newsweek, February 13, 1950


washed dishes in the sink. Only yester-
day she discovered a hungry but loyal
husband bringing home a couple of res-
taurant sandwiches for private consump-
tion. Should she rehire the old cook on
the faint hope of reform, mingled with
the doubtful consolation that things
after all could not be any worse?

This figure of the
housewife has spe-
cial meaning in dis-
cussing this elec-
tion, for the great
imponderable is the
women's vote. Even
in stalwart Labor
families there are
signs that women,
concerned with do-
mestic problems,
may break with the
nominal head of the house and vote
Conservative. Labor ministers recently
have somewhat loosened the strings on
food to appease them.

Moreover, both Labor and Conserva-
tive orators, realizing that the upper
classes and the workers are already com-
mitted, are directing their most ardent
appeals to the "middle multitudes."
Their living levels have been drastically
reduced over a good many years—by
two wars, by inefficient industrial pro-
duction, for which conservative busi-
nessmen are blamed, by vast changes
in foreign trade and international fi-
nance, and finally by the loss of those
markets that enriched Victorian Eng-
land. The people who constitute what
is called in America the white-collar
class are now susceptible to the same
appeals as were made 30 years ago to
the submerged third.

BUT while the major appeal of the two
parties in this campaign is to the
same classes, there is a real and decisive
difference between the promises, pro-
grams, and plans of the two parties.
Nothing could be more mistaken than
for Americans to assume that this is
what they would call a me-too cam-
paign. That point cannot be made too
emphatically. A great and fundamental
issue is at stake, and the Conservatives
are meeting it head-on.

The Labor manifesto and the speeches
of the Labor candidates portray their
intention to go to the bitter end of
Socialism. There is no hypocrisy, such
as we find in American planners who
say in one breath that they are working
for free enterprise and in the next pro-
pose vast adventures in statism. The
Labor Party has gone far beyond re-
garding the nationalization of business
as an expedient, an experiment, or a
necessary evil. It favors it as an imme-
diate and an ultimate good. Even in-
flation and controls, once regarded as
things to endure and pity, are now
things to embrace. But to discover virtue
in necessary evil is to betray frustrated
ends, discounted hopes, and shortened
vision. Nationalization as a means to
efficiency is one thing. Nationalization
as a good in itself is another.

AS everybody knows, the Labor gov-
ernment has nationalized coal, gas,
electricity, transport, and the Bank of
England. It has moved the government
deeply into housing and has taken the
first steps with steel. It now proposes to
complete steel and iron. Then it will
move into sugar, shipbuilding, meat
wholesaling, slaughtering and storage,
cement, and chemicals. It will mutual-
ize industrial insurance. It will take over
land not fully used and cultivate it.

Its method in moving into an indus-
try should be noted for we may some-
time see something similar in America.
It is to set up "development commit-
tees" which survey industries and tell
them what to do "or else." Then, when
new capital is completely frightened
away, the government with a great sigh
takes over.

The work of private schools will be
taken over by government boarding
schools and the great universities will
be cared for by providing government
scholarships for three-quarters of the
students.

The Conservatives propose to accept
the nationalization of coal and the Bank,
to continue the health services and pen-
sions, and to provide full employment.
But they would stop nationalizing here
and now, digest what has been done,
and encourage, not threaten, the re-
habilitation and enlargement of private
business. They would decentralize the
administration of presently nationalized
industries. They propose to stand or fall
with free enterprise, because if Labor
holds its strength in this election and
completes its program, the Conserva-
tives may join the Liberals in oblivion.

37
Page 245 of 1201