Here's the text from the right-hand column of the provided image:

Perspective

Right a Political Wrong

by Raymond Moley

A DECISION of the Supreme Court of
the United States last June throws
a bright light upon a grave injustice
which has been inflicted for years
upon a great many American citizens
and opens the way to sound reme-
dies. It involves the compulsion upon
railway-union members under a un-
ion-shop contract to pay dues which
are in part used to support political
candidates and causes to which mem-
bers are opposed.

Ten years ago Congress passed an
amendment-Section 2, Eleventh-to
the Railway Labor Act which per-
mitted railways to enter into com-
pulsory union contracts. Subsequently,
a Presidential fact-finding board rec-
ommended that the railways make
such contracts, and the Southern Rail-
way System and others complied.

An important point in the case at
issue is that, in effect, Congress was
thereby vesting in private organiza-
tions coercive power to compel em-
ployes to membership in unions and
to pay dues or be denied their jobs.

Eight years ago, a group of employes
of the Southern initiated legal pro-
ceedings in the Georgia courts for re-
lief from these unjust exactions. Their
case is now widely known as the
Looper (or Street) case, named for
two of the plaintiffs. I shall skip the
history of the long intervening litiga-
tion and come to an appeal in 1959 by
the unions from judgments of the trial
court and the Georgia Supreme Court
upholding the individuals against the
unions. In April 1960, the case was
argued before the United States
Supreme Court.

ABUSE OF POWERS

The decision handed down on June
19 technically reversed the specific
Georgia court rulings that the statute
was unconstitutional, but it held that
such exactions and expenditures for
political purposes were an abuse of
the powers granted by Congress un-
der union contracts. It remanded the
case for the application of remedies
of injunction and specific accounting
of the use of dues money for purposes
other than collective bargaining.

The resourceful counsel of the in-
dividual plaintiffs now are asking the
Georgia courts to require the unions
and the Southern to give to all mem-
bers full notice regarding the effect
of the Supreme Court decision and
their right to participate in this litiga-
tion, so as to have all of their claims
for injunctions and refunds passed
upon and determined without bring-
ing additional suits. Such notice, to be
approved by the court, could be sent
by mail, posted on bulletin board in
places of employment, and carried in
official union publications.

PRINCIPLE AND REMEDY

The overriding principle involved in
the decision is stated in several sepa-
rate opinions. Justice Brennan (for
the majority) declared:

"We are satisfied that Section 2,
Eleventh is to be interpreted to deny
the unions the power claimed in this
case . . . unions must not support those
[political] activities, against the ex-
pressed wishes of a dissenting em-
ploye, with his exacted money."

Justice Douglas said:

"But since the funds here in issue
are used for causes other than de-
fraying the costs of collective bargain-
ing, I would affirm the judgment
below with modifications."

Justice Black said:

"The stark fact is that this Act of
Congress is being used as a means to
exact money from these employes to
help get votes to win elections for
parties and candidates and to support
doctrines they are against. If this is
constitutional, the First Amendment is
not the charter of political and reli-
gious liberty its sponsors believed
it to be . . .

"A violation of it, however small, is,
in my judgment, prohibited by the
First Amendment and should be
stopped dead in its tracks on its first
appearance . . ."

Justice Whittaker said:

"It would seem to follow that the
only practical remedy possible is the
one formulated by the Georgia courts,
and I would approve it."

Members of railway unions and
others whose interests are similar to
those of the participants in this case
will watch the accounting and notice
which will probably be ordered by
the Georgia courts. For this would
provide a means of righting long-
standing wrongs by the filing of simi-
lar suits elsewhere.

Newsweek, October 16, 1961