Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to preserve the column structure:


**Toward A Civil Rights Solution**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

On the civil-rights issue, neither the
Democratic nor the Republican
Party gained any laurels in this elec-
tion. The Truman high command tried
to avoid the question in the platform,
but Northern extremists like Mayor,
now Senator-elect Humphrey of Min-
neapolis forced a successful vote. Then
there was the sensational walkout of
Southern delegates. The Dixiecrats
showed that they were in
dead earnest and, unlike the
Wallace party, they gained
strength in the campaign
and carried four states, plus
an elector in Tennessee.

This show of electoral
strength by no means meas-
ures the full determination
of the South to fight to the
last the Truman civil-rights
program. A long and bitter
struggle faces any effort to satisfy the
Northern politicians by enacting that
program into Federal law.

The Republican Party, on the other
hand, offered no plan to lift the issue
above politics. Pursuing the phantom
of regaining the Negro vote in North-
ern cities, it adhered to the traditional
line of forcing equality upon the South
by Federal law. The enlightened peo-
ple of the South saw that there was no
hope for them in the Republican Party.
And so the South, except for the states
carried by Thurmond, went with no
enthusiasm for Truman.

There the question lies, awaiting an
intelligent and statesmanlike effort
to resolve an issue which might be-
come irreconcilable. Such an effort
would call, first, for the complete
scrapping of the recommendations of
the President's Committee on Civil
Rights and, on Presidential or Congres-
sional initiative, for a fresh start.

That start should involve the invok-
ing of the principle of regionalism, set
forth on this page last March. This
principle, which in recent years has
been followed by the Conference of
Governors and by national religious,
social, economic, and educational bod-
ies, is based on the obvious fact that
many concerns are too big for state ac-
tion and inappropriate for Federal law.
It involves common counsel and collec-
tive action by groups of states with
common problems.

Using this principle as a basis of ac-
tion, the President or a bipartisan
group of members of Congress should
call together Southern leaders in gov-
ernment, business, labor, religion, edu-
cation, and social welfare. Then there
should be considered the points at
issue. Those points, briefly stated, are
law enforcement, specifically with
reference to lynching; voting rights
and privileges; equality of educational
opportunities; social-welfare
facilities and medical care;
and nondiscriminatory em-
ployment practices.

The first of these, lynch-
ing, has practically elimi-
nated itself. The second,
voting rights, except in a
very few states is rapidly
disappearing as a problem.
The third and fourth involve
joint Federal and state ac-
tion. The final point, nondiscrimina-
tory practices in employment, will take
the most time for solution. It involves
rights and privileges on both sides,
with legal and constitutional aspects of
great importance. The experience of
New York with the question of fair-
employment legislation has abundant-
ly shown that legal force is the small-
est part of an effort to achieve fair
practices. Governor Dewey's commis-
sion has devoted itself mainly to per-
suasion and mediation.

It may well be that when all the
cards are on the table it will be ap-
parent that no Federal legislation can
ever solve the many conflicts in the
South. The problem then will be to
bring about action by the several
states, induced in part by the willing-
ness of the Federal government to pro-
vide wider grants for education and
welfare.

As in every constructive approach to
a many-sided problem, those as-
pects which are settling themselves can
be eliminated first, with the tough is-
sues last. When long traditions and
deep emotions are involved, both
Federal force and political fighting
make things worse.

This is an approach which must ap-
peal to those many millions who are
not affected by the claims of either
side of this great controversy. While
we are engaged in worldwide efforts to
stabilize and tranquilize the world, let
us be putting our own house in order.

Newsweek, November 22, 1948