Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:

How to Behave Like a World Power

by RAYMOND MOLEY

2-Materials for Greatness

The American contribution to
worldwide victory at arms will be the
subject of extended chronicles. The
story will stagger the imagination.
But the real concern of Americans is
how the resources out of which came
the materials for war can be directed
successfully in our future behavior as
a world power. Let us
begin with the purely material side,
leaving for consideration in subsequent
columns the moral and
spiritual implications of our
new role.

The foundation of wealth
and power is the land. Despite
our abuse of our land
and its products, despite
mismanagement and incredibly
ineffective national
policies, we have the most varied and
productive agriculture on earth. War
needs enabled us to produce one-
third more with four-fifths our former
manpower. That increase in efficiency
will continue. Add to it the
incredible chemical developments
which will increase the productivity
of our soil still more.

In raw materials, especially minerals,
the story is much the same. Engineers
differ about the exact amount
of our coal resources, but there is
agreement that even at an increasing
rate of consumption, the supply is
good for several hundred years. Meanwhile
the production of power from
coal increases in efficiency. In twenty
years mechanical improvements have
made it possible to produce twice or
three times the power from the same
unit of coal.

Lignite, which is the sole dependence
of some European countries, lies
untouched in American soil. There
will be some deterioration in the
quality of our iron ore in the next
few years, but mechanical improvements
will make it possible to get
even more from lower grades, which
are here in limitless supply. We have
more water-power resources than any
other civilized country. The precise
amount of our oil resources is the subject
of some differences of opinion,
but it is scarcely necessary to add that
it is immense.

The substitution of atomic power for
present sources no longer seems a
dream. When and if it is developed,
the country with the highest engineering
and managerial intelligence will
make the best use of it.

In industrial production, our efficiency
is a world miracle. Industrial
output per worker is more than twice
that of prewar Germany. In trades
like textiles, in which England had a
long start over us, our superiority in
efficiency is a matter of record. Many
articles such as automobiles,
farm machinery and motion
pictures, produced under
heavy burdens of labor
costs, not only need no
tariff protection, but have
been able to penetrate the
trade restrictions and tariff
walls of other nations.

Our achievements in
medical science and public health
have enormously strengthened the
physical quality of our people. Immigration,
moreover, has been of the
best of foreign countries. No other
country has ever had such an opportunity,
through immigration tests, to
select for its citizens the healthiest of
those who want to enter. Our provision
for public education and its
product in educated people need only
to be mentioned.

Geographically the United States is
favored above all countries. Compare
its outlook on the sea, its ports and its
internal transportation facilities with
that of its competitors. Compare, also,
its important situation with respect to
the many new and resourceful countries
in this hemisphere. Altogether, this
hemisphere has whatever is
needed for living.

Our present financial position reflects
the importance of all these resources.
Despite the waste and burdens of the
late war, we are still the
only country in a position to give
credit in large amounts. The dollar
has supplanted the pound in the
world. What is more, it has all but
supplanted gold as a unit of value.
This financial power is an expression
of our surplus production.

It is no mere flourish of language to
say that no nation was ever so endowed
with material power and position. It is
the sober truth. The test will be how
we employ these assets.