Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**Theories Are Afterthoughts**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

When men are most certain that their actions are guided by plan and principle, they are too often moving by hunch and expediency. The rationalization of a course of action generally comes after, rather than before, the act. As my teacher of political philosophy once told his class, "By the time a system of political theory is thought through and written down, the world on which it is based has passed away."

This fact, so hard for men to learn, is clearly shown in any survey of American economic ideas. A great review of such theories now appears in Joseph Dorfman's "The Economic Mind in American Civilization, 1606-1865." Mr. Dorfman's colleague, Wesley C. Mitchell, says of this new work that it "will become one of the classics studied by our children's children." He is wrong. It will never be studied by children. But I surmise that when our children's children are old enough to read NEWSWEEK we shall still have a good many pages of Mr. Dorfman's book ahead of us. It is toilsome reading, but worth the effort.

With meticulous care, Mr. Dorfman spreads on his pages an interpretation and summary of what important men said about economic life in America. John Winthrop, Roger Williams, William Penn (Dorfman calls Penn "the greatest intellectual figure" in seventeenth-century America), Benjamin Franklin, John Woolman, George Logan, Alexander Hamilton, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Thomas Paine, Robert Fulton and many more recent figures move through the book. Hundreds of minor figures are rescued from dust, sometimes unnecessarily. Mr. Dorfman has created a panorama of what men have thought and said about the economic life in which they lived. A hundred bits of mythology about what our ancestors thought are snuffed out. The hard reality of a growing country emerges. And the tendency of men to find good reasons for bad actions is ruthlessly exposed.

Mr. Dorfman emphasizes, over and over, the concentration of economic thinking, up to the Civil War, on international commerce, as well as the eternal zest with which people played with monetary schemes. With respect to both these trends, American thinkers were slavishly following British mercantilism and French inflationism. But while they were still concentrating their thinking on problems of commerce, America was evolving into the world's greatest producing nation. Thinking revolved about outworn concepts while the facts were creating a new nation.

In the field of creative writing, Emerson, in 1837, called on American intellectuals to cast off the bondage of European forms and create a genuine American literature. That new literature appeared. But in economic thought, there was no such declaration of independence, and, for the most part, American economists continued to follow European models. This tendency is still apparent. Lord Keynes, for example, has a great ascendency among American professors of economics, although his theories have little to do with American problems. The vast fact of American mass production has yet to be explained in terms of economic theory. Perhaps its philosophers will appear only after the country has moved on to another phase of growth.

The arguments which we hear from both sides of the current labor-management war illustrate the lag between fact and theory. There is scarcely a single principle on which Messrs. Murray, Wilson, Fairless and Reuther can agree. And without a common economic language, how can there be collective bargaining? Concepts like "ability to pay" mean all things to all men. Occasionally, we still hear talk of labor as a commodity, although that concept has been legally, morally and intellectually dead for 30 years. Meanwhile, our labor problems muddle along from crisis to crisis.

Mr. Dorfman reminds us of our great heritage of achievement only by showing how utterly our deeds have been underestimated by our ideas. It may be this lag between action and interpretation will always be characteristic of human affairs. But it can do less harm if economic and political leaders come to a fuller recognition of its presence and its limiting influence in solving our common problems. We are entering strange waters, guided by charts drawn in a past generation.

*Viking Press; 1,120 pages. $7.50.*