Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Black Coal for White—II
by Raymond Moley

LONG after the wars, worries, and
woes of Dwight Eisenhower will
be over and Richard Nixon will be
living in quiet retirement somewhere
in California, and the names of
Stevenson, Kefauver, and Harriman
will be noted in history only as oddities which came to attention in a year
when Democratic hopes were low, an
industrial change now almost unnoticed will have become a
reality. That change will
have had more effect upon
the lives of Americans than
all of the mouthings of politicians and the guessing of
the curious.

No doubt the scribes of
the time were breathlessly
discussing the tinhorn peculations of the Grant Administration when a Scottish
immigrant named Carnegie with the
invention of Sir Henry Bessemer was
creating a revolution in the valley of
the Ohio and its tributaries.

A new industrial revolution is now
dawning in that same valley. It may
well spread to every other region in
which great deposits of coal lie underneath what has been in the past two
or three decades bitter stagnation.

As I indicated last week, there are
serious problems involved in supplying cheap hydropower for the aluminum industry and kindred chemical
operations. The excessive growth of
these industries in the Pacific Northwest would not only press upon a supply of power adequate for other
purposes but create an unbalanced
economy. It would limit the number
of jobs, for these industries use much
power and employ relatively few people. Moreover, the concentration of
Federal expenditures in a few states
would create serious opposition by
the larger taxpaying states. Hydropower is rapidly becoming more and
more expensive. Finally, there is a
limit to the number of usable sites
on falling water.

The strident voices of public-power
politicians have all but drowned out
the quiet voices of engineers who
have by their skill advanced technological progress to the point where the
production of electricity from coal is
vastly cheaper than it used to be.
Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp. has
announced, after four years of study, plans for an immense aluminum plant
on the Ohio River near Clearington,
Ohio. Its project will also include
large power installations in two units,
one owned by the Ohio Power Co.,
which is a subsidiary of the American
Gas & Electric, and the other owned
by Olin Mathieson and Pittsburgh
Consolidation Coal Co.

Kaiser has announced plans for
$280 million worth of expansion of its aluminum capacity, practically all to be
spent in the Ohio Valley.
The Appalachian Electric
Power Co. will build a big
generating plant at Carbo,
W. Va. Ohio Edison is planning a plant at Stratton,
Ohio, and the Cleveland
Electric Illuminating Co.
has bought large holdings
of land to make ready for the movement of power production toward the
coal regions.

The Reynolds Metals Co., it is reported, is not tying its long-range
plans onto hydropower.

There are two advantages for the
aluminum industry beyond the fact
that power from coal is becoming
cheaper than hydropower. The Ohio
Valley makes available cheap water
transportation for raw materials and
products, and it is nearer the markets
than are the major hydro regions.
D.A. Rhoades of the Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp., in announcing
the new plans of his organization,
made this significant statement:

“IT is in the field of electric power,
however, that the Ohio Valley offers its most significant and revolutionary contribution to the aluminum
production picture, both now and in
the foreseeable future . . . although
water power has been the traditional
source of energy for aluminum production throughout the world, low-cost hydroelectric power has in
recent years been more difficult to
obtain.”

Several of the vital House seats in
the election of 1954 which shifted
from the Republican to the Democratic Party were in depressed coal
regions. The relief that they need,
however, will come not from political
action but from the inexorable movements of economic advantage.

Newsweek, March 19, 1956