Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and column layout.


**Scuffling for Freedom**

by RAYMOND MOLEY


When in Washington's Alfalfa Club two weeks ago the Hon. Jesse Jones, Secretary of Commerce, shook up the meaty form of the Hon. Eugene Meyer, publisher of *The Washington Post*, he was merely dramatizing a great American principle. I wish that some Saint-Gaudens might have been there to capture the scene in imperishable bronze. It would do—and do well—as the central figure of a memorial dedicated to American freedom. For freedom is not, as the legend spinners would have it, preserved by single heroic acts.  "Ex parvis saepe magnarum momenta rerum pendent," bystanders might have murmured into their high-balls as the two aging gladiators fell to at the Alfalfa Club. Freedom is born of just such sordid scuffling. It isn't pretty; but it's mighty important.


Great historic fights over the freedom of the press have never been beautiful to see. Usually when a government starts to clamp down it starts on pretty flagrant cases. William Cobbett, who spent some of his life in journalism and most of it in trouble, not to mention jail, wrote some really objectionable things and seems to have been a pretty unpleasant person. But since his battles helped win a measure of freedom for all journalists, his name, 100 years after his death, is revered. The measure of our liberalism is, now as always, our willingness to extend freedom not only to those with whom we disagree but to those whom we detest. So the issue is almost never cast in heroic mold.


At the moment we are having continuous quarreling over censorship. Newspapermen complain about some requests for suppression of information and tell stories of this or that silly prohibition. That is inevitable in the present situation. But editors and publishers are right in their insistence that, unchecked and unresisted, a government will move ruthlessly from petty prohibitions to utter and complete domination.


One of the most serious aspects of the current censorship was not particularly highlighted in the great annual press meetings that have taken place in New York in the past week (see page 55). It is the extent to which facts about industrial production are to be made public. Publication of all the facts would obviously help the enemy and his friends in our midst. But there are facts whose disclosure would be of little or no aid to the enemy and would, on the other hand, give the American people an enormous lift. Sometimes, admittedly, the line of distinction is hard to draw. Yet visits to many war plants convince this writer that the government is vastly more cautious than it should be or needs to be. Lamentably, the public gets only an inkling of the gargantuan job our war plants are doing because it can be reported only in breathless generalities. Is the great story of an embattled American industry to be told only after the war?


To transmit the facts of industrial production to the public largely through government handouts prepared by the OFF or other propaganda agencies would, of course, be wholly bad. Such agencies are in part headed or staffed by people who have little or no background of knowledge of industry and even less freedom from prejudice against industrial management. The public is clearly entitled to reporting at once more informed and more objective than government agencies can provide. Yet when representatives of the independent press are circumscribed by prohibitions as sweeping as they are in many cases, the reporting they can do is worth little more to the public than government handouts.


Censor Byron Price, in addressing a representative group of newspaper editors from all parts of the nation last week, stressed the new need for repression that has come into being since the last war. What is printed has a way of getting out on the radio, and what goes over the air gets into foreign countries. So, he argued, news that should not reach the enemy must be suppressed at the news source. There already exists a form of self-censorship in the radio stations by employees of the broadcasting companies working in cooperation with the Washington authorities concerned. Moreover, a distinction between news items usable by the press and items “not for broadcast” is beginning to be recognized in part. But more than this is needed if the press is to serve an anxious public well.