Here's a text version of the provided image, avoiding overlap between columns and omitting the advertisement:

The Little Pink Partner
by Raymond Moley

The partnership between the Democratic and Liberal Party in New York is a blend of mauve and pink. In the last four Presidential elections in New York State more Republican than Democratic votes were cast. In two of those elections, F.D. Roosevelt, the Democratic candidate for President, carried the state. That was because he also received the vote of the American Labor Party in 1940 and the votes of the ALP and the Liberal Party in 1944.

This will explain the anxious solicitation of Democratic candidates in state elections for the support of splinter parties—for which they pay a heavy price. The Liberal Party is an offshoot of the American Labor Party. It seems that after the great U.S.-Soviet era of friendship before and during the early stages of the second world war, some of the people in the ALP became convinced that Communists were too influential in that party, and so they withdrew and formed the Liberal Party. The ALP went on a while, but is now practically extinct. The Liberal Party serves the aspirations of all who yearn for more radicalism than is provided by the Democratic Party.

In the present campaign for state offices, Democrats are endorsed by the Liberal Party. Thus they must bear the responsibility of attempting to compromise the Liberal platform with that of the Democrats. The Liberal program is in essence a New Yorker’s adaptation of the faith of the British Socialists. On the Federal level it advocates giving farm surpluses to the “needy,” more and more social security, more subsidized housing, $15 billion for aid to public education, free lunches and milk for all school children, and the encouragement of voluntary health insurance, “particularly where it is the result of free collective bargaining” (and certainly meaning at the employers’ expense).

It advocates a restoration of the “principles of the Wagner Act”—principles which were altered by Taft-Hartley. On the state level the Liberals advocate what in essence would be a state monopoly of electric power, $300 million in loans for nonprofit and cooperative housing, controls over all rental housing, with allowance for profits to be cut by a third, a rollback of rent increases (on this the wording is obscure), more state aid to local education, more power to local communities to tax for education, more money for welfare, and “pending a national program of health insurance” (presumably compulsory), a state program of the same character with “a complete program of physical and mental health services for all school children, including dental, aural, optical, and epileptic clinics.” Both on the state and national level there should be economic superplanning. On the national level the superagency should report directly and (apparently only) to the President. (Congress is not popular with planners.)

This would cost a whale of a lot of money. But the miracle can be performed, it seems, with lower taxes for the poor on the national level, presumably by soaking what one of the candidates calls the “fortunate few” and, more specifically, “the top 11 per cent of our nation’s rich.” But under the Liberal Party platform, the new money in New York would come from a restoration of “full rates on personal and business income taxes.” This would amount to 10 per cent. Thus the Liberals recognize that more benefits mean more taxes. But the Democratic-Liberal candidate for governor has repudiated this plank of the Liberal platform. F.D.R., Jr. says the Liberal platform represents “the views of those who wrote it.”

Edward J. Flynn, for 30 years boss of the Bronx and for the last ten years of his life the most powerful Democrat in New York, believed that his party should accept no endorsements from splinter parties. He believed that ultimately the Continental idea would destroy the two-party system. In fact, he devoted the last and culminating pages of his book, “You’re the Boss,” to this subject. Apparently his successors believe in another philosophy.

Newsweek. October 25, 1954