Here's
Heat
You Can
Understand

Building owners and maintenance engineers like the simplicity of Webster System
Convector Radiators. Fully recessed—they occupy no floor
space. Prefabricated—they require no separate work to
connect up trap or valve. That

Cut-away view. Note how cool air nearest
the floor flows into the opening—rises
when heated in passing over the "Con-
vector" (a heating surface much like your
automobile radiator) then returns to the
room under the window, effectively offsetting any cold down draft of air from
the window.

saves installation cost. Effective Webster Radiator Valve
permits instant 100% shut off—no damper is needed.

Ask your architect to specify Webster System Convector
Radiation for your steam heated office building. Bulletin B-1500-C gives complete
details.

Address Dept. NW-8
WARREN WEBSTER & CO.
Camden 5, N. J. Representatives in Principal Cities
In Canada, Darling Brothers, Limited, Montreal

Webster
SYSTEM RADIATION
76


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Lobbyist Has Nine Lives

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—Californians, especially those in official life, are considerably disturbed about the unfavorable publicity their state government has received in a recent article in Collier’s magazine. That piece, "The Secret Boss of California," tells of the doings of Arthur Samish, a patent lobbyist in the state legislature. The title of the article is quite extravagant, for Samish and his activities have been well known for years, and he is the boss neither of California nor of its government. But no one, not even Governor Warren, denies the power of Samish in the fields in which he operates. Officially, Samish is the registered lobbyist of the California State Brewers Institute, but his clients have come from many related fields. At times some pretty big business people have been known to use the Samish touch to help them in important legislation.

ALTHOUGH, like all political wirepullers, Samish likes to seem mysterious, his power is based on a few simple matters. He is thoroughly experienced in legislative affairs, since he has been in and around Sacramento nearly all his life. He has seen solons and executives come and go. He has made it his business to know all about them and to have them know enough about him to arrest attention, respect, and gratitude. Throughout the state he has organized and mobilized almost all the tens of thousands of businesses and individuals related to the distribution and sale of liquid refreshment. And he has learned how to use those once highly touted instruments of democracy, the initiative and referendum, for his purposes. For Samish is a propagandist of no mean parts.

No doubt, in providing material for the article in Collier’s, he indulged in gaudy exaggerations, such as the claim that the legislature is his Charlie McCarthy. This extravagance helps his business and nourishes his cosmic vanity. When questioned about the article, he said that he enjoyed it “very, very much.” Governor Warren frankly admits that in the special fields in which Samish operates the lobbyist has great authority, but he adds that in other matters, notably in major issues of legislation, Samish is neither potent nor interested. Warren seems to feel, further, that this exposure may well be a wholesome warning to the people of California that there has been altogether too much special-interest lobbying in the legislature. He himself has been plagued for the seven years of his service by lobbies of all sorts.

In the Samish matter, there will be indignation and demands for investigations and the like. A legislative committee chairman has suggested that he will look into it. But no informed person here really expects anything to actually happen. Samish is merely a symptom, as are his prototypes in every legislative assembly. But people might learn a lot from the Samishes. They might learn that casual indignation and demands for a savior will not produce good government; nor will the prosecution of an occasional rascal who gets caught off the bases of legality. Time and again I have been asked by earnest people what to do to get good government. Occasionally in reply I have asked the names of their legislators or congressmen. Almost always such people do not know even the number of the district in which they live, and their knowledge of the people who make their laws and spend their tax money extends only to the names of their United States senator and governor.

LEGISLATORS, state and national, are generally decent people. Most are sincere. And some are very able. But they must get elected. For the most part they must face hard competition. At election or primary time they need help desperately. A few dollars contributed to their campaign fund, a bit of friendly interest, or a little doorbell ringing will be greatly appreciated. They would rather have help from good people than from bad people. They would rather have unselfish help than that of special interests. But they must have help. The Samishes know that better than the people who would like to hang every lobbyist. This is something to keep in mind as the election of 1950 draws near.

Newsweek, August 22, 1949