Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Our Neighbors' Goods

The aftermath of the Munich settlement is likely to be an intense drive by Germany for new markets and spheres of influence throughout the world rather than further territorial aggression. With German penetration of Europe and Asia this country is not immediately concerned. But we are urgently reminded of our weaknesses by the increasing German invasion of South America.

The extent to which German salesmanship has invaded the markets south of the Rio Grande has been widely discussed by experts for three or four years. The lay public is only now becoming conscious of it, and, despite reassuring announcements from various departments of our national government, the American people have little reason to find the situation cheering.

The Foreign Commerce Yearbook for 1937 indicates a satisfactory maintenance of our position in Argentinean trade but somewhat alarming tendencies in our trade with Brazil and Chile. Our exports to Brazil in the three years 1934, 1935 and 1936 rose about 12 per cent. Germany's doubled. At the same time our purchases from Brazil rose at about the same rate as Germany's. Our exports to Chile during those years rose about 30 per cent, while Germany's rose 300 per cent. In 1936 Germany's total sales to Brazil and Chile exceeded ours. Figures for the first six months of 1938 show that Germany has apparently made no further relative gains in exports to these countries since 1936 but, while our purchases from them have fallen off sharply in the past two years, Germany's are increasing at a rapid rate.

It should be said in fairness that German politico-economic relations with Brazil are seriously impaired at the moment. But there is no reason to believe that this temporary setback for Germany in Brazil characterizes her relations with other nations in South America. It has been pointed out that, when war was imminent four weeks ago, German ships on the west coast of South America were specifically directed to seek refuge in Chilean ports.

Now that Germany's position in the European scene is relatively stable, she is likely to throw much of her energy into a campaign to capture further commercial advantages in Latin American countries. In addition to her highly sophisticated salesmanship, she has a distinct advantage in a trading policy which is unorthodox and formidable because it operates only to a minor degree through the instrumentalities of capitalism—credit and exchange. Germans do not actually barter goods for goods any more than the Russians do. But Schacht's system of control of exchange produces almost that result. He insists that trade between the countries be practically even, though in cases of emergency or essential commodities the rule is waived. Where those essential commodities must be purchased at the expense of much-needed exchange, the country's exports to Germany must be reduced. Thus it might be said that Germany has come closer to facing the true inwardness of foreign trade than have other nations. Or perhaps it might be more accurate to say that nations which appreciate the essential strength of Germany's position are neither able nor willing to do the same thing.

Believing, as we and the British do, in international credit, we have always deferred settlements between ourselves and other countries to the future. We have seen exchanges go up and down—but mostly down. Before international confidence was so gravely damaged, it was always possible to put off the reckoning in foreign trade. Indeed, the long rise of prices over the last century facilitated this continual postponement of international settlements. Though the balance of trade became disproportionate between nations, there was always an even larger amount of credit available to fill in. Yet we find it astonishing that a nation which ran out of the means to foreign credit should work up some such means of trade or swap as the Germans have resorted to. And we find it incredible that it should prove so powerful an instrument.

The London Economist recently expressed some of this dismay in describing Herr Schacht's device as it operates in Europe. "Economically, an entire strange, arbitrary productive and commercial system has ramified into the farthest recesses of the continent with incredible velocity," said The Economist. "It has forced a whole series of European countries into varying degrees of economic servitude—a situation from which they cannot escape by normal, orthodox trading."

NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 24, 1938

What ought to be the subject of our profound concern is the fact that the German advance in South America is similar to that which has been going on in Southeastern Europe and the further fact that against it we are able to offer only a highly impaired defense. We have passed through the internal pain of depreciation without gaining any considerable international advantage. Our reciprocal treaty policy, admirable as a gesture, has, after all, been outpaced by the aggressive bartering of Germany, Italy and Japan. We have held an umbrella over foreign cotton producers. We have, for reasons which are not here pertinent, increased the costs of manufacturing by erecting a rigid wage scale. Our government leaders have shouted to the whole world that our businessmen are out of date, uninformed, that their goods are selling too high and that their profits are inordinate—a swell way to gain the confidence of foreign customers. And while the Germans have put fine, new, fast boats into service, we have only begun—despite the ballyhoo of the Kennedy regime in the Shipping Board—to clear the way for the creation of any sizable amount of new American tonnage.

This situation cannot be met by competitive political propaganda. Certainly the common suggestion that the government set up and operate a radio station to advertise the virtues of American government and business in South American countries is absurd if it is considered as a solution. We cannot outtrade Krupp by outshouting Goebbels.

To meet this new situation, the President and the Secretary of State are going to have to overhaul a good many of their cherished beliefs with regard to foreign trade. The world has changed since they learned their classical economics. George Peek and others tried to point this out and were excoriated for their pains. Yet it requires no gift of prophecy to foresee the results of our attempt to wander around in a world of machine guns armed only with wooden swords.

We are going to have to discard our antique theories, do some fast thinking and quick stepping if we intend to frustrate the economic conquest of a number of Central and South American countries by Germany. As a starter, it might be well to introduce a little more practical business ability into our State and Commerce Departments. This is not a job for diplomats and politicians who have never sold a cotton shirt or a monkey wrench or a can of tomatoes. It is a job of salesmanship, of business enterprise.

Obviously some central agency is needed to promote foreign trade, particularly South American trade, and to promote it in much the same way the Germans have successfully employed. This need not and should not be a totalitarian device—a government agency. It should be private. But it must have the active support, cooperation and confidence of a government aware of our tremendous stake in South America and alert to the menace of German economic imperialism. Only thus can it attract enough American capital and business ability to bind the two Americas more closely.