Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Partnership in Conservation
by Raymond Moley

SAN FRANCISCO—It is strange that some politicians so bitterly oppose President Eisenhower’s partnership policy for developing water power, for in the closely related field of timber conservation and utilization partnership has prevailed for many years. In the Northwest, which I visited again this year, I witnessed almost unbelievable progress in that field.

The old pattern of thinking, created when T.R. made conservation a household word, was of generations of want and waste, of vanishing forests, and of unscrupulous private exploitation. Much of that was true, but it is true no longer.

Cooperative activity among Federal, state, and private interests began with the Weeks Act in 1911 and the Clarke-McNary Act of 1924, and many amendments since. With the encouragement and watchful interest of Federal and state governments, private owners of the forests have made great progress in fighting fire and insects and disease, in replacing lost and harvested timber with new planting, in research in methods and utilization, and in marketing.

The United States Forest Service after 50 years is no enemy of private enterprise. There are differences of opinion with the service about the amount of timber to be harvested on government holdings, but that is inevitable. The service should have more money from Congress for access roads into national forests, but since the squirrels, gophers, deer, and bears who live there have no votes, congressmen are niggardly about this item.

There are 461 million commercial forest acres in the United States, of which three fourths are privately owned. Most of the timber harvested now is from private land, but the portion taken from government holdings will increase.

The first great problem of the partners was a joint war against the three enemies—fire, insects, and disease. In recent years damage from fire has been reduced to half the amount of loss from insects and disease.

The most impressive fact which I learned from timber people was that the supply of this resource is growing faster than it is being harvested. This is largely due to the enlightened self-interest of the timber companies. The Weyerhaeuser Timber Co. initiated in 1941 the development of tree farms, which grow new crops on harvested or burned-over land. This form of replacement has grown to 6,600 farms covering 35 million acres. Major companies like Weyerhaeuser and Crown Zellerbach sow as they reap.

An acre logged today can be relogged in 85 to 100 years, depending on the species of timber, climate, and other factors.

This limitless resource is destined to play a larger and larger part in our life as scientific research discovers new uses. Crown Zellerbach does an immense business in pulp and paper, but is learning many other uses for wood. Weyerhaeuser has 75 people working on research in wood products. Under this impact of economical use of wood, such old-fashioned examples of waste as the burning of sawdust and other incidentals at sawmills is disappearing. No part of the tree is now expendable. J.P. Weyerhaeuser Jr. describes a substance which science has fashioned from wood as “a material light as aluminum, stronger and cheaper than steel in many applications, and more workable than any currently known substance… It can be grown in 100 different species in nearly every state… By cooking and bleaching it chemically, it can be reduced to cellulose fibers which, in turn, can be made into paper, Cellophane, explosives, film, paint, fabric, and an ingredient of ice cream… By still other chemical action it can be converted into alcohol and other industrial chemicals.”

THIS development is almost entirely due to private initiative. Government wisely limits its efforts to policing the chiselers in the business, to encouraging research, and to conservation. Under the law 25 per cent of the annual gross income from Federal forests, largely derived from selling timber to private companies, goes to the states concerned, to be used for roads and schools. This is in lieu of taxes. Altogether, this is the essence of constructive partnership.

Newsweek, September 5, 1955