Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

A Clear Call

Seven weeks ago there appeared on
this page the following observations: "The
cliché expert says that Wendell Willkie is
a fine man who can be neither nominated
or elected. Politicians, the most unoriginal
and superstitious of living creatures, agree
...But, for some curious reason, after the
professional politicians heave the last shov-
elful of conversational sod on Willkie's
chances, they still cannot leave him for
dead ...Willkie's candidacy survives be-
cause, however well-established political
rules may be, there is always someone who
can finally break them ..."

Willkie did break them. And since the
moment that it became evident he prob-
ably could—the moment the second ballot
at Philadelphia was over—the wiseacres
have been running around explaining how
the miracle happened.

There are literally dozens of ex-
planations.

One group, made up chiefly of the very
small small-fry around some of the van-
quished contenders, holds that the dele-
gates who began switching to Willkie on
the third ballot were really influenced by
the galleries.

But it wasn't the "We Want Willkie's"
from the galleries that put Willkie over.
It was clear to any cool observer that this
irritated at least as many delegates as it
won.

Another explanation has it that the vi-
tality and enthusiasm of Willkie's asso-
ciates created the appearance of a popular
demand for him. Their very mistakes, ap-
parently, contributed to the endearing illu-
sion that Willkie was a great "natural"
who could survive even political boners.

Well, there were some mistakes, of
course. And there's a lot to be said for
the theory that when you've got a Babe
Ruth, you've got to expect him to strike
out often. But the formula doesn't work
in reverse. You don't decide that you have
a Babe Ruth simply because your batter
strikes out often. The delegates at Phila-
delphia didn't take Willkie to their hearts
simply because of the refreshingly unpro-
fessional character of his convention strat-
egy—because of the enthusiasm or boners
or shrewdness of his supporters.

A vastly keener insight into the forces
operating at Philadelphia was provided by
one of the finest political intelligences this
country has ever produced—a man, by the
way, who had been pro-Willkie from the
start. When the convention recessed, after
the second ballot, this man, knowing that
the critical moment was at hand, said this,
in substance:

"The fight now is plainly between two
kinds of people. The first are the lesser
lights in the political world. And I don't
mean any of the candidates. I mean the
county chairmen, the routineers in the
world of politics. For them, Willkie's just
a Democrat asking to lead them at the
moment when they think they're girding
themselves to march into the promised
land. To many of them—not a majority,
but enough—regularity, even though it
leads to defeat, is better than political
apostasy which leads to power. Almost
every instinct they've got will swing them
away from Willkie. All the rules they've
learned about consistency, party service,
party loyalty, will turn them that way. It
takes imagination and courage to know
when to break the rules. You can't expect
it of them. At most you can expect to per-
suade them with the practical argument
that they haven't a chance to win with
anyone but Willkie.

"Then there's another group of poli-
ticians," my friend went on. "They aren't
unsympathetic to Taft or to any of the
other candidates. It's simply that they
sense the extraordinary situation before
the country this year. They know the
rules, too. But they've got the extra some-
thing that tells them this is the time to
throw the book out the window. They're
staking their own sense of the times
against the inertia of tradition. Their in-
fluence is limited. But every last bit of it
is going to be exerted in the next hour
and a half."

So it was. When the balloting be-
gan again it was apparent that Willkie
had more voluntary assistants in the Mu-
nicipal Auditorium than he had ever
dreamed of. Here and there, among many
state delegations, one or two or three be-
gan to switch to Willkie. These were not
bossed votes. They were votes cast by men
whose reasoning told them that the pe-
culiar circumstances of 1940 demanded a
new kind of candidate. Thus it became a
victory of men who were able to appraise
a wholly extraordinary situation—a sit-
uation that called for a man with unusual
political and administrative qualities.

But it was something more than even
this. For these men could not conceivably
have jolted party thinking out of its ac-
customed grooves if the force of public
opinion had not been behind them so ir-

NEWSWEEK JULY 8, 1940

resistibly. Not to repeat—public opinion
as expressed by the galleries. Not even
public opinion as expressed by the crowds
outside the convention hall and in the
streets of Philadelphia—which obviously
could not have been packed. Not even pub-
lic opinion as expressed by the avalanche
of telegrams to the delegates—though that
helped. Not even public opinion as ex-
pressed in the Gallup poll—though that,
too, played a part. Not even public opin-
ion as reflected by the enthusiasm of the
working press for Willkie—unparalleled
since the advent of Roosevelt. But public
opinion that is gauged by the eagerness
with which newspapers and magazines
have been snatched off the stands in the
past three months; the intentness with
which the news reports over the radio are
heard; the national shock produced by in-
formation about the tragic state of our
defenses; the speed with which national
fear has given way to national determina-
tion to get down to business, making the
machine tools, the steel, the engines, the
ships, the planes we must have. It was the
unmistakable alertness, seriousness and
chagrin with which the public has reacted
to the news out of Europe and Washing-
ton that were the determining factors at
Philadelphia.

It's only fair to note that the lead-
ing candidates against Mr. Willkie were
able and worthy men. Month after month,
Mr. Dewey has done an extremely im-
portant job, delivering cogent, informa-
tive, stirring speeches. Whatever harvest
the Republican party reaps in November
will in part spring from the seeds he sowed.
Taft and Vandenberg have both done dis-
tinguished work, in and out of the Sen-
ate, to create the intelligent opposition to
the prevailing party a democracy must
have. And the behavior of the two former
leaders of the party, Landon and Hoover,
was altogether creditable. According to all
indications, Hoover did what he could to
harmonize the elements in the party that
he once commanded. Landon kept his mind
open as to all the candidates. Some weeks
ago he stubbornly refused, as he had the
right to refuse, to commit himself to any-
one. He felt that, considering Dewey's ap-
parent popularity and his impressive pri-
mary victories, the New York prosecutor
had a real claim for consideration. But he
also felt that unless Dewey could dem-
onstrate sufficient strength with the dele-
gates to carry him over in a few ballots, it
would be ruinous to the party to drag out
the choice to the "smoke-filled room"
stage.

But regardless of the conduct and abili-
ties of the candidates and the leaders, it is
clear that it would have been a misfortune
if the party had failed to nominate Willkie.
And I know that I share with millions of
others a profound pride that the ways of
democracy justified themselves at Phila-
delphia.