Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to maintain the column separation:


PERSPECTIVE

MENDICANT CITIES

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

I have listened to or read a good
deal of discussion about the
"blight," or "plight," or "decay" of
American cities. But I have found no
agreement among the mayors, city
planners, architects and other experts
about the central questions: What
kind of cities do we want? How are
we going to provide for such cities?
Some are dreaming about the cities
of the past with wide streets, plenty
of open spaces, innumerable small
residences and room to move out beyond the city limits. But the opportunity for such expansion is barred
by the surrounding suburbs, which
would resist annexation for the same
reasons their inhabitants fled from
the city in the first place.
Others stress "accessibility," with
the central city closely built, its shopping facilities readily available to all
and other requirements met by the
massing of vast new high-rise construction for dwelling places, offices
and even industries.
Our cities, such as they are, represent a compromise between these
concepts. So far as they have had
plans, they have been planned according to the many and varied concepts of the planners.
But there can be no argument
about certain facts that have emerged
over the past three decades. President Johnson's pretentious message in
January was fairly accurate in listing
these developments:

POPULATION UPHEAVAL

In the years since the Great Depression, the population of our cities
—and here I mean what are called
the "central cities"—has undergone a
profound change in character. Middle- and higher-income people have
fled to the suburbs. Vast numbers of
the impoverished, unskilled and uneducated have moved in. Industries
have moved out of the cities to wider
fields and more adaptable environments where taxes are lower.
Meanwhile, with populations which
need more and more city services
—more low-income housing, more police and more welfare establishments
—and consequently more revenue to
supply such services, the central cities' sources of taxation have allegedly
been shrinking. For vast systems of
highways and freeways have eaten up the land, public buildings and institutions have taken more space, and
the slums in which the new population lives yield less and less in tax
revenues. The monstrous high-rise
hives built by the various governments for the newcomers have not increased the tax revenues. Mayors and
city councils hate to tax. Instead,
they surrender the freedom of their
cities in return for handouts from
what seems to them the inexhaustible
pocket of Uncle Sam.

VISION WITHOUT MEANS

President Johnson, with high-sounding and grossly exaggerated rhetoric,
portrayed these unfortunate developments. But when he came to remedies, we were treated to an exposition
of a little more of the same. The new
Department of Housing and Urban
Affairs is not really a center for the
projection of ideas and aid to the cities, but an aggregation of bureaus
and other agencies already in existence. Its overwhelming concern is
housing. If the cities cherish the
thought that this department is going
to relieve the mayors and councils of
their responsibilities, they have not
read the fine print in the message.
What the President promised in monetary terms will be completely inadequate to meet the future needs of
the cities: $2 billion to $3 billion
stretched over six years and scattered
over a nation teeming with cities.
That message, as one urban expert
commented recently, was "the mouse
that roared." It was a great vision
ending in a pittance. A grand plan
without the means for its realization.
There is a reliable estimate by a
man who has given many years to the
subject: before the year 2000, because of the increase in population,
an investment of more than a trillion
dollars in urban areas will be needed
for housing alone. A very large proportion of this must be met from private sources. The city governments,
meanwhile, must provide for more
schools, streets, police, water supply
and air purification.
The resources within the cities
themselves, including private enterprise and government, must carry this
burden. The Federal government will
be able to pay only a small fraction
of the cost that is to come.

Newsweek, April 11, 1966