Here's the text extracted from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible:


**The Primrose Path to Fascism**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Occasionally, a book or pamphlet
or speech presents so daring and un-
usual an idea that routine reviewers
miss it completely. When the idea
presents a conclusion which simply
cannot live in the same mind with the
comfortable assumptions of current
thinking, the ranks of those who can-
not understand are swelled by those
who are moved by partisan interests
and prejudices. That kind of book
with that kind of idea has been written
by John T. Flynn, a hardheaded liberal
thinker who is not afraid of con-
troversy. And, despite the failure of
early reviewers to comprehend Flynn's
thesis, there is plenty of controversy
ahead on the point that is brilliantly
presented in "As We Go Marching."

Briefly stated, Flynn's contention is
that Fascism is not properly explained
in terms of the personalities and polit-
ical machines of Mussolini and Hitler.
These were the far-advanced symp-
toms of a disease which had its in-
cipient infection long years before
these fevered men and movements
began to appear. These deadly mounte-
banks were the agents of the convul-
sions that preceded the madness and
dissolution of the nations which they
betrayed. Fascism's beginnings were in
forms and practices that looked like
innocent efforts to help the helpless
and to relieve the burdened. In short,
the seeds of Fascism are in wrong-
headed liberalism.

Flynn makes his point by a fine
and incisive review of the half century
of Italian and German history that
preceded the appearance of the dic-
tators. In those 50 years, there were
many successive governments in those
countries. The common characteristic
of the policies of those governments
was an effort to incorporate in those
old and not very rich countries a number
of the institutions of western de-
mocracy, such as popular suffrage,
parliamentary government, social wel-
fare from tax-supported treasuries, and
political machines tied into govern-
ment bureaucracies. The fault, if I
understand Flynn correctly, was not
so much in the democratic intentions
involved, as in the failure of those
countries to comprehend that the suc-
cess of democracy in America and
England was due to the fact that,
underneath the political institutions of

those countries, was the firm founda-
tion of a free economic life-a system of
free individual opportunity, strength-
ened, in the United States, at least, by
rich natural resources, and in England,
by centuries of the growth of civil rights.
Flynn underlines the fact that in
Italy and Germany there was no lack
of kindly political leaders. In Italy,
for example, there was Depretis, who
first came to power in 1876. Depretis
was extolled by his followers as a great
humanitarian leader and the bringer of
the better life for all. Faced with the
need of passing the biscuits to all,
Depretis resorted to the oldest fraud
known to politics-a deliberately and
permanently unbalanced budget. He
borrowed and spent and lent and gave
-and was elected and elected.

The course of Italy, under De-
pretis and his successors, incorporated
these features: (1) retention of the
forms of capitalism; (2) the destruction
of the life of capitalism by state con-
trol and planning; (3) the avoidance of
unemployment by government spend-
ing; (4) the substitution of borrowing
for taxation; (5) the use of government
money to buy, not leaders, but the
mass of voters; (6) the building of
great and unproductive public works;
(7) finally, as the pressure grew, the
inevitable leap into imperialism.

With this economic policy went
the following political changes: (1)
the growth of a great bureaucracy;
(2) the substitution of bureaucratic
decree for law; (3) the ultimate
growth of the leader principle, in
which the dictator rises as the friend
and protector of the people; (4) the
absorption into the state of labor and
business organization; (5) the dissolu-
tion of political parties and the substi-
tution for them of personal machines.

Flynn makes a further point which
he might well have elaborated: the
destruction of federalism by the ab-
sorption into the central government
of the powers and tax resources of the
constituent subdivisions of the nation.

Flynn makes the point (in fact, he
wrote the book to prove this point)
that the danger of Fascism in this
country is not, as our left wingers say,
in the plotting of a few big business-
men. It lies in the slow perversion of
democratic and humane institutions by
wrongheaded and politically oppor-
tunistic policies.

*Doubleday, Doran ($2)