Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Misleading American Youth

The fifth annual American Youth
Congress, meeting in New York has taken
up the usual amount of newspaper space.
Well-meaning American leaders have participated in its sessions. Its tendency
toward radicalism has been hotly charged
and as hotly denied.

It's fortunate that, at this point, a
young man who took part in the founding
of the Congress and who refused to be
used as a front for those who early came
to dominate its councils, has presented
concrete evidence about the real nature of
the Youth Congress. Murray Plavner has
just completed a study, sponsored by John
M. Schiff, Victor F. Ridder and others,
which contains a mass of evidence of the
radical nature of the Youth Congress.
His indictment cannot help but be convincing to anyone who is willing to view
the Youth Congress objectively. (Plav-
ner's study may be secured at Room 1537,
30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City.)

Examination of the affiliations of many
of the Congress' officers indicates that,
from the very start, it has been dominated
by young men and women who are either
professed Communists or individuals who,
without official Communist membership,
are, nevertheless, moving in the same direction as their Communist confrères. It is
shown further that resolutions adopted by
the Congress, from time to time, are certainly not in harmony with the letter and
spirit of American institutions. For example, the first Congress in Detroit in
1934 proclaimed, among other things, that
it favored a youth movement which would
"work for the building of a new social
order, based upon production for use
rather than for profits." Subsequently, its
portrayal of conditions existing in America
has rivaled, in violence, the utterances of
the Communist party and its spokesmen.

At every turn it has condemned Fascism. But never a word has been uttered
against the equivalent danger of Communism (At a tempestuous session Monday the Congress refused to include Communism in a resolution attacking Fascism
and Nazism.) The pompous vocabulary of
Communism is constantly in evidence in
its utterances. In certain respects, official
statements closely parallel the language of
statements in official Communist literature. So it is not surprising that, as Mr.
Plavner shows, the Communist party of
the United States of America has contemplated the activities of the Youth Congress with unqualified satisfaction. Brow-
der, for example, hails the Youth Congress as a means through which young
Communists can make friends and influence people. "Our party greets this great
movement," wrote William Z. Foster and
Mr. Browder, "and pledges its support to
the Congress of American Youth."

Nor is it surprising that so much of the
Congress' effort should have been directed
to the enlistment of American youth's support for a policy of "concerted action"
against the Fascist powers. Drumming up
the enthusiasm of young American people
for war in behalf of a foreign ideology is
the logical consequence of such a program.
The issue that this Youth Congress
places before Americans is simple. Is it
what it pretends to be? Is it a representative congress of American youth? The answer, obviously, is that it is not.

I have never been particularly sympathetic with the idea of mobilizing youth
for political purposes. Inevitably such
mobilizations have been exploited by the
insidious calculations of their elders. But
if, in order to combat the notion that
American young people need to look for
guidance to that dictatorial regime which
is the embodiment of Communism, it is
felt necessary to set up counterorganizations among youth, let such organizations
have the sponsorship of leaders and organizations whose devotion to American
institutions has been tested. America is
not an appropriate battleground for the
ideological conflicts of the old world.

Let Them In

Apparently our big, brave American Congress, representing the richest, the
most powerful and reputedly the most
generous nation in the world, is groveling
before the prospect of a peaceful invasion
by 20,000 children. The Wagner-Rogers
Bill seems to be stuck in the House Committee on Immigration and to have been
reported out of the Senate Committee
with vitiating amendments, despite the
support and despite the moving pleas of
the representatives of nonpartisan organizations and of great religious, educational
and social agencies.

This bill is a grant of authority to admit
into the United States not more than
10,000 German children in excess of the
present quota during each of the calendar
years 1939 and 1940. No child would be
eligible for admission who is over 14 years
of age, and no child would be admitted
unless satisfactory assurance had been
given by responsible private organizations that
the child would not become a public
charge. This is the whole proposal—a
grant of authority, to the extent that satisfactory assurances are given, permitting,
as an emergency matter, the rescue from
Germany of a limited number of young
children. These German children are of all
sorts of religions, but it is hardly necessary to say that this country has never
entertained the idea of imposing a religious test upon either people who come
to it or those who are here already.

The ostensible arguments against this
proposal are hardly worthy of note. The
answer to the argument that these children will become public charges is direct
and conclusive. Plans have been worked
out for the selection and placement of the
children. Absolute commitments for their
care by individuals and social agencies
have been made. Neither will these children become important competitive factors in the labor market. The support of
this proposal by both the A.F.L. and the
C.I.O. is our assurance on this point. There
is a further argument that we should not
take German children if we are unwilling
to take the children of other nations who
are suffering privation and want. But the
situation of these German children is not
comparable to the situation of the children in any other nation. The governments of the other nations do not actually
drive out children, while the German Government is intent upon getting rid of those
children it already treats as outcasts.
There is the further consideration that,
according to every indication, money
raised in the United States for needy children in countries other than Germany
reaches those children.

Of course the real obstacle to speedy
action on this measure is the fear that debate in the open will loose the tongues of
certain members of Congress who are
itching to burn verbal fiery crosses. The
threat that such a discussion will be precipitated is contemptible blackmail. It
deserves summary treatment. Sponsors of
the bill need not shrink from this kind of
argument. Their cause is unimpeachable.
To permit a few bigoted and misguided
individuals to impose a check upon the
clear duty of this Congress is to underestimate the common sense and to impugn the
integrity of the American people.

Many Americans have had occasion in
the past few weeks to hang their heads in
shame over the tragic circumstance which
turned the St. Louis, with its 900 homeless
and helpless people, back to Europe. We
threw up our hands while little Belgium,
among others, opened its doors. This callous indifference ought not to prevail again.
Every American able to buy a postcard
should remind the American Congress to
pass the original Wagner-Rogers Bill—in
the name of America's generous tradition,
in the name of common sense, in the name
of simple humanity, in the name of God.

NEWSWEEK, JULY 10, 1939