Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Power to Destroy
by Raymond Moley

THAT canny maestro, James A.
Finnegan, says that of all the issues with which he hopes to elevate
Adlai Stevenson to the White House, "big business" is the most valuable.
And so the Stevenson-Kefauver theme is that the bigs are the deadly
enemies of the smalls, driving some into bankruptcy and devouring others
by mergers. The Eisenhower Administration, they say, views that devastation with cold satisfaction. The
Administration, says Adlai, has "the corporate mind" and is pushing all of
us into the maw of "the concentrated power of finance and industry."
Kefauver is even more virulent.

The negative role of attack rests with the Stevenson-Kefauver team. The
Finnegan-Butler plan leaves the job of capturing a Democratic Congress
to the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education. No doubt, if COPE
achieves that, the Democratic organization will permit the political arms
of unions to propose the program.

It is clear that after this campaign, in which "big business" has been the
major issue, the proposals in Congress will be designed to punish and destroy big business by measures mainly
in the field of taxation. For the New Deal long ago established taxation as
the chief means of achieving economic and social reform.

REFORM

The so-called "liberals" in Congress, including that very large group which
has been and will be elected by the multitudinous workers of COPE, will
be determined to overhaul or repeal the Comprehensive Revenue Act of
1954. The AFL-CIO Resolution on Economic Issues, adopted by the
first constitutional convention of the merged federations in December
1955, specified the program for which COPE will drive. First priority in tax
cuts, it states, shall be given to a reduction of excise taxes, an increase
in the individual income-tax exemptions from the present level of $600,
and a reduction of the 20 per cent rate for at least part of the first $2,000
of taxable income.

In corporation taxes, the resolution says, the present level of 52 per cent
should be maintained for at least another year. Then there should be a
shift in the normal and surtax rates to ease the burden on small corporations.
Next, there should be a drive to close "loopholes" by repealing the small
1954 dividend relief, repealing the new depreciation provision of the
1954 act, abolishing income-splitting by husband and wife, "tightening" the
capital-gains tax by lengthening the period of long-range gains and by increasing the rate considerably, tightening
the estate- and gift-tax structure, and repealing the tax-exempt status
of state and local bonds.

In addition, the AFL-CIO seems to favor the "progressive" principle in
corporation taxes.

FALSE ANALOGY

Congressman Patman has a bill all ready to accomplish the latter objective.
It would raise the surtax exemption from its present $25,000 to
$100,000, and after that graduate the rates up to 75 per cent. Patman supports his plan with a false analogy. He
says that if there is to be a graduated tax on individual incomes there should
be one on corporations. But our largest corporations are owned in considerable part by small stockholders, and
some little companies are owned by very rich people. Our five largest corporations have 3 million stockholders.

Under such a graduated corporation tax there would be restriction of
growth, higher prices for products, and the breakup of large companies.
The time for business management to meet this sort of threat is here and
now. Management must take a lesson from COPE and provide manpower in
the precincts to help elect members of Congress who have been unwilling to
bow their heads to a single interest such as COPE.

Chief Justice Marshall, borrowing a sentence from Daniel Webster, said:
"The power to tax involves the power to destroy." If under the leadership of
COPE, victorious in the coming election, the Congress sets to work to
make good on the reckless, irresponsible, vindictive attacks of Stevenson-
Kefauver, the smalls as well as the bigs may well be destroyed. Higher
costs, higher prices, paralysis of investment and technological progress,
bankruptcy, more mergers, and fewer jobs may well be the harvest.

Newsweek, October 22, 1956