Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

PERSPECTIVE

ANOTHER ANNIVERSARY

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Early in June of this year the
twentieth anniversary of the
Normandy invasion was noted and
appropriately observed. But this
month also commemorates the enactment of a measure by which a grateful nation expressed in substantial
terms its obligation to the men who
served not only in the deliverance of
Europe but in every area of a war
which comprehended the entire
world. For on June 22, 1944, President Roosevelt signed the GI Bill of
Rights. This legislation was conceived
and pushed through Congress by
leading figures of the American Legion, some of whom were in civil life
at the time and others who were
elected members of the legislative
branch itself.

It had long been acknowledged
that back to the early days of the Republic, legislation for the benefit of
veterans had been generally piece-
meal, inequitable, and badly administered. What was needed, the
Legion recognized, was a more comprehensive recognition of the losses
and sacrifices suffered by the millions
who had given years of their lives
in military service.

Since wars are fought by very
young men, a call to military service
takes from them an indeterminate
number of years at the very beginning of their careers. To take those
years is, to paraphrase a famous expression of Pericles, like taking the
"spring from the year." Their early
training for a useful life has been
denied them. In many cases their education has been terminated. When
they return to private life they may
well find others in their jobs. Their
whole pattern of life must be altered.
And in countless instances in the past
their whole future has been blighted.

TO PROVIDE EQUITY

While no government can give
them back those lost years, some
means of equity can be provided.
This was the objective of the GI Bill
of Rights.

The leaders of the Legion first
grappled with a concept of a comprehensive bill in 1943. It was necessary to head off hodgepodge
veterans' legislation, for no less than
640 bills had already been introduced in Congress. Against opposition from other veterans' groups and some
educators and economists, the Legion's concept prevailed. Credit for
the GI Bill should go to many of the
Legion's leaders, but special note
should be made of John Stelle, a
former governor of Illinois; Harry Col-
mery of Topeka, who drafted the
measure; Robert Sisson of Little Rock;
Francis M. Sullivan, the national legislative director; and Jack Cejnar, the
Legion's publicity officer.

Sen. Bennett Champ Clark introduced the bill in the Senate and
secured its unanimous passage. Clark
was one of the original founders of
the Legion in 1919.

THE RECORD

An anniversary release by the Veterans Administration notes that "the
GI Bill provided six separate benefits
for veterans. Three-(a) education
and training, (b) guaranteed loans,
and (c) unemployment pay—were
major benefits. The other three were
(d) job-finding assistance, (e) military review of dishonorable discharges, and (f) top priority for VA
to build hospitals."

Since the bill was passed,
5,268,000 GI loans have been made
to World War II veterans. The total amount loaned or guaranteed has
been $43.6 billion. Experience has
shown that veterans have been good
risks. One out of every five single-
family homes built since 1945 has
been financed by GI loans.

Of the 7.8 million who have received educational opportunities,
2.2 million attended colleges or universities, 3.5 million went to schools
below college level, 1.4 million had
on-the-job training, and 700,000,
training on farms. The influx of such
a large number of older, more mature people in the classrooms has
changed the pattern of education. Although some educators had been
pessimistic in their predictions, a
greater intensity of purpose was
found among veteran students. Generally, the veterans completed more
years of schooling than nonveterans.

The GI Bill of Rights is a measure of a nation's recognition of service in its defense. It is also a tribute
to the statesmanship in the American
Legion which conceived and planned
the bill itself.

Newsweek, July 6, 1964