Here's a text extraction of the provided article, aiming to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

God, Man, and Liberty

by Raymond Moley

THE protests over the Supreme
Court's ruling against the New
York Regents' prayer have died down.
There seems to be no widespread fa-
natical movement to restrict further
expressions of religious sentiment un-
der official authority. Respect to the
Deity still will remain on the coinage
of the realm, in beginning daily pro-
ceedings in Congress, in the religious
observances on the high seas by the
Navy, and in countless other invoca-
tions officially required. Presumably,
high Federal officials will still rest one
hand on the Bible when they take
their oaths of office.

But it is not too late to suggest
that in such rulings the Court denies
the very basis upon which our free
institutions rest.

In the Constitutional Convention in
1787, at a moment when disputation
among the members had reached a
point at which abject failure loomed
before them, the venerable Benjamin
Franklin said that since "God governs
the affairs of men," there should be
prayer at the beginning of each day's
deliberations. True, there was a dis-
pute over even that suggestion. Alex-
ander Hamilton objected because he
wanted no "foreign" interference in
their affairs.

THE RELIGIOUS CONCEPT

Justice Black at this point would
interject the suggestion that the First
Amendment was not a part of the
document consummated in 1787.
That is true. Jefferson upon his return
from France demanded a bill of
rights, and Madison introduced the
amendments in the first Congress. Jef-
ferson, like Franklin, certainly op-
posed the introduction of a state
religion or any impairment of free-
dom to worship. But in his Declara-
tion of Independence there is an
appeal to "the laws of nature and of
nature's God," and he concluded the
document with "a firm reliance on the
protection of Divine Providence."

Jefferson and Madison apparently
knew what none of the members of
the Supreme Court of 1962 seem to
realize about the very basis of free po-
litical institutions. They knew that the
principle of the supremacy of the in-
dividual over the government was
rooted in a religious concept. In the

beginning we find assertions on the
subject by great religious teachers,
Confucius, Mencius, and the Hebrew
prophets. There we find the essential
belief in the worth of the individual.
The fundamental contribution of
Christianity, following the Hebraic
tradition, was the equality of men in
the sight of God.

PROTECTIVE INSTITUTIONS

Without this contribution from re-
ligious teachers, it is doubtful whether
this concept of the paramount in-
dividual could have survived in the
darkness that followed the fall of
Rome. Without this, the egalitarian-
ism taught by some Greeks and Ro-
mans would have perished. For
neither by rational argument, which
could find little understanding in an
age of illiteracy, nor by science, which
can never prove the equality of men,
could free institutions have found
root. But the simple concept of the
brotherhood of men, with a common
destiny and oneness with God, could
be understood and survive. Thus, the
concept of individual worth, born of
religion, became the foundation upon
which free political institutions every-
where could be built.

The Court's myopic concern for
what it believes to be individual right
may well imperil the institutions
which are designed to protect the
individual from the state. And one of
those protective institutions is the Su-
preme Court itself.

Justice Black, who wrote the Court's
opinion in the prayer case, stated in
the New York University Law Review
that under the First Amendment there
should be no libel or defamation law
and that freedom of speech is ab-
solute. In this assertion that the in-
dividual's government shall be denied
the power to protect one individual
against trespass by another individ-
ual, Black again would undermine a
major purpose for which governments
exist. For if I have no power to invoke
against an enemy who would destroy
my reputation, my means of earning
a subsistence, and my property, I am
not free. I am living in chaos. Black
and, deplorably, the majority of this
Court undermine the political and
ethical principles which they are
sworn to uphold and protect.

Newsweek, July 23, 1962

Page 741 of 1197