Buncombe and Hypocrisy

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LAST week in this space it was pointed
out that the Senate had broken all
records for incompetence in performing
the routine function of acting upon
appropriations bills. This week a record
is being made in the output of
blah, buncombe, and hypocrisy. Space
permits only a few examples of what is
happening. They will, however, show
what was also pointed out in this
column several months ago:
that the financial affairs of
our government are hopelessly
out of rational control.

It is clear that the Administration and its support-
ers in the Senate, despite
past hypocritical pretensions
about economy and budget
balancing, are intent upon
inflation and deficit financing. And it is clear that a
considerable number of Republicans,
equally insincere, are for economy in
everything that does not concern their
political interests at home.

For example, Senator Tobey of New
Hampshire arose on Aug. 25 and
announced a sermon on the text "Hope
Deferred Maketh the Heart Sick." I
don't know about deferred hope as a
cause of sickness, but Tobey's speech
would provide an excellent alternative
cause. For after chiding his colleagues
for inefficiency, he ended with a shrill
outcry because Secretary Johnson had,
in the interest of economy, turned
loose 1,250 people from their jobs in
the Portsmouth shipyard. His wails immediately
were joined by those of
Senator Pepper. Senator Watkins of
Utah added that he would not object
to removing people from the military
payroll, if they could be added to such
government payrolls as might be found
in civil projects in his State of Utah.
And Senator O'Mahoney pointed out
that the Johnson removals were recommended
by the Hoover commission,
thus conforming to strict Democratic
strategy of blaming things on Hoover.

A day or so later the Senate, in debating the proposal to ask the President
to cut 5 to 10 per cent from all
appropriations, reached the summit of
a mountain of nonsense. The resolution
itself was a colossal piece of buck-
passing.

In this debate Senator Lucas, who
has proved to be as incompetent a
floor leader as the Senate has ever produced, claimed that Congress had cut
$2,000,000,000 from the President's
budget. This claim omitted a consideration of the fact that, while there had
been some cuts in original requests,
this Congress has authorized, or with
Administration urging is going to
authorize, increases of billions over
the total January estimates. Senator
Wherry, in replying to Lucas, cited 30 instances in
which the Illinois senator
had voted to increase appropriations. Lucas, after
objecting to the reading of
this record, entered into a
long harangue about how
the resolution, directing the
President to cut proposed
appropriations, was an unconstitutional delegation of
power to the President.

Nothing could come with more slovenly and ignoble grace than a protest
from Administration Democrats about
delegating Congressional powers to
the President. They have been voting
for that since March 1933. No group
has ever been so ready to shift responsibility from Legislative to Executive shoulders.

Meantime, while vastly important
legislative duties remained undone,
this gabble got around to the question
of which side of the Senate had talked
most hours in this session.

Senator Wherry said the Democrats
had talked most. The authority for this
was said to be the Library of Congress. Lucas, appealing to that revered
institution, received a different compilation. Senator Wherry finally inserted in the Congressional Record a
long chart of all the space in the record
used by all the senators for the whole
session, compiled by the Senate Library. What all this has to do with
saving the taxpayers a few dollars is
not clear.

AND considering the fact that the
Republicans had to include in
their figures that nominal Republican
whose oratory is torrential, inexhaustible-Senator Morse-such comparisons
are meaningless.

Many other comments upon this
Senate might with pertinence be
added, but my space, unlike the Congressional Record, is limited.

Newsweek, September 12, 1949