Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:

**What Price Reclamation?**

by Raymond Moley

IF EVER an object of government expense needed an airing, it is what is loosely and inaccurately called reclamation. We have been promised a review of it by two different investigations—the first by the present Hoover commission, and another by a Cabinet committee of three appointed last year by the President. The Hoover commission has had a task force at work on the subject, and a report will probably appear later this year. The President's committee was to report on Dec. 1 last, but has not reported at this date.

It is to be hoped that one or the other of these reports will really tell the story. For there is a whale of a story to tell—a story of failure, of frustrated hopes, of political pork, of bureaucratic misrepresentation, and of widespread ignorance of what has been done with taxpayers’ money over a period of more than half a century since T.R. pushed through his Reclamation Act in 1902.

Despite this sorry record and despite the fact that the comprehensive reviews I have mentioned have not appeared, the President recommended, in both his State of the Union message and his budget, the authorization of several new projects. He named specifically the Frying Pan transmountain diversion scheme in Colorado, and the Upper Colorado project, of which we heard so much in the last session. The President mentioned $1.1 billion as the cost of the two, but on one of these alone, the Senate committee last year reported out a bill for $1.6 billion. If past experience is any guide, even that estimate would be only about a third of what the project will cost.

Up to the present year Federal reclamation has cost more than $3 billion, and this does not include interest, which is never charged to water users. Only two or three of the projects authorized and started since 1902 have ever been paid for in full. Several have been abandoned at a total loss, and some will run on unpaid for centuries.

I take as an example of repayment the five first authorized under the law. All date back to 1903. They cost $75,030,368, and the farmers have paid back only $24,897,063. According to official figures, these five will not be repaid until the years 2063, 1958, 2055, 1979, and 2050, respectively. But when T.R. recommended Federal expenditures for reclamation, he promised that each project would be paid for by the settlers in ten years.

It is impossible to tell how much has been authorized and can be started, or how much has been started on the monstrous new projects authorized since the New Deal entered the picture. The giant of all, the Missouri River Basin project, which was slipped through Congress while all our eyes were on the armies fighting the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944, may cost $15 billion or $25 billion or $35 billion. It depends upon how you calculate it. The Bureau of Reclamation has plans for more than 3 million additional acres, which would probably cost $500 to $2,000 an acre for land which would be worth around $150 to $300 when improved and watered. And no doubt, as soon as the politicians from the states affected get around to it, there will be agitation for the authorization of all those plans.

The construction cost per acre has been rising steadily from about $100 in the early days, to $250 in the ‘20s and ‘30s, to somewhere between $500 and $600 on the version of the Colorado River storage project that was before the 83rd Congress. These figures do not include the interest subsidies which multiply the costs several times.

I HAVE labored for more than three years to assemble the long, sad story from official records. I have written it in a brochure for the American Enterprise Association, Continental Building, Washington. I do not hesitate to mention it here because I get no profit, royalty, or other monetary reward from its sale, and the Enterprise Association is a nonprofit body. It is a story written for taxpayers who have been subjected to shameful exploitation in this government activity for more than half a century. It is a hard look at the record of what the present Commissioner of Reclamation calls “good sound business.”

Newsweek, February 14, 1955