Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, keeping the column structure intact:


**On Giving and Getting**

by Raymond Moley

WE HAVE heard a great deal in the
year now drawing to a close
about official corruption on both the
national and local levels. The recent
campaign had much to say about the
mess in Washington. But now, long
after election day, I note that the
leading stories on the front pages of
New York and Chicago papers deal
with political corruption in those cities.
Dishonesty in officehold-
ers is evil, and in this space
over the years a great deal
has been written about it.
Corrupt officials lower the
moral tone all the way
through the community. But
this particular piece is not
concerned with dishonest
officials, nor with dishonest
people who bribe them. It
has to do with a more gen-
eral type of corruption and with the
responsibility of the American people
for that corruption.

I am referring to the practice of
political parties under pressure from
the public to set the pattern of their
appeal on strictly materialistic lines.
This means that votes are sought and
cast according to what there is in it
for voters. The leaders of both parties
sin in this matter-those who say: "You
never had it so good" and those who
answer: "We will not take it away."

But I am not now criticizing the
politicians who make that sort of ap-
peal because politicians operate on
the principle that the voter is always
right. When they consider the pub-
lic worthy of a more idealistic appeal
they set their sights accordingly. The
point is that the selfishness and ma-
terialism of all of us bring our political
life to its present low estate.

I do not mean by this that politi-
cians who cater to this public selfish-
ness are not rascals. They are and
they deserve the limit of censure. But
it takes two parties to make a corrupt
bargain, and the public that buys the
wares must share the guilt with the
politicians who make the promise.
There is such a thing as bribery by
the gift of votes. We are guilty of a
grave sin against our country when
we regard government as a vending
machine into which we insert our
votes and from which we exact bene-
fits. It was a bitter but, at the moment,
deserved appraisal of our folly when

Al Smith said that the American peo-
ple "would never shoot Santa Claus."
And our moral regeneration is still not
complete when we reject Santa Claus
because we find that he steals as well
as gives. We must realize that govern-
ment has a higher mission than that of
a mere service agency. It must serve
essential needs, but it should also be
the embodiment of our national unity,
our ideal of human associa-
tion, our capacity for work-
ing with others.

Too many Americans are
concerned with what they
can get from government
and too few are concerned
with what they can give
to government.

There is such a thing as
a government that is morally
bankrupt as well as a gov-
ernment that is financially broke. We
are contributing to both these disasters
when we cast our votes only on a
basis of what benefits we can buy
therewith. For we are progressively
lowering the standard of those who
serve us. We are driving men and
women of idealism out of public life.

After writing the foregoing sen-
tence, I happened to think of a great
man who was driven from his office by
a greedy, senseless electorate. It was
Edmund Burke in 1777, and the elec-
torate was Bristol. Turning to his
famous letter to the Bell Club of that
city, I find this (which can be adopted
by all of us as a principle for the
years to come):

BUT you ought not solely to rely on
us; for be assured, that it is not
either the members of Parliament, or
the men in any other public capacity,
that have made or kept a people safe
and free, ... if they were wanting in
themselves.... If it be true in any de-
gree that the governors form the peo-
ple, I am certain it is true that the
people in their turn impart their char-
acter to their rulers ... Your whole
importance, therefore, depends upon
a constant, discreet use of your own
reason; otherwise you and your coun-
try sink to nothing ... Your fire
will be fire in straw, fitter to warm
and consume yourselves than to warm
or enliven anything else ... You may
disturb your country, but you will
never reform your government."

Newsweek, December 29, 1952