Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, preserving the column structure as much as possible:


**Republican Regeneration**

by Raymond Moley

LOS ANGELES—Two factors are indispensable to a successful political party: A body of doctrine shared by all members and efficient organization to get voters to the polls. Without organization, any cause, however lofty or eloquently expressed, is nothing but words written in water. Without a common faith, political striving is only a sordid hunt for power and pelf.

The Republican Party desperately needs both doctrine and organization. It cannot live on a single candidate, even a national hero like Eisenhower. Men pass, but a party must live. Fortunately, two activities of which we shall hear more and more as time passes are designed to help provide these essentials.

Last year, after the celebration of the 100th birthday of the Republican Party at Ripon, Wis., a group of local people decided that something more than an ancient memory should distinguish their shrine. They established the Republican Educational Foundation and selected Norris Nelson as its director. Nelson is gifted with long experience both in organization generally and in politics. A local businessman, H.A. Bumby, heads the board of directors.

Since the founders and original backers of the foundation are a substantial, conservative group, it was decided that the job before them was not merely to propagate the current double talk and insincerities of partisanship, but to build and disseminate a conservative philosophy suitable for the economic and social conditions of the times. They feel that millions of Americans are groping for a faith appropriate for free men. Despite the name of the foundation, its purpose is nonpartisan. Indeed, if the Democratic Party can be induced to return from the policies of its recent years, the foundation would rejoice. Its program, essentially educational, includes a research center to be located in Washington, radio and television programs, publication of conservative literature, and organized classes and seminars for teachers and scholars. Republican National Chairman Leonard W. Hall and his campaign manager, Robert Humphreys, deeply aware that the loss of Congress by their party was due fundamentally to the superior organization of the political arms of labor in strong industrial centers, have planned a most notable step in building more organizational efficiency in state and local areas. Last spring Hall invited all state chairmen to attend a political workshop in Washington to be conducted by Humphreys during the week after Sept. 6. The curriculum will be a presentation by experts of methods of political warfare, including rural and urban organization, money-raising, radio and television techniques, and other subjects.  These meetings will also offer the opportunity for an exchange of ideas among these experienced men and women.

After this course is completed, the participants will hold similar sessions at their respective state capitals for county chairmen. Then, in October, county chairmen everywhere will conduct meetings for local leaders. Great interest has been manifested in this plan, and 47 of the 48 state chairmen have promised to attend.

In politics, more than in any other human activity, leaders are slaves of tradition. Perhaps the only element in an election campaign which has been outgrown is that of the torch-light parade. Here and there on occasion a new idea is born, however, and it is the purpose of Hall and Humphreys to see that such ideas are evaluated and, if worth-while, that they are applied.


THE Conservative Party in Britain in ten years emerged from defeat to victory. After the rout of the Conservatives in 1945, Churchill appointed a commission under Sir Maxwell Fyfe to reorganize the party and later appointed that great merchandiser, Viscount Woolton, to run it. The result was that, largely through trained, professional political workers and better publicity for the principles of conservatism, the Conservatives and their associates rose from a membership of 213 in the House of Commons in 1945 to 345 in 1955. Organization did it. Something like that can surely be done here.


Newsweek, September 12, 1955