Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Most Dangerous Rumor
by Raymond Moley

TOKYO—The most frequent question
I have encountered in nearly
three weeks in Japan is whether the
United States is contemplating the
recognition of Red China. This lies
heavily on the minds of political and
business leaders. Radical elements
devoutly hope for it. Responsible peo-
ple who see the perils involved fear it.
If the United States should recog-
nize Red China, Japan would of ne-
cessity follow suit. The consequence
would be the loss of vast Southeastern
Asia to the free world. Before long,
the Communist frontier would reach
to Australia, Hawaii, and our Pacific
Coast. A friendly Japan would be ex-
posed or absorbed.

In most of the countries of South-
east Asia there are countless Chinese
who would be easy victims of Com-
munist propaganda and other subver-
sive influences. Their governments
could not be saved by American aid.
One source of a rumor about rec-
ognition are the Communists. But it
has been given specific but false au-
thority by a Japanese politician of
some prominence. His story, widely
spread, is embellished by the use of
the names of two prominent American
civilians who presumably have influ-
ence with the American Government.
My reply to questions is that no
responsible leader in either American
party has or will advocate recognition.
For to do so would ignite bitter indig-
nation among the American people.

THE MORAL ELEMENT
I have also explained that our pol-
icy of recognition has greatly changed
since President Woodrow Wilson
broke precedent in refusing recog-
nition to a Mexican dictator and later
to Soviet Russia. In earlier years,
we followed the international custom
of recognizing any country which
had measurable stability. The Wilson
doctrine brought the moral element
into recognition.

In present American policy are sev-
eral new elements. We are a member
of the United Nations, pledged by its
charter against aggression as a na-
tional policy, a policy persistently fol-
lowed by the Peking government.
Moreover, our people bear the bitter
memory of thousands of Americans
killed by Chinese intervention in the
Korean war. And we have a profound
obligation to Formosa, which in our
recognition of Red China would be
left naked to its enemies.

Japan's peril from Communism is
both external and internal. It lies close
to the overwhelming powers of Red
China and Soviet Russia and has no
significant military strength to protect
itself. They would certainly make trou-
ble for a capitalist Japan. Nor could
Japan contend with the greatly in-
creased infiltration which would fol-
low recognition.

Internally, Japan faces great dan-
gers from Communism. Communists,
since their official party has virtually
disappeared, have crept into labor
unions, the Socialist Party student
groups, and clubs. These elements,
working through the organizations
they have entered, have as their prime
objective the weakening of Japan's sys-
tem of policing and internal security.

DENIALS NEEDED
Fourteen years of study and investi-
gation of the administration of criminal
justice in the 1920s and 1930s, in part
for Federal and state official agencies,
have helped me to evaluate closely
Japan's police and internal-security
system. It is far from adequate. During
the occupation, SCAP required the
complete decentralization and reor-
ganization of the efficient system that
prevailed before the Pacific war. This
went so far that Japan's capacity to
maintain order was drastically weak-
ened. Only the presence of American
military power assured security.

Since the occupation, national legis-
lation has improved things. But much
more needs to be done, especially to
secure the national government in the
capital area of Tokyo. A capital is the
danger point for revolutions.

It is evident that Peking invests a
lot of money in Japan's political cam-
paigns. An election of Tokyo's gov-
ernor or mayor is to be held this
month, and half of the upper house of
the Diet in June. The campaigns are
already under way.

Most important is the need to re-
solve all doubt about any plans for
recognizing Red China. This is up to
the responsible officials of both parties
in the American Government. Very
specific denials are necessary.

Newsweek, April 20, 1959