Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Scientism

by Raymond Moley

F FREDERICK T. GATES could have
been present at a recent public
hearing of the Reece committee of
the House of Representatives on Tax-
Exempt Foundations, he would have
worn the smile of a vindicated
prophet. For there were presented
by Prof. A.H. Hobbs of the University
of Pennsylvania powerful logic and
evidence to prove something that
Gates said 40 years ago.
Gates was the principal
adviser for the elder
Rockefeller and with him
conceived and created the
Rockefeller Foundation.
Under the guidance of
Gates, the foundation entered
the field of medical
science and achieved magnificent
results. In 1914 it
was suggested that the
foundation give attention to the so-
called social sciences. Gates offered
this opinion on the subject to John D.
Rockefeller Jr.: "When you come to
investigate these things, you are not
acting on inert matter or even on
animals... Can you command this
material as you can command the material of investigation in medical science? I fear not."
Despite this warning, it was decided nine years later to devote the
great resources of the Laura Spelman
Rockefeller Memorial to social studies.
In the years since, the memorial and
other foundations have given great
sums for projects in that field, some of
which have been useful, some wasteful, some naïve, and some positively
mischievous. In all that time, the assertion of Gates has not been dis-
proved. Economics, sociology, politics,
and psychology are still arts trying to
look like sciences.
The testimony of Professor Hobbs
was a brilliant argument which followed the lines of his remarkable
book, "Social Problems and Scientism,"
and his short summary of his position
in Collier's Year Book for 1953. Hobbs
asserts that the difference between
social and natural science is wide,
deep, and irreconcilable.
Truly scientific procedure, according
to Hobbs, involves a number of
principles and conditions impossible to
obtain in the social sciences. One is
controlled observation. You can measure and analyze the structure of tumors or the impairment of heart
muscles and expect that as a result
symptoms and stigmata common to
one will be common to all. But you
cannot analyze with scientific controls
the opinions and behavior of voters
or adolescent children.
Verification is another characteristic
of scientific procedure. Medical discoveries are tested and retested before
they are given as truth
to the public. Research in
human conduct cannot be
so verified. Scientists who
are making atomic bombs
are able to predict after research that the assembling
of specific parts will result
in an explosion. The poll-
sters are still trying to discover why and how voters
change their minds after being polled and what they really mean
when they answer questions. Economic forecasting is still highly tentative and uncertain.
Hobbs uses the word "scientism" to
describe the art of pretending to be
scientific in a field in which the materials do not lend themselves to scientific methods. A good example was
a sociological study of the relation of
movies to juvenile delinquency. Its
fallacy was to conclude, because bad
movies were seen by children who
became bad, that bad movies make
bad children. Maybe they do, but
the "scientific" method didn't prove
it. It would be just as easy to prove
that good children are good because
they have seen "David Copperfield."
Hobbs, it should be emphasized, is
not condemning all the activity which
is conducted in the name of social
science. A great deal of that activity
is the systematic collection and arrangement of facts. A study of the
nature and distribution of wealth and
production over a period of years is
informative and useful. And the dissemination of such information is useful and legitimate, but it is not science
and should not be labeled as such.

THE significance of the Hobbs
testimony in a study of foundations
shall discuss after the current hearings have been concluded. It suffices to
add here that the social sciences
should meet frankly these valid objections raised by this witness.

Newsweek, June 28, 1954