Here's a text extraction from the provided image.  Note that due to the columnar layout and image quality, some minor errors might be present.  This is a best-effort transcription:


68
Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

What the Record Says

With a prize as big as the Republican Presidential nomination at stake, it’s small wonder that the fight for it should be hot. There has been no unpleasantness between Taft and Dewey. Nor do the camp followers of either accuse one another of disregarding the amenities.

But there is a movement within the Republican party that seriously threatens to injure the party’s chances. At the very least, it will nullify an advantage the Republicans now have over the Democrats.

Everyone knows there is a festering sense of grievance on the part of many Democrats of consequence. The Republicans gave promise of presenting the appearance of harmony at any rate; or did, until the past two weeks.

It was then, roughly, that a number of influential Eastern Republicans began commiserating with one another and all comers about the foreign policies of Dewey and Taft. And sometimes they have talked in terms of hearsay, surmise and inaccurate quotation. This has been so widely reflected in columns and editorials, since, that the misunderstanding is beginning to reach formidable proportions. Both men have been charged, sweepingly, with wooing only the extreme isolationists’ vote.

It is not necessary to argue here what our foreign policy should be to set the record straight on this particular question. It involves simple items of fact—what Taft and Dewey have actually had to say on the subject of foreign policy. To those who wish to examine those facts only one caveat must be given.

As a practical matter, Presidential aspirants always find it more difficult to describe their foreign policies in specific terms than they do their domestic policies. This is partly because sectional prejudices and convictions about foreign affairs are so much more distinct. But it is also because foreign policy consists, to a large extent, of compulsions exercised through hint rather than statement, through what, for lack of a better word, we call bluff. So no complete chart of every step that a nation may take in the light of certain contingencies can possibly be outlined in advance. For example, it would be unjust to expect Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Hull to announce what they will do if Japan takes possession of the Dutch East Indies. Would they declare war on Japan and attempt to push them out? Would they enter into an alliance with France and England in the Pacific? If so, would they limit their alliance to operations in the Pacific? All these possibilities exist, and the role of diplomacy, in such a case, is to protest and hint, in the hope that the issue itself will never rise. Once a man becomes a candidate for the Presidency, there is a point beyond which he cannot be explicit in this field without impairing his effectiveness if he should become President.

With this in mind, let’s look at what Dewey and Taft have said on the subject during the past year.

Dewey has made four speeches that touch on foreign policy. On January 20, he condemned the dictatorships and said that the leaders of totalitarian nations are responsible for plunging Europe into war. “We cannot escape being affected by these tragedies,” he said, adding that “for their sake—for our own sake—we must search for the moment when we might, without entanglement, use our good offices to effect a genuine peace.” We should send no Americans to die on the battlefields of Europe, he said further. As he understood it, the present Administration had followed broadly the policies shaped by Hughes, Kellogg and Stimson, though it had occasionally strayed from the path—conspicuously in the case of the recognition of Russia. But insofar as the Administration adhered to the Hughes-Kellogg-Stimson policies, it had met with general approval of the American people. In passing, Dewey made only one point which, so far as I know, no other public leader has made: that while Japan has been waging an undeclared war absorbing large parts of China, Soviet Russia has also achieved domination of large areas of China. The implication was that this, as well as Japanese aggression, should be condemned.

Dewey’s next utterance on foreign policy was in Milwaukee on March 30, when he said that we should not become involved directly or indirectly in foreign wars and that we should “reject every entanglement in the affairs of Europe.”

The next day, at Madison, Wisconsin, he said: “I am convinced the only way this country can remain genuinely neutral is for the government to give its full attention to procuring domestic recovery and to keep its hands wholly out of the European war and out of any negotiations that may take place between the warring nations, now or at any other time.”

And, finally, in his speech prepared for delivery at Wichita this week, he declared

NEWSWEEK MAY 6, 1940

that “we cannot be disinterested in the fate of the world. Nor do I believe that the United States can so isolate itself that it will not be seriously affected for better or for worse by what happens in other nations.”

Like Dewey, Taft has expressed views that are, in the main, neither startling nor novel. He has said that President Roosevelt, in his 1937 “quarantine” speech and in his January 1939 message to Congress, sounded suspiciously warlike. But he notes that the prevailing sentiment in this country, since the present war began, has been reflected in Presidential utterances. He believes in avoiding entanglements. It is difficult for us to know the reasons that underlie the decisions of European governments, he says. Hence we should be wary in what we do.

Taft supported the repeal of the embargo. In fact he proposed repeal in April 1939, before the President recommended it. He favored a government loan to Finland, although he opposed authorizing loans to be made at the discretion of the President to South America and elsewhere.

“No one wins a modern war,” he says. He condemns aggression—in Europe and the Far East—but he has not favored congressional action to boycott Japan. And he sums up by declaring that “the Republican party is a peace party,” while “the Democratic party may or may not be a peace party.”

In the last analysis, a comparison of the pronouncements of Dewey, Taft and Roosevelt since the war began would show little fundamental difference. If they were set in parallel columns, the average man could hardly distinguish them. All three say we should positively stay out of war; all condemn the totalitarian governments; all say we have a vital concern with world affairs; all would offer our good offices to the warring powers; all would avoid entanglement in political negotiations—negotiations about boundaries and the like.

Both Dewey and Taft—Dewey with a bit more positiveness—assert that the real issue is not a question of what one or the other party says about details, but a question of which can best be believed. They make it an issue of trust, suggesting that, in the light of the record of the New Deal, the Administration may not do what it says it will do. In answer to this, Roosevelt supporters state that the experience of their man offers the best promise of achieving a successful course in foreign affairs.

All this is to suggest that the loose use of the terms “interventionism” or “isolationism” is a poor way to argue the relative merits of Dewey, Taft or Roosevelt. There are plenty of ways of arguing for one or the other of them without reading unjustified meanings into what they are saying about foreign affairs.


Page 515 of 1087