Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Fair Deal in Hell's Canyon
by RAYMOND MOLEY

CALDWELL, IDAHO—The Snake River,
despite its sinister name, is the
best-behaved domestic servant in the
nation. It is also one of the most use-
ful. It rises in Yellowstone Park and
enters Idaho at an altitude of more
than 6,000 feet and winds through
that state for 700 miles. Then it
reaches the border of Oregon and
finally leaves Idaho at an altitude of
600 feet. That decline of
more than a mile provides a
source of vast water power
and irrigation which is greatly needed
and which would not require the expenditure of government money. For
the state of Idaho is thrifty. It views a
state deficit as a shame and a disgrace.
It is also conscious of the cost to the
nation of the Hell's Canyon project,
which will probably run to much more
than a billion dollars. The initial estimate is $476,000,000, but judging
from other Federal projects,
it would cost three times that
to the nation's taxpayers.
Instead of this great Federal
expenditure, an alternative
is proposed by the
Idaho Power Co., which
serves the state and, according
to everything I hear,
serves it well. The company
wants to build five low-head
dams upstream from the
Hell's Canyon site to serve the needs of
Idaho. Its application to build the first
of these has been before the Federal
government since 1947. The Hell's
Canyon project has held it up and if
constructed would flood the available
sites for these privately financed dams.

Thus, the issue is joined between a
great new burden on the taxpayers
of the nation and a development which
would cost the taxpayers of the nation
and the state nothing, but instead
would provide new tax sources. To
this traveling taxpayer from another,
far-distant state, it would seem that,
since the people of Idaho prefer the
privately financed development and
since they have a moral claim on the
waters of this great river, Congress
should never authorize the Federal
dam. As far as Western Oregon and
Washington are concerned, their
needs can more than adequately be
supplied by projected dams on the
Snake within the borders of Washington. There are also several projected sites on the Columbia River.
But in the Federal bureaucracy ambitions are illimitable; concern for taxpayers negligible; the drive for a
public-power monopoly intense; and
Interior Department propaganda copious and costly. As has been the case
in other such projects, discriminations
in favor of public power and against
private power are all to be legally
incorporated. Thus, hang the expense
and hang the free economy.

Newsweek, August 6, 1951