Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:


**Campus Revisited**

by Raymond Moley

I HAD occasion, a few days after commencement, to visit the campus of Columbia University. It is a place pregnant with memories of past years of study and teaching there. After a leave of two years it was good to see it again, casually in the warm sunshine of a June afternoon. Good for many reasons, but especially because I had been reading disturbing speeches by members of that community about a crisis up there—a crisis of fear and oppression.

You see, they are celebrating the bicentennial of the institution, a major feast of wisdom and advice embodied in many, many speeches. As the jubilee moved on to the commencement climax there were addresses by President Eisenhower and by Adlai Stevenson.

I have wondered a bit, as these months of speechmaking have passed, whether Columbia is any more a home of the mellow humor of long ago. In those days, with little evidence of fear and a measurable amount of gentle cynicism, conversation in the community poked mild jokes at the doings of the world outside and at the political aspirations of Nicholas Murray Butler. Occasionally a radical student would go berserk, denounce Wall Street and President Butler, and be bounced. George Sokolsky was one of those firebrands. But nothing greatly disturbed the professors and they went on calmly and produced a mass of scholarship and original writing unparalleled in those days.

The President reminded his listeners of people who “fear other people’s ideas—every new idea . . . It means conformity by compulsion in educational institutions . . . it means the loss of human freedom.” Stevenson was more alarming: We are in “a moral and human crisis . . . which might even be compared with the fourth, fifth, and sixth century . . .” Stevenson is a generous man. He had only been asked by the bicentennial committee to go back 200 years. But when he gets going “the centuries fall like grains of sand.”

It was a remark of the faculty wits of old that the university was at its best when all the students were on vacation. Last week they were gone to wherever students go when school is out. I looked about over the vistas of green and granite. There were no embankments, foxholes, or barbed-wire entanglements. The only item that suggested “conformity by coercion” was a New York cop idly watching some children at play. A professor emerged from Broadway and walked across South Field to the library. He didn’t turn around once to see if one of Adlai’s “neo-heathens” was following him. I dropped into the university bookstore and saw, as always, spread out for all to see and buy, a large number of pamphlets and the like on Soviet drama, jurisprudence, and politics. Just to make sure that all was well with freedom, I bought a copy of the Communist Manifesto for 10 cents. It was not hidden under the counter like fresh meat in the days of Chester Bowles.

I entered the library and sniffed the air for traces of the smoke of burning books. It was as pure as a library’s air ever is. But I pressed on and a notice caught my eye. In the dim light it looked like “Burned Book Exhibit.” Now, said I to myself, “I am getting somewhere.” Closer inspection proved that the notice was “Banned Book Exhibit.” The center of that exhibit was a huge blown-up reproduction of a newspaper article. This article named books that had been barred from the U.S. propaganda “libraries” which were established abroad to tell what is right about America, not what seems right about the Soviet. Lattimore’s “The Situation in Asia” was there, and Joe Davies’ “Mission to Moscow.”

THIS indeed was immortality. For books of martyrs of ages past were there also—books that somewhere or somehow had been banned by someone. There were Milton, Galileo, Paine, Trotsky, Molière, and Diderot. Perhaps after all, despite our great achievements, we have missed something. For peoples poor in money, arms, and men produced Milton and Galileo. We can claim as martyrs only Lattimore and Davies.

I went home measurably reassured. Columbia was all there—except its ancient sense of humor.

Newsweek, June 21, 1954