Here's a text extraction of the provided image, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlap:


Perspective
Kefauver's Inquisition

by Raymond Moley

AND now, after many months of grill-
ing by the Kefauver Senate
subcommittee on "antitrust and mo-
nopoly," the drug industry is to be
investigated by the Federal Trade
Commission. That will probably be a
continuation of the same deplorable
show. For the new chairman of the
FTC is Paul Rand Dixon, who was
Kefauver's chief counsel and staff di-
rector. No doubt, the new inquiry will
be marked by the same prejudices as
those of Kefauver and his staff.

The Kefauver drug investigation
was initiated in 1957 and hearings be-
gan in 1959. It followed the same
sensational pattern as earlier Kefauver
examinations of steel, automobiles,
farm implements, bread, insurance,
oil, baseball, and football. The drug
hearings are published in 26 volumes
comprising 16,505 pages, with a re-
port, issued in June, of 300 pages of
majority opinion and 74 of rebuttal by
Senators Dirksen, Hruska, and Wiley.
Kefauver dominated the Demo-
cratic majority, bossed the staff, ar-
ranged the appearance of witnesses,
decided when and how much the
views of the industry could be reg-
istered, and kept up a running com-
mentary directed at the public.

HITTING THE HEADLINES

By established custom such an in-
vestigation of an industry should be-
gin with hearings of the Federal
agencies responsible for the adminis-
tration of existing laws, in this case
the Department of Justice, the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, and the Food
and Drug Administration. That should
show how present laws are being en-
forced and if and what new legislation
is needed. Then the representatives
of the industry are given their oppor-
tunity to describe their operations and
problems. Then there should be rep-
resentatives of the trade and pro-
fessional associations. Finally, there
should be responsible critics.

Kefauver ignored this orderly se-
quence. First there were summoned
the presidents of the drug companies,
who were confronted with "when-did-
you-stop-beating-your-wife" ques-
tions cunningly designed to make
sensational headlines in the press.
Then miscellaneous witnesses of-
fered charges against the industry—
generally wild, irresponsible, and
sometimes untrue. These, too, were
timed to make the latest editions.
Since the business of a big company
is complicated, rebuttal takes time
and thus misses the headlines. Months
passed before Federal agencies were
heard, and the professional and trade
associations appeared much later.

The theme of the inquiry, in fact
the name of the report, was "admin-
istered prices." This is a vague term
used to describe prices for the same
or equivalent products within an in-
dustry which tend to equate them-
selves. They are determined by
competition and the law of supply
and demand. Companies must charge
a "going price" or lose business.

NO MONOPOLY

Such prices are not due to monop-
oly or conspiracy among competitors.
This was neither charged nor proved.
A fantastic aspect of the inquiry is
that while the subcommittee was sup-
posed to limit itself to monopoly, the
main attack was on the high cost
of competition.

The 1,300 drug manufacturing
companies are highly competitive.
The business is also a "growth" indus-
try, since its major products are less
than twenty years old. There are vig-
orous sales efforts and expensive ad-
vertising. Physicians and retailers
must be informed of the uses and
limitations of certain new drugs and
also be warned against their im-
proper use. This process involves an
effort to reach tens of thousands. The
expense must be large. But Kefauver
views this with a jaundiced eye.

Strange in him, because in his various
campaigns for the Presidency and
Vice Presidency he must have learned
how much it cost to bring his useful-
ness and virtues to the attention of
millions of voters.

There was plenty of to-do over
patents. But practically every growth
industry must have the protection of
patents if it is to risk great sums in re-
search and selling. This is a right
fixed in the Constitution of the United
States, designed "to promote the
progress of science."

Next week I shall consider the vital
questions of prices and profits in the
drug business.

Newsweek, August 28, 1961