Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Britain Goes to the Polls
by Raymond Moley

I HOPE the charge of Anglophile will
not be made if I say that in the
structure and operation of party poli-
tics Britain is greatly superior to the
United States. Our industry and agri-
culture are immensely superior not
only in quantity but quality. Our tech-
nical education is better, too. But our
party system is far behind, if we can
be said to have a party system at all.

At the heart of British
politics are responsible, in-
tegrated parties—two big
ones and one small one. But
never in our time has
the small one been large
enough to destroy two-
party responsibility. When
Labor grew to major size,
the Liberal Party immedi-
ately withered away. With-
in their major parties there
is a fair amount of internal cohesion
and discipline. A candidate does not
wander away on his own, expounding
ideas foreign to those of his party.

THE party organizations are kept
vital and alive at all times. Policies
and issues are not arrived at helter-
skelter once in four years. They are
in constant review and restatement.
When a party is out of power, as
the Conservatives have been, there is
maintained a "shadow cabinet," which
meets frequently and argues out is-
sues. Members of this group do not
air their differences, as leaders do
over here. In short, in Britain there
is a sense of party. A party is regarded
as a proper means of orderly govern-
ment and not, as it is here by millions,
as a shady organization. So-called
"independence" here is regarded as a
virtue. There, it is an eccentricity.
The deadly virus of nonpartisanship
that has afflicted many of our Western
States is present in only tiny corners
of Britain. Nor are there lone-wolf
statesmen possessed of only a personal
following such as we have in several
Southern States. It is not regarded as
wise or creditable to say, as so many
do here: "I vote for the man, not the
party." Britain sees a government of
law through parties, not a govern-
ment of men.

A two-party system here is a myth
which still enjoys a hazy recognition.
Over there, it is a reality.
When an election approaches in

Britain, the parties issue manifestoes
which are not composed of the as-
sorted generalities that characterize
our platforms. They are specific and
meaty. There are also thick books to
guide candidates. Labor's is called
the "Speakers' Handbook." The Con-
servatives' is "The Campaign Guide."
Candidates have these at hand and
use them in answering questions.
There are thousands of
indoor and outdoor meet-
ings in the constituencies,
but only a few, well-pre-
pared and -delivered broad-
casts. The pre-election air
is not full of incoherent
and stumbling, ghost-writ-
ten speeches, with spot
jingles and slogans, as is the
case here. The British
Broadcasting Corp. gives an
equal number of periods to the major
parties, fewer to the Liberals, and a
spot to the Communists. There were
only about a dozen of these radio
addresses in the 1950 election. They
were fine and cogent addresses by
the top figures in the party. And they
were heard by every receiver in the
United Kingdom.

The law strictly limits the use of
money. Each candidate is allowed an
amount that would seem like small
change here. But this compels its
efficient use. Practically every voter is
personally visited by workers. Over
here, a large part of the money spent
is wasted. Nor are there subterfuges
there such as our "independent com-
mittees" which avoid the application
of our corrupt-practices law.
Campaign literature is excellently
planned, printed, and distributed.
Party headquarters are helpful and
serve correspondents efficiently. They
are not full of green amateurs, super-
numeraries, and hacks as are our
candidates' offices. There are many
volunteer, unpaid workers in the
constituencies, but these workers
know what they are supposed to do.

BRITAIN gets out the vote. Eighty-
five per cent of the eligible voters
cast their ballots in 1950. Over here
only 51 per cent voted in 1948.
Truman received a "mandate" from
25 per cent of the eligible voters.
That is one lesson we might learn
from abroad.

Newsweek, October 29, 1951