Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the original column structure as much as possible.  There might be minor inaccuracies due to the image quality and column layout.

**Does Capitalism Cause War?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

If Stalin's liquidation of the Third International means that Communism has abandoned its effort to tell working people in all nations that capitalism causes war, his action is one of the most important events in modern times. For never was so dangerous a suggestion presented to the people of the world as the view that capitalism is the root of war. To spread this claim, basic in the propaganda of Lenin, among people in a postwar era would be like dropping a match into a tank of gasoline. Playing upon it after this war might well produce chaos worse than war itself.

This theory was only partially set forth by Marx, but in the lucid and inflammatory writings of politicians and economists who followed him, it achieved coherence and plausibility. Americans, who have never bothered much with economic theory, never realized its nature, and, for that reason, seldom recognized its ripened developments when they appeared here. But it embodies a living danger, and only as we become familiar with it can we protect ourselves from its deadly error.

The hypothesis appears in two more or less related propositions. The first is the theory of underconsumption; the second is the theory of capitalist imperialism.

The theory of underconsumption goes back to a date earlier than Marx. Its chief exponent was a Swiss named Sismondi, who developed the melancholy theory that production, under capitalism, grew more rapidly than the capacity of workers to buy, and thus that periodical gluts or crises were bound to occur. From this, Marxists like Kautsky and Rosa Luxemburg drew the revolutionary inference that the interests of capitalism were inimical to the interests of workers.

Lenin, building upon a somewhat different theory, developed the idea that the concentration of capitalism and production created international capitalistic monopolies which, because they dominated the diplomacy of nations, brought trade conflicts and wars.

J. A. Hobson, an English economist whose influence was very great during the period of the last war, merged these two theories in his writings on imperialism. From him, John M. Keynes drew much of his inspiration, and, it may be added, so have many economists in the New Deal in America. But these Americans cannot be charged with saying that war is caused by capitalism. That was a special feature of orthodox Communist doctrine.

Hobson, however, was well known to Lenin, who quoted him with approval and satisfaction. Hobson said: "Everywhere appear excessive powers of production, excessive capital in search of investment. It is admitted by all businessmen that the growth of the powers of production in their own country exceeds the growth in consumption, that more goods can be produced than can be sold at a profit and that more capital exists than can find remunerative investment. It is this economic condition of affairs that forms the taproot of imperialism."

The answer to the underconsumption theory has been provided by modern American industry, which has proceeded on its way without bothering to give theoretical answers at all. Its answer is practical. It is that constantly accelerated mass production, with lower prices and rising wages, provides a balance between production and consumption and, at the same time, moves living standards ever upward.

The answer to the theory that capitalist imperialism causes war lies in the history of the origins of wars over the past 50 years. In a short but important book, "The Economic Causes of War," Mr. Lionel Robbins makes it abundantly clear that in both world wars and even in the Boer War, the causes of conflict were in part economic, but far from capitalistic. The point he makes is that saying that economic factors cause war is not proving that wars would not come if capitalism were abolished.

Perhaps Hitler himself has provided the best refutation of the fallacy that capitalism causes wars. It has been his claim, during twenty years of ranting, that capitalists are his enemies and that they cause war. Since he has had full power over his country for ten years, we cannot assume that capitalists control him. And since a country thus headed by a capitalist-hater turned out to be the prime enemy of peace, the Leninist thesis has simply had no place to go. It has, we may all hope, committed an honorable suicide.

There are many causes of war deep in human nature and social organization. But capitalism is not one of them.