Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**The Bricker Amendment—III**

by Raymond Moley

THE most important part of the
Bricker proposal is Section 3,
which brings within the regulatory
power of Congress the making of ex-
ecutive agreements by more or less
anonymous bureaucrats throughout
the vast ramifications of the Foreign
Service. Most of these agreements
originate in international commissions
and operate with little notice and no
control by Congress. They
are a relatively new ele-
ment in foreign affairs, and,
what is most serious, they
frequently deal with the in-
ternal affairs of the country.

Here is a brief sketch
of such an operation. In
December 1950 Socialist
Prime Minister Attlee vis-
ited Washington and sug-
gested the creation of an
international operation to allocate and
distribute raw materials on an inter-
national basis. A month later, the State
Department announced the creation
of such an apparatus, the International
Materials Conference, with offices in
the department and largely paid for
with American money. There was
established a "Central Group," com-
posed of the U.S., the United
Kingdom, and France. Then seven
committees were formed to allocate
and control the price of certain raw
materials. The international semantics
by which this was designated, "en-
titlement for consumption," is, in
Marxese, "from each according to his
ability, to each according to his need."
The IMC made clear the responsi-
bility of each country "for seeing that
their allocations are not exceeded."
In January 1952 Assistant Secretary of
State Jack McFall said that there was
"no statutory authority for the partici-
pation of the U.S. in this conference
as it is one of many activities carried
out in furtherance of the foreign pol-
icy of the U.S."

After the committees made all the
decisions, they were enforced in the
United States by the extraordinary
powers of our various emergency
agencies. The National Production
Administration distributed tickets
which totaled the U.S. "entitlement"
to American consumers of copper.
Price controls were used in the case of
zinc. The OPS prohibited the pur-
chase of zinc processed "from foreign


raw materials at a delivered cost
above the ceiling price established
herein." The powers of the Defense
Production Act were used to limit do-
mestic consumption of sulphur, so as to
have a surplus for our friends abroad.
Thus, the State Department spon-
sored and brought about within
our domestic economy what really
amounted to an international cartel.
In fact, in hearings before
Congressional committees
and in debates it was made
clear that Congress did not
dream of such an agency as
the IMC when it passed
emergency legislation. Con-
gress had charged the Mu-
nitions Board with the
responsibility of accumulat-
ing a stockpile of strategic
and critical materials. The
IMC curtailed that stockpiling at a
time when our forces were in a des-
perate crisis in Korea.
In the absence of the emergency
agencies which were used in this
case, the same thing could be done
even more effectively through exec-
utive agreements.
This process of by-passing Congress
stems from a deep-seated feeling by
the bureaucratic elite that the public
and its representatives are incapable
of understanding the high ideals and
fine thinking that prevail in interna-
tional intercourse. Consider these no-
table last words of the maestro of the
elite, Dean Acheson, addressed to the
Foreign Service Association a year
ago: "Make no mistake, there is a real
battle with Congress. There is a great
lag in the education and information
between you who know the outside
world and the great mass of the
American people and their elected
representatives. A great lag between
you who know the facts of life," etc.

ACHESON is gone, but most of the old
A State Department participants in
IMC are still around and appeared
before Senator Malone's subcommit-
tee this month. The Central Group
was officially terminated on Dec.
31 last, but its members have indi-
cated their readiness "to consult
among themselves."
No wonder those who favor this by-
passing of Congress are so fearful of
Section 3 of the Bricker amendment.

Newsweek, February 1, 1954