Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

To Establish Justice

by RAYMOND MOLEY

At this point the reader should
brace himself and tighten the
seat belt. For this is a piece in praise
of one achievement of the British
Labor government.

The flood of ill-considered socialist
legislation has been so great in Britain
these past four years that one
great act has been practically
overlooked in this
country. When it has been
noted, it has been erroneously
classed as another
piece of socialism.

The British Legal Aid
and Assistance Plan was
enacted by Parliament in
July. Its roots run well back
into the days of the Churchill
government, and its inspiration comes
from the Magna Carta’s
declaration that “to no man will
we sell or refuse or delay right or
justice.”

In 1944 there was created a committee
of leaders of the bar, headed by
Lord Rushcliffe, to make recommendations
to provide legal advice for people
unable to pay any or all of the
existing cost of such aid. The Rushcliffe
committee reported to Parliament
shortly before the Labor victory in
1945. After long consideration by
the bar, the judiciary, and the government,
the essential plan was adopted.

The first principle of the plan is that
there should be provided in civil
matters legal advice and aid, free for
those unable to pay and inexpensive
for those able to pay something. A
second principle is that such aid
should be provided by competent lawyers
who should receive fair, stated
remuneration. A third principle is that
the plan should be operated not by the
government but by the legal profession.
Finally, that the cost, if not found
elsewhere, should be paid by the government.

A specific means test is provided which
specifies that if the client’s income is
below a fixed amount, the service shall
be free, and if above that amount, it
shall be graded according to ability to
pay. Lawyers receive fees fixed by law
for the specific service performed.

There will be established legal-advice
centers, staffed by lawyers who accept
such employment on a full- or part-time
basis. Barristers and solicitors are not
compelled to serve. They are free to
enroll or to stay out. Private practice
continues as usual for those able to pay.

This system does not socialize the
legal profession, as the British health
plan socializes the medical men. The
plan is administered by the profession.
The fixing of fees is not new. Solicitors’
fees have long been fixed by statute.
Those who serve are not employees of
the government. They are amenable to
discipline only by their professional
body. No bureaucracy develops.

This is not socialism. Sir Hartley
Shawcross, British Attorney General,
correctly stated in a speech before a
legal-aid convention in Boston three
weeks ago: “I believe in socialism—in
the right places. The legal profession
is not the right place; it is the wrong
place. The act neither nationalizes nor
socializes the legal profession.”

There are a number of means of proving
Sir Hartley’s contention. The best one,
beyond those I have already mentioned,
is the essential difference between the
legal profession and the medical
profession or any private business. A
lawyer is an officer of the court. His
function is to bridge the gap between
citizens and the law and the courts.
Justice is a primary and indisputable
service of a free government. It should
be accessible to all, regardless of means.
The state owes or should owe no one
free spectacles, false teeth, aspirin, or a
stove. It can and sometimes, as in
Britain, it does give him these things. But
a government does owe a citizen a fair
deal before the law. And if under the
present practice of the law this is denied,
an elementary responsibility of the state
is not fulfilled.

Judge Conway of the New York Court of
Appeals pointed out last year, in speaking
of this British plan, that this country
might well study and consider the
application of some such idea over here.

(Note: A much more complete description
of the British plan is in an article in the
American Bar Association Journal, June
1949.)

Newsweek, November 7, 1949