Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  I've tried my best, but minor inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality and column layout.


Perspective
Political Power Goes West
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The growth and future potential by factionalism. It is substantially a
of Texas, California and other Western one-party state.
and Southwestern States point to an A recent visit to Texas raised in my
immense shift in political power. mind the inevitable question about a
Colonel McCormick's men write tartly two-party system there, which I asked
of the need to cut down Eastern in- all who would listen, in some such
fluence in the Republican party. They terms as these:
need not worry on that score. But the "Texas is becoming more like the
center of power will rush past the West and Midwest. Industry is moving
Colonel's domain, toward the West in rapidly; vast wealth is developing;
and Southwest. And that great Texas cities are sim-
will happen, before 1960. ilar to Kansas City, Los An-
Despite the luster of the geles and Denver; national
Virginia dynasty, the domi- problems are viewed much
nance of that state and Mas- as they are in Minnesota,
sachusetts, from Washington Washington and California.
to Jackson, was largely The Negro problem in poli-
because of their numerical tics is much less urgent than
advantage in the electoral in the states to the east, for
college. During the Monroe the white population is six-
regime, New York and Penn- sevenths of the total,
sylvania decisively took over. against two-thirds in Loui-
Although they elected only siana and Georgia and one-
two Presidents before Lincoln, they half in Mississippi. When and how, in
held the reins in Whig politics. Ohio light of all this, will Texas become a
entered the picture after Lincoln and, two-party state and throw its vast in-
with New York, almost monopolized fluence into both parties and into na-
the Presidency until Wilson. Hanna tional elections?"
soundly defeated the East in the 1896 Everyone made it clear that there is
convention. In 1932, F.D.R. was a no anxiety about white supremacy.
Western candidate. The great states But Texas sentiment joins that of the
from Massachusetts to the Mississippi Solid South in resenting outside inter-
were either divided or against him in ference in dealing with the legal, po-
the convention. Garner's Texas and litical and social relations of the races.
California votes turned the trick. Northern and Eastern agitators, they
In 1940, California and Texas were, say, breed Southern demagogues.
respectively, the fifth and sixth states Texas will deal with this problem in
in population. Estimates in 1945 gave its own way.
California third place among the states. A sage statesman who has held high
Texas gained, but remained sixth. place in national affairs suggested that
Reliable estimates indicate that by independent and conservative Demo-
1950 California will be second and crats should begin in the counties to
Texas fourth or fifth. This will mean build up a new party, presumably a
more Congressmen from those states, Republican party. This party might,
more delegates in conventions and after securing a foothold in the grass
more electoral votes. roots, elect people to higher offices and
The lesson is that Eastern and Mid- conceivably in future elections bring
western ascendency in politics will cer- the state's Presidential vote to some-
tainly decline, and power will move thing like equal proportions.
to the West and to the Gulf Coast. Another man suggested that Texas
A good deal needs doing in Texas might at some not too distant time
and California before they take their turn in a heavy vote for a Republican
rightful place in American politics. candidate, if he were not too closely
California needs two effective and re- identified with traditional Republican
spected party organizations. Demo- politics. Gov. Earl Warren was sug-
crats are torn between the regulars and gested as an example.
the assorted radicals. The Republican Meanwhile, the great economic
party, despite recent victories, is not resources and rapid growth of Texas
a cohesive organization. join with other growing states west of
Texas has, except in 1928, given on the Mississippi in moving the nation's
average three-quarters of its vote to center of gravity from East to West.
Democratic Presidential candidates. It Political influence will inevitably fol-
has a Republican party which is torn low that trend.