PERSPECTIVE

POLITICAL EDUCATION

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Politics is not an evil thing to be
avoided or destroyed. It is a con-
dition imposed by our acceptance of
free institutions. It is something to live
with, to influence if we may and to
control if we can. We must master its
ways or we shall be mastered by
those who do.

That sentiment is not new. Ed-
mund Burke said it better nearly two
centuries ago. But here it expresses
not only a moral imperative but the
necessity that more of us must under-
stand the practical applications of pol-
itics and act in the light of that
knowledge.

Knowledge is imparted by educa-
tion. But formal training in the facts
of political and governmental life has
not had a prominent place in the cur-
ricula of our schools. There must be
more instruction in the practical ways
of politics and the meaning of our
governmental institutions if we can
hope effectively to govern ourselves.

Thirteen years ago Sen. Robert A.
Taft died, leaving the illustrious mem-
ory of a man of highly cultivated in-
telligence who at the same time had
sufficiently mastered the art of poli-
tics to win three elections to the
United States Senate.

After his death some of Taft's
friends and admirers brought about
the creation of the Robert A. Taft In-
stitute of Government, which was
dedicated not only to honor his name
but to provide practical training in
government and politics. The individ-
ual whose indefatigable labor made
the institute possible was Mrs. Pres-
ton Davie of New York, who herself
had spent years in practical politics
and as a leader in training people in
the art of political organization.

THE TAFT INSTITUTE

The institute, chartered in 1961,
states these objectives: "(1) To stimu-
late among Americans an understand-
ing of the processes and problems of
government in a free society; (2) to
inspire more active citizen interest
and participation in government at all
levels; (3) to advance the art of gov-
ernment and thus help our citizens
meet more effectively the great prob-
lems now confronting the United
States and Western civilization."

These purposes as interpreted by
the institute go beyond the old-fash-
ioned sorts of instruction in civics
and government. The institute has
stressed the importance of training in
the art of practical politics at all lev-
els and the preservation of a strong
two-party system.

To implement these objectives and
to project its influence into the pub-
lic schools, the institute has provided
the means and talent for seminars
under the auspices of colleges and
school systems in ten states. These
have been attended by high-school
and elementary-school teachers. Such
teachers impart in their classrooms
what they have learned to their stu-
dents. The plan is to expand these
programs into all the states.

SEMINARS FOR TEACHERS

There have been 21 such seminars,
attended by 1,050 teachers-reaching
an estimated 225,000 future voters.
There has been an exciting response
from those who have participated. In
fact, more requests for such meetings
are coming in than the institute can
meet with its limited means. It has
abundantly proved that there is a
wide demand for such an innovation
in our educational system.

Partisanship and controversial issues
are excluded from the seminars. The
instructors have been not only college
professors but people who are ac-
tively in politics and government-
from United States senators to local
councilmen. The presence of these
practical political practitioners brings
an element of reality which mere for-
mal educational processes cannot sup-
ply. This means that practice as well
as theory is stressed.

The activities of the Taft Institute
have been endorsed by five Presi-
dents of the United States-Hoover,
Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy and
Johnson. The plans of Mrs. Davie
and the trustees of the institute go
beyond these teaching seminars to
preparation of teaching material,
including visual aids, for schools, sur-
veys of school curricula, and fellow-
ships for graduate students.

The abiding threat to free institu-
tions is the apathy of citizens. The in-
stitute looks to the future when the
children now receiving this new sort
of training through their teachers may
effectively meet the issues that they
most certainly must face.

Newsweek, March 28, 1966