PERSPECTIVE

ROMNEY THE INCREDIBLE

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

If there were not a George Romney,
invent one. I am still willing to be
convinced that the New York gover-
nor would reject a nomination if it
sought him after the bloody field was
strewn with the remains of the pres-
ent aspirants. But even if Rockefeller
does not want to be nominated, he is
the authentic champion of the Eastern
Establishment which cannot endure
the prospect of a Republican conven-
tion without a candidate for the nomi-
nation who reflects the interests and
views of that corner of the nation. It
has had such a candidate ever since
the days of Roscoe Conkling and the
time when Thomas B. Reed unsuc-
cessfully challenged McKinley and
Hanna in 1896.

In 1964, after the California pri-
mary virtually eliminated Rockefeller,
the E.E. projected Governor Scranton
as a somewhat singed and reluctant
offering. And now, with somewhat
similar blindness to the dominance in
the GOP of the West, the Midwest
and the South, the Michigan governor
has been built up as a contender.

But now, as Romney stands naked
in his inadequacy, there are voices
not far from New York City and Al-
bany supporting Governor Reagan.
Not because they admire him and his
views, but because he might be used
to frustrate Nixon in New Hampshire
and Wisconsin.

AN UNCERTAIN TRUMPET

Since Romney is now a professed
candidate, however, and his support-
ers must still find reasons for his nomi-
nation, it is pertinent to consider how
he would fare in a campaign against
Lyndon Johnson. Without reviving
the oft-reported account of Romney's
fumbling with the issues, I select for
illustration his performance on the
CBS "Face the Nation" program on
Nov. 19. He met on that occasion
three competent inquisitors who plied
him with highly pertinent questions
about Vietnam. One concerned Rom-
ney's idea that a solution lies in neu-
tralizing the whole area (presumably
North and South Vietnam), "taking
that area out of the cold war." That,
incidentally, would be like a sugges-
tion to Lincoln in 1862 that Virginia
and Washington be neutralized.

Q. Is there a specific program? You
say neutralization-
A. I am in the process of studying it
and developing it.

Romney then made the point that
the South Vietnamese should be made
to fight more.
Q. Suppose you were President and
they didn't?
A. We should cross that bridge
when we come to it.

Those answers characterize Rom-
ney's answers when he faces hard re-
alities for decision. Either he says he
must study some more or the problem
can wait for decision. He is really not
sure, clear and articulate about any
of the grim issues that are disturbing
Americans. How can Republicans ex-
pect a victory in 1968 when the tune
is called by this uncertain trumpet?

A SITTING DUCK FOR LBJ

For the next Presidential campaign
will not, like the last one, be a conflict
of ideologies. It will be a hard-hitting
debate over the tools essential to meet
American commitments abroad and at
home. The words "liberal," "conserva-
tive" or the blurred something called
"moderate" will have little relevance.
The Johnson cards are on the table.
And whoever challenges him must
match him point by point with viable
alternatives.

No Polonius can do that with a rou-
tine of homey platitudes. Nor can a
GOP candidate rely upon set speeches
prepared for him by an aggregation of
ghosts. It is incredible that Romney is
prepared to face such veteran cam-
paigners as LBJ and Humphrey and
also to meet, day after day, the merci-
less inquisition of the most numerous
and in part the most sophisticated
group of press representatives in the
world. The half-hour "Face the Na-
tion" performance shows how ill-pre-
pared he is for such a test.

It is equally incredible that Rom-
ney's lack of preparation is so glaring
after he has had more than two years
to inform himself on the vital issues
upon which the 1968 campaign will
be decided.

He should know, as he was remind-
ed, that neutralization means surren-
der to Communism on the installment
plan. And when he says, taking a cue
from Robert Kennedy, that the South
Vietnamese military forces are not
bearing their share of the burden, that
charge is shattered by General West-
moreland and Ambassador Bunker.

Indeed, Romney himself is incredi-
ble, considering how badly his scanty
knowledge and foggy faculties fail to
meet the range of his pretensions.

Newsweek, December 11, 1967