Perspective

A Serious Policy Split Threatens the Labor Party

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LONDON—The Labor government that
now begins its perilous course is
afflicted not only with general debility
but with a sort of political schizo-
phrenia. And the latter may prove the
more serious.

The history books have been ran-
sacked by editorial writers and others,
and innumerable parallels of a more or
less superficial character have been
found to apply to the situation that now
prevails. Ivor Jennings in his treatise
on Cabinet government points out that
over a period of 100 years before 1931,
minority governments were in power
eleven times for a total of 25 years.
During the early part of that century
the marginal minorities were various
factions of the old Tories and Whigs.
Then for a long time the Irish members
held the balance. Finally, the vanishing
Liberals stood in the middle. There
have been majorities as small as five,
and things were carried on without
great trouble.

Americans will recall that Lincoln
and Wilson were minority Presidents,
that Hayes certainly polled fewer votes
than Tilden, and that Grover Cleveland
emerged by the very skin of his teeth.
They will also recall the time when the
Republicans had a majority of one in
the Senate, and that one was a mem-
ber whose seat was being contested. At
that time a witty Democrat suggested
that the Republican majority was out
on bail.

IN the present Labor setup an epidemic
of colds or a bit of ptomaine in the
Parliament kitchen may overthrow the
government.

It may well be that the Conservative
command is not anxious to upset Labor,
at least before the budget is out of the
way and a number of routine matters
have been cared for. Even if the Con-
servative leaders, who are not omnipo-
tent, should decide to create a show-
down, many members might rebel at
such a course. For an issue of patriotism
is involved in keeping the ship of state
moving in the dangerous weeks ahead.
It would win no votes for the Conserva-
tives in another election if they played
politics with the national interest.

The real difficulty, as I suggest above,
will be with the split personality of the
Labor Party. The present party is a
merger of many distinct streams of radi-
March 13, 1950

cal thought and action. In addition to
Marxism, there was in the beginning
Christian Socialism which the party his-
torian, Francis Williams, describes as an
ethical movement quite unlike the ma-
terialism of Marx. There is also a gen-
erous proportion of local socialism,
which in America we call municipal
ownership. The La-
bor Party is by no
means a mere en-
largement of the
Fabian Society.
Much of its strength
and almost all of its
financial support
come from labor
unions which es-
sentially are less
radical than many
of our CIO unions.

The political tactics of such leaders
as MacDonald and Snowden were re-
formist rather than radical. The Labor
governments of the '20s made no real
efforts to carry socialism to the final
test. That has been reserved for the
government elected in 1945. The Labor
manifesto this year went far beyond the
objectives of the earlier campaigns. And
apparently it went far beyond the views
of such moderates as Morrison. If those
moderates were assured of power over
the Parliamentary party, we should hear
very little of further nationalization.

But the narrow majority makes the
exercise of such control impossible. The
real Marxists of the party have tasted
power and are intent upon nationaliza-
tion for its own sake and because Marx
said so.

Aneurin Bevan has been encouraged
by the apparent popularity of his health
administration, although it can clearly
be demonstrated that his optimism is
not justified. He wants to have the party
come out for a full program of
socialism and go down with the red flag
flying. Bevan is fond of talking about
long-term values and ultimate destina-
tions. He writes of the Grand Design in
capital letters. The matters that Labor
dwelt upon in the campaign, such as
full employment, prices, and food, he
regards as subordinate issues. Writing
in The Tribune, the Socialist oracle
where Bevan's wife, Jennie Lee, is on
the editorial board, he asserted that
"The main economic structure must be
planned, purposive, and reasonably pre-
dictable." There is only one way in
which economic affairs can be predict-
able, and that is through some sort of
dictatorship. It is with that point of
view that Attlee and Morrison must
contend.

After it was clear that the Labor mar-
gin would be very thin, Bevan's be-
havior was strange. He was missing from
the Cabinet conference at Downing
Street. He appeared to be under great
emotional strain. In the new Cabinet Att-
lee returned him to his post as Minister
of Health, which was obviously a means
of avoiding a clash. Bevan has made it
clear that he is anxious to move on to a
more important post. Sooner or later,
the irrepressible conflict in the Labor
Party will break out; and that may be
the moment for Conservative action.

When that moment comes, the Con-
servative leadership will face a heavy
responsibility. The people of Britain
have become accustomed to a great
many social services and, for better or
worse, these must be continued. The
great middle classes must be absorbed,
despite their traditional Liberalism.
There must be youth and vigor in ad-
ministration and a new leader must be
found, for Churchill cannot go on for-
ever.

SOME indication of what may be ex-
pected is shown by an examination of
the personnel of the "Shadow Cabinet."
This is the group which Churchill gath-
ers around him for advice and decision
and which, if the Conservatives come
to power, will probably constitute the
Ministry. The average age of these men
is considerably less than that of the
Cabinet selected by Attlee. Their gen-
eral experience has been in politics and
in government offices. Some have had
business experience on the directorate
rather than on the managerial level.
Nearly all served in the first world war
and enjoyed university education. This
group, in short, notably represents the
traditional Conservative gentleman in
politics—able, experienced in govern-
ment, and skillful in debate. To an
American it would seem that it could
stand a few more experienced busi-
nessmen, lawyers, and other profes-
sional men. If the Conservative Party
is to become the dominant party in
Britain, it might well reach out for a
somewhat more diversified leadership.

37