Here's the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


The Woodchuck of the Balkans

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Germans now residing in this
country say that their most vivid recol-
lection of the beginning of the crack-up
in 1918 centers in Bulgaria. They knew
something of the withdrawals on the
western front, of course, but they did
not regard them as decisive. They knew
almost nothing about morale troubles in
the German Navy. They did not know
that Austria had solicited peace on Sept.
15. But when, on Sept. 17, it was known
that Bulgaria had made a peace bid, the
news fell like a bomb. And when King
Ferdinand fled to Germany, his flight
was generally regarded by the German
people as the clap of doom.

Now there sits on Ferdinand's Bul-
garian hot seat his unreliable son, Boris.
This shrewd master of treacherous
Balkan politics owes whatever may be
called "loyalty" in his make-up not to
Germany, but to Russia. His father had
him baptized according to the Russian
rite in a Greek Orthodox church to em-
phasize the tie to Russia. Boris's tradi-
tions have directed his policy toward
such petty looting of his neighbors as
has been possible for his small state.

In this war, to date, Boris has per-
formed as might have been expected.
He has made unnecessary the use of the
thousands of German "tourists" who in-
fested his country by taking over, for
Hitler, the custody of the Yugoslav
Vardar Valley and the Greek coast from
Salonika to the Turkish frontier. This,
he apparently reasoned, was in line with
the cherished aspirations of his nation.
But real war with the great kinfolk of
his people, the Russians? No! Not
really!

Boris has permitted Hitler to use his
airports, camps and the port of Varna
on the Black Sea. But he has made no
war, even with Turkey, Bulgaria's tradi-
tional enemy. Nor has he taken any
serious part in the shedding of Russian
blood, even when Hitler, struggling for
his life at Stalingrad, begged for Bul-
garian help.

This spring Boris was "invited" to
Berchtesgaden, where the Führer
"urged" him to prepare for active par-
ticipation in the war. But while Boris
was as affable as a collie, he was as
elusive as a woodchuck. When he re-
turned home, nothing of any significance
happened. No doubt he gave orders with
a sly wink or two. But few Bulgarian
shots were fired outside the occupied
territories. Boris did declare war against
England and the United States, since

they seemed far from the intimacies of
Sofia. But even now he is doubtless
excoriating some quaking minister for
the myopic vision which impelled him
to do so.

For Boris has no desire to follow his
father into exile. Obviously, when Ger-
man "protection" is withdrawn, he will
find no warmth among his Yugoslav,
Greek and Turkish neighbors. So he
would probably greet United Nations
representatives with hysterical affection.
Perhaps he even permits himself dreams
of the time when Russia will offer a
helping paw, as in 1878.

The question for the United Nations
to decide in dealing with Boris and his
kingdom is, needless to say, what is he
worth to us?

The fall of Bulgaria would be a
heavy psychological blow to the Ger-
mans. Historical parallels weigh heavily
with them. Hitler has told his people
that 1918 will not happen again. What
will happen to the Hitlerean opera if
Boris bursts upon the stage with an un-
scheduled swan song as the summer be-
gins to fade? Nothing good, surely, from
the viewpoint of Nazi morale. The at-
mosphere would be more soggy with
tragedy than it was in 1918. The Rus-
sians are in the war now and doing nice-
ly. But psychology aside, Boris's defec-
tion would be extremely important to
the United Nations because Bulgaria
is a veritable keystone of the Balkans.
Unless Hitler keeps Bulgaria open to his
troops, he cannot defend Greece. Clear-
ly, the United Nations could move from
Salonika straight for the heart of the
Reich. Rumania and Hungary could
hardly be held in line by Hitler, if
Bulgaria pulled out. In fact, Germany
might well find it difficult to hold any
line at all south of the Austrian border.
On the other hand, the Bulgarian
position becomes more desperate every
week. On the west are the Yugoslavs,
who have a savage zest for cutting Bul-
garian throats. To the south are the
Greeks and, beyond them, the threat of
a great Anglo-American invasion. At
the north are the unfriendly Rumanians.
And overhead there will soon be swarms
of enemy planes.

No matter what he does now, it is
plain that ultimately Boris may be the
victim of his neighbors. But even that
prospect may be preferable to the dread-
ful predicament in which Hitler and
geography have placed him.