Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:


TODAY IN AMERICA
May 1, 1937
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

DEBT AND MR. CITIZEN

WHAT is the average man's stake in the Federal
budget—not this year, but in the long pull ahead?
The President's statement last week did not answer
this question directly. But it was sufficiently forth-
right to furnish the materials for an answer.

The President revealed that tax receipts have failed
to meet his expectations by a disheartening amount,
that the cost of the normal activities of government
has not dropped and that the country must go on pay-
ing a stupendous bill for relief. He promised a bal-
anced budget after another fiscal year and added, in
passing, that he would attempt to save some of the
money appropriated in the coming year. He indicated
clearly that he would use the veto power to prevent the
many raids on the Treasury now gathering momentum
in Congress. And, finally, he did not gloss over the dis-
appointing fact that a further deficit of half a billion
dollars is going to be piled on to the public debt in
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1937.

"So what?" the average man will say. "I'm not a
big shot in business or finance. And I'm not a job-
holder or a reliefer. What do I care about 'fiscal
years' and 'tax yields'? Come good times or bad, I
manage to pay my own way and even to lay a little
something by."

This question almost answers itself. The average
man is a provident person. Millions of insurance poli-
cies and savings-bank accounts are the evidences of his
unquenchable desire to protect the security of his per-
sonal little kingdom—himself, his home and his de-
pendents. This preoccupation of his transcends all
others. Strikes, elections, wars, the ups and downs of
business are incidental. They come and go. He figures
he can manage somehow, in the future as in the past,
no matter how they come out. But the security of his
savings is another matter. And for this the average
man holds the government responsible. Anyone who
doubts that he is worried about how Congress and the
President will use their plenary power over his dollar
ten or twenty years hence has only to consult Dr.
Gallup's poll on inflation published last Sunday. The
average man is indifferent to the government's finances
only insofar as he fails to see the connection be-
tween them and the dollars he is saving.

NOW the President seems to agree thoroughly with
such wise advisers as Mr. Eccles that this is the
moment when national recovery ought to begin to be
reflected in the national financial picture, the moment
when we ought to be able to live within our income.
This year of 1937 is not the most satisfactory in our
history, but it is sufficiently prosperous to enable us to
have balanced the budget. For the balancing of the
budget is not a goal: it is a transition point, a 45-yard
line. The goal itself is the reduction of the debt and
the accumulation of those resources needed to meet the
impact of another depression.

The most disappointing aspect of the present situ-
ation, then, is that it looks as though we might have to
forgo our real goal—paying off some of what we owe—
and content ourselves with the simple task of paying
for our current expenses. And if we accept this as our
goal, if we admit that the government cannot live with-

in its income except in years of abounding prosperity,
then we must admit that we are willing to see the
national debt become a permanent charge upon the
savings of the future.

This means that Mr. Average Citizen will have to
fork up the taxes to pay interest on the old debt the
government has failed to reduce. It means that if this
interest becomes unwieldy when the next depression
comes along and when new sums of money must be
raised for relief, the government will almost certainly
be driven into another devaluation of the dollar. It
means that Mr. Average Citizen's savings may not buy
him as much security as he thought they would.

If we permit each depression to pile up its own
stratum of national debt and accept the fact that the
dollar must be devalued every twenty years or so, we
simply live off our own fat. We consume the present
and future security of the thrifty and the provident.
It is true, of course, that America is a great country
and that a billion or so could be added each year to
the national debt for hundreds of years, and work
itself out in the form of a rise in prices so slow that
no one would notice it unless he lived to the age of
James Hilton's Grand Lama. But somehow deficits
never grow that moderately and steadily. They gain
momentum as they go.

BECAUSE he is clearly aware of this danger, the
President is now attempting to make provision
against it. But such is the political situation at the
moment that he cannot do much more than resist, de-
lay, skillfully pit one pressure group against the other
and try at all costs to prevent further increases in the
deficit. It is hardly to be expected that deficits will
not run well into 1939.

One last consideration. A sizable part of Mr. Aver-
age Citizen's savings, in the years ahead, is going to be
drawn into the old-age and unemployment funds which
the government has set up under the Social Security
Act. Mr. Average Citizen is going to save more than he
used to. And the more he saves, the more poignant
will be his interest in the range of prices. He will
want prices to harmonize with the dollars he is now
paying out of his wages for future security. If they
don't, he and his friends are going to yell louder at
the doors of Congress than any other pressure group
has ever yelled before. He and his friends are going
to claim that the government has assured them not
merely a given number of dollars for their future se-
curity, but security itself. He is going to insist, just as
his English brother did a few years back, that he be
given a larger number of dollars. If his demand is
recognized, as it may well be, the money to satisfy it
will have to come from somewhere. It will come in
part from taxes and in part from further government
borrowing—in short, from a further increase in the
national debt, a further decrease in the purchasing
power of the dollar and further shrinkage in the real
value of the personal savings of Mr. Average Citizen.
It is a prospect he could do worse than mull over
at this time. It may even prompt him to tell his
representatives in Congress that he expects them to
cooperate with the President's economy efforts.

Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.

Page 1061 of 1087