Political Straws in March Winds
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Prophecy is not within the domain of this column. But it does make it a major concern to get for its readers the opinions of informed people on the political situation over the country. For the purposes of this week's essay, I shall try to present a summary of such opinion on the present status of the race which will culminate in the Republican convention. Opinions on such a subject, it should be emphasized, are subject to change. A month from now, the estimate may be entirely different. If it is, I shall present the situation as it appears then. But here is how the major prospective candidacies look now, in alphabetical order:

Bricker is making an extremely active, but quiet campaign. He has made more progress than most New York or Washington observers believe he has. His first-choice delegate strength is probably somewhere between 125 and 200. The reason for this wide spread of possibilities is the Southern bloc of delegates. Taft had most of them four years ago, and could still get them if he were a candidate. But Taft is genuinely for Bricker, and his friends down South are, in some considerable part, friendly to Bricker. Moreover, it should be noted that Ohio Republican politicians are always close to Republican politicians in the South. Bricker's political supporters in Ohio are resourceful and active.

Dewey's great popular strength is unquestioned. This means that many unpledged delegates everywhere lean toward him. His strength may be such as to put him over on the first ballot. If the convention were held now, he would have from 300 to 400 votes.

MacArthur is growing in strength, but slowly. According to present prospects, his delegate strength would be about 50.

Stassen's candidacy has not taken hold very well. If he is sure of Minnesota, he will have enough scattered votes here or there to muster about 50 votes on the first ballot.

Willkie's strength in delegates must always be reckoned on the basis of the great number of big-state votes that will not go to him on the first ballot and probably not on several more ballots. There are some 400 to 500 of these. On the basis of present indications, he will have a bit over 200. He may gain, but the prospects are none too bright.

The favorite sons, Warren of California, Green of Illinois, and some others will account for about 150. The remaining delegates can hardly be accounted for now.

The important questions that these scattered choices indicate are two. How strong would be the tendency of the unpledged and favorite-son delegates to turn to Dewey because they want to be counted on the winning side? What are the second choices of this army of delegates?

If, and this is the big if, the drift to Dewey is not overwhelming, second choices will be a very important factor. That is usually where a candidate like Bricker has a great advantage. Strong Willkie partisans seem to prefer Bricker over Dewey, and Dewey people certainly prefer Bricker to Willkie. The votes of the big Illinois and Pennsylvania delegations would likely go to Bricker, if not to Dewey. Most of the California delegation would, after a vote for Warren, turn to Dewey and, if Dewey is not selected, to various candidates, including Bricker and MacArthur. It is this latent second-choice strength that must be watched in any situation like this. And that is why wise people must keep within their reckoning such a third-place candidate as Bricker.

Aside from Gallup polls and the like, the two most recent items of substantial political news come from New Hampshire and North Carolina. The New Hampshire primary elected six delegates pledged for Willkie, two for Dewey, and three unpledged. This is not good news for Willkie supporters, for it is a sign, confirmed by signs in other states, that Willkie cannot hope for an overwhelming part of the New England delegates.

The North Carolina Republican convention voted unanimously for a "Draft Dewey" resolution. This upsets earlier reports that the Republicans of that state had decided to split their strength among Willkie, Dewey and, possibly, Bricker. It may be an omen of the possible rush to Dewey spoken of above.

All of which is not to predict the nomination of anyone. It is merely a notation of how things look in March.