Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


**The Political Prospect**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

This piece is no argument for or against anything or anybody. It is a report on the present political outlook, based largely on conversations with a good many smart fellows of both parties and in several states.

A year ago on this page, I reported that the chances for the reelection of Mr. Roosevelt, if he ran, looked about even. The chances look even now, although betting odds give him an edge. That is because betting is determined by the psychological rule that brings most betting support to the man in office.

Nevertheless, there is no great optimism in Washington about victory for the fourth term. The comment that this Administration is getting old and tired somehow pervades the consciousness of the New Dealers. The zing and enthusiasm of 1932 and 1936 are gone. This is a state of mind that is not favorable to a strong campaign. Besides, the new Democratic Chairman, Robert E. Hannegan, is making the mistakes of a novice. His statement that the President should be a candidate again in 1948, if at that time there is a "comparable emergency," is regarded by shrewd Democrats as a blunder.

The Texas revolt, in which the legitimate state convention selected an unpledged delegation to the Democratic national convention, is genuine. A number of powerful and energetic people organized to the very grass roots to send to the state convention delegates who were unfavorable to the fourth term. They succeeded so well that not only is an unpledged delegation to be sent to Chicago, but a conditionally pledged group of electors will be on the ballot in November. This means that unless the Chicago convention adopts sentiments that are favorable to white supremacy, the Texas electors will be free to vote for some Democrat other than the nominee of the convention (see page 29). A big fight in Chicago may result, for a Texas delegation headed by the impressive Gov. Coke Stevenson could raise plenty of trouble.

Yet the chances for a revolt in other Southern States in November are not serious. If the Republican ticket is to win, it must win in the tradition of former years—in New England and New York, and westward and northward to Colorado and Montana. Pennsylvania may be the big battleground.

The prospects for Wallace are somewhat better than they looked a month ago. Opposition to him cannot agree upon a substitute candidate, and the increasing dependence of the fourth-term movement upon the influential CIO Political Action Committee favors him.

In gauging Democratic chances for victory at the polls, the vast imponderable is still the question of how many will vote in those cities where Mr. Roosevelt's chief strength lies. The capacity of the city machines and of the CIO to get out that vote certainly must not be overlooked. Organization is the business of those people under Mr. Hillman and of the big city bosses.

Everyone readily agrees that the fortunes of the war will have a tremendous bearing on the result of the election.

On the Republican side, unless something serious happens, Dewey will go over on the first ballot. There has been no pause in the steady rise of Dewey popularity since last summer. Still, it is worth noting that Republican party leaders recognize and will not forget that Bricker is making a gallant and dignified campaign in many states, as much to strengthen the Republican cause as for personal victory. Since he is the only articulate and active candidate, this missionary work by Bricker is of genuine importance as a preliminary to the campaign.

The choice of a Vice Presidential candidate will depend on what the delegates think will help the ticket most. Those who favor Warren point out that he will help Dewey carry California and other Western States. Those who favor Bricker say that he will strengthen the Dewey ticket in the North Central States, in the Border States and in Texas. Those who talk Stassen say he will attract internationally minded votes hitherto loyal to Willkie. Neither Warren nor Bricker, each an active man and a good administrator, wants to serve four years in the somnolent obscurity of the Vice Presidency. Only a strong appeal to their interest in party success could induce either of them to accept such a nomination.