Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Paramount Issue

by Raymond Moley


SAKA, JAPAN—Before we come to
the problems clustering around
Japan’s need to export to the United
States, let us firmly grasp the issue
above all such questions. This is the
imperative interest of the United
States in keeping the vast area sweeping
in an arc from Korea to the
Middle East free of Communist domination. While we are fixing our eyes
at the moment on Berlin, we are
likely to forget that there is a monstrous force in China gathering confidence and means of aggression and
infiltration. This power proposes to
push us back to our own coastlines
on the West. This is potentially more
dangerous in the long run than Soviet Russia. If it gains its objective,
it is a deadly threat to our own national life and our relations from the
Aleutian Islands to Cape Horn. Our institutions themselves would be shaken
by our need for isolated defense.

In the face of this power our only
substantial and reliable ally in the
Pacific is Japan. And Japan has risen
to the stature of a first-class industrial
nation. Her people are as diligent as
the Germans, and there are more of
them. Her population is twice that of
England and is working with more
energy. Japan, moreover, is more
closely intermeshed with the United
States than with Europe. And the
Japanese have the capacity and will at
the moment to maintain freedom from
Communism in all of Southeast Asia.

HOUSEHOLD INDUSTRIES

Against this background, let us consider the essential needs of Japan in
trade relations with the United States.
These needs can be met by fair negotiations with us, provided Japan
maintains a conservative, sympathetic
government which at the moment
seems fairly strong.

Here in this great industrial center
of Osaka, almost as big as Los Angeles and just as vital, I have gotten
from business leaders an outline of
what they consider to be friendly
means of cooperation and mutually
beneficial economic relations.

Among the several items that Japan
wishes to export to the United States,
I select textiles as an illustration.
Almost all of Japan’s exports to the
United States come from small, manually skilled, and household industries.
This is especially true of textiles. The
strengthening of these small industrial units is the most urgent of Japan’s
present economic problems. In 1958
Japan imported $128 million in raw
cotton. This was nearly 13 per cent
of her total imports from the United
States. Her exports in manufactured
textiles were less than half that value.

TEXTILES AND SECURITY

This industry wants to increase its
exports to us. Japan is aware of the
fact that there is a danger of exciting
American opinion if large amounts
of low-priced merchandise are sold
to the United States. Hence, the
Japanese Government has imposed
restrictions. In answer to the question whether it is not possible to find
a larger market for textiles in Southeast Asia, these businessmen pointed
out that Americans use ten times as
much manufactured cotton as the
people of those countries.

Two methods are suggested to expand the textile trade with mutual
benefit. One would be to have American companies export cotton for processing here and for sale in the United
States. Another suggestion is to have
Japan half-process the goods and have
them finished in the United States.
These, I wish to make clear, are what
Japanese businessmen suggest. Some
trouble arose a while back about
Americans who were having Japanese
manufacturers copy designs in violation of fair competition. But that pirating has been checked by mutual
action. That sort of thing, it should be
stressed, was initiated by Americans.
In the case of textiles, as well as
the many other products which Japan
is capable of producing in fine quality and workmanship, Japanese businessmen are extraordinarily friendly
and cooperative. The two governments are earnestly seeking in every
way to facilitate trade profitable to
all. But for the paramount reason advanced above, it is essential that
American opinion understand that
only as we take imports as well as
sell exports can Japan grow into the
stature and influence which may by
peaceful trade and contacts with non-Communist Asia maintain the vital
interests of the United States.

Newsweek, April 13, 1959