Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Speaking of Investments
by Raymond Moley

THE Kerr bill (S. 1869) passed the
Senate last August and is pending
in the House of Representatives. This
bill was the result of a long battle by
sponsors of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority. That agency is legally a
wholly owned government corpora-
tion and its finances are subject to
review by Congress. While tax exempt
so far as the Federal government is
concerned, and free from paying in-
terest on the Federal investment in its
construction and operation, neverthe-
less, the TVA is required to repay a
small amount of that investment pe-
riodically to the U.S. Treasury.

The Kerr bill is the outcome, some-
what compromised, of many efforts to
cut TVA free of Congressional control
and to turn it loose as a gigantic, spe-
cially privileged institution with
power to meander far abroad in com-
petition with private companies.
Those companies are strictly account-
able for taxes, Federal and local, and
for the payment of sufficient interest
to investors to enable them to get
enough capital to meet an incredible
growth of demand.

The extent to which the Kerr bill
would limit the TVA's power to ex-
pand is indicated by the following
summary of its provisions:

REPEAL AND COMPROMISE

It would repeal, so far as the TVA
is concerned, provisions of the Gov-
ernment Corporations Appropriations
Act of 1948 which require repayment
over a 40-year period of appropria-
tions received for power facilities. The
1948 act prohibits TVA from using
power revenues for the construction of
new power facilities unless approved
by Congress. This, too, would be re-
pealed by the Kerr bill.

It would also permit the TVA to
issue and sell revenue bonds to fi-
nance its power program, in an
amount not to exceed $750 million
outstanding at any one time, and to
pay interest on these new bonds.

The bill would require semiannual
payments as a return (interest) on
the Federal investment in power
facilities, and payment of not less
than $10 million annually toward the
liquidation of the Federal investment.
Since that over-all investment is $2 bil-
lion, it is easy to see how far that


would go in repaying taxpayers over
the nation for what they have spent
on the project. Power, of course, is
the big item in this amount.

The bill makes a compromise by
providing that Congressional approval
would be required to build power
facilities or to deliver power beyond
the Tennessee River drainage area.
Comptroller General Campbell,
who is the best incumbent of that post
we have had since the office was
created nearly 40 years ago, not only
opposes the Kerr bill but has con-
sistently recommended tightening the
present laws to strengthen Congres-
sional control over its monstrous child.

WHOSE PRIORITY?

He has repeatedly pointed out, es-
pecially in a 1955 audit of the TVA,
that even under the present law Con-
gress has inadequate control over the
agency's use of public funds for power
facilities; that the law itself is am-
biguous concerning Congressional
control of a property which it legally
owns; that there has been a great
change in the nature of TVA's power
expenditures during the lush years
since 1948; and, what is especially
notable, that the TVA's revenues from
the sale of power have grown greatly
in recent years.

What we have here is a question of
fairness and equity in the treatment
of two classes of investors affected by
the Kerr bill. It might seem to a tax-
payer, perhaps remote from the Ten-
nessee scene, that since he was called
upon at first to help out a needy sec-
tion of the country in the depression
of the 1930s, and since in the follow-
ing years he has patiently borne the
burden of additional appropriations,
his investment has some priority in
the matter of interest and repayment
of principal. This is especially true
considering the obvious present pros-
perity of the debtor valley. But the
Kerr bill would put up the TVA's very
large power profits as security for new
bonds to be sold to new investors.

I am not arguing the quite reason-
able position of the private companies
here. I am speaking for the millions
of American taxpayers who are bur-
dened with unprecedented levies for
all sorts of expenditures undreamed of
in the dark days when TVA was born.

Newsweek, June 2, 1958