Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and column layout:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The RFC—A Haunted Palace
by Raymond Moley

THERE never was, in all the annals of
our government, perhaps of all
governments, quite such an institution
as the Reconstruction Finance Corp.
Perhaps in different times, in a different
field, and with quite different
functions, the Bank of England is the
nearest analogy. The vision that conceived the RFC was based upon a
belief that deep within the body of
a great economic system
there were means of self-
recovery. Government was
thought to be merely the
surgeon which, by tapping
that vital force, could cause
the normal life processes to
flow again. Credit for that
vision cannot be taken from
Herbert Hoover, even by
his embittered political opponents. And credit for the
surgery itself and the skill that made
for convalescence must go to Jesse H.
Jones who dominated and guided this
institution for thirteen years.

The story of the RFC during those
years is now told by the only person
who can tell it in full, Jones himself.*
Jones the author, like Jones the administrator, is thorough, shrewd, balanced, and convincing. Three years of
labor in which the competent Ed
Angly participated as researcher and
editor went into this record. Its value
to history will be its sane rejection of
the mythology, the prejudice, and the
passions that have affected our retrospect on the Roosevelt Administration.
The story is relentlessly laid on the
line without apology or extenuation.

FIFTY billion dollars of the public’s
money passed through the RFC in
those years. Here is the accounting.
The dimensions of this great institution are sharply emphasized by what
has happened since Jones passed out
of it and resumed his private life. A
structure which was once so strong,
so hopeful, so helpful, and so clean
has since been haunted by a sordid
collection of chiselers, moochers, and
influence hucksters. The contrast underlines the principle that, after all,
government is men. Good men make
good government, and bad men make
bad government. Government per se
is merely a legal concept without
virtue, substance, or meaning.
The best way to judge the value of
a public servant like Jones is to consider what might have happened if
someone else had occupied his job.
For there were chiselers, moochers,
and influence hucksters in his day in
Washington. There were plenty of
calls from the White House and plenty
from Congress. Jones never
violently spurned temptations in the Sir Galahad tradition. He managed them.
The instances in this book in
which he skillfully eluded
grasping hands would fill
an indispensable manual for
public servants. Even the
President was saved over
and over from the consequences of his own unfortunate impulses. And never, despite
repeated denials, was he able to make
for himself a case for sacking the boss
of the RFC. When he did dismiss
Jones, it was in a manner and for a
reason that reflected distinction on
Jones and humiliation on himself.
The story of saving the banks, the
railroads, agriculture, and housing
and of building the sinews of power
in the later phase of war is vividly
told. Many readers will find more
spice in the account of “bailing out
Elliott Roosevelt” and of how Henry
Wallace dug his own political grave.

BUT more substantial for those who
seek the deeper meaning in this
great experiment will be two sound
lessons. The first is that the contributions of almost every New Deal alphabetical agency could have been made
by the RFC. Most of those agencies,
hailed by partisans as agencies of recovery, would have been unnecessary.
The RFC, inherited from Hoover,
could have achieved recovery.
The other lesson is the hard fact
that in a time of peace and prosperity
there is no need for the RFC. Jones
himself has said this over and over.
Had his advice to put the RFC in
deep freeze been taken four years
ago, the scandals would never have
taken place. In depression and war,
such an institution is indispensable. In
other times it is a playground for
politics and pelf. When will Congress
respond to this truth?

Newsweek, October 22, 1951

*"Fifty Billion Dollars, My Thirteen Years with
the RFC.” By Jesse H. Jones with Edward Angly.
Macmillan, $6.