Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

LAW ENFORCEMENT

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The great public interest in the arrest of a number of Mississippians by the Federal Bureau of Investigation offers an excellent opportunity for all of us to consider a few fundamentals about law enforcement generally. In those reflections we might well think seriously about the long road that lies before us in applying practically the strictures imposed by the 1964 civil-rights legislation.

Much of the criticism of the FBI and of police in the great cities of the nation rises from a misunderstanding about what law enforcement means in the web of government under which we live.

We in the United States enjoy the blessings as well as the complexities involved in a federalized system, unlike the highly centralized governments of Western Europe. Under our system of dispersed authority, we have countless jurisdictions. Each has its share of law enforcement. Each has its own set of officers upon whom this responsibility lies. While the area of Federal jurisdiction has grown greatly in the past half-century, it is still narrowly restricted by the U.S. Constitution and the laws passed under that authority. The vast bulk of law enforcement still lies with the states and local governments. This is well, because the imposition of a centralized police authority would inevitably be a peril to individual liberty and local self-government. And variations in law are needed in such a great country as ours. What is a problem in Montana is absent in New York or Massachusetts, or vice versa.

DIVERSE FUNCTIONS

There is also vast public misunderstanding about the diverse functions within the official structure of law enforcement. There is the uniformed-police function which we see. There is also the investigatory function, which we do not see. This distinction is recognized in every large city by the division between the uniformed police and the detective bureau. The one supplements the other.

There is also the prosecuting function, which prepares and presents cases for the grand jury or the courts. The prosecuting officer must have wide discretion. He cannot, willy-nilly, accept the judgment of either the police or the investigatory agency. Finally, there are the examining magistrates, the judges, and the petit juries.

A frustrating element lies in legislative bodies. The lawmaker is subject to public demands. The legislator too often votes for the passage of a law without the slightest comprehension of how it will be enforced. Often he simply does not care. He can go back to an unthinking constituency and point to his voting record. The public, whenever a problem arises, says: "Let's have a law," and the legislator must satisfy the demand.

SUMPTUARY LAWS

From the very beginning in America there has been a widespread ignorance of or indifference to the distinction between what is morally desirable and what is suitable for legislation. In early New England, religious leaders too often dominated civil government. Ministers of the gospel, unlearned in statecraft, tended to use government to supplement their exhortations from the pulpit. Hence, the ancient blue laws. These are called sumptuary laws, which are defined as "designed to regulate habits on moral or religious grounds." As we saw in the days before the Civil War, the civil law was flouted by the assumption of a "higher law of God." The agitators conceived themselves to be the sole exponents of God's will. The Prohibition enactments were based upon this American habit of believing that whatever seems good must perforce be enacted into law.

The 1964 civil-rights legislation has a strong element of this American habit in it. It was sold by its proponents, quite properly, as establishing a measure of equality of opportunity. But to many it meant equality—period. Countless Negroes have been so unenlightened as to believe that this is literally true, while equally unenlightened white people are fearful that it is. Serious trouble is the result of this misunderstanding.

The foregoing is not meant to be a judgment upon the legislation. It merely points up the difficulties which lie ahead in its enforcement. The law is there. Public understanding lags.

Newsweek, December 21, 1964