Here's a text version of the provided article, aiming to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Tax the Co-ops

by RAYMOND MOLEY

SINCE responsible members of Congress are seeking earnestly to attack the rising Federal deficit by finding both substantial economies and also new sources of taxation, it is probable that tax-exempt cooperatives will come in for sharp inspection in this session. It is high time.

Fair taxation of these institutions is a problem which politically minded members of both parties hate to face. For with the growth of co-ops into big businesses, their power in politics has increased. Even in New York State, it would be hard for a statewide candidate to suggest that their profits offer a legitimate source of new revenue. And in many other sections such a suggestion would invite political extinction. But if the people of this country are to shoulder on equal terms the cost of a cold war and an expensive government, there should be an end to special privileges of all sorts, even those once designed to fight special privilege.

The Truman Administration treats the co-ops with profound consideration. And in typically political fashion it tries to characterize all efforts to subject them to fair taxation as a vile plot to destroy them. President Truman in his Des Moines Labor Day speech to the farmers said: "This Congress will not listen to those who want to tax cooperatives out of business."

Of course, no one wants to destroy the cooperatives. But this Congress will hear, whether it likes it or not, the voices of a great many members who propose to protect legitimate private competitors of co-ops and get legitimate revenue for the government. One of the most intelligent and courageous of those voices is that of Congressman Noah M. Mason of Illinois, who introduced a bill in the last session which proposes to close tax-exempting loopholes in the laws. Proposals such as Mason's would properly protect genuine co-ops, which do business only with their own members, but would tax such of their earnings as are derived from specific competition with private taxpayers.

The co-ops, as Mason points out, are growing at "jet-propelled speed."

They go far beyond their humble beginnings of 35 or 40 years ago. Mason says: "Besides marketing farm products, co-ops now sell cigarettes, vitamin pills, and toothbrushes; they manufacture tractors, lipstick, and cornflakes; they drill oil wells, refine petroleum products, and ship gasoline all over the world; they operate banks, insurance companies, and newspapers; hospitals, radio stations, and tourist camps; hardware stores, coal mines, and funeral parlors."

In 1946 co-ops of all kinds did $13,000,000,000 worth of business. This rose to $15,000,000,000 in 1947, and the rise has continued since. Mason estimates that in another five years their gross business will reach $25,000,000,000. He estimates that a fair tax on this business would yield more than $600,000,000 in Federal revenue.

Congress passed the co-op tax-exemption law in 1916, during the first world war, stating that there should be exemption for little local groups of farmers who were selling their products collectively.

But the business income tax was only 1 per cent at that time. It was only 12 per cent fifteen years later. But when it reached great heights in the recent war, the co-ops grasped a golden opportunity. While private business was handing over an immense proportion of its earnings to the government to fight war, the co-ops invested their profits in expansion. And they are still growing on their tremendous differential.

With heavy taxes and a government drive against big business, there will be a great incentive to private businesses to reorganize as cooperatives. John Hartford, head of the A&P, said some weeks ago that if the government won its suit against the company, he would convert the business into a huge, tax-free cooperative. This shift would cost the Treasury about $15,000,000 a year. There is no reason why many other companies would not follow the same course.

If Congress is really serious about revising the tax structure, here is a place to begin.

Newsweek, January 23, 1950

Page 254 of 1201