Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image,  excluding the advertisement on the left:


Businessmen's Complex
by Raymond Moley

The outlook isn't brilliant for Republican candidates this year. My guess, at this stage, is that six Senate and 30 House seats will be lost. Retirements are in staggering numbers. Business conditions have been a bad influence but that is not the major reason. In six years the President in domestic, not foreign, affairs, has not strengthened his party. Apathy has grown and "modern" Republican meddlers have hurt. Adams, too. And inflation.

All over the country, from California to—after Maine—Massachusetts, Republican candidates are fighting on their own, not on the President's prestige. Vice President Nixon, as always, labors prodigiously and effectively. These candidates need help, not money alone, but manpower to contact voters, explain issues, and get voters to the polls.

Here is a job in which businessmen, big and little, in all lines, can provide that help. I have been urging their participation in politics for ten years. But recently I met the head of a very large company who was hard to convince. In substance, he said: "But people don't like businessmen. They distrust our motives. We can't help in practical politics."

HOW TO DO IT

Here in essence was my answer; it is something to paste in your hat or over your desk:

"People like your product—they spend billions for it. It is the best in the world and they know it. They entrust their savings to your banks and insurance institutions. They buy more of the stock in your companies. They are your partners in progress. But they don't know you as a member of the community.

"You have been brainwashed by demagogues. You are attacked, not because you are a producer of good things but because they want to drive you into political inactivity. They want power for themselves.

"They have succeeded in making you believe that business and politics don't mix. But they are already mixed—in every law, regulation, and decision made in Washington.

"You spend great sums to represent your company there, but unless you do something your representatives will be talking to a Congress elected without your help. Power is where lawmakers, not laws, are made.

"How to do it? Get out in politics, working at the local level, and encourage your juniors to do it, too. Work at the local level. In the precinct or block or over the Congressional district. Go and see people in their homes and discuss politics—why they should vote and how. Go not as a representative of business but as a fellow member of the great, conservative, unorganized middle majority. Practically all of us are in that class now, as we are becoming an essentially classless society. In the great scramble we are all forgotten men."

SET AN EXAMPLE

"Work at the local level. Elections are won there, not by national 'trends' or mass appeals. You will be surprised at how easy it will be with those voters. Everybody likes attention and friendly contacts. Political power is on the doorsteps, the street corners, and in the living rooms of America.

"You as head of a big company must set the example. Your presence in the field will draw many, many of your junior executives, dealers, suppliers, and other friends. To work with you shoulder to shoulder outside of the plant or office creates a fellowship of equals in a common cause. This creates in your co-workers internal pride and external prestige.

"Labor unions have done this in politics for years. Thus they have built the most potent political power in the nation—dominating party organizations, dictating platforms, selecting candidates, and writing their own tickets in Congress and the State Legislatures. They did it by friendly, house-to-house contacts. Systematic employment of that indispensable element in politics—manpower.

"One final word. Don't attack, or high-hat, or ignore the party as such or the regulars who have labored for the party while you were not there. The party is what you make it, by your presence or your absence from politics. Reforming the party can wait a while. Help it first.

"When better members of Congress are made, you will make them."

Newsweek, September 29, 1958