Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Good Will and Good Sense
by Raymond Moley

“ALMOST all nations and religions,
and especially the liberal party
in them, think themselves the salt of
the earth. They believe that only their
special institutions are normal or just,
and hope to see them everywhere
adopted. They declare that only the
scriptures handed down by their own
clergy are divinely inspired; that only
their native language is clear, conven-
ient, deeply beautiful, and
ultimately destined to be-
come universal; that only the
logic of their home philoso-
phers is essentially cogent;
and that the universal rule
of morals, if not contained in
tablets preserved in their
temple, is concentrated in
an insoluble pellet of moral
prejudice, like the cate-
gorical imperative of Kant,
lodged in their breast. Not being
content, or not being able, to culti-
vate their local virtues in peace at
home, they fiercely desire to sweep
everything foreign from the face of
the earth.”

This observation, made by George
Santayana,* has very special applica-
tion to our own countrymen, notably to
what some of them have been up to in
the United Nations organization. For
more than four years the Economic
and Social Council and the Commis-
sion on Human Rights of the United
Nations have been fooling around with
something known as a Covenant on
Human Rights. There have been
many drafts, with submissions thereof
to the General Assembly, followed by
references back to the authors. Eleanor
Roosevelt has been the major Ameri-
can participant in this affair.

I would be daring indeed if I were
to assume that I had seen the last of
these drafts, but I shall base my com-
ments on a document that issued from
the Commission on Human Rights last
summer and went to the Economic
and Social Council. Only Providence
and possibly Mrs. Roosevelt know
what has happened since that time.

ONLY three parts of this long docu-
ment need concern us here. Other
parts consist of long rigmaroles on "im-
plementing." Parts I and II define "civil
and political rights," and Part III,
*"The Genteel Tradition at Bay" (New York.
Scribner's. 1931).


"economic, social, and cultural rights."
There seems to have been a dis-
position of some of the people con-
nected with this labor to separate the
above and have the U.N. adopt two
covenants. But when last seen by this
witness, the two were joined. That is
immaterial, however, because both
are mischievous-one because it is
dangerous; the other, ridiculous.

The entire effort seems to
be an attempt to mix a num-
ber of civil and political
rights now in the U.S. Con-
stitution with a lot of vague
social aspirations promoted
by the New and Fair Deals
and to impose the whole
thing upon nations in the
form of a treaty.

The American Bar As-
sociation has repeatedly
pointed out the danger that in the
clumsy language in which the civil
and political rights are phrased, there
is complete latitude for their suppres-
sion by government. In our Constitu-
tion these rights are absolute, but the
Supreme Court by fine distinctions
permits government to limit them.
Therein is our safety. No doubt lati-
tude for government in the new "cove-
nant" is a concession to totalitarian
regimes. If we approved these "rights,"
we would not only participate in a
fraud but lose our own protections,
since a treaty itself becomes law.

The "economic and social and cul-
tural rights" include such things as
"social security," "housing," "medical
service," "higher education," "to take
part in cultural life," and many other
desirable objectives. But these are not
"rights." No government can guaran-
tee them, although it can provide
them if it is rich enough to do so.
However, one economic right in our
Constitution, the right to own prop-
erty, is rejected. The United States
tried to include it, but was rebuffed.
This is a concession, of course, to
Communism and Socialism.

Thus, while our diplomacy has been
selling American interests down the
river all over the world, Mrs. Roosevelt
and her American associates have
been bartering away our bill of rights.
This sort of thing promotes neither
peace on earth nor good will to men,
while it impairs our own institutions.

Newsweek, December 24, 1951