Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Reign of Rumor

by Raymond Moley

IN THEIR treatment of the Nixon candidacy in the press, some reporters and commentators offered the public a flood of rumor, conjecture, and surmise thinly disguised as "news." And a few, under the screen of such fabrications, were up to their old game of king-making and king-killing by cunning innuendo.

Not all of those who sinned were inimical to Nixon. Friends of the Vice President twisted things to suit the wish rather than the fact.

What the President said in his press conference of Feb. 29 was that his "admiration and respect" for Nixon were "unbounded," that he had been "a loyal and dedicated associate, and a successful one." (The word "successful" was the key to the whole story.) However, since it was traditional that the candidate for Vice President was nominated after the candidate for President, "we will have to wait until we see who the Republican convention nominates" and that then it would be proper for him to give an expression of choice.

The President said on March 7 that he did not permit anyone to suggest dumping Nixon, but that he had asked the Vice President "to chart his own course and tell me what he would like to do." Also, he said that he would have no criticism of Nixon to make "either as a man, associate, or as my running mate on the ticket."

The reporters and commentators to whom I have referred then asked their readers to believe that the President did not believe the Vice President to be "successful," that his reason for delay was that he intended to drop him into a Cabinet job or elsewhere—that anti-Nixon advisers had really swayed his opinion, and that his reason for his alleged wish to drop Nixon was that he felt him to be a political liability.

Thus Mr. Eisenhower was portrayed by such reporters and commentators as a man who publicly praises and privately seeks to destroy his associates, who is a disloyal friend and a treacherous employer who would scuttle a loyal and faithful subordinate to garner a few votes for himself. In short—a rogue and a liar.

Finally the President reiterated what he said before, in more positive terms, on March 14. He said that he "would be happy to have Nixon on any political ticket in which I was a candidate with him."

While the rumormongers will now say that there is a difference in the statements made in the three press conferences, there is, as the very words of the President indicate, no essential difference. The earlier statement of the President is even borne out by the probability that Nixon did "chart out his course" and reported that he wanted to be a candidate.

All this comes after the Vice President has been subjected for years to a venomous but subtle campaign aimed at his destruction. His record has been shrouded in rumor and stained by misrepresentation.

A recent incident was Mr. Truman's charge that, somewhere out West, Nixon called him a traitor. When pressed, in Boston, for specifications the former President said that Nixon said it "all over the West." Later, in New York, in another conference he said that "all I did was read the papers." Finally, some unnamed spokesman in Independence said that Nixon had said the bad word in private conferences and that "prominent people" had reported it to Mr. Truman. Chairman Hall's challenge on this subject has not been answered.

BECAUSE of such gibberish, thousands have been induced to hate Nixon for no more palpable reason than had Thomas Brown three centuries ago for not loving Dr. Fell. Those who sincerely want light on the Nixon personality and record will find a new book, "Nixon," by Ralph de Toledano most serviceable. For there is portrayed a young man who won elections in California by hard fighting but within the rules of political conflict, who rendered the nation an incalculable service in breaking the Hiss case, who has campaigned for his party as ably as any man, and who in three years has made of the hitherto innocuous Vice Presidency a useful and respected office.

Newsweek, March 26, 1956