Congressional Indigestion

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CONGRESS reveals all the symptoms
of a bad case of indigestion. In
every major field of policy, legislators
are struggling with complex proposals,
opposing pressures, and indeterminate
conditions. Solutions seem to be as far
away as they were in January. Nothing
seems possible except temporary palli-
atives, unsatisfactory compromises,
and postponement. November's "glo-
rious liberal victory" has
ended in a series of ques-
tions, the most prominent of
which is "Who won, any-
how?" A majority of the
members of Congress seem
to have just as clear an an-
swer as has the President.

Budget: The Executive
budget was a hodgepodge
of requests, based in part
upon an accumulation of
political promises, in part upon a con-
ception of business activity relating to
an inflationary spiral that has passed,
and in part upon estimates of a non-
existent ability to bear new tax bur-
dens. Congress, which according to its
own rules should present a Legislative
budget on May 1, has missed the dead-
line. The suggested 5 per cent cut all
along the line is a hopeful sign, but it
is also a confession that the responsible
legislative committees lack the neces-
sary information to make discriminat-
ing cuts. The sober fact is that our
colossal revenue-consuming govern-
ment has grown so large that it is out
of control by either the Executive or
Congress. Wild guessing and petty
politics will finally dictate the appro-
priations, and we shall again be im-
mersed in red ink.

Labor: A majority of both houses
seems to be firmly of the belief that,
despite the promises of the Demo-
cratic platform and of the President,
no mandate exists to repeal the Taft-
Hartley Act. There may be shuffling
of names and mild amendments, but it
is inconceivable that the labor policy
laid down by Taft-Hartley will be sub-
stantially altered.

Agriculture: Secretary Brannan's
brave new program, no doubt the
product of two or three of the more
fecund experimenters in his depart-
ment, is breaking down under critical
attack. The sponsor cannot even guess
at its cost. All that can be determined
with certainty is that even in a slight

depression this scheme would cost un-
bearable billions and operate only on
big deficit financing. The idea of load-
ing a fixed farm subsidy, based on infla-
tionary wartime farm income, upon an
economy that must operate on a basis
of profit and loss is an indefensible
injustice. Even the sounder farm or-
ganizations do not ask that. And, inci-
dentally, the lack of storage facilities,
about which so much pother
was emitted during the cam-
paign and for which Truman
blamed the 80th Congress,
has not been corrected.

Government
Medicine:
The old Murray-Wagner-
Dingell formula with a few
new doodads has appeared
once more with Presidential
approval. The ultimate ef-
fects of this on the medical
profession and existing means of health
protection have been so thoroughly
exposed and the excessive costs so well
estimated that no Congress is likely to
accept such a plan without long study
and basic compromise.

National Defense: Secretary John-
son's ukase discontinuing the new
Navy carrier and silencing the Navy's
right publicly to defend it has not been
reassuring. The case of the Navy and
full information about the Air Force
B-36 are necessary before the public
will rest content that our billions are
buying the best of all defenses. The
proposition that if we are to arm
Western Europe there should be some
reduction in our own defense budget
needs a more adequate answer. It is
hard to believe that defense with the
Atlantic Pact should cost us more than
defense without the Atlantic Paet.

Foreign Affairs: Domestic policies
will all be affected by an easing or
stabilization of the cold war. If that
means a smaller defense budget, the
gap thus created should be filled. The
way to fill it, according to the Fair
Deal, will be to spend more gov-
ernment money at home. A better
answer is that it should be filled
by greater activity in a free economy,
with higher standards of living all
around.

Campaign catchwords do not make
sound government programs. Only a
hopeless optimist can expect sound
and lasting solutions as the summer's
heat creeps over Washington.

Newsweek, May 16, 1949