Conservatives will sleep o' nights
in more peace if they will give up a
common fallacy in appraising political
trends. It has been assumed that when,
in an election, the extreme right wing
loses ground, the country is going to
the extreme left. This assumption is
not true. The extreme right can
crumble away, while the extreme left
may gain nothing. And that is what
is happening in several
countries right now.

The extremely reactionary
right has lost strength
abroad in and since the war.
It has probably lost here in
the United States, although
we will have no elections
suitable as a test until 1946.
But in France and Austria,
the prewar right-wing par-
ties have disappeared, and
they have almost disap-
peared in Hungary and Italy. In Eng-
land, the old-fashioned extreme Tory
has practically vanished. On the other
hand, in Sweden, near neighbor of the
Soviet, the Communists have not had
over a tenth of the vote. In Denmark,
much the same thing is true.

The apparent rise in strength of
Communism in France is not due to
a widespread demand for a funda-
mental change in the social structure.
It must be remembered that the most
deeply seated political emotion in
France is a desire for security against
German aggression. Over and over in
the past, republican France joined
hands with Czarist Russia, not because
of kindred political beliefs, but be-
cause of the need for help against
Germany.

A profound need is felt by French-
men for the good will of the Soviet.
A French industrial leader told me
recently that he was willing to have
his business taken over by the govern-
ment. A few questions elicited the
response that this was not because he
thought government would do better
with his business, but because he
wanted to make a friendly gesture to
the strongest military power in Europe.
That feeling is, no doubt, behind de
Gaulle's socialist reforms, although
there is no evidence that Russia is
pleased with these half-measures. It
is the most important reason for the
rise in the Communist vote in France.
The urge for security is more im-

portant than any ideological formula.
The extreme right in Europe offers
no hope to the individual for security,
for the extreme right is outdated,
decadent and feeble. It can no longer
even protect itself. Monarchists with-
out nobility, Junkers without land,
capitalists without capital offer no at-
traction to an unhappy people.
But this is no reason why people
may be expected to rush to
the arms of the state. The
state as an institution won
no prestige in Europe in this
war. Hitler knocked over
governments like ninepins.
His government is in a
prisoner's pen at Nurem-
berg. Kings deserted their
armies, prime ministers
burgeoned and faded like
toadstools. Employers scat-
tered like dried leaves.
Hungry, tired and frightened people
are not going to cast their lot with
new and raw imitations of former
governments, especially when, as in
many countries, those governments
sway on their new legs like puppies.
What is happening in Europe is
that people are trying to create some
stability on the basis of their own
existence. They are putting together
the pieces of hundreds of kinds of
cooperative groups and associations.
This tendency illustrates very sharp-
ly the dangerous fallacy of looking at
political choices as a scale of various
degrees of government ownership and
control. The course from extreme in-
dividualism to extreme statism is not
a straight road. The way between is
a vast field filled with hundreds of
examples of human associations and
cooperative enterprises. Most people
in Western civilization have their
ideological base somewhere in that
middle ground. To use an example
suggested by President Truman's
health message, we all can, and most
of us do, believe in socialized or co-
operative forms of medical care, but
we need not make this government-
administered medical care.

The trend in Europe is not from
right to left. It is a civilization slowly
finding new means of living coopera-
tively. One means is Communism, but
it is only one. It is in quest of personal
security, and the means toward that
end are many and diversified.