Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to avoid column overlap.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original layout and OCR limitations.


Perspective
U. S. Patent Office

After Kefauver—What? (IV)

by RAYMOND MOLEY

PUBLIC opinion is, after all, the force
behind good government, and we
must look to that force to correct or at
least to lessen the evils revealed by
the Kefauver investigation of crime
and evil politics. But public opinion
must find a mechanism through which
it can operate. It cannot permanently
remedy things by an occasional upset
at election time. For after a "throw
the rascals out" victory,
there will in a few short
years be a reaction, and
the same or other rascals
will come back.

Therefore, it has been
found that a workable
means of implementing pub-
lic opinion in a city or other
local area is a permanently
established private associa-
tion of public-spirited citi-
zens. Such an organization has been
the Chicago Crime Commission, es-
tablished in 1919 and still in active
and effective operation. In 1921, after
a big upheaval and a survey of crime
and criminal-law enforcement, Cleve-
land established a commission of its
own. Several other cities have had
such organizations, and they have
generally had a very salutary effect.
The fact is that the Kefauver investi-
gation leaned heavily upon the volu-
minous records and experience of the
Chicago Crime Commission and could
not have accomplished what it did
without that expert help.

If in a score or more of the cities of
this country such local associations
could be formed, we would soon see a
great improvement. But they must be
permanent and well financed, and
must be amply and expertly staffed.

The plan and purpose of a city crime
commission is simple. First, there is
a group of citizens of influence, willing
to serve actively as a board of direc-
tors. Next, money must be contributed
by citizens and businesses.

Then a staff must be organized to
perform continuously two important
functions. The first is to keep well-
organized records of all who might be
recognized as professional criminals,
gangsters, racketeers, and others re-
lated to the dark world between crime
and politics. These records, taken from
the police and courts, must be consist-
ently well kept. In Chicago, they are

Next, there must be professional
observers who frequent the courts
and watch proceedings daily. The late
Newton D. Baker, former Secretary of
War, who was a member of the Cleve-
land Commission board, once accu-
rately called those watchers "the eyes
and ears of the public." Such observ-
ers and recorders have an immensely
stimulating effect upon po-
lice, prosecutors, clerks, and
judges. They are reminders
to public officials that forces
of righteousness are just as
active as forces of sin.

Ultimately, if the opera-
tions of a commission are
efficient and tactful, it will
have the confidence of offi-
cials who will grow to realize
that courage and effective-
ness can win that public support which
keeps good men in office.

Such a commission can organize the
power to put through sound changes
in the law. It can in the present ne-
cessity sponsor legislation to reduce
sheriffs to "innocuous desuetude," to
enlarge the powers and organization
of state police forces, to create in
some places efficient county police,
and to tighten criminal procedure.

IT IS for Congress to enlarge Federal
power sufficiently to check inter-
state criminal operations. This can and
should be done. But local action is
basic, for those people who flaunt the
law, who corrupt politics, and take
vast tribute from the weak and igno-
rant, live and operate somewhere. And
that somewhere is a local community.
We must attack them where they live.

Finally, there is need, in states
where criminal activities have been
shown to be serious, for official state
crime commissions created by act of
the legislatures. These agencies are,
of course, temporary. But they can be
clothed with official power to investi-
gate, survey, and recommend reme-
dies. They can press their inquiries
into all the dark corners of the state
and frame legislation suitable for state
action. The Kefauver investigation
only scratched the surface. The curb-
ing of corruption requires eternal vig-
ilance, strong public opinion, and
permanent machinery through which
public opinion can act.

Newsweek, May 7, 1951