Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the image quality and column structure.


Political Autumn Leaves

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The political autumn leaves emerging from a very dry season show signs of drought. Even in the places where important elections are to be held, the prospects for a clear show of national trends are not good. But here is the way it looks from this corner as we approach November 2nd.

New York: In the contest between Hanley and Haskell for the lieutenant governorship, the only real issue is between Roosevelt and Dewey. That does not mean that Dewey is attacking Roosevelt or vice versa. The candidates themselves are colorless. Nobody listens to what they say or what is said about them. But if Hanley wins, it will be because there is great popular satisfaction with Dewey's record as governor, and if Haskell wins, it will be because the Democratic-New Deal-Labor party alliance is still strong. Dewey is conducting his campaign by attacking the Democratic machine in Albany, an irrelevant but colorful divertissement, in line with his advisers' belief that Dewey must be attacking municipal corruption or step out of character. Maybe it will work again, but more likely the people who vote for Hanley will do so because Dewey has been an excellent governor rather than because of anything he says. Haskell is really Jim Farley's candidate. The New Deal and the American Labor party had no candidate that Farley's state committee would accept, which means that if Haskell is elected, it will be hard to claim his election as a clear New Deal victory. Light registration upstate does not make Hanley's chance promising, but Dewey's popularity may carry him through.

New Jersey: The anti-Democratic trend of a year ago seems to be running strong. The bitterness between Governor Edison and Boss Hague has divided the Democrats. Some Democratic leaders in Jersey privately admit that Edge, the Republican candidate, will probably be elected.

Kentucky: The Republicans have a good candidate in Willis, and the Democrats are not harmonious. But the Democrats have had a comfortable margin in the state for several years. Good judges favor a Democratic victory by a reduced majority. A Republican victory would be a sign of serious New Deal weakness.

Philadelphia: The politically inexperienced Bill Bullitt, who is running for mayor against the somewhat weak incumbent, Bernard Samuel, is handicapped by a choice assortment of personal items of liability. Chief among them is the fact that despite rich family traditions in the City of Brotherly Love, for many years Candidate Bullitt has chosen the wide world, rather than the ancestral city, as his home. He has been effectively attacked on the ground that he has been "smearing" his home city. The race looks close.

Republican Presidential politics: Willkie is the leading candidate. He is confident, organized and actually campaigning. That puts him ahead, relatively. Whether his absolute strength is greater than it was two or three months ago is doubtful, but in politics it is relative rather than absolute strength which counts. Dewey is more popular, with both rank and file and organization Republicans. But to say that organization men do not like a candidate is not to say that they will not take him. If Dewey wins a decisive victory for his candidate, Hanley, in New York, the pressure upon him to run will be extremely strong. If he loses, he cannot be expected to run for President. The Bricker candidacy will draw heavy Midwestern strength and no inconsiderable number of Southern delegates; but the Bricker candidacy is not organized nationally. Because of the multiplicity of Republican candidates for the Ohio governorship, Bricker will probably take the nomination for Governor once more. That is to be decided in the May primaries. But he will also be a candidate for President in those primaries.

The Stassen candidacy looks like the real thing, not a screen for Willkie. His candidacy was a surprise to Willkie and will hurt him. MacArthur is not personally in touch with those who are talking of him for 1944 and may repudiate the whole thing later. It is conceded that he would be a formidable candidate, especially if the course of the war throws him into the spotlight, either as a victorious commander or as a victim of Presidential prejudice. Warren, the popular Governor of California, is now undecided as to whether he will take the California delegation. If he does not, Willkie would probably get it.

Obviously, the whole Presidential picture will be clearer a month from now.