Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective

Every Candidate for Himself

by RAYMOND MOLEY

SANTA BARBARA—At the outset of
California's political campaign, the
issues seem to be centered in the war
in Korea and its consequences in this
state. Helen Gahagan Douglas, seek-
ing the Senatorial toga lately re-
nounced by Sheridan Downey, would
have us believe that Congressman
Richard Nixon, rather than the Ad-
ministration high command, is respon-
sible for the debacle in Asia.
James Roosevelt, candidate
for governor, revising his
father's famous expression,
has nothing to hope for but
fear. Seeking political ad-
vantage in the fear of
bombing in coast cities, he
promises vast new cities in
the interior, built overnight
in the deserts and forests.
All this makes little sense,
but stranger things have happened
in California politics.
In the primaries Nixon received on
both tickets something more than
1,000,000 votes; Douglas, nearly
900,000, and two other Democratic
candidates, nearly 700,000. This
would seem to be a heavy Democratic
vote for Nixon to overcome. His
chance—and it is more than a hope—is
that the pronounced radicalism of
Douglas, the reaction against the Ad-
ministration policies that led to the Far
Eastern crisis, his popularity because
of his great part in breaking the Hiss
case, the effect of his further cam-
paigning, and the great vote that
Warren is likely to get will win over
the nominal adherence of a majority of
Californians to the Democratic label.

IF WARREN were willing closely to
associate his candidacy with that of
his fellow Republican, Nixon, he
would help materially to gain for his
state an able and very promising
young senator. But Warren's rule is to
conduct his campaigns as a complete
independent. He does not associate
his campaign machinery with other
Republicans. Four years ago, safely
returned to office by nomination in
both primaries, he deviated from this
rule to speak a word for William
Knowland, his own appointee to the
Senate. But this year he must run
himself, and his present intention is to
do nothing for Nixon. At the recent
state Republican convocation in Sac-
ramento, Warren told his hearers that
it would be well to play down parti-
sanship this year. This lack of party
feeling disturbs loyal Republicans
throughout the state, but at the mo-
ment they are helpless to do anything
about it. Many of them hope and be-
lieve that as the campaign progresses
Warren will associate himself more
closely with the Republican ticket and
provide the great advantage
of his political strength for
Congressman Nixon. Cer-
tainly, Warren cannot be
neutral as between the two
candidates for the Senate.
Warren's chance to beat
Roosevelt could hardly be
better. His primary total
vote was nearly 800,000
more than that of his oppo-
nent. Roosevelt's appeal has
been a mass of naïve promises. The
latest was the proposal for a gigantic
evacuation plan. There should be built
"immediately" great areas, big enough
for 4,000,000 people, equipped with
housing, food, hospitals, and all the
other needs of city life. And all this
would be done "in a matter of days."

IT IS not clear what would be used to
pay for these panic cities. And the
suggestion ignores the fact that the
Federal authorities have asked that
state action for civilian defense be
postponed until September. The need
to provide vote bait will probably
induce Roosevelt to offer a choice
series of political and social nostrums
before the campaign is over.
Douglas in running against Nixon is
following the Fair Deal party line.
This means accusing her opponent of
opposing aid to Korea and thus expos-
ing that unhappy land to the ravages
of the Communists. This is, however,
gross misrepresentation. Nixon, with
other Republican members of the
House, favored aid to Korea of a much
more substantial character than was
proposed by the Administration. He
opposed mere economic aid unless it
was accompanied by strong military
assistance. The need to get this over
to the people of the state will require
some strenuous campaigning by Nixon.
His duties in Washington are para-
mount now, and so the campaign is
fairly quiet. But it promises to be
exceedingly lively in another month.

Newsweek, August 21, 1950