Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Wrong-Way Arnold

One of the most engaging characteristics of that academic funnyman, Mr. Thurman Arnold of Princeton, Yale, Harvard and, now, of the Department of Justice, is his intellectual habit, when ever he has the ball, of turning around and running over his own goal line.

It is easier for Mr. Arnold to get a wide hearing for his humor than it used to be because he has what is known to the trade as "a platform." Mr. Arnold doesn't have to pick just any old time or place to speak his pieces nowadays. Since he has gone into the Department of Justice, he can await the tense moment of specific action by his Division to deliver one of his delightful essays, and there is no dearth of publicity for Arnoldesqueries when they are appended to official announcements.

Mr. Arnold's technique is a good deal like that of the Honorable O'Daniel of Texas, who tosses in with a political speech a bit of first-class entertainment. But it is unique in the field of judicial administration and would be less distinctive there only if the Supreme Court should begin reading all long and technical decisions to the accompaniment of precision dancing by a comely chorus.

About two weeks ago Mr. Arnold availed himself of the opportunity afforded by the "consent decree" in the Ford-Chrysler case to announce and develop the idea that competitive advertising was an economic waste and a breeder of monopoly. The audience booed. And so Mr. Arnold, feeling that he had been misunderstood, came back with a statement of a thousand words saying, in effect, that his first statement was not descriptive of the law as it stands. It seems that Mr. Arnold was just letting people know, if they were interested, what he thought about advertising. Assistant Attorneys General used to be hired to tell us what the law was. Under the new dispensation it seems to be their job to tell us what the law isn't.

"Monopoly," says Mr. Arnold, "is fostered when advertising is used to put competitors at a disadvantage, for the sole reason that they do not have resources sufficient to expend equally large sums in advertising particular products or the services of particular companies."

Anyone who wanted to pursue this astonishing idea would inevitably come to the conclusion that all competition is activity in restraint of trade. One fellow tries to restrain the trade of the other fellow by taking his customers away. Get it? Competition is monopoly. Or vice versa.

It is not that Mr. Arnold objects to advertising as such, but apparently he objects to your advertising your goods if you use your right name. Away back in the dead, dark past before the great light came over the hills and Mr. Arnold opened his dewy book of enlightenment, you would have gotten into trouble if you followed that tack. There used to be laws requiring the proper labeling of products, and so on.

Anyhow, Mr. Arnold says that when you are little you cannot spend any money advertising because you haven't got it, and when you get big and have the money you can't spend it because somebody else hasn't got it. Elsewhere he says that "when advertising stresses the peculiar qualities of common goods under a particular name competitors must either go out of business or spend large sums of money in building up their own trade names for the same common commodity."

Does this mean that a thing may be wrong if you do it alone, but it is not wrong if somebody else can find the money to do it too?

Mr. Arnold's point seems to be that competition becomes unfair if one party has a well-known trade name whereas a competitor has no such well-known name. I don't know why this shouldn't apply to Mr. Arnold himself. When he says something now his statement carries the name of Assistant Attorney General of the United States, whereas such competitors as Eddie Cantor or Bugs Baer are denied that advantage. Is this fair?


The Proof of the Pudding

The Anglo-American trade agreement signed last week has been generally acclaimed not only on the ground that it will benefit American industry and agriculture, but on the ground that it is a move in the direction of establishing a vast area of free trade, or freer trade, among democratic nations.

It would be cheering, indeed, if both these things were to prove true. Yet it is hard not to be somewhat skeptical about the results of this agreement, which is based on the assumption that tariff barriers are the only or the principal obstacles to the flow of goods between nations in the modern world.

That is the theory. The reality, unfortunately, is apt to be less pleasant. Take, for example, the case of wheat. The American farmers are pretty worried about the surplus and were doubtless hoping that the treaty would help them move a good deal of it. But there is little reason to believe that, when the South American and Australian wheat comes into the market next January or February, the differential in price will not exclude our wheat from Great Britain just as effectively as a tariff barrier might. All that the treaty will have accomplished will be a reduction, by a few cents, of the differential now operating against our wheat in the world market. This story may not be written for some time to come, but intelligent farm leaders are already pondering it, and our Secretary of Agriculture apparently shares their misgivings.

This is not to suggest that, taken as a whole, the treaty's effects on American agriculture and industry will be adverse. The mixture of good and bad is so complex as to preclude generalization. But it is to suggest that the only realistic way to insure a beneficial movement of trade is to specify in a treaty that at least a minimum amount of goods will be exchanged.

It is possible to look upon the Anglo-American treaty as a sign of solidarity between English-speaking democracies plainly directed against the Fascist states. But the extent of its contribution to "solidarity" will be determined by the extent to which the United Kingdom actually opens up markets for American products. And that remains to be seen.

Certainly there is no evidence that England is letting slip many opportunities to facilitate her business with the German-Italian bloc. There is a brisk trade going on between England and Germany, and no indication whatever that England intends to forgo it for political reasons.

The people of the United States are an eminently practical people. They know that a car doesn't start on a level road just because you release the brake, that the car doesn't leap into action until you turn on the engine and step on the gas. So with trade. Our goods will not necessarily move because a treaty has been signed providing for the lowering of some trade barriers. "The way to trade is to trade."


'Alaric Is Back'

I covet the eloquence that enabled Father Robert I. Gannon, S.J., to say of recent events in Europe: "What Cardinal Faulhaber and Cardinal Innitzer can see tonight through broken panes of glass is the same influence that St. Jerome saw through his tears when they told him Rome was burning, the same influence that was sweeping over Northern Africa when Augustine turned his face to the wall and died... Alaric is back."