Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

MAHAN'S LONG SHADOW

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Critics of President Johnson are now
attacking the multiplicity of his
reasons for pursuing and stepping up
the war in Vietnam. It must be ad-
mitted that there is some confusion,
perhaps contradiction, among his
stated war aims. But there is a single
valid reason why we must not permit
the Communists to dominate the pen-
insula on which South Vietnam is the
key to control. If I may anticipate my
argument, that reason is geographical.
One response to the President's
critics is that in every war there are
stated reasons, and behind these is a
real reason. In the past 68 years the
United States has participated in five
wars. In every case Presidents have
been as diffuse as LBJ in their justifi-
cations for our sacrifice. Among these
justifications there has been plenty of
lofty idealism. In this case, it is to
satisfy the compassionate at home
and the empty bellies in Asia. As
Mary Poppins said: "A spoonful of
sugar makes the medicine go down."
To explain what I mean, a bit of
history is necessary. In 1898 a reluc-
tant President McKinley at last as-
sented to war with Spain for the sake
of "humanity" and to pursue Ameri-
can "interests." But the war party,
then headed by Assistant Navy Sec-
retary Theodore Roosevelt, Senator
Lodge and others, had a very defi-
nite "interest" in mind.

STRUGGLE FOR SEA POWER

TR had thoroughly absorbed Al-
fred Thayer Mahan's great seminal
book "The Influence of Sea Power
Upon History." He was, in fact,
closely in touch with the then Cap-
tain Mahan. It was clear that Spain
must be routed out of Cuba, the gate-
way to the contemplated isthmian
canal destined to be one of the major
sea passages of the world.
Mahan was signally honored in
Britain, where statesmen had under-
stood sea power ever since Nelson.
He had an avid student in the Kaiser
who, it was said, kept the Mahan
book at his bedside and had com-
manded that it be read by all his
naval officers. He was planning to
break Germany out of its landlocked
captivity and to expand as far as the
Western Pacific. Germany had been
picking up islands there and planned
to evict Spain from the Philippines.

TR knew this and, while American
eyes were on Cuba, he maneuvered
to have a commodore named Dewey,
who shared his views, take command
of our Asiatic fleet. Thus, within
three months the United States
emerged as a world power.
Behind all the factors that precipi-
tated World War I was the Kaiser's
ambition to challenge the British on
the sea. An immense fleet was build-
ing and was based at Kiel. But fate
had it that Germany became in-
volved in a land war before the fleet
was ready. Jutland was a battle no-
body won, but after that the British
Fleet "in being" kept the German
Fleet inactive. When peace came,
Britain made sure that the German
Fleet was destroyed.

VIETNAM'S VITAL POSITION

The Naval Conference of 1922 put
the U.S. at a parity with Britain, with
Japan third. As far back as 1933,
FDR, also a student of sea power,
considered Japan a potential enemy.
For the Japanese had studied Mahan,
too. American capacity to build a
two-ocean Navy and the genius of
MacArthur and Nimitz to use sea, air
and land power eliminated Japan as a
naval power. And the liquidation of
the British colonial empire and the
deterioration of its fleet left the re-
sponsibility with the U.S. to dominate
the oceans on which passes 98 per
cent of the world's overseas trade.
A great life line of the free world
runs from the Aleutians to Japan,
Formosa, the Philippines, through the
Strait of Malacca to the Indian
Ocean and the various countries on
its shores.
The importance of South Korea
to us was its position on a penin-
sula. Communist domination would
threaten Japan and everything south.
We fought to keep it safe for the
life line, not just to save a small non-
Communist nation.
South Vietnam has a similar stra-
tegic value. Its domination by Com-
munism would sever the free
connection between two oceans at
the Strait of Malacca. Thus to keep
South Vietnam's membership in the
free world is vital not only to the
nations that depend upon our protec-
tion but to our responsibilities as a
dominant sea power.

Newsweek, July 18, 1966

Page 134 of 1197