Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

What Did You Hear, Mr. K?
by Raymond Moley

WHEN a traveler returns from a
far country, his friends gather
around and ask: "What did you see?
What did you hear?"
The favorite commissars, party
chiefs, and henchmen who greeted
Mr. K back in Moscow were probably
not exceptions to this human habit.
He would answer that since the
United States "imprisoned" him in
Manhattan, he could not see the mil-
lions who are, according to candidate
Kennedy, going hungry on beans.
But through his interpreters he
heard good news. He could say that
Kennedy is telling millions that the
United States is falling behind the
U.S.S.R. in economic and military
strength, that it will be second-rate
by 1962 or 1963, or anyhow in 1975;
that ever since 1952 the President
has been in an apathetic mood, with
the nation falling into mediocrity.
This decline and imminent fall,
Kennedy says, is known abroad be-
cause a celebrated soothsayer, Gallup,
has polled ten countries, and only
Greece believes that the United
States will keep ahead of the U.S.S.R.
Thus, the prestige of the United
States abroad is at an all-time low.
This is further proved, Kennedy says,
by the larger U.N. vote to admit Red
China to the U.N.
And Mr. K also heard that former
President Truman called his successor
a do-nothing President and the Vice
President a liar, "who has never told
the truth in his life."
This sort of report would fill the
Marxists with glee, because they have
always been saying that capitalism
will decline and fall.

SCARING OUR ALLIES
It also has the effect of frightening
our allies who have vast investments
in our economy and can pull them out
with a shattering effect.
At home, those who believe the
Kennedy-Truman charge that Presi-
dent Eisenhower has betrayed, neg-
lected, and lied to them will be
possessed of a paralyzing fear, a na-
tional sense of inferiority.
Again and again Kennedy has in-
voked the name of F.D.R. But his
knowledge of F.D.R. is deficient. He
was only 15 when F.D.R. was elected.
I was then F.D.R.'s major economic
adviser. In F.D.R.'s instructions to me
about drafting his inaugural speech,
he said he wanted to banish fear and
instill confidence in the economy.
There it is: "There is nothing to fear
but fear itself." Action followed.
The first two major enactments de-
manded and passed were laws saving
the banks and drastically cutting Fed-
eral expenditures. Later, in 1934,
Roosevelt delegated to me the job
of dealing with House and Senate
leaders on a bill creating the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission to
restore confidence in people's invest-
ments. The confidence thus estab-
lished sparked a recovery until 1936.

GROWTH BY CONFIDENCE
Then, in 1936 came new advisers
with a new philosophy. John Maynard
Keynes operated through his disci-
ples over here. Hopkins and others
established "borrow, spend, elect" as
a national policy. The new program
rejected confidence as a national
policy and provided for growth
through government. That program is
Kennedy's program today.
Since Kennedy has so much to say
about rates of growth, let us see what
happened. The gain in the GNP in
the years 1933-36 inclusive was 40
per cent or 10 per cent a year. Under
the new policies in 1937-40 it was 10
per cent or 2½ per cent a year. In
those first four years unemployment
dropped 4 million. In 1937-40 it in-
creased 400,000.
Another witness who was present
back in 1933, Henry Wallace, talked
with a member of Nixon's staff two
weeks ago and expressed disagree-
ment with Kennedy's farm program
and his call for cutting the interest
rate. He said that Kennedy's plan for
high supports and rigid controls would
be "stricter than they have in most
Communist countries." Also, that to
override the Federal Reserve to cut
interest rates would cause a ruinous
flow of gold from the United States.
We were not "subdued in the night
of fear" during the recovery from
1933 to 1936. Nor in 1789 to 1825,
when we grew from a beachhead to
a great nation. Now that we are a
greater nation, we still have "nothing
to fear but fear." And fear of those
who propagate fear to get votes.

Newsweek, October 31, 1960