Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to preserve the column structure and avoid overlap:


**Anglo-American Relations**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

How would it be, in looking at the present minor strain in Anglo-American relations, to ignore for a moment the specific issues and to take a calm look at the general conditions out of which disagreements arise?  When two countries or two people have a misunderstanding, the time, the weather, health and nerves are as important as the facts and logic. What are the broad conditions back of this brotherly tiff? And while Americans are taking account of these conditions, they ought to recognize that recent British irritation toward us does not rise from ingratitude, cynicism, greed or jealousy. The British are not that sort.

What have the British said? The import of Mr. Churchill's remarks is that while our government has been kept informed of all developments, Washington has not clearly indicated its own point of view toward these developments, nor has it proposed better alternative courses than those taken by Britain and Russia. British press criticism from the influential London Times, The Economist, and The Yorkshire Post (see Foreign Affairs) is more frank than that of Mr. Churchill. The complaint of all three papers is that while Americans feel free to censure steps taken by Russia, Britain and France to make the beginning of a security order in Europe, we have not provided evidence that our interest in European security will extend beyond defeating Germany.

They say further that we fail to appreciate that our ideas of universal settlements under the terms of the Atlantic Charter and the Dumbarton Oaks plan need to be implemented by regional arrangements in Europe which, of course, require specific agreements or treaties among the nations directly concerned. They add that they cannot be sure that we will ultimately go through with the universalized security arrangements which have been promised, and that Europe cannot remain in chaos until that is decided.

A candid and just American must admit that most of this is fair criticism. American opinion on the extreme ends of what used to be called the isolationist-internationalist issue has always been the victim of ocean-wide detachment from European problems. The isolationists have conceived of European problems as remote from our interests and impossible of solution. Internationalists have regarded their solution as something to be achieved by generalized idealistic concepts which could, if applied, eliminate forever the many vexatious arrangements that must be left to those who live in Europe. Both are laboring under the handicap of a great distance from the scene.

The Atlantic Ocean is still, despite what we call a shrinking earth, very wide and very wet. It is still a hundred times the width of the English Channel. And Britons realize this failure of ours to appreciate the practical and immediate problems imposed on them by the fact of geography. They also see that in the world ahead of us the lines of interest of the United States will radiate over such a vast part of the world that it will be possible for critical situations to arise in Europe, while we are thoroughly preoccupied elsewhere.

In our appraisals of British feelings at this time, we fail to appreciate two other factors which have a deep emotional impact there. They are worried about their economic resources in the world after the war. They are sorely troubled about competition with the colossal resources of the United States and Russia. They must, if they are to exist, increase their foreign trade to a figure at least 50 per cent over 1939. They are not sure that we will take their goods or cooperate in international financial arrangements which will enable their trade to grow.

Probably most important of all as a cause of misunderstanding is the fact that Americans do not comprehend the suffering, the devastation and the dire need that five years of war have thrown upon Britain. And the British know that we do not realize this. Hence, the quick, hurt reaction of a proud people at some of the cracks uttered over here.

An American is the most unsuitable person in the world to complain about criticism from an Englishman. For close to two centuries criticism of England in this country has been the sport of statesmen, the meat of demagogues and the pabulum of the press. Where is our sense of proportion, our legendary sportsmanship, our earthy humor? A big boy with a thin skin is one of life's tragic figures. Uncle Sam is a big boy now.