Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Design for Socialism
by Raymond Moley

Those casual citizens who listen
with indifference to the statements
of a number of the candidates for the
Presidency that they favor economic
planning on a national scale, and to
the more specific preachments of the
professorial gentlemen who are providing ammunition for their campaigns, might well examine with care
and anxiety the proposals of a dedicated and practical planner. I refer to
Clyde T. Ellis, general manager of
the National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association—the NRECA. This
organization is a sort of trade association of 984 rural electric cooperatives.
It is an immense propaganda machine. Its mandates are heard with
respect by a great many members of
Congress. It has money, too. The total
capital of the members amounts to
hundreds of millions.

There is also a government bureau
known as the Rural Electrification Administration (REA), which lends
money to the cooperatives for bringing electricity to farmers. In 25 years,
$4 billion of government money has
been dispensed by this bureau.

But Ellis is the spokesman for the
cooperatives. The time has passed
when farmers were unable to get
electric power, and many of the cooperatives are reaching into the suburban and urban areas. Under the
law, they borrow money from the
Federal government for 2 per cent
interest—money for which the Treasury pays at least twice that rate. The
President has recommended that this
rate be adjusted to the present value
of money in the market. But such is
the influence of Ellis and his NRECA
that Congress has ignored the plea.

MONOPOLISTIC EMPIRE

Since this is the 25th anniversary
of this operation, there was a gala
celebration in May. And Ellis has expounded his imperial plans for the
future. He looks far beyond the humble task of electrifying the farms. In
February he proposed in a speech to
his members a mammoth power grid
“far larger than anything we have today—to meet the future power needs
of the nation’s electric systems at the
lowest possible cost.” His plan as he
elaborated it was to create “basically
a nonprofit stock company . . . formed

with the national government as a
major stockholder, but with all other
producers and users of wholesale
electricity owning part of the stock
and helping to run the generating stations and transmission lines.”

Thus the Federal government, with
the cooperatives as joint owners,
would create a vast monopolistic empire. And such an empire, dominating
the production and distribution of
electric power, would be only a step
away from a socialist state. The monopoly would be secure because no
private company could get the money
for expansion in competition with a
government agency subsidized with
money exacted from the taxpayers.
Ellis’ NRECA has become more
than a pressure group. It is in reality
a political party which has a program,
including civil rights, labor issues,
and miscellaneous spending proposals. Thus it parallels and cooperates with the unions’ Committee on
Political Education program.

THE SOVIET SCARE

The pipeline to the Treasury is assured. Many cooperatives have accumulated a surplus far beyond their
needs for serving farmers. One of
them has borrowed $18 million at the
2 per cent rate and is asking for $11.5
million more. Meanwhile, it lends a
part of this money at the profitable
rate of 5 per cent.

Ellis uses the familiar scare about
the progress of Russia and Red China.
In the current number of Walter
Reuther’s Industrial Union Digest,
Ellis draws a glowing picture of Russia’s growing electrical facilities. The
Red Chinese Yangtze River dam, he
says, will produce thirteen times as
much power as Grand Coulee.

All this ignores the immense growth
of private power production in the
United States. It also fails to point out
the fact that there is not even a remote possibility that Soviet production
can catch up with ours. Senator
Bennett recently said, with the facts
to support him, that “to match the
United States in generating capacity
by 1975 the Soviet Union would have
to quadruple its average 1950–59 rates
and install the equivalent of eight
Grand Coulee dams every year for
fifteen years.”

Newsweek, June 13, 1960