Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

'Save America First'

When Jerome Frank served in the
AAA in 1933 and 1934, there was reason
to suspect that all his thinking was colored
by a deep and abiding distrust of private
holders of economic power. These sus-
picions were not allayed by some vague
comments that he made about the profit
system during that period. But, if ever
there was evidence of the tonic and nour-
ishment that come to some fine minds
under the stress of responsibility in public
office, it can be found in Frank's SAVE
AMERICA FIRST, just published by Harper
& Brothers. This is, in my judgment, the
most constructive book that has come
from any of the present members of the
Roosevelt Administration, and it is of par-
ticular interest at this moment when the
monopoly-investigating committee, on
which Mr. Frank will serve as alternate
for Chairman Douglas of the SEC, gets
under way. For it is not only an expression
of Mr. Frank's philosophy but a challenge
to the philosophy that at least two of the
other members of the monopoly inquiry
bring to the job.

Frank's book sets forth, systematically
and dispassionately, what most of the
early New Dealers thought, and what they
thought, in 1933 and 1934, that Mr.
Roosevelt thought. I believe that a good
many men in Washington still think in
these terms. But, unlike Mr. Frank, they
are either inarticulate or they are cowed
by the sadistic dogmatism of the New New
Dealers. Certainly they are not finding it
possible to influence the President, who is
flanked on the right by hazy inter-
nationalists, on the left by old-fashioned
trust busters and spurred on from the rear
by those intent on using the public funds
to achieve the purge and control of the
party.

Mr. Frank considers, first, the theory
that the future salvation of American life
depends upon foreign trade and inter-
national "cooperation" and proceeds,
then, to a discussion of how the living
standards of the American people can be
raised within the confines of a profit sys-
tem. His argument for a concentration of
our concern upon the American economic
scene is really a finely reasoned twentieth-
century footnote to Washington's Fare-
well Address. He points out that Eng-
land's Victorian adventure in free trade
failed. But, even if it had succeeded for
England, an industrialized island which
lacked a large domestic market, it could
not serve as a model for us, a largely self-
sufficient continental nation.

Mr. Frank does not object to Mr.
Hull's reciprocal treaties, considering the
small increase in foreign trade that they
have produced. He demonstrates, though,
that a great dependence upon foreign
trade cannot help but depress the living
standards of Americans. Our export trade
in the '20s, created by billions of dollars
of credits and loans which will never be
repaid, simply amounted to the giving
away of billions of dollars' worth of
goods to Europe. He would prefer to
subsidize our domestic rather than our
foreign market, and, in so stating, he
describes a basic economic policy of the
early New Deal. "We need," he points
out, "seriously to ask ourselves whether
it is wise to send abroad yearly largely at
our own expense shiploads of the Ameri-
can continent." We need to focus our at-
tention on the insufficiency of our own
purchasing power.

Facing the domestic situation, Mr.
Frank would base national policy both
for industry and government upon a
number of simple propositions:

1-Any direct attempt to distribute the
existing national income would not only
be ineffective but would precipitate revo-
lutionary and paralyzing opposition.

2-We must achieve a greatly increased
national income through an increase in
production far beyond the 1929 level.
That increase in national income must
be equitably shared through higher wages
and lowered prices. Profits for capital will
be larger and more secure under such con-
ditions than they are now.

3-Such an increase in the efficiency of
our economic system can come only after
a frank recognition of the economies
achievable by large-scale production,
large-scale distribution and centralized
management. Hence we must deal with
our key mass-production industries as
instances of monopolistic competition
justifying themselves when they adopt
intelligent and economic price and wage
policies. And we must break them up only
in those cases where they fail to achieve
or where they obstruct the objectives
sought.

Such a program, Mr. Frank says over
and over, cannot be the product of an all-
powerful bureaucracy in government. It
must be the joint effort of representatives
of business, agriculture and labor. He
cites the wise words of Alexander Ham-
ilton here: "To balance a large state or
society . . . is a work of so great difficulty,

NEWSWEEK
that no human genius, however compre-
hensive, is able, by the mere dint of
reason and reflection, to effect it. The
judgments of many must unite in the
work: experience must guide their labor;
time must bring it to perfection, and the
feeling of inconveniences must correct
the mistakes which they inevitably fall
into in their first trials and experiments."
In short, government, wherever it partici-
pates in this planning, must plan with,
rather than for business, agriculture and
labor. It is the failure to achieve this
cooperative relationship, I hope I may
interpolate into this description of Mr.
Frank's ideas, that has so discouraged
liberals with Mr. Roosevelt's policies since
1935.

Throughout Mr. Frank's book is woven
a powerful argument against the conten-
tions of Communism. He points out the
total inadequacy of Marxism as a descrip-
tion of social and economic evolution—
Marxism being a kind of perverse deriva-
tive of the economic "laws" supposedly
proved by Britain's economic history. He
suggests that those who would have us
emulate Russia overlook the fact that
Russia took to Communism to achieve an
industrial civilization which we already
have. He is equally merciless with our
trust busters, whose basic fallacy is their
assumption that the atomizing of large-
scale production and distribution would
restore competition and that the restora-
tion of competition would produce a
happy and prosperous nation. Mr. Frank
is unwilling to agree that the state of
"free competition" to which trust busters
dream of returning ever did exist or ever
could exist, for that matter.

The one aspect of Mr. Frank's dis-
cussion which, to me, seems weak, opens
up, at the same time, the greatest avenue
of hope. Mr. Frank repeatedly indicates
a continuing skepticism as to the willing-
ness or the capacity of the managers of
American industry to accept his major
thesis and its numerous corollaries. He
cites the attitude of the National Asso-
ciation of Manufacturers as an example of
failure to recognize and understand the
issues posed by our times. Yet, a reread-
ing of that organization's latest statement
of principles reveals little that could not
be harmonized with his major thesis.

I claim no wholesale acquaintanceship
with those who hold high place in
American industry, but I personally know
none who would not willingly move in
the direction that Mr. Frank points.
There is no reason to believe that they
would not be joined by other men of good
will. And what good will would not
stimulate, intelligent self-interest inevi-
tably would.

Cooperation between business and such
men as Mr. Frank is not only possible
and desirable; it is indispensable.