Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to separate the columns and avoid overlap:


**Some European Consequences**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Any estimate of the consequences of German defeat must start with a realization that what we are witnessing in Germany has never before happened to a major country in so short a time. The Roman Empire broke into fragments, but the process took three or four centuries. Other countries have broken up, but without the systematic devastation that Germany has encountered.

A yawning hole exists in the middle of European civilization which throws out of balance everything that still stands on the edges.

The most important fact in Europe during the century after the defeat of Napoleon was the rise of Germany. A patchwork of states under the leadership of Bismarck's Prussia developed first economic and then political unity. There came with this unity vast industrial and commercial power. By 1900 Germany had not only become a dominant force on the European Continent, but was extending its imperial power economically and politically all over the world. It had penetrated Africa. It took over many of the Pacific islands which later fell into Japanese hands. It was building a navy to rival Britain's. People everywhere were buying goods marked "Made in Germany." Such was Germany's position when the war started in 1914.

In the past 35 years the twin evils of Junkerism and Nazism directed all the latent power of this great, civilized country to the single purpose of making war.

The grim fact that faces Europe is that practically all those resources, material and cultural, have been destroyed. It is not enough to say that half of Europe is gone. The interdependence of the nations of Europe has been so enormous that the loss is even greater. And even in a country like Russia, where military power seems to be enormous, the obliteration of Germany will have grave consequences. For the prewar economic interdependence of Russia and Germany cannot quickly be compensated for by other Russian ties.

The economic shock to all the other countries bordering on or influenced by Germany will far outlast the immediate problems of reconstruction. The point is that an economic network essential to the life of all Europe has been shattered at its center. That network grew up over centuries. In part it was the creation of Germans. But Germany had the geographical advantage of being at what it called the "air-cross" of Europe. Railway transportation from north to south and east to west passed through Germany. Air traffic in the future can scarcely avoid it. The German language is the commonest link in dealings between Western and Eastern Europe. To rebuild Europe, the means must be found to utilize Germany's geographical advantages without permitting it to recover its power to do evil.

On the political side, it is an oversimplification to say that Communism will now spread generally over Europe. Forms of government spread only superficially. That has been shown over the past hundred years in the Western Hemisphere. Republican governments were readily adopted by Latin American countries but, in every case, the essential nature of governments was determined by the people of those countries. In many cases, republicanism is the form, and a dictatorship is the reality. In Europe there may be a spread of Communist forms but, from the mountain peasants of Yugoslavia to the fishermen of Finland, the substance of government will be based on factors that have existed before, including literacy, habits of life, national traditions, religion, land ownership, language and race.

It is true that with the breakup of Germany the barriers between the Soviet forms of government and the constitutional democracies of the West are gone. But the danger of conflict between Communism and political democracy will still be minimized by the differentiated sorts of government which ultimately grow up among the many peoples scattered between Russia and the Atlantic Ocean. What Europe needs is peace, and if in some manner the great powers can guarantee that for a generation, political differences which now frighten us will take care of themselves.