Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

A Show With Two Plots
by Raymond Moley

THERE can be three perfectly legiti-
mate points of view about Ezra
Taft Benson as Agriculture Secretary.
The first is that of pure politics,
looking not to the long run but to
1954. We should not too lightly scan
the panic of members of Congress
anticipating the rigors of a campaign
for survival next year. They believe
Benson is a liability and that the Pres-
ident should remove him.
Another point of view,
mentioned in this space two
weeks ago, is that of many
fair and informed farm
spokesmen in the big food-
producing states of the Mis-
sissippi Valley: that the
Secretary is not sufficiently
informed on their problems
and that his new advisory
committee is not sufficiently
representative to fill that deficiency.
A third expresses itself in warm in-
dignation at the reckless demagog-
uery of the National Farmers Union
in staging the hammy show of a
small group of cattle raisers descend-
ing upon Washington. I share that
point of view.
The managers of the show were
James G. Patton, president of the
Farmers Union, who worked indefati-
gably to keep the Truman regime in
office; Charles F. Brannan, Truman's
Secretary of Agriculture and now gen-
eral counsel of the Farmers Union;
Gus Geissler, formerly Brannan's man-
ager of the Federal Crop Insurance
Corp. and now Patton's assistant; John
Baker, formerly Brannan's assistant
and now legislative secretary of the
Farmers Union; and Wesley McCune,
formerly Brannan's assistant and now
on the publicity staff of the Demo-
cratic National Committee. If any-
thing could discredit this blatant
piece of mummery, it would be this
association of a "team" of discredited
officeholders with an organization
intent upon herding American farm-
ers into socialism. But the facts speak
as powerfully as the personnel.
Farm prices declined 11 per cent in
the year preceding the inauguration.
They have declined less than half of
that since. But the parity index, which
reflects the prices which farmers pay
for what they buy, shows an even
better comparison. The big drop was
before January of this year. It has

been greatly checked since that time.
But this isn't the most important
part of the story. In 1948 Truman
stumped the country in favor of flexi-
ble price supports. But in spite of this
and despite a firm Democratic plat-
form pledge, Brannan brought forth
his design for socialism known as the
Brannan plan. That was repudiated
by Congress and by the big, respon-
sible farm organizations.
Thereupon Brannan and
his "team" proceeded to
stimulate and encourage a
great farm inflation with all
the great powers of the
Department of Agriculture.
Production goals were set
high. Congressmen were
encouraged to seek higher
and higher price supports.
The result was great over-
production, which the "team" neg-
lected to control even though such
action was called for by law. This set
the stage for the 1952 elections. The
plan, or plot, if you will, was to have
vast price-depressing surpluses and to
scare farmers into voting Democratic.
If the Democrats won, the Brannan
people could apply price controls
which, since they were socialists, they
preferred all along. If, however, the
election went against them, they
could start a propaganda war de-
signed to blame the Republicans.
This is the background. The most
regrettable aspect of the matter is the
fright which has taken over many
Republican congressmen. Chairman
Hope has permitted the itinerant
hearings of his committee to become a
forum for the propaganda of the left-
wing farmers. The committee was
even stampeded into recommending
price supports for live cattle-a step
which would, if taken, plunge the gov-
ernment into another and greater fi-
asco than Truman's potato affair. It
may well be that in the next session of
Congress sanity will have to be pre-
served with the aid of Democrats like
Senators Holland, Robertson, Byrd,
Douglas, and others who have always
favored a broad and long-range ap-
proach to vexatious farm issues.

THUS, the show was merely a dema-
gogic performance with a cunning
and unscrupulous scheme behind it.
There was a plot behind a plot.

Newsweek, November 9, 1953