PERSPECTIVE

THE GOP IN THE SOUTH

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

T
he observations and conclusions
that follow are based upon what
I learned during a visit in April to
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama
and Mississippi. It was my first
roundup of Southern politics since
the spring of 1964. It will be noted
that these states are in what has
been called the Deep South. In all
of them the Democratic monopoly
has been broken since 1960 and a
new Republican Party has been
growing. This change is the most im-
portant American political event since
the coming of the New Deal 33 years
ago. Its impact upon party calcula-
tions is bound to be revolutionary.
But unfortunately, Northeastern Re-
publicans have distorted what has
been happening by inordinate em-
phasis upon the race issue. What is
most significant are the deep cur-
rents of economic and population
changes which have predominated.
While the South remained Demo-
cratic for the many years after the
Reconstruction, it is an error to speak
of it as a "one party" area. It is more
nearly correct to say that no real
parties existed in those states. Politics
was dominated by factions and per-
sonal followings. For the most part,
political activity centered in the ac-
tions and ambitions of notable politi-
cal leaders who in statewide elections
captured governorships and U.S. sen-
atorships. Some of these were men
whose demagoguery verged upon
clownishness, with racism predomi-
nant. Others were authentic states-
men whose security of tenure and
personal capacities played a large
part in shaping national policy in
Washington.

URBAN REPUBLICANISM

Both types have largely faded out,
and in the bitter struggle within the
national Democratic Party the Demo-
cratic hold upon the electorate has
measurably weakened. It is this
weakness that the new Republican
parties have successfully exploited in
the past four or five years.
Economic factors, with the growth
of big cities and education, have ac-
celerated this change. The economic
growth of the four states has been
phenomenal. Industry has been mov-
ing South, bringing with it a great
many managers and technicians from
the North and East. Cattle raising
and the manufacture of forest prod-
ucts have found the climate, the
labor force and the laws more favor-
able to development. Cotton has de-
clined in relative importance. Cities
like Columbia, Atlanta, Birmingham,
Mobile and Jackson have not only
grown in wealth and population but
have taken on the interests and ap-
pearance of the best of our urban
centers in the Midwest and North-
east. And where this urbanization has
been most marked, young people
who have been organizing a new
Republican Party have met with the
most success.

THE NEGRO POTENTIAL

While Sen. Everett Dirksen and
other Northern Republicans have de-
plored enforced reapportionment,
this change in representation has
helped Republican opportunities to
win success at the polls. It has made
possible greater representation in
state legislatures and in Congress in
the very areas where Republicanism
has had its greatest growth.
The Goldwater candidacy before
the nomination and at the election
provided a big lift to the Republicans
in the four states. It enabled Repub-
licans to extend their organizations
and induce attractive candidates to
run for Congress and for state leg-
islative seats Goldwater's sweep of
those states was the stimulant
needed. Eight Congressional candi-
dates were elected in 1964, many
state legislative seats were captured
and some local offices were won.
The Negro vote, nominally greatly
increased by registrations under Fed-
eral law, is an indeterminate factor in
1966 political calculations. As Rich-
ard Nixon said in an address in Loui-
siana, it is the Republican policy to
"leave the issues of the past to the
Democrats." Despite a heavy regis-
tration, it is not likely that the Ne-
gro vote will hold the balance of
power in state elections or possibly
in Congressional contests. The Negro
population is mainly concentrated in
specific areas. It is hardly large
enough to change results where Re-
publicans have made the greatest
gains since 1960. And no one knows
how many of the newly registered
Negroes will vote in November.

Newsweek, May 9, 1966