Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

Perspective
Business Morality
by Raymond Moley

A SELF-IMPOSED rule in this corner of
the magazine is to precede the
selection of and comment upon a
topic by asking myself four questions:
Is it true? Is it important? What does
it mean? What do I think about it?
In the case of the electrical manu-
facturers' executives, the truth was
established by the process of law and
the admissions of the defendants. The
importance to the entire climate of
our civilization is obvious. The press
fully presented the facts. There
comes now the time for comment
upon the meaning of the case and a
few reflections of my own.
The most significant part of the
aftermath will be a renewal of dema-
gogic attacks upon business generally
-attacks which a generation ago
brought about a political and legal
revolution, the consequences of which
are still with us. Then the story will
go into the textbooks. In the
Eisenhower years, businessmen were
just emerging from their political
storm cellars and taking a respected
place in those affairs in the community
which lie beyond purely economic
life. A year or so ago I wrote a piece
in which I mentioned the "business-
man's complex." He knew that the
public liked his product and bought
it. But he felt that when he asserted
his rights as a citizen in public affairs,
he was looked upon with suspicion.
To restore public confidence, busi-
ness has in recent years made vast
contributions to education and to pub-
lic welfare. Through wise public re-
lations it has made clear to the public
the broad social value of its contribu-
tions and its fairness in dealing with
its employees and consumers.

DOES IT PREVAIL?

Thus there has been a hopeful re-
vival of public confidence and a per-
ceptible closing of the fissures that
for a time endangered national unity.
That this case will most unfortu-
nately arrest that revival cannot be
denied. It will be said that these
prosecutions involved only one rela-
tively small corner of the business
world. That is true. But one errant
brother may inflict great grief upon
an innocent family. In politics there is
little discrimination. All business is at
the bar of public opinion, just as

was all organized labor by the revela-
tions of misdeeds by some unions
through the McClellan committee.
What disturbs me most is the as-
sertion of the defense that the viola-
tions were a part of a "prevailing
business morality." This weighed
heavily in the thinking of Judge
Ganey, who said quite truly: "What
is really at stake here is the survival
of the kind of economy under which
America has grown to greatness, the
free-enterprise system." It was an ill
service to those of us who as specta-
tors and commentators have, through
thick and thin, defended business
against the attacks of irresponsible
demagogues. We shall have to have
some proof that we have not been
deluded and have not deluded the
public which we serve.

BLOW TO CONFIDENCE

I attended a meeting of members
of a large trade association after the
storm broke. These executives rep-
resent an industry which for 25 years
bore the brunt of political attack and
which has won back the high esteem
of its customers and the public by its
enterprise and fair dealing. They
were deeply moved by the revealed
activities of the equipment manufac-
turers, not just because they them-
selves were among the principal
victims of the monopolistic pricing
practices, but because an undiscrimi-
nating public may lose confidence in
their good faith, too.
A major task of soul-searching and
house cleaning faces all the business
world. And leadership in that rehabil-
itation should be taken by associations
such as the National Association
of Manufacturers.
Business confronts a new national
Administration with great powers
and the capacity for ruthless legal
regulations. And, I might add,
with a keen sense of political val-
ues. This Administration succeeds an
Eisenhower regime which gave busi-
ness every opportunity to become a
partner in the job of building a finer
nation. To his everlasting credit, Mr.
Eisenhower was not only a kindly but
a strict partner. For his Attorney Gen-
eral carried this case to its bitter con-
clusion with indefatigable devotion to
the interests of all the public.

Newsweek, March 6, 1961