Here's a text version of the provided image, excluding the advertisement in the left column.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the nature of the original document.


Europe is once more in the birth
agonies of self-government. The time
calls for wise forbearance, because the
promise of the Atlantic Charter can-
not come to reality without many con-
ditions. One of these conditions is the
pressure of war. Another is the out-
burst of civil conflict in liberated
countries on grounds far more com-
plicated than rightist-leftist antago-
nisms.

These conflicts and the diplomatic
tiff between our government and
Great Britain over Italy and Greece
(see page 25) can best be illuminated
by a few sober reflections on the gen-
eral problem of liberated countries.
When the heavy boot of Germany
is lifted from a small nation, the first
group to spring into action is likely
to be the leftists. They are, by nature,
minorities who have lived, in the past,
by opposition and agitation. The fine
art of discord has been part of their
nature and all their business. In many
cases, they have been secretly armed
-waiting their chance. On the other
hand, the great majority of the people
of those nations show no such resili-
ency. Their spirits have succumbed to
the weary task of keeping alive. Passive
acquiescence over these years has
saved them, and passive acquiescence
has become a habit with them. So,
much of the current noise abroad
comes from the clamor on the left.
But the majority has one thing in
common with the leftists. It has a
quite illogical but understandable feel-
ing of strangeness, if not a resentment,
about the governments-in-exile. The
members of those governments have
been enjoying freedom and a measure
of well-being in London or elsewhere,
while the folks at home have lived in
German darkness. It is the old human
reaction of those whose ways have
been hard toward those whose situa-
tion has been more fortunate.

When members of these exiled
governments return, no fatted calves
are offered, partly because there are
no such animals left and partly be-
cause people emerging from darkness
are grouchy and irritable. The leftists
exploit this mood to the limit. Trouble
ensues, and if Britain or Russia or the
United States does nothing about it,
the baby of self-government will be
stillborn.

In Belgium, the flurry was short
and decisive. There were few collabo-
rationists, and they fled to Germany.
The left was not strong, and Allied
military occupation was powerful. In
Italy, internal conflict has been run-
ning as a low-grade fever for many
months. In Greece, the British occu-
pation is still dangerously exposed to
the Germans on the islands, especially
Crete. Also, the disease of internal
disorder has been present for twenty
years. Naturally, the sharpest trouble
is there.

In the nature of things, this is no
situation for the sudden application of
the principle of no outside inter-
ference, of which so many people in
the United States have been talking.
It is certainly not the moment for our
government to urge that principle on
the British, who have many times
before dealt with such manifestations.
The plain military fact is that when
an army is occupying a country, shoot-
ing by civilians simply cannot be
tolerated. Soldiers-and in these cases
they are British and American-are in
the position of police in a riot zone.
They are in uniform. They are in full
public view. They must be able to
move about freely. When shooting goes
on among civilians, even soldiers used
to the "orderly" ways of battle get a
bit nervous. Their morale disinte-
grates. The prosecution of the war is
impeded. These are matters to be con-
sidered when Americans, safely en-
sconced at home, begin to utter shrill
cries about self-determination now-
self-determination everywhere, com-
plete and untouched by British or
Russian hands.

Curiously, this sort of trouble did
not rise in France. De Gaulle was
deliriously kissed on both cheeks by
the liberated French. He encountered
none of the prejudice held elsewhere
against exiled governments. Maybe
this was because de Gaulle had never
been popular with American and
British officialdom. He was not recog-
nized. He was regarded as a somewhat
difficult guest. Perhaps his unpopu-
larity abroad was just what his people
needed to convince them that he was
truly their own. At any rate, he got
his reward at home, and self-govern-
ment revived in France.