Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to separate the columns and avoid overlaps:


**The Moral Issues in Ohio**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LITTLE JOE FERGUSON, the negative
arms of the unions to beat Taft, quite
naïvely said when I asked him how he
stood on the Brannan plan: "I am for
what the farmers want." On labor he is
for what labor wants. On civil rights
he is for what Negroes want. On every-
thing, he is for what everyone wants.

A serious moral issue is raised by
this kind of appeal. Joe
Ferguson is merely aping a
strategy that has become
more and more character-
istic of our American politics.
It won for Truman two years
ago. It will win for many of
his candidates this year. And
if it wins for the enemies of
Taft in Ohio, it will be a
grim and bitter reminder of
the deterioration of a once
self-reliant and self-respecting people.
It is, among other things, an appeal
which is completely false. We can't all
have all we want. No government,
especially one which is manned by
Joe Fergusons, can make good such
promises. The tricky people who make
them do not expect to make them
good. They will as always cover their
failure by blaming someone else.

The Truman promises of 1948 have
not been realized. They stand out like
the bare branches of a tree in winter.
But his people who are running for
reelection are saying that bad people
in Congress frustrated their efforts.
Send us back and we will make good
next year, they say. Always next year
the pie will come down from the sky.
And so on, year after year.

Another moral blemish in the ap-
peal of the politicians who claim to
speak for the working man is stark,
brazen, unqualified materialism. The
copious and expensive literature of
political agencies of the unions in Ohio
offers nothing but argument for more
material benefits. There is no hint of
the need for those things that touch
the life of the mind and the spirit. The
appeal is all stomach and no heart.


WHAT kind of people do they think
Americans are? Has politics de-
generated to a point where its objec-
tive is the kind of life that might haunt
the dreams of a savage?
In Ohio, the noisy chatter of the
forces behind Ferguson is a mixture of
avarice and hatred. There is plenty of
talk of a good life. But in that talk
attention is fixed entirely upon the
material basis of a good life, never
upon what should be done with life
after its material needs are supplied.
In fact, the appeal in Ohio is against
the very things that bring reality to
life once material security is attained.
It is a campaign against education.
The United Labor League's
black book, as well as
Ferguson's puerile speeches,
is full of sneers at Taft's ed-
ucation. The fraud in this is
that at least two of the Labor
League's people are college
professors. A professor writes
Ferguson's speeches. Abra-
ham Lincoln, like Ferguson,
had no college education.
But his glory was not in his
lack of opportunity, but in his self-
education. What kind of appeal is this
in a state with 40-odd institutions of
higher learning? Are boys and girls
out there to be told that success lies in
ignorance, not in knowledge?
There are sneers at Taft's forebears
because they, too, were blessed with
security and attained eminence. Is a
young man in Ohio to be told by this
election that if he seeks a life of public
service the memory of his father and
grandfather is to be fouled?

THE Taft tradition is a luminous rec-
ord of almost austere devotion to
many lines of public service. Taft's
grandfather, his father, and his father's
brothers were men of high qualities.
They worked hard; they created en-
during institutions. His father was a
fine judge, a great Cabinet member,
an earnest but unlucky President, and
an enlightened Chief Justice. One un-
cle built up a great newspaper; an-
other, a renowned school; and a third
was a distinguished, public-spirited
lawyer. In short, they fully repaid the
nation for what they had. And so has
Bob Taft. Are such qualities of public
usefulness to become liabilities in this
age of materialistic politics?

Are the gates of public service open
only to those who promise falsely,
scatter hatred, mock at education,
shrink from independence, and walk
humbly with materialistic gods? These
moral issues are at stake in Ohio and
in many other states.

Newsweek, November 6, 1950