Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  The left column is largely an advertisement and has been omitted.

Where Money Isn't Tight

by Raymond Moley

On a tree near my place of residence I recently saw a notice obviously printed by a youngster in pencil. It said: "Lost! A black cat with white spots. Reward for return to--" Then appeared the name and address. Below, the owner had added the following: "P.S. If you want to keep it, all right. But let me know so I will stop looking."

This reminded me of the feeling taxpayers must have about politicians who promise less spending and tax reductions and then, after election, dash all hopes. Perhaps we might all adjust ourselves better if we knew the worst and stopped looking.

I don't want to discuss the budget seriously this week but merely to tell of a few clippings I have collected over the past few weeks.

Item. In December it was announced by the Rural Electrification Administration that it had approved an $8,883,000 loan to the Sacramento Municipal Utility District to construct new facilities for serving "outlying regions" in that part of California. The rate is 2 per cent. The government of which the REA is an agent pays 3¼ per cent for the money. The REA has made $3 billion in such loans. No Federal income taxes are paid by REA.

Item. The Gore bill would appropriate $400 million to build Federal nuclear-fueled power plants. Private companies are building such plants in considerable numbers and sizes.

Item. Debate is still going on, after seven years, about who will build additional power facilities at Niagara—the Federal government, the New York State Power Authority, or five investor-owned companies that are able and willing to put $525 million into the project. This installation would pay $23 million annually in Federal, state, and local taxes.

Item. Twenty-seven senators have sponsored Wayne Morse's bill to oust the Idaho Power Co. from the Hells Canyon site where that investor-owned company is building the first of three dams authorized by the Federal Power Commission. The Federal dam would cost the government some hundreds of millions of dollars.

Item. But the Idaho Power plan would not only save the Federal government the cost of the dam but pay millions in taxes to the Federal, state, and local governments. This is shown by another clipping, from an Idaho paper, which was sent to me by a lady in that state. It says that the Washington Water Power Co. delivered checks for taxes to nine Idaho counties amounting in all to $1,122,215. This was only the first installment for 1956. No wonder the people of Idaho prefer the development of their water resources by investor-owned companies.

Item. The Southwestern Power Administration, hailed when it was created as a monument to social progress, is deeply in the red. The Comptroller General of the United States points out that the SWPA rolled up a loss of $12,425,000 for the years 1943-55, and that the Southeastern Power Administration showed a loss of $12,096,000 for the years 1950-55. Uncle Sam must bail out these children of his.

Item. Our old friend, the collectivists' delight, the TVA, has used up $2 billion of taxpayers' money to date. Of this, less than 10 per cent has been repaid. No interest is paid on the remainder, and only a token amount is paid in lieu of Federal and state taxes. The Hoover Commission Task Force under the chairmanship of Ben Moreell found that TVA had escaped nearly $172 million in Federal taxes and more than $76 million in state and local taxes.

Item. My final clipping is a Wall Street Journal signed article saying that the Eisenhower Administration is trying to figure out how to spend the cash it expects to get from Congress. High on the list are the creation of a TVA in the Nile Valley, something like the Upper Colorado project for the Tigris-Euphrates Valley, and another for the Jordan. With the rich experience gained in the valleys of the Tennessee, the Columbia, the Colorado, and other American streams we should be quite equal to the task. What a blessing it is that in this moment of international peril we have learned so well how to spend money.

Newsweek, January 28, 1957