Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Tampa Gateway

by Raymond Moley

TAMPA, FLA. That Florida consists
of hot-dog stands, exhibits of alligators and venomous snakes, horse
and dog race tracks, motels, bathing
beauties, hairy men reclining on
beaches, and elderly gents playing
shuffleboard is a hardy bit of mythology embedded in the minds of a majority of the American people. This is
not entirely due to the fact that our
people, in common with all
mortals, are allergic to colorful though dubious information. It is in large part
due to the tall tales of travelers returned from the pursuit of
pleasure. It has also been encouraged by propaganda zealously disseminated by Northern gazettes
with space to fill.

But an examination of
the facts provides a quite different
and more wholesome concept of a remarkably rich, versatile, and useful
part of the nation—a part destined to
become more and more important
with the passing years. For while
what is called “tourism” contributes
nearly a billion dollars annually to the
economic life of Florida, it is not even
half of that state’s source of wealth.
Manufacturing and agriculture contribute nearly 50 per cent more than
“tourism,” and fishing and mining
are considerable.

Miami and Jacksonville have become important industrial cities. Pensacola, far to the west, is becoming
a huge chemical-industry center.
Tampa, now celebrating its centennial, is an excellent place to witness
this solid and growing part of Florida’s
economy. The atmosphere here is not
unfriendly to the visitor seeking relaxation, but it is essentially that of industry and commerce. The port of
Tampa is necessary to a large part of
central Florida. The Tampa trading
area has a population considerably in
excess of a million. The population of
Tampa itself has recently grown an
incredible 87 per cent to nearly a
quarter of a million. St. Petersburg
and Clearwater complement Tampa.
Those nearby cities have in the past
grown mainly because of their appeal
to the retired and semiretired. Now
they have developed an economy of
considerable range. St. Petersburg
was a city of 60,000 in 1940. It has


now grown to more than twice that.
Those who are old enough to remember the Spanish-American War
will recall Tampa as a sleepy port
which served as the jumping-off place
of the American forces which participated in that strange bit of international blood-letting. The city had a
limited renown as a manufacturer of
cigars. It is still the largest fabricator
of handmade cigars in the
world, but its economy has
become highly diversified.
It is the citrus-processing
center of the world. Its
output of processed seafood
is immense. Florida produces three quarters of the
phosphate of the United
States, and nearly all of that
is mined near Tampa and
passes through the city’s
processing plants. Finally, there is
McDill Field, one of the greatest of
the Air Force’s operational bases.

The destiny of Tampa as a great
city is suggested by the fact that
it is an exceedingly important gateway. The great cities of the past
have been built where commerce
must flow, and some of the greatest
were seaports. There have been few
with the natural advantage of such a
harbor as Tampa’s.

A glance at the map makes clear
the strategic position of the Tampa
harbor. It is well protected from attack from abroad. It is within easy
reach of the ports to the south, and
it is capable of adaptation for unlimited shipping. It is also a warm-
water port, open the year round.
The map also indicates Tampa’s easy
accessibility by rail. The city has,
however, been somewhat handicapped by an unfortunate discrimination in freight rates, from which the
city is seeking relief.

POLITICAL note cannot be inappropriate here. The area around
Tampa has developed that rare institution in the South—a two-party system. Last year it elected a Republican
to Congress. The political climate has
always been conservative, and it is
growing more so. It is proving in actuality what President Eisenhower
means by dynamic conservatism. For
while it chases no rainbows, it is building with amazing certitude and speed.

Newsweek, April 11, 1955