Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement in the left column:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Measure of a Man
by Raymond Moley

WHEN we take the measure of a
man, we ask: What of his early
environment and heredity? What was
his inner character? What challenge
did life and circumstance offer? What
was the climate of the time?
Vincent Astor lived his childhood
and youth apart from the generality
of most of us, in a world insulated-
of private tutors, of travel, of contact
with notable people here and abroad.
If we may call this the discipline of
an aristocrat, it left with the young
man the finest attributes of such tui-
tion-a grace of life, subdued pride,
personal honor, and manners and sen-
timents free from struggle for self.
In the midst of this protected life,
as a college lad of 20, he lost his
father whom he adored. This pro-
jected him into great affairs and mas-
sive responsibilities. One whom some
might call a child of fortune became
a servant of a solemn duty. Personal
inclination and plans for the pursuit
of science were pushed aside by an
inexorable trusteeship.
The gilded age was over, and, with
it, the social and political supremacy
of great wealth. Political and social
unrest and dissent were dominant in
the America of those early 1910s.
This was an added challenge.

DEMOCRACY'S EXPONENT
The young man soon appraised his
great properties of land in New York
as not merely a certain source of in-
crement but as a profound obligation
to the city whose growth made them
so valuable. He improved them in a
manner fitting to the city and state
which he loved. Above that was his
devotion to the nation which had
welcomed the hardy enterprise of his
famous ancestor.
To that country he gave his service
and substance in two wars. He sought
no shield from peril. And since then
his ardent patriotism abided no tol-
erance for its enemies within-Com-
munists and their friends.
His early training and an innate
reserve, coupled with strong personal
preferences, denied indiscriminate
mixing with either the people on his
own material level or the proverbial
men in the street. Like the aristocrat
Jefferson, the friend of the first Ameri-
can Astor, he was nevertheless a po-
tent exponent of democracy. To the
end, when he willed the bulk of his
fortune to "alleviate human misery,"
he was acutely sensitive to the neg-
lected needs and aspirations of the
less fortunate.
In my 26 years of association with
him-years of loyalty and friendship
seldom known in this world-I came to
know his social and political ideals
very well. He supported his neighbor
on the Hudson in four campaigns for
the Presidency, at first because he
believed in bringing the power of gov-
ernment to the service of human wel-
fare and the correction of economic
excesses and, later, because the Presi-
dent in the face of war was the trustee
of the interests of the United States.

UNDER ORDERS
But with a discriminating intelli-
gence Vincent Astor opposed those
who would carry the quest for cor-
rection to the brink of a class struggle.
He sought no public office or honor,
declining high place in government in
1933. His abiding interest was the sea,
its ships, and those who manned them
-the Navy and that indispensable
service in war and peace, the mer-
chant marine.
I know I express the sentiments of
the many who have served with him
in his many enterprises when I say
that he expected nothing from them
that he was unwilling to assume him-
self, that he was generous with their
failures and happy in their successes,
that he had rare capacity for delegat-
ing responsibility, and that his judg-
ments were of an uncommon kind. His
memory they will hold always as
something enduring and priceless.
One of them, now with NEWSWEEK
but once a submarine officer, in a serv-
ice close to Captain Astor's heart,
within the week has told me of what a
chief petty officer once said to a
young sailor whose brother was lost in
a sister ship:
"All of us travel under Orders. He
traveled under Orders. He isn't lost.
The Man who wrote the Orders
doesn't lose anyone. Not ever."
My friend added:
"The next tour of duty is going to
be a better tour of duty, and you al-
ways meet your old shipmates. In one
port or another, sooner or later."

Newsweek, February 23, 1959