Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've attempted to preserve the original column structure as best as possible, but some minor adjustments might be needed for perfect alignment in a text editor.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Reorganization

No one can deny the need for
drastic reorganization of the great bureauc-
racy that has grown up in Washington
over the years. It is intolerably compli-
cated, expensive and inefficient. Duplica-
tion of functions is everywhere. All
Presidents since Taft have called atten-
tion to these things. Clearly, something
should be done about them. The question
is whether the bill now before Congress
will do the job.

Prepared by a committee working un-
der the able and experienced Senator
Byrnes, this bill is based in large part upon
the plan submitted last year by a Presi-
dential committee and recommended to
Congress by the President. It is, inci-
dentally, a distinct improvement in many
ways on the President's recommendations.

But the citizen who attempts to
wade through the voluminous accounts of
the debate on it is to be pitied, for the
arguments are complicated, technical and
bewildering. Perhaps it may be useful to
examine the measure briefly in the light
of the three questions that are most im-
portant to the average person: 1-Does it
provide for the saving of the taxpayer's
money; in other words, is it an economy
bill? 2-Does it assure more efficiency in
the operation of the national Administra-
tion? 3-Does it give excessive power to
the President?

1-Even Senator Byrnes admits that
the saving the bill will achieve will be
small. He does not attempt to claim that
it will save more than $25,000,000-which
is about three-tenths of one per cent of
our national expenditure. On the other
hand, Senator Byrd, who is thoroughly
familiar with the problems of government
reorganization, as former Governor of
Virginia and as chairman of the committee
that has studied the question for two
years, claims that no saving at all will
result from this measure and that it will,
in fact, mean more expensive government.

2-On the theory that nothing can be
accomplished by Congress in rearranging
the duties of departments and bureaus,
consolidating and abolishing useless func-
tions of government and generally simpli-
fying administrative machinery, the bill
hands this power over to the President.
But the citizen has no way of judging
whether these things will be done by the
President in the approximately two years
that this bill is supposed to be operative.
Certainly nothing that has happened in


NEWSWEEK

the merit system. It delivers squarely into
the hands of the President the power to
control the civil service.

c-The bill provides the President with
six new assistants-the so-called Secret
Six. Senator Byrnes has admitted on the
floor of the Senate that the President al-
ready has the power to employ these,
although he would be able to pay them
only $8,000 to $9,000 a year, and the bill
would make it possible for him to pay
them $10,000. Perfectly adequate assist-
ants of this kind can be secured in these
times for $8,000, unless he wishes to
set up a group of individuals whose stand-
ing would definitely confuse the relations
between the President and his Cabinet
officers.

d-The most serious aspect of the
Byrnes Bill relates to the Comptroller
General. That office was created in 1921,
when Congress realized the need for an
independent official to prescribe account-
ing systems, to determine whether money
spent by the executive departments was
authorized by law and to serve as an in-
dependent auditor of governmental ex-
penditures. The Byrnes Bill abolishes the
office. It transfers to the Director of the
Budget the authority to set up accounting
systems for the government and sets up
a new official, known as the Auditor Gen-
eral, who would be responsible to Con-
gress. The new Auditor General would be
required to audit the government's ac-
counts-but in accordance with a system
of accounting prescribed by the Director
of the Budget. This, it is contended by
Senator Byrd and many of his colleagues,
would make it impossible for Congress
either to "control" expenditures or to se-
cure for its use an impartial, independent
annual audit. It is difficult to deny the
truth of Senator Byrd's contention.

Unfortunately, this proposed re-
organization cannot be separated from the
whole picture of 1937. It cannot be con-
sidered apart from a number of other
measures, which also looked to the in-
crease of Presidential power. Opposition to
it has piled up inside and outside of the
Senate because of the conviction that the
President is intent upon whittling down
Congressional power and adding to his own.
By asking for too much, the President
has once more risked everything. Here
again is shown the shortsighted political
strategy of asking for a whole loaf when
you only expect to get half a loaf.

Congress should protect its rights and
duties by cutting the loaf squarely in two.
Give the President the two new depart-
ments for which he asks, also six or six-
teen messenger boys. Permit him to recom-
mend to Congress-not decree-changes
in agencies and functions. Leave the Civil
Service Commission alone, and strengthen
-not destroy-the Comptroller General.
This is a poor time to exalt executive
authority.

the past five years suggests that an opti-
mistic guess is justified. The President
already has very considerable power to
improve administration and he has not
exercised those powers during that time.
On the contrary! The vast, cumbersome
administration that existed under Hoover
was increased in size by approximately 60
per cent after March 4, 1933. The number
of employees in Washington was doubled.
Fifty new agencies were added. After a
time, in a half-hearted attempt to mitigate
the confusion caused by the conflict and
overlapping of these agencies, the Presi-
dent appointed a series of coordinators and
coordinating agencies which themselves
added new trees to the wilderness.

Apparently forgotten was the truism
that a good administration depends upon
good administrators, good executives. The
President has shown no disposition to rid
the Administration of incompetent depart-
ment heads. Until he does, it is a little ex-
travagant to hope that a new deal in
administrative efficiency will result from
the mere shuffling of the old cards, which,
as is well known, include a large proportion
of jokers.

So much, then, for the efficiency
and economy this bill purports to insure.
3-Now what of the fear that the Presi-
dent is seeking to take away from Congress
and other departments of government,
power that certainly the spirit of the Con-
stitution does not intend him to have?
Look closely at the following controversial
points in the bill:

a-The bill authorizes the President to
"abolish the whole or any part of any
agency, or the functions thereof." This
simply means that the President may, by
executive order, repeal or vitiate acts of
Congress setting up agencies to perform
certain tasks. It transfers to the Presidency
legislative power that legitimately belongs
to Congress. It is unnecessary to labor this
point, because it is probable that this sec-
tion of the bill will be amended so that
the President will make recommendations
to Congress upon which the Congress will
act or not, as it sees fit.

b-The bill would abolish the present
Civil Service Commission of three and
substitute a single Civil Service Commis-
sioner. He would be appointed for fifteen
years, but-and this is important to note
-he could be removed at any time by the
President. Since the very heart of the merit
system in government is the independence
of the civil-service authority, be it a com-
mission or a single individual, this seems
to be a paradoxical way of strengthening