Here's a text version of the provided article, separating the columns to avoid overlap:


**Pitiless Politics**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

A BIT of a homily on the cruel ex-
actions of public service and the
selfishness of politicians is suggested
by the efforts now being made to per-
suade William O'Dwyer to serve an-
other term as mayor of the city of
New York.

While O'Dwyer has specified no rea-
sons for his decision not to run again,
it is a safe guess that the major factor
is a desire to prolong his life.
Two years ago he was told
by his doctors of the pres-
ence of a heart ailment, and
he was warned to take it
easy. He then took a rest
and later resumed his duties
at a somewhat restricted
pace. Now, with his popu-
larity at a high level, with
the city of New York enjoy-
ing excellent government,
and with his prospects of reelection a
100-to-1 chance, he has decided to re-
tire at the end of his four-year term.

O'Dwyer has served his city well,
first as a policeman, then as a magis-
trate, then as a county judge, and, lat-
er, as district attorney of King's County.
He had a fine war record and was, after
the announced retirement of Fiorello
La Guardia, elected mayor by a tre-
mendous majority.

HE is a friendly, courteous, sincere
man. He disdains the glamorous
associations which surrounded Jimmy
Walker. He does not rant and roar like
John F. Hylan. He has a better tem-
perament for administration than the
volatile La Guardia. In the main he has
made decent and suitable appoint-
ments. He has severely castigated
Tammany for some of its didos and
corrupt connections and generally has
stood for clean politics. He is an ex-
ceedingly good mayor.

When O'Dwyer took office, he was
advised by two county leaders, Ed-
ward J. Flynn of the Bronx and the
late Frank Kelly of Brooklyn, to keep
in office key men of the reform La
Guardia regime-specifically, in every
spot where big money was being han-
dled. This was, of course, to enable the
mayor better to restrain the itching fin-
gers of emaciated "regulars." O'Dwyer
did this, his most notable holdover be-
ing the brilliant park commissioner
and general factotum, Bob Moses.
Moses, believing that doing a continu-
ous job is the first duty of a reformer,
remained and has genuine respect and
affection for the mayor. Incidentally, it
might be added that a logical sequence
of the Flynn-Kelly advice would be to
permit O'Dwyer to follow his reason-
able inclination to retire and make
Moses mayor. No one has ever had
more magnificent qualifications.

Instead, there is a yammer and a
clatter from Spuyten Duyvil
to Sheepshead about draft-
ing O'Dwyer. Somebody has
thought up the idea of a
million-signature petition for
him to remain. If a million
people feel so appreciative
about good government, they
ought each to contribute a
few cents to a fund to re-
ward the mayor for what he
has done for them and to
enable him to get the peace and quiet
to which he is entitled.

The demands on the mayor of New
York are almost impossible to fulfill.
The job is, with the exception of the
Presidency, possibly the world's hard-
est. It is also thankless. In almost 100
years no mayor of New York has
moved to higher office. Politically, it is
a dead-end street.

The mayor is expected to waste in-
numerable hours on fripperies, non-
sense, and social amenities-greeting
distinguished visitors, attending wed-
dings, funerals, dinners, luncheons,
and breakfasts. He must watch the
spending of a billion dollars a year,
settle squabbles in his government,
root out incompetence and graft, look
after strikes, and meet countless un-
foreseen civic crises and disasters.
Compared with this job, the governor-
ship of New York State is a sinecure.

To expect a man who must mind his
heart to serve another term in such
a job is almost like condemning him to
death. But the public is a cruel and
selfish master, and politicians who for
their own self-interest connive at such
sacrifice are without conscience or de-
cency. The clamor for Roosevelt in 1944
was a matter of the same stripe. Those
who were close to him knew his condi-
tion and the danger of another term.
The public is entitled to the hard
labors, honesty, and best intelligence
of its servants. But it has no right to
imperil their lives.

Newsweek, June 13, 1949