Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Shall There Be No Food?

People surrender to force not only
because they want to save their lives but
because of an overwhelming conviction
that peace, even the peace that follows a
defeat, is better than the anguish of war.
They hope that after surrender they will
have, at the very least, rest, food and remunerative work.

But in this war, no such recompense has
come to Norway, Holland, Belgium, Central
Poland and Finland. These small nations
had no responsibility for the war.
Blame for the holocaust will not touch
them. They were the innocent victims of
geography. Their only offense was the
defense of their homes. They were ruthlessly trampled upon for the sole and
simple reason that they were in the
way.

Now they have not even the pitiful
compensations of defeat. All, except Finland, are occupied, and all, including Finland, are blockaded. Their 37,000,000 people, including 15,000,000 children, having
suffered the havoc of war, now must suffer the horrors of starvation and disease.
As the winter passes into spring their need
will increase. Under present conditions
these countries have no chance to secure
enough food to avoid famine levels.

The shortage will be mainly felt in cities.
Eighteen million people in these cities will
be without food before spring unless it is
brought from outside their national borders. Hunger will lower physical resistance, and then disease will actively claim
children first, women and old men next.
Pneumonia, influenza, typhoid, smallpox
and typhus may reach epidemic proportions. So these nations will be cesspools of
disease and disintegration, endangering the
entire world. Beyond the problem of disease are the threats of stunted bodies and
warped mentalities in a generation of children—threats so appalling that one can
hardly bear to speak of them.

The best available figures show that
in Europe, exclusive of Russia, there is a
food shortage of 30 per cent—in part because of curtailed crop production under
war conditions and in part because of the
blockade. This portion of Europe as a
whole, then, has only 70 per cent of the
food it normally consumes. Germany's
production is 85 per cent of her needs.
It is unthinkable that Germany will give
the nations under her control any part of
this. She is far more likely to tell their
people that their starvation is the result


NEWSWEEK DECEMBER 30, 1940

of the British blockade and America's failure to help them.

To forestall this and to relieve the sufferings of those caught between the German occupation and the British blockade,
Herbert Hoover has proposed a plan to
feed them without affording help to Germany. His proposal, now endorsed by a
long list of prominent Americans, specifies
that an international commission should
be set up to manage shipping, to import,
safeguard, and distribute the food; that
Germany undertake that none of the imports or domestic supplies of these occupied nations should be taken by the Germans; that the equivalent of any supplies
already taken by the Germans should be
returned by the Germans to these people;
that Germany relax her blockade against
these people so as to permit the commission to import food from Russia and the
Balkans if possible; that the belligerents
should not attack ships carrying supplies;
that the British would be free to stop the
supplies any moment these guarantees
were not fulfilled by the Germans.

This plan raises a number of practical questions. What, to begin with, will
it cost the United States in actual cash
and ships? The answer is "nothing." The
five small nations to whom the food would
go have cash reserves in various parts of
the world sufficient to pay for the food
they need this year, at any rate. They
also own ships enough to transport the
food. No negotiations or commitments by
the Government of the United States are
necessary. A nonofficial neutral commission would carry the responsibility.

The next question is whether Germany
can be depended upon to carry out the
agreements the Hoover plan involves, considering the perfidious disregard for promises that has always characterized Hitler.
Mr. Hoover maintains that proper administration of his plan will prevent any part
of the flow of rations from going to Germans.

The plan contemplates the complete
pooling and rationing of all food in each
of the countries to which food is sent, including that which they themselves have
produced. To those who argue that the
plan would provide food for workmen employed in plants manufacturing war materials, the answer is made that Germany
wants the skilled workmen of the conquered countries in her own plants and
that continued deprivation in their own
countries would have the effect of inducing
these workmen to move to Germany and
serve in German factories to get more adequate food for themselves and their
families.

More, under the Hoover plan, the total
stock of imported food in all five countries
would not exceed 140,000 tons at one
time. That amount would feed Germany
just three days. So if Germany dared a
mass seizure, she would, at most, prolong
her ultimate food life by only three days.
And such a seizure would terminate the
whole arrangement instantly.

Perhaps the strongest argument for
the practicability of the plan is the record
of the administration for the relief of the
Belgians and French who were in occupied areas during the First World War.
Under that administration, headed by Mr.
Hoover, eleven billion pounds of food were
imported into Belgium and distributed.
Nine hundred million dollars were spent.
That it did not get to Germans then has
long since been demonstrated by incontrovertible facts, among others that, at
the end of the war, the people in occupied
territories were in better shape than the
people of Germany. The British, after
some persuasion, not only permitted the
food to enter the occupied territories: they
paid for a substantial part of it.

Mr. Hoover gives us his assurance that
no military objectives will be imperiled by
his proposed effort in this war, and, on
such a question, no cae has a better right
to speak with authority than he. He says
that food can be brought to Norway, Holland, Finland, Belgium and Central Poland without hampering or postponing the
defeat of Germany.

The decision of the British Government,
announced by the late Lord Lothian, that
it cannot permit a change in the present
status of the blockade is, of course, binding upon us. There is no disposition here to
argue with or to blame the gallant and
hard-pressed British for feeling at this time
that the passage of food into Finland and
the occupied territories might strengthen
"the German war potential." The Hoover
committee has expressed its sympathetic
understanding. It also states that it will
continue to try to devise methods that will
meet the objections of the British Government.

Since no one wants the people of Finland, Norway, Belgium, Holland and Central Poland to starve, the question comes
down to one of practical facts and administration. The devising of a plan acceptable to all is an end devoutly to be wished.
As The New York Times points out, the
future good will and loyalty of these people is a distinct asset to the United States
and to England. Beyond such considerations is sheer compassion. If the innocent
can be helped without weakening the
strong fiber of courage and determination
to resist the Axis threat, the result will be
a triumph of statesmanship and intelligence in a world of chaos. This is the
challenge.