Why Pay Our Debts?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

A good measure of a man’s character is his attitude toward debt. If he
is honest and prudent and comes into
money, he first pays something on his
debts. Then he cares for those dependent upon him. He spends for his
own necessities. If anything is left, he
pays more debts. Finally, he may give
away something wisely.

I wish that the code which guides
individuals might be that
which governs states. History gives a gloomy answer
to that wish. But it is not
irrelevant idealism to keep
the analogy before us. For
national morality must be
the compelling source of
patriotism.

There are, moreover,
practical reasons why we
should plan to pay our Federal debt and start at once.

After a war, we always have a big
debt and a big rise in prices. The sequence is clear, and so is the causal
relationship. When the government
borrows money from the banks, the
banks simply open a deposit to the
credit of the government and receive
from the government evidence of the
obligation. The deposit is then available for the government to draw
checks for contractors, soldiers and
others. Thus, new money is created;
goods become scarce, and prices rise.

Whatever reduces debt works in
the opposite direction. To reduce the
debt would be one of the best substitutes for price control. When a bill,
note, certificate or bond falls due, the
bank simply cancels that much of the
government’s deposit. It kills that
much money. And if goods increase in
quantity, you have the two sides of a
nutcracker against prices.

Some people will say, in anticipation of a slight recession in 1947,
that we should use no deflationary influence on money. But Heaven help
us if we adopt the idea that to pay
our debts is to invite depression.

Our national debt today is six times
as great as it was at the onset of war.
It is ten times as great as it was in
1919. By one means or another, it is
possible to figure the present debt
as low as $250,000,000,000, not including the sum held in government
trust funds, which, because it has to
be paid, is also real debt. A considerable amount has been paid on the
debt this year by the use of Treasury surpluses of money. But that adjustment is temporary. It has been possible
because we overborrowed and
were left with more cash than we
needed. The mountain of $250,000,-
000,000 is still before us.

It is hardly necessary to point out
that payment of debt has a primary,
exclusive claim on all money realized
from surplus war goods. The proceeds
from that material, once
valued at $32,000,000,000,
have been disappointing.
We won’t get much from
six or seven billions’ worth
of goods which remained
abroad. Some Lend-Lease
offsets cannot be counted
for much. The property remaining in this country is
selling slowly and deteriorating rapidly.

One of the least pleasant
but most important tasks before Republican leaders is to create a debt
retirement program. That, morally
and practically, has priority over
glowing promises of tax cuts. We
have, after other wars, set up sinking
funds for this purpose. In 1919, we
created a plan to retire the debt in
1944. That plan was followed until
1935, when the economic policies of
the New Deal began to take root. The
sinking fund became a poorer and
poorer relation in the growing family
of the abundant life. But it should be
said, in fairness, that the continuation
of the sinking fund redemptions into
1943 made possible a considerable
reduction in interest charges.

Any program should take account
of the business cycle. One plan would
be to pay $3,000,000,000 in good
years; $2,000,000,000 in middling
years; and $1,000,000,000 in poor
years. That would be a hundred years’
program. Those who have really
looked the problem in the face have
generally decided that a slash of $5,-
000,000,000 would be a good start in
the year ahead. We shall not soon
have another year of tax receipts like
this one. It is a good time to set the
sights high.

This ought to be a sober moment
for Americans. The conduct of the nation will be the subject of study and
emulation for centuries to come. Debt
repudiation was a common practice in
the world of yesterday. It was a bad
practice. We can contribute something better to the long future.