Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Dewey Bandwagon
by RAYMOND MOLEY

BANDWAGON days are here again. Stas-
sen's bus is now well broken in,
and it will put on plenty of mileage
in the next few months. The Taft Life-
With-Father model is coming out of
storage. There will be many others, and
by 1948 the traffic will clog all the
roads to Philadelphia. At the moment,
we are concerned with the Dewey shin-
ing-armor job-with muffler attached.
Politicians are choosy pa-
trons of these vehicles. Can-
dor requires me to say that
those ladies and gentlemen
who finally select a candidate
are not concerned with Pres-
idential qualities in their pre-
liminary preferences. They
are only partially concerned
with the quite different ques-
tion of the best candidate.
They are anxious now to
spot the man who is likely to be nomi-
nated. Politicians do not like to change
cars at the convention city. They want
one that goes through to Washington.
The New Deal called the lucky few
"R.B.C."—Roosevelt Before Chicago.
For these were the choicest fruits of the
plum tree. These most often heard the
Navy band at the White House. For
them the Lincoln bed yawned and the
secretariat had its happiest smile.

was a bust—"a home run in St. Louis,
a two-bagger in Oklahoma, a pop-up in
Kansas City and scratch hit in Utah."
It seems to me that the trip leaves
things as they were, although it disap-
pointed the West. Silence may be gold-
en in Albany, but it is corn out where
the West begins. T.R. would have made
ten major orations on such a jaunt. The
West wants to hear, as well as see.
Dewey started no stampede.
It is probable that Dewey's
answer is that a speaking
trip now would be prema-
ture. The titular leader must
not get caught in party ma-
chinery. And Dewey's cau-
tion only underlines the dan-
gers in his position.
Rivals must stop Dewey
first. He is out in front now
away out. But eight
months must pass before delegate-pick-
ing season. The leader, of necessity, has
less second- and third-choice strength.
In the governors' poll, Warren had ten
second- and third-choice votes; Stassen,
seven; Dewey, two. Dewey lost in 1940
because he had no reserves. He cannot
have much now, if his claims to first-
ballot strength are correct. Those poli-
ticians who are against Dewey are really
and truly against him. His support is
intellectual, not emotional. Admiration
exceeds love. His eminence is based on
efficient administration. In calm times
this is an asset. But who knows what
international fears and passions may
prevail next year?

IN the convention, second choices will
have enormous importance. Half the
delegates will be pledged to favorite
sons or rival candidates. California,
Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Minnesota,
Connecticut, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Iowa, Indiana, New Jersey and prob-
ably Nebraska will not vote a first
choice for Dewey. The South will be
split between Dewey and Taft. Wis-
consin may well be split three ways.
The Northwest depends on what War-
ren decides. Outside those areas are
something over 300 convention votes. If
Dewey had them all, he would still be
short. Hence, he must seek his nomina-
tion through second-choice agreements
with the big states mentioned above.
Dewey has the advantage, but his
bandwagon cannot afford to run past
any street corners.

Newsweek, July 28, 1947

Page 629 of 1201