Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Advertising in Wartime

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Last week, in a message to the
Advertising Federation of America, the
President gave the profession a hearty
pat on the back. Even now when there
are fewer products for sale, he said,
advertising should not be terminated.
On the contrary, it might help greatly
in giving the public messages helpful
to the war program. "If the members
of your organization will continue
the splendid spirit of cooperation which
they have shown during the past year,"
he concluded, "advertising will have a
worth-while and patriotic place in the
nation's total war effort."

The huge salvage campaign that opens
July 20 is an example of the substantial
kind of service the profession is giving
war production (see page 46). It has
given substantial aid in similar drives.
More important still, it has vitally con-
tributed to public morale by telling the
public what industry is doing to win the
war. Our hope is in the production lines,
and advertising is telling us what the
production lines are doing.

Advertising is in a unique position to
help in such ways because it knows how
to reach many millions at a minimum
cost and maximum speed, how to arrest
and hold public attention and how to
enlist the vital interests of the people to
whom it appeals. More important, it
has earned the confidence of the public
by the patient development of high
standards of truth and propriety through
self-discipline within its ranks.

Yet whatever its opportunities for
service, it is plain, as the President
points out, that the war has created
exceedingly serious problems for it.
Many industrial concerns are rapidly
reaching the point where they have
nothing to sell the public. All the stuff
they produce goes to the government.
They don't need to solicit the patronage
of the government. Government tells
them what to make now.

Still there is need for them to keep
a contact with their old friends and
customers. Suppose company A, which
has always sold its entire product to
the public, is now turning in 100 per
cent of its production to the govern-
ment. Meanwhile company B is still
making essential goods for the public.
Shall we deny A the right to keep its
millions of friends aware of its existence
while B proceeds as usual? After the
war, A and B will once more be compet-
ing for the consumer's dollar. Shall A
be handicapped because it put on a
uniform for the duration? Clearly,
justice requires that a way be found
to keep good names alive.

There is another reason why contact
should not be lost which is the concern
not alone of producers who advertise
but of everyone. Company A is learn-
ing in its laboratory to make a new
product destined to be enormously use-
ful to the public in peacetime. If, after
the war, it gets this product before the
public quickly, it can keep its workers
employed and hire returning soldiers.
But products, to be sold, need names,
and names are usually the names of
makers. Talk all you like about Emer-
son's man who made the mousetrap and
the people who found him in the wilder-
ness; but modern conditions require
that we know his name and what wilder-
ness he lives in. To keep reliable trade
names alive by reasonable advertising
is insurance against postwar letdown.
Everybody has a stake in that.

Fortunately, advertising in these
times can both help the war effort and
keep producers' names alive. No doubt
it is the good taste and judgment with
which this is being done that has won
the approval of the President and so
many key men in his administration.
But there is one problem in this con-
nection which remains to be solved in
Washington. It concerns the two most
important spots where a company's ex-
penditures for advertising are reviewed
—the Treasury and the contracting
agency, the Army, Navy, Maritime
Commission or what not, which passes
on costs in the production of goods
sold to the government.

The Treasury, through Secretary
Morgenthau, has announced a policy in
allowing legitimate advertising costs
which, if strictly adhered to by sub-
ordinates, would be eminently satis-
factory all around. At the same time
there has been enough difficulty in arriv-
ing at a policy in the various contract-
ing agencies to cause considerable worry
among advertisers. These questions are
of such importance both to the public
and to business that next week, on this
page, I shall amplify the specific points
at issue.