Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Issue Is Administration
by RAYMOND MOLEY

T is one of the curiosities of our his-
tory that among our notable Presi-
dents only Washington and probably
T. R. could be rated as outstanding
executives. Washington's papers show
the meticulous care with which he man-
aged the routine of his offices, from his
own estate to the nation's government.
T. R. knew how to pick able assistants
and to hold their loyalty. It cannot be
said that Jefferson, Madison,
Lincoln, Wilson, and F.D.R.
rated high as executives.
Their Cabinets were medi-
ocre; they fumbled many ad-
ministrative tasks; and they
were not notably successful
in their judgment of indi-
viduals. They were, however,
great leaders of people in the
mass.
This suggests the paradox
that those who can best judge men
cannot so well judge a man, and vice
versa.
On the other hand, several Presidents
—notably R. B. Hayes and W. H. Taft,
who do not rank with the great—were
able administrators.

ADMINISTRATION as an art or science
is not a flashy subject. It makes
few headlines. It cannot be dramatized.
It is a matter of intellect, rather than
of emotion. It excites few moral senti-
ments, unless it is exceedingly bad. It
is appreciated very little by people in
the mass. It is seldom rewarded in
politics or government.
Perhaps this is why the current Presi-
dential campaign does not promise to
be exciting. Despite the feeble efforts
of President Truman to make people
believe a great social cleavage exists,
the real issue is how the Federal gov-
ernment is to be run. It is the simple,
homespun question whether the people
who are getting paid for toiling for
Uncle Sam are equal to their jobs and
are being properly directed from the
top, and whether a new President,
Dewey by name, can get better people,
direct them better, and provide more
service for less money.
There are no great legislative prob-
lems involved except those, like taxa-
tion and finance, which lead back to
administration. There is no dispute
about retaining the basic reforms of the
last fifteen years. Agriculture will be
supported; labor will be protected;
banks and brokers will be regulated;
housing will be promoted; national re-
sources will be developed; the armed
services will be maintained; and Russia
will be resisted. Congress will have
routine business in the next session, no
matter who is elected.
The course of our voyage has been
set. Over the last sixteen years we
have made a basic decision at the polls
about what government
should do. Now we shall de-
cide at the polls the question
of method, of personnel, and
of organization.
Perhaps the great impor-
tance of administration is
best illustrated in foreign af-
fairs. Policy is determined
by the President—the Secre-
tary of State acting with
both parties in the Senate.
Then, through thousands of officials in
Washington and all over the world, that
policy is carried out at countless points
of contact with other nations. Some
officials have a good deal of discretion;
some have less; some have none.
But the extent to which the top-side
policy is to be effective depends on the
general caliber, judgment, energy, and
loyalty of thousands of lesser officials.
To see that the right people fill those
posts and to see that they are doing
what they should is a problem of
administration. A nervous colonel in
Berlin or a dumb major in Korea
might conceivably set off the fuse
of war. Pearl Harbor was an ad-
ministrative blunder. There may be
differences in opinion about which ad-
ministrators failed there. But some
administrators did fail, and a great
fleet was destroyed.

DEMOCRATS are saying, once more,
that those who want a change
really mean: “We agree with what has
been done. But we can do it better.”
This is supposed to be an argument
against change. The answer, however,
is implicit in the argument. The Re-
publican answer is better, more effi-
cient government: “Yes, we appreciate
much of what the New Deal started,
but we want it managed better. We
want to keep those reforms without
bankrupting the government and the
taxpayer.” The most helpful and hu-
mane government is the one that gives
the most service for a dollar.

Newsweek, October 18, 1948