Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


**Two Kinds of Revolution**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Revolution has been in the news twice this month. The first time was when Vice President Wallace made a speech about "the people's revolution" which got little attention until a number of liberal and radical journals gave forth belated and noisy huzzahs. In the second news story the word "revolution" scarcely appeared at all. It was the story that rubber can be made from farm products. Yet that simple statement describes a forthcoming revolution momentous beyond the conception of men like Wallace, who are so preoccupied by the governmental revolutions of history that they do not grasp the meaning of the revolutions wrought by Hargreaves, Watt, Edison, Marconi, Ford, the Wrights and scores of others.

The facts about rubber-from-farm-products are relatively simple. NEWS-WEEK described some of them in its issue of May 4. In this issue (see page 46) it tells of the fierce fight raging in Washington over the production of synthetic rubber from grain. The ultimate potentialities of that development stagger the imagination.

Begin with the fact that corn, wheat and many other farm products can be made into alcohol. Moonshiners as well as scientists knew that. Clients of moonshiners could testify that alcohol burns. And some time back, not only scientists but many laymen learned that butadiene, basis of buna-type synthetic rubber, could be made not only from petroleum but from alcohol. Put these items together and you have a new source of fuel and rubber.

If that means anything to a nation hungry for rubber and concerned over its long-time petroleum supply, it means, as Lewis S. Rosenstiel has pointed out, that we can look to replaceable rather than irreplaceable sources for our rubber substitute. Coal and petroleum are irreplaceable possessions. Although they are needed in this emergency, they cannot be drawn upon too freely over the long run. Farm products are replaceable, limitless, everlastingly growing. So it is evident, first, that never again, so long as crops grow in our fields, will we need to revert to shanks' mares.

If this new source is fully utilized it means, second, the annihilation of the economics of scarcity. With that topples a whole segment of American thinking.

Our economics and politics enter an era whose watchword is once more "expansion." Expanded use of farm products means thousands of new farmers and farm workers. It promises self-subsistence for millions who have lived on a perilous margin; new grain crops in many a cotton field hard-pressed by foreign competition; a great new industry spreading into several states; and help in making bearable the national debt of the future by an increase in our national income.

Third, rubber-and-fuel-from-farms means that the most important single obstacle to cooperation in the Western Hemisphere can be removed. For more than twenty years cooperation has been hampered because our neighbors, from Canada to the Argentine, accurately regarded us as competitors in export trade. The bleak outlook before us was a succession of loans. Large new internal demands for our surplus crops will utterly transform it. The basis of genuine Pan American solidarity lies here.

It is curious that the word "revolution" is commonly cast in so obsolete a pattern. Once it suggested nobles wresting a charter of freedom from John Lackland, a crowd mobbing the Bastille, the convention at Independence Hall, the tumultuous Russian uprising of 1917. Of late, it has come to mean, particularly to those on the left, a taking away—a division of goods and property. But the most far-reaching revolutions Americans have known since 1781 have been the revolutions not that divided and impoverished but that enriched and made life, in some way, better for all—revolutions in chemistry, transportation, communication, production. In that great tradition is this new development, promising, as it does, a "people's revolution" of incalculable significance.

How ironic it is that the Department of Agriculture, presided over not so long ago by the very man who lectures us on "people's revolutions," should have lived for years with this new idea without recognizing it. How ironic that those who talk most about bringing the abundant life should have overlooked so dazzling a way to help produce it. How ironic that they should give us always the long, cloudy word—never the short, crisp act.