Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


TODAY IN AMERICA                    April 10, 1937
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A SNARE BECOMES A DELUSION

WHEN the tax on undistributed corporate profits
was first proposed, I fought it because I believed it
would discourage thrift and destroy enterprise, penalize
prudent provision for meeting debts, favor the larger
and older corporations, entrenched behind reserves al-
ready accumulated, and militate against newer con-
cerns.

We have already seen some of these things come to
pass, when hundreds of corporations paid dividends
last December out of funds which should have been
conserved under any theory of sound management.
Now it develops that this new tax is not only unsound,
but does not even yield the promised revenue. Income-
tax receipts ran in the neighborhood of $700,000,000
by the end of March as against $800,000,000 expected.
Treasury estimates anticipating Federal receipts were
grotesquely wide of the mark. An example of the dis-
tortion in Treasury estimates is the yield of gift taxes.
Mr. Roosevelt's budget calculated that collections of
these taxes would approximate $110,000,000 this fiscal
year. The deadline for gift levies is in March. Up to
March 31, less than $20,000,000 had been realized.
Receipts, says the Treasury, are disappointing. Well,
they are almost 70 per cent above last year's of even
date. An increase from $400,000,000 to $700,000,000
in March income-tax payments should have been grati-
fying, not disappointing. That is a tremendous rise in
revenues and reflects a huge upturn in the rate of busi-
ness activity. For the Treasury to have expected a
doubling of receipts over last year was preposterous.
Various alibis are offered for the errors in Treasury
estimates. It is suggested that more taxpayers than
ever before elected to make quarterly payments. But
no evidence is offered in support of the hypothesis. It
is said that an unusual number of taxpayers filed "in-
terim" statements and asked for extensions. But no
explanation of this fact is made by the Treasury. It is
suggested that some taxpayers in the high brackets,
foreseeing the impact of this tax and finding the re-
strictions on stock-market speculation here irksome,
have transferred their operations to the London mar-
ket, so that holders of large blocks of stock, and there-
fore, receivers of large sums in dividends, are ostensibly
foreigners. But we are not told why the Treasury ex-
perts could not have foreseen this possibility in making
their estimates.

There is also the horrid suspicion that the very rich
don't own so much of this country as Huey Long used
to say they did; that perhaps the stream of dividends
does not flow entirely into the hands of high-bracket
income-tax payers, after all.

It may be too early to establish the exact facts. But
it is not too early to see that the tax on undistributed
surplus profits is warping sound business management
into a policy of immediate expediency and that the
Treasury, by incompetence, has built up a false budget
picture. The last excuse for retaining this unsound tax
is gone. It doesn't even bring in the yield expected of it.

THREE HORSES OR ONE?

THE doctrine of the separation of powers was adopt-
ed by the convention of 1787, not to promote efficien-
cy, but to preclude the exercise of arbitrary power. The
purpose was not to avoid friction, but by means of the
inevitable friction incident to the distribution of the
governmental powers among the three departments, to
save the people from autocracy.

These are not my words: I wish they were. They
were once written by Mr. Justice Brandeis in the course
of an opinion.

TURNING ON THE HEAT

THE final outcome of the fight over the President's
Court reorganization proposal will be determined
by a battle between logic and power. Opponents of
the plan can do little but riddle it with argument hop-
ing, thus, to create a wave of public opinion sufficient
to destroy it. But in attempting to move the votes of
Senators, they must inevitably come to grips with the
power of patronage and party pressure.

It is generally known that scores of officials have been
told to drop the regular duties for which they are paid
so that they may participate in the work of forcing the
bill through the Senate. Some are engaged in the prep-
aration of speeches for Administration spokesmen;
others are supplying the pro-Court-reorganization ad-
vocates on the Senate Judiciary Committee with mate-
rial designed to confound witnesses who speak in op-
position to the plan. As one witness who has had to
face a barrage of paper pellets chewed and wadded by
these busy young men, my only comment is that their
marksmanship is more eager than accurate.

But the use of patronage in this fight is just begin-
ning and there are clear evidences that before the fight
is over, the heat is going to be turned on wavering
Senators to an extent seldom, if ever, seen in this coun-
try. This stark fact has already been clearly demon-
strated by the activities of the big shots in the Admin-
istration, by the indiscreet admissions of the little shots
and by unmistakable evidences of grumbling in the
Senate. It is also confirmed by Senator Burke's sug-
gestion last week that pressure would come from gov-
ernors and mayors anxious for a share of the $1,500,-
000,000 relief fund which Congress will soon be asked
to give the President to apportion as he sees fit.

All this is scarcely new in Washington politics. Pa-
tronage has been politely traded for votes for many a
year there—by this Administration as well as by others.
But the practice really began to take on the attributes
of open and unabashed coercion when, two years ago,
after the spending powers of the President had been
vastly increased, it was applied in the bitter fight over
the Holding Company Act. Its successful application
then is now apparently encouraging a repetition.

Those who like to make neat ethical distinctions
might find it profitable to ponder the difference be-
tween the use of patronage to grease the passage of a
Holding Company Act, for example, and of an Act de-
signed to further the concentration of power in the
Executive by striking at the independence of the judi-
ciary. But I see in the use of the enormous Executive
power over patronage to acquire control over the Su-
preme Court, verification of Mr. Justice Holmes' mel-
ancholy conclusion that "... the only prize much cared
for by the powerful is power. The prize of the general
is not a bigger tent, but command."

Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.

Page 1070 of 1087