Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Ultimate Wrong
by Raymond Moley

This is written after a four-week trip by automobile through the
South, as far west as Texas, and as far north as the shore of Lake Erie.
In the course of such a 5,000- to 6,000-mile exploration of the high-
ways one learns a lot about truck drivers-for the most part, members
of the Teamsters union. They are constant companions on the highways
and in the dozens of eating places where stops must be made for food
and refreshment. This time, as on previous occasions in many past years,
I was deeply impressed by the skill, orderliness, and respect for the rights
of others manifested by these citizens.

While they are working at a hard and dangerous trade on the highway,
they are vastly more considerate of other drivers than are the lunatics
who fare forth in passenger cars on Sundays and holidays or the puerile
demons with their hot rods. Truck-men not only make every effort to let
you pass, but cooperate by blinking their lights or waving their arms. In
the eating places they are quiet, well-mannered, and friendly.

I could not help thinking, every time I witnessed the decent traits of
these men, what indecent injustice has been visited upon them by the
people who are the custodians of their well-earned money and their
neglected rights. This is the shame in the behavior of Messrs. Beck,
Brewster, and others.

'RIGHTS' ABOVE OBLIGATION

Beck, faced by a question which clearly offered him a choice between
the preservation of his own interests and his obligation to the vast
membership, immediately chose the former. His constitutional "rights"
transcend his obligation to reveal his transactions to the owners of the
money he controls, he said.

Brewster told of the sums which he used for political purposes dis-
honestly designated as "educational": "Goldwater: You did not print any
speeches of the opposition candidates, did you?
"Brewster: Our membership wouldn't have liked it.
"Goldwater: ... All the membership would not have liked it?
"Brewster: The largest percentage."

There it is, coldly stated. If you are a member of this union, or of
almost any other union, and you happen to disagree with the political
choices of your officers, your money is used, willy-nilly, against the candi-
dates of your choice.

This is the ultimate wrong, a wrong clearly pointed out by Justice
Frankfurter in a decision of the Supreme Court only three weeks ago.

PRIVATE COURT

It's a pity that it required the bizarre tone provided by bawdy
houses, gambling joints, plush living by union officers, and borrowings
without interest to awaken the American people to the even greater wrong
of denying allegedly sovereign American citizens their right to support
their own political convictions with their own money and influence.

When Beck uses union funds for the various purposes which are described
in the headlines, he is misusing his members' property.

But when members' money is used against their own political choices,
there is a double wrong. In the commission of this wrong Brewster is not
alone. The practice of using general funds for purposes labeled "educa-
tional" but really political is almost general among the unions.

And now comes the unctuous Walter Reuther, who realizes that
these revelations are a mortal danger to his political ambitions. He has a
plan to keep the UAW clean. It is to provide a "public review board
composed of outstanding citizens" to review cases appealed by members
from the decisions of the international executive board of the UAW. But this
board is to be selected, presumably, by the top brass of the union and
passed upon at the conventions of the union. In short, Reuther wants a re-
view of the affairs of his union by a private, hand-picked court.

This is the same Walter Reuther who over the years has wanted con-
trol of industry to be vested in boards composed of one representative of la-
bor, one of management, and one decisive representative of government.
But in the running of his union he wants no part of government. Public
scrutiny for everybody but Reuther!

Newsweek, April 8, 1957