Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Because of the image quality and layout, some minor errors may be present.


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

The American Watch Industry
by Raymond Moley

THE more sensational recommenda-
tion of the Randall report on for-
eign trade, to the effect that we
should cut our tariffs, made the head-
lines. The reasoned conclusions in the
same report, that we might well avoid
undiscriminating cuts and that foreign
barriers to trade should also be kept in
mind when we indulge in interna-
tional good will, received scant note.
In short, since trade is a
two-way street, the removal
of restrictions should be a
mutual matter. The case
of one American industry
which throws light upon this
subject was presented to
the Tariff Commission last
week by the American
Watch Manufacturers Asso-
ciation, which includes such
familiar names as Elgin
National, Hamilton, and Waltham.
For two decades these companies
have been losing a battle of competi-
tion to the Swiss. Three factors, not at
all related to their own efficiency,
have handicapped them. Their costs
have been pushed upward by the
growth of organized labor. Free trade
has been the spirit of the Administra-
tion ever since the State Department
in 1933 became dominant in making
tariff policies. And military require-
ments during the second world war
drastically limited American produc-
tion of watches. Swiss watch move-
ments had 65 per cent of the
American market in 1930. They now
have 86 per cent.

I have attempted to study this issue
by firsthand observation of the Hamil-
ton Watch Co., one of the few Ameri-
can companies still making jeweled
movements of fine quality. Hamilton
has a long and proud tradition. During
the war the company was completely
converted to military production. It
turned out 10,000 Navy chronometers
of an unexcelled quality—a larger
number than had been produced by
all the makers of the world in all his-
tory. Hamilton also produced many,
many thousands of timing devices for
shell fuses. Meanwhile, the Swiss
made hay in the American market.
Walking through the factory re-
cently, among the delicate machines
and the veteran craftsmen, an execu-
tive remarked: "We will survive, even
if we have to give up making move-

ments and turn to making cases for im-
ported Swiss products. But militarily,
that would be a national catastrophe."
It is nevertheless suggested by free
traders that this industry should either
be "mothballed" or channeled into
other work through a paternalistic
process of rehabilitation and retraining
of its personnel. But workers with
highly developed skill cannot be
mothballed. Unless they
continue their trade, their
skill vanishes. A foreman at
Hamilton says: "There are
no other men in America
who could come in here and
do this work without years
of training. It takes longer
to train a real watchmaker
than to educate a doctor
or a lawyer."
A craftsman at Hamilton
pays more of his wages in taxes than a
Swiss craftsman earns. Moreover,
Swiss workmen are in many cases
working in their homes. Their product
is channeled into trade through
their government.
At the outbreak of the war Britain
and France found that they had al-
lowed their watch business to perish
in the face of the government-
subsidized Swiss and German indus-
tries. Britain managed to get timing
fuses from us, but after the war both
countries decided never to be caught
in such a situation again. So they
placed an embargo on watch imports
and at great cost have rebuilt their
own watch industries.
In 1951 our domestic watch indus-
try appealed to the Tariff Commission
for more protection, and they were
granted an increase in tariffs. But
President Truman, reflecting the pre-
occupation of the State Department
with foreign trade, rejected the com-
mission's recommendation. Since then,
domestic production of watch move-
ments has decreased 27 per cent.

THE most immediate and perhaps
most appealing reason for keep-
ing this industry alive is military secu-
rity. But the lasting one concerns a
choice between a reconversion which
violates our American sense of the
right to work and to choose our oc-
cupation, and relief from devastating
foreign competition. That choice faces
the Administration.

Newsweek, February 22, 1954
Page 823 of 1197