Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've done my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns. Note that the original formatting and some minor details might be lost in the transcription.


NEWSWEEK OCTOBER 27, 1941

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Labor Mess

At last the public is really beginning to get a stiff dose of the labor troubles that have plagued private industry over the past few years. In prewar days, before our productive energies were to any important degree devoted to defense, the public could feel the sweet unction of neutrality when it read of strikes and stoppages. Strikes were somebody else's affair then. They're everybody's business now. Because the strikes that we're hearing about these days shear off the protection that belongs to all of us. And it isn't the least bit soothing to find one day's crop of squabbles cutting off the production of 70 per cent of the transmissions for the Army's tanks, another day's threatening the entire rubber industry, a third day's halting work on $150,000,000 of Navy and Maritime Commission contracts. It isn't soothing to find long lists of the names of new disputes crowding the news columns. It isn't soothing to discover that most of the strikes have to do not with wages or hours but with interunion struggles for advantage. Least of all is it soothing to find that the government agencies concerned with labor disputes are falling over one another in their efforts to be helpful and that they are gratuitously creating interruptions in defense industry.

Consider the frivolous excuses that lay behind two of last week's gravest interruptions. The strike that took place at the Ingalls Shipbuilding Corp.'s yards at Pascagoula, Miss., arose solely out of a dispute between two groups of welders there. Each is an AFL local. One is a group of pipe welders; the other, of shell welders. Each claims some of the other's work. There is no national union of welders. When, during the AFL convention at Seattle, the welders put on a demonstration favoring a national union of welders, William Green announced that it would be silly to set up welding as a craft. The welding apparatus is as much the "property" of one craft union as another, he said. But because a few hundred welders at Pascagoula wanted something that their own organization refused to give them, they threw 8,000 workers out of work three days and delayed work on $150,000,000 of ship contracts.

What happened at the two Spicer plants in Toledo and in Hillsdale, Mich., is comparable. There was no issue with the company. The CIO United Automobile Workers had a contract at Toledo. The AFL auto workers won in an NLRB election at Hillsdale. Ultimately, after a continuation of bitter rivalry, the CIO boys in Toledo refused to handle work done at Hillsdale. Several government agencies rushed in to try to get a resumption of work. Instead, they apparently succeeded in getting each side to count on their assistance in pressing the rival demands. The result was a stoppage tying up about 70 per cent of Army tank production.

There are many similar instances, none of them involving even remotely the large questions of social justice about which Mr. and Mrs. Roosevelt speak so warmly. There are no employer-devils in these disputes, no talk of swollen profits or exploitation. The employers are bystanders, even as you and I.


Just how government agencies with a hand in the mess can complicate matters is suggested by the Currier incident. In this case the public was permitted to pay some hundreds of thousands of dollars more for defense housing because Mr. Hillman decided to keep the CIO people with whom Currier has an agreement out of the building contracts involved. The unofficial explanation is that if the contract were given to Currier, the low bidder on the job, the fury of the AFL craftsmen would lead to widespread building strikes, perhaps a general strike. Currier's bid was turned down to "stabilize" labor relations. "Stabilize" is a good word. But it hardly fits this picture.

Yet the business of calling things by the wrong names is not new. Everywhere the names of stability, justice, mediation and security have been given the efforts of government agencies concerned with defense labor disputes. And everywhere is the reality of instability, insecurity and injustice. The net is impotence. The Department of Labor, the NLRB, the NDMB, the OPM, the Army and the Navy, the Justice Department, the Maritime Labor Board are all concerned with labor disputes. So many legs, in fact, has the government animal grown that, like the centipede, it lies helpless in the ditch. It can't decide which leg goes after which. The other day a government conciliator said privately that intervention of various government departments in labor matters was getting to be a "pain in the neck of the conciliation service."

The endless piling of one agency on another has actually proved to be a direct invitation to trouble-hunting by labor leaders. The labor leader is an advocate for his men. If he does not push as many government buttons as there are, his men feel that he is neglecting his work. He is like a lawyer who must appeal to as many courts as his client is willing to pay for.

In the 1917-1918 war there were only two official agencies—the old conciliation service and the War Labor Board. Then there were only two feet to tangle each other. Today a dispute may take such a course as this: the local presents demands; it follows these with threats; presently a strike results. If the employer is uncertain he is dealing with the real representatives of the workmen, the case may go to the NLRB, which holds an election, thus in many cases dignifying what may have been a trivial matter with the mechanisms of a political campaign and election. Or the dispute may be handled from the start by a government conciliator. The NLRB and the conciliation service can get mixed up as between themselves. If the complaint is one that involves a question having to do with layoffs, representatives of Mr. Hillman's side of the OPM may be into it. Or if it is one that threatens the supplies of another industry, the Knudsen side of the OPM may have investigators in. If all hands fail, the National Defense Mediation Board may take it on.

Remember that all this maze of clanking machinery is operating on a background already complicated by the hatred and suspicion between the AFL and the CIO. These are in active competition now over a great part of the area of defense industry. The competition is continuous. Say that an AFL union in part of a shop, among the machinists, hears the CIO is organizing some of the men. It realizes that in a Labor Board election its membership may be outvoted and the union may be extinguished. If the new union gets a closed shop, some of the older members, and the more active ones, may lose their jobs. Accordingly the AFL union tries to expand its jurisdiction, formally or informally, and sets out to organize the whole shop. Presently the two collide. Then the government agencies rush in. And the process of confounding confusion really gets underway.

What does all this mean? It means that our labor generals and colonels and captains have failed. In wars only results count. Not methods but results. The commanders who cannot maintain discipline and win battles are removed or transferred. We have reached that point in industrial relations in the United States. Who is responsible so far as the Administration is concerned? Let Sidney Hillman answer. On September 24 he was quoted as having said at Atlantic City: "I am responsible for the labor policies of this Administration." The public then has the right to take Mr. Hillman at his word. It has the opportunity to place at least some of the blame where it belongs.