PERSPECTIVE

'CALL IN THE FBI'

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A few years ago, a friend of mine
whose name was well known over
the nation received a letter from a
remote state. It told him that a certain
unidentified man had adopted his
name and was using it to introduce
himself in various towns in the region.
My friend immediately wrote to J.
Edgar Hoover and enclosed the let-
ter. An FBI agent found the impostor
and interrogated him and some of the
people who knew him. The report
from Hoover stated that the simple
fellow meant no harm, had cashed no
bad checks, and had incurred no obli-
gation under the borrowed name. He
was sorry. He had merely enjoyed a
bit of prestige which inspired his
hitherto undistinguished personality.
My friend's appeal to Hoover was
an example of the American habit of
turning to the FBI when almost any-
thing needs to be investigated or
solved. The reputation of the FBI has
grown so great in Hoover's 40 years
in office that an immense, and in
many cases wholly irrationally placed,
responsibility has been dumped upon
it. It suffers from its own fine and
deserved reputation for efficiency.
Forty years ago the FBI had only
a handful of duties. Now its jurisdic-
tion includes some 170 items.

RANGE OF DUTIES

It has jurisdiction in admiralty mat-
ters, crimes on the high seas, and
bankruptcy cases. It investigates vio-
lations of the Migratory Birds Act,
false claims by veterans, the illegal
use of the Red Cross emblem. It
checks upon the use of the familiar
Smokey Bear, who warns us against
starting forest fires. There is also re-
sponsibility for investigating bond de-
faults, the illegal use of railway
passes, and violations of the Bills
of Lading Act. It looks into the in-
terstate shipment of fireworks, gam-
bling devices, obscene matter, and
stolen cattle, as well as schemes to
use interstate or foreign commerce
to influence sporting events by brib-
ery. It is even required to see that
seat belts for motor vehicles meet
safety standards.
In 1961 Congress gave the FBI
additional burdens under the Fugitive
Felons Act. Before that, the responsi-
bility of the FBI was only to assist
state and local police in apprehending
fugitives who had already been con-
victed of felonies and had crossed
state lines. But the new law required
FBI assistance in any case where a
person suspected of having committed
a felony has crossed state lines.
And now the vast range of offenses
committed under the 1964 Civil
Rights Act falls within the investiga-
tive duties of the FBI and, in some
cases, the bureau is responsible for
the actual apprehension of violators.
While the latter responsibility has
been welcomed and vigorously acted
upon, it has added an immense
new burden.

CARELESS LEGISLATION

Clearly, many of the violations and
inspections mentioned above logically
belong to other agencies in the gov-
ernment. But it has been the habit of
a beleaguered and hurried Congress
to dispose of many problems of en-
forcement by tossing jurisdiction upon
the FBI. Congress very often enacts
measures without the slightest idea
of how they are to be enforced. The
FBI is the tested and willing horse.
Presidents, too, when they confront
embarrassing situations pass their re-
sponsibility to the FBI. To "call in the
FBI" makes good copy.
Hoover has said on many occasions
in the past that the FBI has grown
larger than it should be, that it should
remain small and compact and never
reach the size at which it could be
in effect a national police force. This
would not only endanger the effec-
tiveness of the bureau itself but pose a
peril to free men and free institutions.
But its personnel has grown from 657
in 1924 to 14,000 in 1964.
A major problem which confronts
the FBI is to make the public under-
stand that it is essentially an agency
designed to investigate. It does not
indict or try or punish. These func-
tions rest with other agencies.
There is also the habit of state and
local police of shirking their responsi-
bilities when the FBI enters their
jurisdiction. Passing the buck is a
great human propensity. Every Amer-
ican can help law enforcement by
keeping in mind the limited purpose
and capacity of the FBI. It is un-
surpassed in its capacity to investi-
gate. But it cannot carry all the
burden of enforcement.

Newsweek, January 4, 1965