Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure:


**The Economics of Invasion**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

"The war must feed the war," said Wallenstein, the Hitler of the Thirty Years' War. In that ghastly struggle of attrition, in which Field Marshals Hunger and Disease were the only heroes, Wallenstein's maxim meant that whether they were enemies or friends, the armies looted the countries they entered. When one country was eaten bare, the military forces went on to another.

This has been the pattern of action Hitler has followed for nearly five years. His fear of a repetition of the consequences of the blockade in the last war has driven him to his attempt to create in Europe a self-sustaining economy. For Germany, "room to live"; for conquered nations, "room to starve—and die."

For a while, Hitler's economic plans worked well. Technical skills unknown in the Thirty Years' War doubled the yield of every acre. Grain and potatoes were found to sustain a nation, even in the costly pastime of making war.

Oil, which was not so important in the last war, was found either in its natural state or in synthetic production. One-third of the necessary oil came from Rumania, one-third from coal and one-third from Poland and Northern Germany. There was also a considerable supply in storage when the war began. Grain came from Eastern Germany, from the Balkans, from the Ukraine and from Poland. The mighty and indispensable potato came chiefly from Eastern Germany, from Holland and from Poland.

The strangulation of Germany through invasion will consist of turning its oil-grain-potato program into reverse. Already it is evident that Allied plans are designed with that end in view. In light of the location of Hitler's supplies of oil and food, the Russian part in the forthcoming squeeze threatens Germany much more than does the invasion from the West. Allied success in the West will throw defeated armies back into the Reich; but defeat in the East will bring to Germany, along with the successful Russian armies, the grim horsemen of hunger and economic paralysis.

Russia could afford to withhold an all-out drive in the North while the Ukraine was cleared and pressure was directed at the Rumanian oil supply. The grains come next, which means hitting Rumania, Hungary and Central Poland. The potatoes come later, in early fall, when, it is hoped, the Russians will be driving through North Poland into the flat lands of North Germany. Meanwhile, the partial sources of plunder for the Nazis in the West will be diminishing.

It is significant that a partial source of Nazi oil, in the region east of Lwów, is probably already cut off. Likewise, a portion of the Rumanian fields. But it looks as if Russian strategy seeks to take the Ploesti field with a minimum of preliminary destruction by air. The factories in Germany and in the occupied countries in which oil is made from coal have been favorite targets in recent precision raids. The oldest and largest of synthetic oil plants at Merseburg, the Bruex plant in Czecho-Slovakia and the Bohlen and Lutzendorf plants near Leipzig were all thoroughly plastered two weeks ago. The Nazi armies may have enough oil for a fierce struggle into late 1944; but by that time, whatever their morale may be, the inexorable drain on their resources will be evident.

There is, of course, a further chapter in the economics of invasion. It concerns the bringing of supplies to the liberated populations fast enough and in the proper form. For when the Nazis leave, liberty will be about all that remains to them. The greatest need will be for grains, followed by the need of feed for cattle. Kind people outside Europe have already stored vast quantities of soap and women's stockings to send there. But liberated people east of the Carpathians would, no doubt, prefer oil-cake for their cattle to stockings for their women. And they need fats that they can eat, rather than fats in soap. There is evidence that there has been unnecessary competition among relief agencies in Italy and, unfortunately, evidence that frequently long-range needs have been met before immediate needs.

The recovery of Europe will be well under way six months after liberation. But in the immediate future, bread must have priority over cake, and cake over frosting.