Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  The advertisement on the left is omitted.

**New Faces in the Cabinet**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

President Truman's appointments, especially his Cabinet selections, bear out the suggestion made in this column five weeks ago that the new Administration would be marked by a return to responsible party government.

Tom C. Clark, the new Attorney General, was born and raised in an atmosphere of politics and public affairs. His father was a respected and well-known attorney in Dallas. The younger Clark has held public office the greater part of the time since he was admitted to the bar. His early training was in that great political school, the D.A.'s office. His political sense is highly commended by all who know him. Above all, Clark knows how to bridge unpleasant situations and gain the respect and liking of all parties to disputes. A good test of this capacity was his management of the segregation of the Japanese on the Pacific Coast more than three years ago.

That job took firmness, as well as humaneness. I was in California when it was under way, and everyone concerned praised Clark's exemplary conduct. As successor of Thurman W. Arnold, he handled antitrust cases for a while. In one case especially, the motion-picture suit, he had a batch of bitterly quarreling exhibitors, producers, and distributors on his hands. He reached a settlement which quieted things, and all parties were sorry when Mr. Clark was transferred to other duties. Clark's knack of dealing with people should greatly improve relations between business and government in days ahead.

Congressman Clinton P. Anderson, the most severe Democratic critic of the government's food and price administrations, now goes to the Department of Agriculture. Veterans in the House say he has a level head.

Judge Lewis B. Schwellenbach, as Senator, was regarded as pro-labor and ultra New Deal. It is believed that he has agreed to keep the Labor post only long enough to bring back into the department the scattered labor functions of the government and to coordinate them. After that, another judgeship is said to be in store for him.

The appointments, together with the earlier selection of Robert E. Hannegan as Postmaster General, are a good guide to Mr. Truman's belief in party government.

They show, in the first place, the emphasis which he places on political experience acquired either in organization politics or as a candidate for public office. Messrs. Hannegan and Clark never held elective office, but have had extensive political experience. Messrs. Anderson and Schwellenbach have each held elective office.

In contrast to these appointments, note the relatively small political experience of Mr. Roosevelt's Cabinet at the time of his death. Of the ten members, only three, according to Who's Who, had ever been elected to public office, and the contact of these three with the electorate was insignificant. Mr. Stimson's sole election to office was in 1915, when he was made a delegate to the New York Constitutional Convention. Mr. Walker was elected once to the Montana legislature. Mr. Wallace had a free ride with Mr. Roosevelt on the national ticket in 1940 as Vice Presidential candidate.

Another characteristic of Mr. Truman's decisions and appointments is the distinction he makes between those who are in government because of so-called expertness and those who are responsible political leaders. Apparently Mr. Truman believes experts should be "on tap, not on top." Isidor Lubin, statistician in the Labor Department, was more prominent and active under Mr. Roosevelt than his boss, Secretary Perkins. Under Messrs. Wallace and Wickard, various statistical social reformers had a big hand in making not only agricultural but other policies. If Mr. Anderson's speeches and caustic reports are an indication of his future actions, these "statesmen" will return to their figures and charts.

It is an oversimplification to predict that all this means a turn of policy to the right or left. A political Administration can go either way. But apparently Mr. Truman intends to have an Administration which is nearer to the normal levels of public understanding and responsibility.