Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Big-Business Myths

by Raymond Moley

SINCE big business will once more be
ripe—perhaps overripe—reflections on
the subject by a major Democratic
seer. For Joseph C. O'Mahoney has
made a career of two ideas—the evils
of bigness and the need for Federal
incorporation. As co-chairman of the
Temporary National Economic Committee seventeen years ago, he toiled
prodigiously and gave birth to a set of
government volumes which have been
the happy hunting ground of professors in search of antibusiness data. In
anticipation of the campaign, the senator and a staff have toiled again,
with General Motors as a “case study.”

THE GAME

The senator’s discourses on his favorite subject suggest what someone
said of a fugue: A composition in
which a theme keeps coming in and
the audience keeps going out. His
most notable recent speech reported
on his GM researches. He found that
70 corporations have total assets of
$201 billion. “If every man, woman,
and child each had assets of $1,100,
they would not have assets equal to
those of the 70 corporations.” Since
the game here is to pull your own multiplier out of the air, let us suppose
that every senator has assets of
$200,000 (including the O’Mahoney
Cadillac). The corporations would
then seem to own more than 10,000
times the assets of the senators. This
is no more true than the senator’s
statement, because senators, like
some millions of other Americans, must
own some of the stock of the 70 corporations. Thus the use of the multiplication table, even on the Senate
floor, does not necessarily make a
statement true.

The influence of these corporations,
according to the senator, is bad. They
have caused the farm income to go
down. How this happened, the senator neglects to explain.

The senator deplores the fact that
GM and Ford can go abroad and charter subsidiaries under the laws of
other countries. The senator would
have them get permits from Congress
for that purpose. Thus Congress would
sit in judgment on company policies,
and considering the wisdom with
which Congress has dealt with its
Washington streetcar and bus affairs,
the result would be deplorable. Moreover, to license or permit companies
operating abroad would certainly embroil our government as well as the
companies in endless entanglements
with foreign governments.

At this point in the senator’s speech
the omniscient Senator Morse broke
in: “We must get away from the policy
of the flag following the dollar, to one
in which the dollar follows the flag.
That means that we must exercise
Federal jurisdiction over international
commerce so far as American corporations are concerned.” This is strange
stuff from an exponent of free trade.

Among the other evils of American
corporations abroad, O’Mahoney finds
a lag in enlistments in our armed
forces. This is because “our people do
not want to go to war to sustain business enterprises which are operating
under European law.”

At this point the senator’s wrath
moved on to American oil companies
operating in the Middle East. “Why,”
he said, “are we so concerned about
the tensions there, and why is it that
very little, if anything, is done? It is
because the great oil companies…
are more interested in holding onto
the oil they have secured by their negotiations with the governments of
foreign nations than in anything else.”

At this point Senator Morse expressed his fear “that the politics of
oil has become bigger than American
foreign policy.”

NONSENSE

This is more nonsense. The United
States is interested in the oil of the
Middle East because it does not want
to have that strategic treasure fall into
Communist hands and thus mortally
endanger the Western nations who
are dependent upon it.

This reviling of American corporations and the collateral attack on the
integrity of our government provide
wonderful ammunition for our enemies abroad. In the discussions of the
U.N. and its subsidiary councils there
is plenty of evidence of irresponsible
and untrue statements by Americans
about American business, out of the
mouths of our Communist critics.
The senator has provided them
with new material.

Newsweek, June 18, 1956