Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:

**You Can Elect Ike**

by Raymond Moley

CHICAGO—The caption of this piece
is about as near a prediction as I
care to venture. The purpose of this
department has never been that of
prophecy. Its purpose is to express
opinion of what ought to be, not to
tell what is going to be.

Its purpose this week, the last be-
fore election, is to make plain to peo-
ple who want General Eisenhower to
be the next President that
their wishes can be fulfilled
if they will do their duty.

The more intense their feel-
ing may be about the need
of electing Eisenhower, the
more they must do as
individuals to get to the
polls those whose feelings
are lukewarm or indiffer-
ent. It is the multiplica-
tion of influence that wins.

The figures on registration are so
good as to be almost too reassuring.
But those figures must be transformed
into votes, and that cannot be done un-
less Eisenhower people "run scared."

The American Heritage Founda-
tion, which has done a monumental
job of stimulating voting interest this
year, has reports from many states,
and I offer a few examples. The com-
parisons are with 1948. California is
up nearly a million. Dade County,
Florida, is up more than 100,000, or
69 per cent. Indiana, Nevada, Iowa,
and Virginia are up around 20 per
cent. Minnesota is up 35 per cent,
and Minneapolis registered 97.4 per
cent of its eligibles. New York, Con-
necticut, Ohio, Michigan, Washing-
ton, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey
are all considerably higher than they
were in 1948.

The registration gains seem to favor
Eisenhower almost everywhere. In
new registrations in California, Re-
publicans are running ahead of Demo-
crats. Until this year, the registration
in that state has been 2-to-1 Demo-
cratic. San Francisco is down, but
across the bay the rise is big. Demo-
cratic boroughs in New York City
have only moderate gains, but Repub-
lican Queens is very high. Republican
upstate registration in New York is up
15% per cent. Democratic New York
City is up only 6% per cent. Gains in
Cuyahoga County, Ohio, are big in the
suburbs, but not so big in Cleveland.
An important feature of this regis-
tration is the heavy percentage of
women. In New York City they out-
number the men for the first time in
history. They can and may decide the
election. It should be stressed that
they are less likely to vote on economic
class lines and are more likely to vote
on the issues of Korea, corruption,
Communism, and the cost of living.

But there must be a nationwide
gain in Republican votes of
somewhere near 20 per cent
to win this election if the
Democratic vote remains
substantially the same as in
1948. And that gain must be
in vital places such as the
Midwest, New York, and
California. Ike will probably
need to carry Virginia, Flor-
ida, and Texas. So there is
no reason for complacency.

Moreover, it must be remembered
that the forces and machines working
for Stevenson are experienced and
successful getters-out of votes. In Chi-
cago it is said that the Democratic
machine got under way only last week.
Much of the mobilized Eisenhower
strength is either new in politics or is
centered in a Republican organization
worn down by defeat. Experienced
Democratic machine workers and la-
bor politicians know when and where
to put on the big push. They know,
too, how to spring last-minute charges
and sensation, often unscrupulous,
but deadly in effect.

There will be a dreadful jam at the
polls. Most of our election machinery
is incapable of quick expansion, and
some of it is in the hands of people
who know the arts of sabotage at the
polls. That danger must be met.

ANOTHER caution against compla-
cency should be the realization
that public-opinion polls are unreli-
able means of predicting an election.
The eternal frustration of the pollster
is that he can only reflect the prefer-
ences of those who are eligible to
vote. He has no way of foreseeing
who will stay home from the polls.
And it is likely that around 40 per cent
of the eligibles will not vote this year.
Hence, the outlook is confused and
cloudy. But it is possible to say that if
people who favor Eisenhower not only
vote but get others to vote, we can
have a change.

Newsweek, November 3, 1952