Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


40
Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY
Winding Up

“There certainly isn’t much sex
appeal in the idea,” growled a Congress-
man when the President’s spending-
lending program burst upon a lethargic
Congress. The remark calls for expan-
sion. There is scarcely a shred of poli-
tical sex appeal in the whole Congres-
sional show these days. I suspect that
if any plausible excuse for going home
could have been discovered, the Con-
gressmen would have said their farewells
weeks ago, and the President would have
been putting in time on his stamp collec-
tion.

Quietly, listlessly, things in Washington
are slipping back into their accustomed
grooves. When newspapers make front-
page stories out of the appointment of
three clerks for the White House offices,
you can depend upon it that the cookie
jar of news at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue
is running low.

Paradoxically, the atmosphere of desul-
tory bickering in Washington is making the
country feel more chipper. If there is any
political factor behind the present improve-
ment in business morale, it is the reduced
tempo of Washington activity. The coun-
try’s interest has turned, momentarily, at
any rate, to the normal pursuits of life.
Perhaps the improved confidence of the
business world also stems from the fact
that Congress at last refused, over a pe-
riod of months, to be shoved around. And,
wonder of wonders, it has even taken the
initiative in such cases as the revamping
of the relief setup.

Careful analysis of the causae belli
in Washington makes it clear that they
have more immediate and precise political
significance than this comment suggests.
The importance of the impasse on neu-
trality legislation has been both over- and
underestimated. The President wanted the
repeal of an embargo that becomes effec-
tive only if he chooses to invoke it. He
did not choose to invoke it in the current
Sino-Japanese conflict. It is, in any event,
a rather limited embargo, applying only to
a small number of articles which are
classed as "arms, ammunition, and imple-
ments of war." Vast numbers of things es-
sential to the conduct of a war would not
fall under the embargo, and these things
England and France know they could get
to the limit of their cash. To have asserted
that the repeal of this embargo would have
the effect of deterring a war in Europe
was absurd.


NEWSWEEK, JULY 31, 1939
Roosevelt were any other President near-
ing the end of his second term. Yet, obvi-
ously, one of the elements in its mood is
the vague fear that he isn’t. It was argued,
not so long ago, by columnists close to the
White House that the President was re-
luctant to declare his intention to retire
after two terms because of the danger that
he might lose control over Congress. Ironically,
Ray Clapper has asked: “What con-
trol?” Roosevelt’s very unwillingness to
declare himself out of the 1940 reckoning,
his very acquiescence in the can’t-drop-
out-of-race-because-of-need-to-control-
Congress argument, have helped bring his
relations with Congress to their present
pass. Members of Congress, as Senator
Borah is supposed to have reminded the
President last week, also read the news-
papers.

There is another point. As the coun-
try looks back over the session and the President’s
various statements, recommendations
and requests, it becomes apparent
that he cannot carry to the country his
disagreement with Congress. A swing
around the circle for that purpose would
be about as exciting as the late C. C. Pyle’s
bunion derby. Can the President attack
the passage of the Hatch Bill without adding
to the impression that the Administration
faced the problem of politics in relief
with complacency, or worse? Can he attack
the NLRB investigation without raising
the grave questions why he did not
welcome such an investigation and why he
resisted amendment of the Wagner Labor
Relations Act? Is he going to tell the man
in the street that he objects to the citizen’s
having that additional access to the
citizen’s own courts which would be provided
by the Logan Bill? Can he make the
country believe that the route to recovery
is a larger government debt; that
spending is “investment”? Can he, in the
absence of a war in Europe, persuade the
country that the repeal of the arms embargo
helped bring on a war? Or, when he
claims that the Senate’s failure to repeal
the arms embargo was a blow to business
recovery, can he convince the country of
the sincerity of his belated concern with
business confidence? And finally, supposing
for the moment that he can do these
things, can he sell this assortment of policies—opposition
to the Hatch Bill, opposition
to the NLRB investigation, opposition
to amendment of the Wagner Act, opposition
to the Logan Bill, advocacy of extra-
budgetary spending and repeal of the arms
embargo—as a program? Can he make people
believe that if he had had his way in
these matters, we would be out of our economic
woods?

Or will they recognize that the great
crusade has petered out—not because the
crusaders don’t want to crusade any more,
but because they’ve run out of things to
crusade about.

On the other hand, it was recognized
that this embargo would have little effect
in stopping the Executive from getting us
entangled in a general European war if he
were so minded. The extent to which he
could involve us would be limited only by
his lack of ingenuity. Meddling cannot be
prohibited by legislation.

So the specific point at issue was pretty
small potatoes. But underlying this fight
was a difference infinitely more serious.
Those who refuse to yield to the President’s
arguments were expressing a profound
lack of confidence both in his handling
of foreign relations to date and in his
ability to steer us clear of a possible European
war in the future. They made it plain
that they do not trust his judgment in this
field of policy—a strange state of affairs,
in light of the public stature of the men
who took this position.

That this lack of confidence extends
beyond the embargo issue is evident from
a number of other moves taken by Congress.

The vote to investigate the National Labor
Relations Board was a clear and simple
vote of no confidence. Apparently the people
who passed it felt that the President
himself was unwilling or unable to compel
the fair and efficient functioning of this
agency.

The Hatch Bill’s passage by the House
was another vote of no confidence. It was
the defiant answer to the President’s reluctance
to admit that politics had tainted
WPA to any degree, and to his pooh-poohing
of earnest legislative efforts to root it
out. It is interesting that at the very moment
when the President was engaged in
his favorite pastime of denouncing the
press, the Scripps-Howard people were
achieving the finest piece of journalistic
enterprise in many a day. To them goes
major credit for the triumph of the Hatch
Bill.

The emasculation of the spending-lending
program will, I believe, demonstrate
still further that the tradition of infallibility
and invincibility has wilted. There
were joking references this week by Congressmen
to the toll-road portion of this
program. Democrats have been heard to
suggest that the proposed Washington-
Boston road find its terminus at the Harvard
Law School, that the toll on northbound
traffic be merely nominal and that
southbound traffic be prohibited.

In brief, Congress is acting as if Mr.

Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 659 of 1087