Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

THE STATIST MENTALITY

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

For more than half a century there have been two forms of government intervention in the business of producing and distributing electric power. One has been represented by the regulators, who would leave the business in private ownership but impose strict regulation over service and prices by government agencies—local, state, and Federal. The other has been sought by the statists, who would have government enter the business by owning and operating it.

Over the years regulation has been more generally accepted, and from 80 to 85 per cent of the electric power produced comes from private companies owned by private investors. Methods of government regulation have steadily improved, and the companies have come to accept them as a matter of course.

But there survives a virile type of reformer who believes that the public gets better service at a lower price when government or a cooperative association owns the facilities of generation and distribution. The mental process by which these reformers arrive at their conclusion is difficult to justify on practical grounds. For the test is the consumer’s satisfaction. To him, whether he is an immense manufacturer or a houseowner, the test is efficient service at a fair cost.

THE DUKE CASE

The source of the service would seem, on logical grounds, to be immaterial. And to the taxpayer, who is all of us, private ownership under regulation is decidedly better. For private producers are taxpayers, too—big ones—and the outlays of government money, sometimes obvious and mostly hidden in the subsidies and preferences that go into government operation, are absent in private ownership.

The statist mentality, however, persists in believing that some virtue inheres when everybody, through a government agency or a cooperative, owns the source of service.

A choice between the two forms of intervention is now before the Federal Power Commission—itself an example of regulation—in the case of an application of the Duke Power Co. to spend $700 million in a combined hydro and steam electric power development in the hills and mountains of southwestern North Carolina. This is known as the Keowee-Toxaway project.

After Duke filed its application with the Federal Power Commission, a formal petition to intervene came, from the Tri-State Power Committee. This committee represents a number of electric cooperatives in North and South Carolina and Georgia. The cooperatives’ committee wants the FPC to reject the Duke application and to recommend that the United States Congress authorize and appropriate money for the Federal construction of the project.

NEW DEVELOPMENTS

This brings out not only the old argument between regulated private development and government ownership, but a number of new conditions which have arisen since the conflict began half a century ago.

1. There is the fact that the Federal government now requires very much more revenue than it did years ago. And when private investors build a big enterprise, there is an immense tax yield to Federal, state, and local governments.

2. The capacity and instrumentalities of regulation are now developed to a point at which fairness is assured to investors and consumers alike. If regulation is not efficient, then government should make it so.

3. There is a demand for electricity now immensely greater than was dreamed of 50 years ago.

4. Electric companies’ efficiency has been sharpened by new competition with natural gas and oil.

So far as the cooperatives are concerned, they are not endangered. They could buy for their needs from the Duke project.

If the FPC should reject the Duke application and recommend that Congress provide for building the project, years would be lost in getting the authorization, then getting the appropriations, then letting the contracts, and, finally, building the facilities. Duke proposes to proceed at once. It has already acquired the land.

Only the outmoded statist mentality, surviving from earlier days, stands in the way.

Newsweek, April 19, 1965