Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


E Pluribus Unumsky

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Molotoff's speech announcing the grant of new powers to the Russian quasi-nationalities is such a broad statement that it is unfair to draw hasty inferences from it. Apparently, Stalin is eager to underline for the world a fact which the immense concentration of power in Moscow has made us forget. This fact is that there is not one, but many Russias. The Czar actually used to be called "the Emperor of all the Russias," although the unity of which the Czar was the emblem was far from perfect. Molotoff pointed out that military conscription under the czars did not extend to several of the quasi-nationalities recognized in the new plan. Note further that two powers granted the sixteen "republics"—external diplomatic and military autonomy—are two of the very powers which the makers of our own Constitution regarded as indispensable prerequisites of the central government.

The ingenuity of the new plan rests in the fact that it provides an answer to those who fear that Russia expects to annex large parts of Europe and Asia, and, at the same time, it leaves a door wide open to further expansion. Stalin can say that the specific designation of what Russia expects to include in its federation should be sufficient notice that it plans no wholesale annexation. On the other hand, the border of quasi-nationalities that he has set up makes various extensions of territory possible. The new "republic" of Armenia is the smallest of the collection, but it adjoins Turkish Armenia and leaves the possibility of an effort to add territory there if Turkish rule becomes oppressive. Almost as small is the Karelo-Finnish S.S.R., and Finland may well be fearful that sometime it will expand to include more Finns. All these possible expansions of the Soviet Union will be in line with the expressed wish of the inhabitants, of course.

The plan, moreover, provides a simple method of Far Eastern expansion. This is not the time to offend Japan, but later there may be room at the Soviet fireside for a Manchurian S.S.R., a Korean S.S.R. and other pieces of the Japanese Empire.

It is possible that Stalin has been studying the history of his loyal ally, the United States. Our federalism was an excellent ally of our "Manifest Destiny." Texas achieved independence and, presto, it was admitted as a state in the Federal Union. In the '40s and '50s, similar plans were in store for Cuba. California came into the Union by a slightly different procedure than Texas did, but that was because Polk's plans for a bloodless expansion misfired. Federalism offers an attractive and easy method of transition from unstable independence to secure autonomy.

But there is no occasion for the Russian plan to create suspicion and disunity among the United Nations. Russia's plan so far offers no actual threat to the interests of any of the Allied powers.

If we apply a bit of common sense to recent Russian moves, much of our apprehension will vanish. The massive nation of Russia is feeling its oats, so to speak. Its diplomatic declarations are not in the perfect key of the age of Disraeli or Bismarck, but they must be interpreted in terms of the growing sense of nationalism and prospective well-being that comes in a nation which has just delivered itself of a deadly peril. The attack on the Pope was uncalled for, unprovoked and untrue. But the creation of its own cordon sanitaire of quasi-nationalities is wholly in line with a rational settlement of the problems of Eastern Europe.

Molotoff, by redefining the Russian cultural objective as "national in form and socialist in content," suggests that Communism is no longer a world affair, but a strong Slavic and Mongolian neighborhood affair. To interpose objections is to project ourselves once more, as we did 25 years ago, into an internal situation which has no immediate, perhaps no ultimate bearing upon our own interests.

One postwar advantage that can come to Russia from sixteen foreign offices will be in trade. Since all Soviet trade is controlled from embassies, the chances of increasing foreign trade are greater under the new plan. The more the various regional trade offices under the new plan know of technical and economic possibilities, the better for our own prospects for postwar trade. Each quasi-nationality will be in the market for plants, machines and materials. This is the ultimate practical advantage. The other advantages are internal and tactical.