Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


The World's Market Basket

by RAYMOND MOLEY

There will be no occasion to
stage political hunger strikes in con-
nection with this year's Indian mutiny.
This time, hunger is a cause and not
an effect. The state of the food supply
in Southeastern Asia is ominous. Re-
ports say that 600,000 people in Indo-
China died of undernourishment last
year. India is in dire need, and not
over half the needed relief food is in
sight. Weather has been un-
favorable to wheat and rice
production over immense
Asiatic areas.

In fact, weather has been
bad for crops everywhere
during the past year, except
in North America. Even
Australia has had to buy
wheat.

The total picture is such
that there is need for a com-
plete overhauling of policies
both here and in occupied Germany.
President Truman's program is good,
as far as it goes. It will not discomfort
us. Americans eat and also waste
plenty of food. Darker bread will be
beneficial, rather than otherwise. Some
grain may be spared from the manu-
facture of beer and spirits. And the
temporary centralization of our grain
trade through the Commodity Credit
Corp. would not be an unwise exten-
sion of the government's power.

Quite properly, certain questions
are in order. For whom are we re-
stricting ourselves and how much must
we provide? What must be done to
enable Europe to contribute more for
itself? What revisions of our domestic
policies are in order to help others and
to protect ourselves?

There are some contradictions in
government reports about the situation
in Germany. A Department of Agricul-
ture report, "World Food Situation,
1946," tells us that the greatest de-
ficiency is in Germany, Austria, Ru-
mania and Finland. Consumption of
food in liberated countries is already
above wartime levels. The report says,
further, that food deficiency in Ger-
many is already causing deaths, espe-
cially among infants. Germans are
getting, in both black and white
markets, around 1,800 calories a day.

Contrary to this are reports by oc-
cupation authorities who say that
Germans are gaining weight. With
respect to Germany, caution must be
suggested. An over-all picture is im-
possible to state. Moreover, Germans

in 1919 deceived the world with
stories of starvation. And, finally, the
measurement of food supplies in cal-
ories is a relative matter. Nutritionists
generally put the subsistence level
pretty high. But such great differences
exist among individuals because of
occupation, size, habit and the like
that an over-all estimate is almost
impossible to make.

For what they may be
worth, here are the figures
from the report on England
and France: The former will
be getting 3,000 calories per
person; the latter, 2,400.

Meanwhile, the greatest
food scarcity, in Germany,
is before us. May and June
are the lean months. When
the new harvest begins to
come in from the farming
lands of Europe, the main
food scarcities will end. But the
wanton destruction of the German
chemical industry should stop. It is
essential to the food supply and surely
it can be controlled for that purpose.
Moreover, industrialization should per-
mit the making of more and more
farm machinery.

We might well gear our money-
lending to Europe so that our credit
will go for the building of self-suffi-
ciency in food and other essentials.
Social reform can wait. For example,
in Rumania and Poland the zest for
cutting up estates in land-reform pro-
grams has gone so far that the new
farms are too small for economical
cultivation. Farm sizes should be
based on economics, not on social
theory. As machinery adapted to
smaller units is produced, farms can
be cut down. But the rate of agri-
cultural revolution should keep in step
with economic facts. It may well be
that when Europe gets enough to eat,
largely produced by its own efforts,
the urge for revolution will die down.

At home, it ought to be made clear
to farmers that no fantastic farm prices
are in store. Self-defeating farm-price
policies, such as those which in the
past have given so much of our grain
to idle cattle and hogs, should be re-
vised. The farmer should not be fur-
ther induced to hedge against inflation
by keeping meat off the market. If
price control is to be kept, it should
be administered in such a way as to
produce more food for us and for the
world.