Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:


Psychosocial Law
by Raymond Moley

THE decision of the Supreme Court
to “cutting back the Nebraska “right
to work” law is the most recent of a
series of rulings which have denied to
the states much of their traditional
power and authority. The most nota-
ble of these was the school segrega-
tion decision in 1954.

Many lawyers have since called
attention to the significant and omi-
nous fact that Chief Justice Warren
cited as his major “authority” certain
writings of sociologists and psycholo-
gists. One of the most notable criti-
cisms of the use of “evidence” of that
sort appears in the April number of the
American Bar Association Journal un-
der the names of Eugene Cook, Attor-
ney General of Georgia, and William
I. Potter of Kansas City.

The insubstantial and unscientific
character of most modern sociological
and psychological writings has re-
cently been revealed in a powerful
book, “Fads and Foibles in Modern
Sociology,” by a distinguished student
of sociology, Pitirim A. Sorokin. Law-
yers disturbed by the Warren opinion
might well examine this book.

GRAND DESIGN

The naïve reliance of the Court
upon sociological and psychological
writings is a logical outcome of a
delusion which swept a number of
major law schools in the 1920s. Many
law teachers, who should be the most
rational of men, swallowed-hook,
line, and sinker-a body of informa-
tion which a famous sociologist, more
frank than others, called “anything
that’s interesting.” The Grand Design
was to create a new “sociological juris-
prudence.” Among the early victims
of this infection were Professors
Douglas and Frankfurter.

Prior to the 1954 decision, in a case
involving the University of Texas, the
Court rejected the doctrine of “sepa-
rate but equal facilities” on the basis
of intangible factors “incapable of ob-
jective measurement.” It remained for
the Warren opinion to cite sociological
“authority” for those intangibles.

The Chief Justice stated that “we
cannot turn the clock back” to the
Plessy vs. Ferguson case of 1896. But
to overturn the law established at that
time it was obviously necessary to
find new facts or to throw new and
significant light upon old facts. The
only obvious new facts were the great
progress of the Negro in the South
and a distinct improvement in race
relations under state control of edu-
cation. The Court rejected these and
turned to the intangibles of what are
called psychosocial data.

‘AUTHORITY’

The new “authority” which the
Chief Justice cited specifically con-
sists of eight books and articles not
offered in evidence in the lower
courts. Moreover, the Court could
scarcely have cited these had it
looked into the qualifications of some
of the authors. One was a social sci-
entist employed by the agency which
was acting for the plaintiff. Another
who was cited “generally” was a
Swedish socialist, Gunnar Myrdal.
Myrdal’s book on the Negro question
says that the Constitution of the
United States is “impractical and un-
suited to modern conditions.” Thus
Myrdal would not, to use a Warren
phrase, “turn the clock back” to the
Constitution. The real Constitution
therefore becomes not only “what the
judges say it is” but what Myrdal
says it is.

The assumption by the Court that
these psychosocial writings constitute
firm and lasting facts determined by
scientific methods is nonsense. Much
of sociology and psychology consists
of miscellaneous and sometimes use-
ful information. But as Raymond
Poincaré, a notable mathematician
and statesman, commented: “An ac-
cumulation of facts is no more a sci-
ence than a heap of stones is a house.”
Sorokin concludes that “both dis-
ciplines [sociology and psychology]
are in a blind alley of subjective
and evanescent hearsay trivia. In
our courts most of this hearsay stuff
is rejected as evidence.” That is, it
was-until 1954. He adds that the
scientific standards of “a mountain
of elementary and advanced texts”
on modern sociology and psychology
are “peculiar rather than high.”
Perhaps, like the collection of
Tristram Shandy’s father, “not great,”
but “curious.”

It is of such extraordinary stuff that
this Court chooses to fashion the law
of the land.

Newsweek, June 4, 1956