Here's a text version of the provided article, aiming to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Congress Makes History—and How!

by RAYMOND MOLEY

President Truman was apparently looking far into the future when he said last year that the 80th Congress was the second worst in history. He was saving first place for the 81st. And it is becoming quite clear that in 1950 we shall again hear an angry President asking for another Congress.

Presidents used to run on their legislative record. Mr. Truman apparently will run indefinitely on his lack of a legislative record. That is not to say that he intended in January to have a do-nothing Congress. But it is either great ineptness or deep deliberation that has moved the White House to pile more and more into the mill of a frustrated Congress and so add to the certainty that nothing will be done.

Congress thus has become a mere political instrument of White House strategy, rather than an agent of representative government. The record as it stands is without precedent.

Only three legislative measures of importance have been passed: the extension of rent control; the ECA extension; and the housing act. Two of these were extensions and commanded the support of both parties. The third was in part the creation of Republican senators, including Taft.

Each year Congress passes ten appropriations bills which supply various departments, bureaus, and agencies with funds. The House finished passing those bills on June 9. Two months after the beginning of the new fiscal year, the largest appropriations bill—carrying $15,000,000,000 for the military services—had not passed the Senate. The Interior Department bill is also unfinished business. It was passed by the House five months ago. The huge civil-functions bill was passed by the two houses and went to conference on June 1. There it rests.

A special appropriations measure known as the third deficiency bill passed the House on June 24. It was not until last week, more than two months later, that it was finally acted upon by the Senate. To meet the emergencies caused by this unheard-of delay, an unprecedented series of stop-gap resolutions was passed. In anticipation of the midnight June 30 deadline, a continuing resolution was passed by both houses. It permitted departments to continue to spend on the basis of old appropriations until July 31.

When it was apparent that more time would be needed, another resolution was passed making an extension to Aug. 15. Then another was passed, with Sept. 15 as the terminal date. Last week the House passed still another resolution with the date Oct. 1.

In all, almost half the money necessary to run the government is yet to be appropriated.

This record justifies the conclusion that the Senate has been more dilatory than the House of Representatives. Democratic leadership in the House has been in abler and more experienced hands. The failure of the Senate to perform at the proper time what should have been purely routine functions is indefensible. But above all else is the absence of almost any definitive and constructive legislation. In the face of this, it was almost ludicrous to hear Speaker Sam Rayburn and Sen. Scott Lucas say soberly over the radio that the record of this session of Congress would be constructive.

Everybody, of course, wants to go home. The leaders first mentioned a July adjournment. Then August. Then Thanksgiving. At the moment, members seem to be taking matters into their own hands. The House is going through the formality of three-day recesses, but because of the great number of absentees there is a gentlemen’s agreement among the members to transact no business whatsoever for the next month.

On Oct. 7, 1948, the President said to the people of Elizabeth, N.J.: “The only way you can get the kind of government you need is…by voting the straight Democratic ticket…Then you will get a Democratic Congress and I will get a Congress that will work with me.”

The President has had a lot of fun about other people’s predictions. But here is one of his own that didn’t turn out so well.

Newsweek, September 5, 1949