Here's a text version of the provided article, preserving the original column structure as much as possible:

**Adlai's 'Gullible Public'**

by Raymond Moley

IT WAS, I believe, John Chamberlain of *The Freeman* who created the expression "we-elite." By this he meant people who falsely profess devotion to democracy but constantly speak of what "we" should do for people—the "we" meaning those who are talking. They conceive themselves, the "elite," to be the sanctified ministers of enlightenment and the givers of every perfect gift.

To a degree, this philosophy has found a habitation and a name in the political arm of the CIO and in the ADA. And now one of its very own is running for President.

Some of Stevenson's current speeches and his conduct and utterances back to his college days are marked by a bored acceptance of the hopeless weakness and dumbness of the average man. Such a person makes his appeal to the generality of the people but shares neither their aspirations nor their tastes nor their vitality. He is their patron, not their comrade.

In a most revealing speech at the Town Club at Los Angeles, Stevenson deplored current criticism of the people in government because of its "mischievous effect on a gullible public." He went on to excuse the scandals of the Truman regime by saying that the fault is not in "the genus pol" (a Stevensonian refinement of "politician"), but in "you the people."

"Your public servants serve you right," he said. Indeed, he added, they serve us better than we deserve. There was a figurative curl of the Stevenson lip when he said to President Truman, as he approached the microphone at the White House: "Shall I address the multitude?"

This casting of the blame for official crookedness upon the public is an old excuse. It is a cynical, snobbish, contemptible refusal to accept the responsibility of government.

We, the people, selected the Truman regime to do a job for us, to collect our taxes, protect our property, spend our money and keep us safe at home and abroad. Now it comes before us soiled with the mire of corruption, self-serving, mismanagement, subversion, waste, and a bloody, unnecessary war. And it has the nerve to say to all of us "You shouldn'ta done this to me."

Finally, Stevenson dismisses the whole subject by saying: "Perhaps the proper description is not corrupt, but expedient."

Another revealing feature of the Stevenson mentality is an ultrafastidious deference for smartness and elegance. His biographer, John B. Martin, quotes him in accepting an invitation to speak in an Illinois town because the man who invited him wrote "such an absolutely enchanting letter. He writes an exquisite letter—witty, clever, charming."

It should be noted that in his speeches there is all that love of paradox, manipulation of symbols, and esoteric rationalization that go not with common sense but with uncommon detachment. In his history as governor as well as in his behavior since he was first suggested as a Presidential nominee, there is much evidence of indecision and an inclination to avoid facing hard realities.

WE FIND as we analyze the Stevenson speeches an affinity for a whole school of political sophisticates. They screen their advocacy of a super-government in a mass of pleasant but obscure verbiage. Archie MacLeish is the poet laureate of this school; Leon Henderson, its economist; Arthur Schlesinger Jr., its historian; and Stevenson, its statesman. Its retreat from common sense suggests nothing so much as the Précieuses of seventeenth-century France. A contemporary wrote of them:

"They are firmly convinced that a thought is worth nothing when it is understood by everybody...a précieuse must not speak like the generality of people, in order that the meaning should be understood only by those who are brighter than the common people; and it is for that reason that they try to destroy the old language and have made up not only a new one, but one which is peculiar to themselves."

In peaceful days the presence of such a mentality in the Presidency would be incongruous. In days like these it would be tragic.

*Newsweek*, October 13, 1952