Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:


NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 11, 1943

Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Polish Problem

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Unending books have pondered the Polish problem, but there is time for no more books before the United States, Britain and Russia reach a workable solution. For if a new Poland agreeable to Russians and tolerable to Poles cannot be created, a hard-won war may founder in a lost peace.

Before we speak of boundaries, let us see what principles might be agreeable to the three major powers which are about to confer. First, the idea of buffer states can and probably will go into the discard. There will be no one to "buff" against except Russia, and she will permit no more of that kind of thing. Russia has always been more buffed against than buffing, in any case. Second, all three powers, including Russia, will no doubt agree that there will be a Poland with Atlantic Charter "sovereign rights and self-government." Third, the boundaries of Poland will not be any one of the many configurations which history has given that country—especially the monstrosity created at Versailles. Fourth, Poland will get a window—not a porthole—to the sea.

In determining the boundaries of the new Poland, the idea advanced by Wilson in his Fourteen Points—the idea of "including indisputably Polish populations"—can scarcely be achieved. Incidentally, Versailles grossly violated that "Point." "Indisputably" Russian populations were included in pre-1939 Poland. The plain fact is that Russia, after her invasion in 1939, drew a boundary which was ethnologically more correct than was that of the Allies 24 years ago. It may be expected that Russia will insist upon that eastern boundary for Poland. Nothing in "sovereign rights and self-government" would thereby be violated.

When Russia seized Eastern Poland in 1939, Hitler was quite willing to give her even more. The suggested line ran clear to the Vistula and the suburbs of Warsaw. Russia refused and fixed a line which restored to her an area largely populated by White Russians and Ukrainians. The Vilna section, with many Poles, was taken for strategic purposes. Apparently Stalin has no demands concerning the western border of Poland. The Polish Corridor was a geographical curiosity, but it was populated by Poles. The western boundary of that Corridor is a tenable postwar boundary.

Danzig is overwhelmingly German, and, despite the fact that it was made a free city for Poland's use as an outlet to the sea, the Poles industriously built up Gdynia as a port of their own. The free status of Danzig could be maintained under some international agreement.

This brings us to East Prussia, which is more than two-thirds German. Most of the remaining third, resident of the southern part of the province, are Masurians, who are Slavic. The 2,000,000 Germans in the rest of East Prussia include a very considerable proportion of the Prussian Junker class. If, as Churchill pointed out, these Prussian aristocrats are the breeders of war, a wholesale removal of them to Germany would be a wise move. Many of the remaining Germans might elect to remain, even under Polish sovereignty. Then the whole of East Prussia might be incorporated in the new Polish state. This would partially compensate Poland for the loss of her eastern territory, eliminate the Corridor and pull Poland into a fairly homogenous and compact state. Poland's prewar population was about 35,000,000. This new Poland would be about 27,000,000 and would be racially more homogenous.

The elimination of East Prussia as a part of Germany would not only compensate Poland for the loss of her eastern territory but would eliminate a festering source of German militarism and intrigue close to Russia. The Junkers, removed from their medieval castles and estates, would be absorbed by industrial Germany, and, after careful surveillance by the United Nations for a period of years, would vanish as an outdated, irreconcilably war-mongering class.

In re-creating the Polish state, firm provision must be made to protect Jewish minorities. The old line had it that "freedom shrieked as Kosciusko fell." Freedom has also shrieked when reactionary leaders in Poland, not so many years ago, whipped to death their democratic and socialist neighbors in the prisons.

There is no reason why the fine cultural and industrial gifts which Poland has exhibited in the past should not flourish in the new state. But that presupposes a firm hand by the three great powers with respect to the safety of her minorities and to any further territorial ambitions.

Page 8 of 1087