PERSPECTIVE

Talent in a Democracy

by Raymond Moley

THE worth of an individual's brief
stay in mundane affairs is meas-
ured in two ways: By what his labors
contribute to the physical welfare and
security of others, and by what wis-
dom he communicates for the guid-
ance of those who can learn. Lewis L.
Strauss ranks high in both tests.
His services to the security and
strength of the United States and to
the welfare of millions abroad in the
years of his public life need no elabo-
ration here. They are in the record.
They are also written with discretion,
taste, and modesty in his new book,
"Men and Decisions" (468 pages.
Doubleday. $6.95). This is much
more than a memoir. It carries a su-
premely vital lesson in its philosoph-
ical interlineations-the character of
the many public figures whom Strauss
knew well, their conduct in great af-
fairs and in arriving at crucial deci-
sions, and, most of all, the reactions
of the author himself amid the mine
fields of official life.
In 1917, at the age of 21, Strauss
left business in Virginia to help his
country and also, because of his pro-
foundly humanitarian nature, to serve
in Herbert Hoover's food and relief
activities. This service carried him
through the fatal decisions at the
peace conference in Versailles. Then
there was a long interlude in business,
where he was a participant in monu-
mental financial decisions in good
times and bad. Another war called
him in 1939 to twenty more years in
public service. He was in the heart
of tremendous events and decisions
which may well shape human destiny
for many decades to come.

THE EYE OF STORM

There was the vital scientific and
technical work of the Navy, the deci-
sions to create the atomic bomb and
to use it to end hostilities. Later, as
a member of the Atomic Energy Com-
mission, Strauss, in opposition to many
scientists and all of his fellow com-
missioners, argued for the develop-
ment of the hydrogen bomb. When
President Truman made that deci-
sion, Strauss resigned to avoid embar-
rassing his fellow members, who had
been overruled by the President.
Another President called him back
as chairman of the AEC, where his
duties carried him into the very eye of
the bitter controversies of the 1950s.
When his term expired in 1958 he
declined reappointment, and the
President gave him an interim ap-
pointment as Secretary of Commerce.
The political enmities which had
been created by his steadfast, and I
believe right, decisions as chief of
the AEC carried over and were used
ruthlessly to disqualify him. Hatred,
vilification, falsification, and political
and ideological rancor characterized
the conduct of the opponents of the
confirmation of Strauss during many
weeks of committee hearings and
Senate debate. Finally, in June 1959,
the Senate, by a bare majority
achieved by parliamentary tactics,
withheld "advice and consent."

SENSE OF SERVICE

The issues which were raised in the
momentous years of his service as
AEC chairman and their merits and
demerits the Strauss book con-
vincingly covers in detail. A larger is-
sue concerns us here.
That issue is the way of a political
system with talented men. The Senate
through its decision served brutal no-
tice that men of unusual intelligence,
strength, and rare administrative train-
ing are not wanted in the service of
the state; that they will be subjected
to harassment, persecution, and slan-
der; that past services will be cast
aside as irrelevant when they fail to
bow to expediency; that servile men
and women are best suited to "get
along" with those who are the choice
of a capricious popular majority. This
notice, it may be added, hits the
minds and instincts of the young who,
as we well know, are less and less dis-
posed to enter official life. This is the
more ominous because we have
created a massive governmental ap-
paratus crying to the heavens for men
capable of administering it. The con-
sequent loss is that of all of us and of
the nation.
Strauss registers no recriminations,
no plea for public compassion, no re-
gret for what he gave in two decades
of service. Perhaps the supreme les-
son of his book is that these vicissi-
tudes are inevitable in what is called
democracy. The personal sense of
service is the only lasting reward.

Newsweek, July 9, 1962