Here's the text from the provided image, focusing on the main article and avoiding the advertisement columns:


On Being Sorry for Finland
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Some weeks ago an American talking to a Finnish official in New York expressed the belief that American policy after the war ought to view with some sympathy Russia’s claims for a safe frontier to the west. The Finn, presenting two very appealing blue eyes, asked: “You’re not going to let us down, are you?”

Courtesy made it difficult for the American to answer. But through his mind went visions of American sailors sinking into icy Arctic waters trying to get help to Russia, while German soldiers were comfortably billeted in Finland; visions of Finns killing Russian soldiers who might have saved American lives by killing Germans; visions of Finland offering Hitler a great mobilization ground for his barbaric armies and of Finnish armies rushing to the kill, when it looked as if Russia could not hold out in 1941.

But the calm assurance of the Finn was significant. That assurance was born of a belief that we are not really allied with Russia and that when Hitler falls, our power will be thrown into the scales for a small-nations’ peace—a peace like that of 1919. Finnish nationals are not the only representatives of small nations in this country who enjoy that bland confidence. And we must admit that the foolish babblings of Americans unfamiliar with European geography and politics have provided a basis for the belief in the infinite gullibility of Americans.

Is there any further mystery about Russia’s distrust in light of this? Or of Stalin’s determination to use his great postwar power to decide for himself the conditions of his country’s security? Russia’s security is not a single problem but a series of problems, all rooted in the history of her relations with Western Europe. There is good reason for thinking that Stalin’s foreign policy does not differ essentially from that formulated by Peter the Great over two centuries ago. Among the various aspects of that policy was what Peter called “a window on the Baltic.” To that end, he created the city that is now Leningrad. The root of Stalin’s attitude toward Finland is his desire that this great city shall be reasonably protected from attack. An examination of the boundaries fixed after the Finnish-Russian war in 1940 makes this clear. It is true that after that short war, Russia took more than she originally demanded. But it is hard to deny that the treaty represented a degree of moderation on Russia’s part unusual in a victorious nation. Unquestionably great sentimental issues were raised, however, and some economic injury was done Finland.

As to the force of Russia’s claim for a protected access to the Baltic, consider this hypothetical case. Suppose New Orleans were our second largest city and the center of a great industrial area. And suppose that Cuba were the possession of a nation unfriendly to us and too weak to prevent its falling into the hands of an enemy country. Would we demand sovereignty over it? We would. And come to think of it, we did. In her lamentation, Finland had the assurance of sympathy from the Western Powers, including the United States. The Finns apparently still count on that sympathy. Well do we remember how our audiences thrilled to the strains of “Finlandia” in 1940. Did not the Finns pay their debts? And give the world Sibelius and Nurmi?

Russia was aware of all that. Probably Stalin also remembers the fact that England and France asked Norway and Sweden for the right to send an expeditionary force across their territories to help the Finns against the Russians. One of the most incredibly lucky breaks in history was the refusal of that request, which was based on a ridiculous underestimate of Russia’s strength.

The problem now is to get the Finns out of the war and to free some fifteen divisions of winter-trained Russian troops for the smash against Hitler. Certainly, Russia will be more moderate in her demands now than after the war. The difficulties in the way of getting Italy out of the war apply to Finland to an even greater degree, of course, for it is thoroughly occupied by German forces. If the Finns gave up, however, the Germans would hardly be able to hold their present front, particularly with the terror of an Arctic winter’s approach.

Finland’s plight is largely of her own making. She miscalculated the strength of Russia. She indulged in the age-old fallacy that a nation can engage in a war of “limited responsibility.” And she let sentiment blind her to the clear fact that continuous prosperity and self-government might have been possible under the 1940 terms. Sweden was wiser.