Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  The advertisement on the left is excluded.


PERSPECTIVE

Frank Killory's Failure

by Raymond Moley

WHEN a political writer as talented
as Henry J. Taylor writes a po-
litical novel it is news. Moreover, the
characters he draws in "The Big
Man" and the life he portrays are so
close to us that interest quickens.
An evaluation of his novel as such
is beyond my capacity and my de-
partmental responsibility. But I do
know that it offers a profoundly im-
portant political lesson for our times.
The purely fictional love theme
which adds a certain excitement to
the tale might have been omitted
without loss to its import. The intro-
duction of sex into a political story is
artifice, not art.

Frank Killory was a very attractive
lawyer in a small city in Illinois. He
defeated the big shots from a Wall
Street firm in a case back home.
Because of his moving appeal to the
jury, he won despite the law and the
facts. And so the head of the de-
feated firm, the "big man" in the
book, Philip Allen, brought Killory to
New York as a member of his or-
ganization. Killory, backed by the
briefs prepared for him, then won a
sensational case against the Federal
government. This gave Killory na-
tional publicity.

At the moment, a contest for the
Presidential nomination was going on
between two famous senators. But
Eastern interests, as is so often the
case in real life, were looking for an
alternative, and Killory attracted
their attention.

THE BOOM

An immense publicity hullabaloo
was launched. Newspapers and mag-
azines took up the cause. Madison
Avenue built an image of a prairie
colossus. After all, wasn't Lincoln a
small-city Illinois lawyer? Park Ave-
nue dinner tables buzzed. The sta-
tion-wagon set in Westchester and
Connecticut tuned up. Leather chairs
in New York clubs rumbled. And
Wall Street, never very smart politi-
cally, got behind Killory. They be-
lieved that Killory was bullish.

And so there gathered around this
raw amateur a curious collection of
managers. A wheeler-dealer passed
the hat with little discretion about


who contributed. A speechwriter was
borrowed from an expensive maga-
zine-an individual who wrote mean-
ingless but incandescent prose and
poetry. Killory dashed about from
Boston to Oregon making unre-
searched and unrestrained speeches.
A real pro was enlisted, one of the
finer characters in the book, who
tried without success to get the rear-
ing and charging candidate under
control. With the convention only
weeks away, a few delegates were
picked up here and there. But when
the good and honest Philip Allen was
induced to call his old friend, the
governor of Illinois, the delegation
from that big state was won for Kil-
lory. This started a small stampede.

THE BUST

But Killory, blinded by the adula-
tion he received from New York City
sycophants, forgot the fine principles
he had brought from Illinois. His
speeches in Oregon and Baltimore
embraced everything, including the
policies of the Administration he
sought to displace. The speaker was
captured by his audiences. The first
thing some amateurs learn about pol-
itics is double-talk. Finally, Philip
Allen called in Killory and quietly
lectured him. Killory rejected the
advice. Then, in Killory's presence
Allen called his friend, the Illinois
governor, and told him to release his
delegates. This, says Taylor, "not only
sawed off the limb. He had chopped
down the whole tree... Killory was
defeated for the nomination."

The lessons here are obvious. Many
bright young hometown geniuses
come to the big league in New York
City. Some grow, but most just swell.
The voice of the clubs, of Park Ave-
nue, and of Wall Street, is not the
voice of the nation. As a friend of
mine once said of Boston, New York
is not only provincial, it is the big-
gest provincial city in the world.
The second lesson is that national
politics is no place for an amateur.
Nor for people who win publicity fly-
ing in the spaces between the worlds,
coaching football teams, preaching,
or starring in the movies. Oratory
isn't enough. Mencken once said that
there is no more reason to elect an
orator than a fiddle player.

Newsweek, February 24, 1964