Here's a text version of the provided article, preserving the column structure as best as possible.  I've omitted the advertisement on the left.


**The Balkan Time Bomb**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Mr. Hull might well suggest to
Messrs. Stalin and Molotoff that if the
quickest way to crack Germany is in
the north and west, Russia ought to ex-
plain why she is aiming her heaviest
blows near the Balkans. The answer,
however, is clear enough. The Balkans
and their neighbors, Rumania and Hun-
gary, are the softest spots in Hitler's
fortress, and perhaps even before Rus-
sia reaches Odessa, as she may within
many weeks, what is up will be plain.

For a good many weeks this column
has tried to analyze that unpredictable
peninsula piece by piece. In broad out-
line, the Balkan peninsula presents a
picture of weakness and of strength. Its
weakness is in its lack of long-standing
national experience; its strength is in
its capacity to resist all imperial in-
vaders—first Turkey, then Austria and,
finally, Germany.

Strictly speaking, the Balkans (from
the Turkish word for mountains)
include an area bounded on the north
by the Danube and Savo Rivers and,
on the west, by the Adriatic. For a long
time that area was Turkey in Europe.
Then, when the Turks were pushed
back, a series of disorderly states
emerged. Some of these, like Bulgaria
and Serbia, were Slavic and regarded
Russia as a friend. Others, of assorted
and nondescript racial origins and rid-
den by internal feuds, carried on hit-or-
miss relations with the outside world.

To the north and not, strictly speaking,
in the Balkans at all, were Hungary and
Rumania, where Austrian-German in-
fluences were very great. But the gen-
eral pattern was disorder, civil strife
and bitter interstate rivalries. Even
under Hitler these feuds have contin-
ued, and every mile that Russia gains
to the east will intensify those conflicts.

Two possibilities present themselves
now. One, a collapse of Hitler, when
and if the German Army decides to
cast him out. The other will come when
Russia seals the Crimea and heads for
Odessa. Perhaps the second is most
probable. Hence the Moscow conference
must anticipate what will happen in
Rumania, Hungary and the Balkans.

In at least three countries, fierce
civil war is likely. In Rumania, three
parties are ready for the fracas. The
losing and discredited Antonescu will
be attacked by strong pro-Russian
Communist forces from Bessarabia and
the Rumanian panhandle. Against both
of these will rise a peasants' party,
intent upon breaking up large estates
and keeping out the Communist farm-
ing system.

Most certain, also, will be a Hun-
garian attack upon Rumania through
Transylvania. In Yugoslavia, there is
already another Spanish war in the
making. If there is, as we know, still
time for civil war there, even in the
face of Rommel's army, the withdrawal
of Germany will certainly be the signal
for a battle royal. The case of Bulgaria
may be simpler. Her sympathy is whol-
ly for Russia. A liquidation of all pro-
German elements will be in order. In
Greece, where civil war has already ex-
ploded, vengeance will also be dealt
out to pro-German elements.

Since this welter of disorder lies
ahead, it is to be hoped that the Mos-
cow conferences will have at least two
results. The first is that Russia will
withdraw such objections as she may
have to an Anglo-American invasion of
the Balkans. The second is the aban-
donment of the more than a century-old
British policy of thwarting and fore-
stalling Russian influence in the Bal-
kans. In bringing about these ends, the
influence of the United States may well
be decisive. The creation of a group of
wholly independent states, or a feder-
ation of such states, will not be possible
for a long time to come. Needless to
say, the influence of Russia and of
Great Britain will be necessary to main-
tain order. And if the breeding of fu-
ture war is to be prevented, Anglo-
Russian friendship and collaboration
are essential.

The primary service of American di-
plomacy in this sector will be the
achievement of collaboration between
the two great powers who have, through
their mutual distrust, so long permitted
the Balkans to breed disorder and war.
We have much to offer both Russia and
England elsewhere in the world. Per-
haps the Yankee horse-trading tradi-
tion, of which Mr. Hull is so proud,
can help. In any event, the moment
has come to make the attempt if this
war is not to end in wholesale civil
strife. In the Balkans it is always later
than we think.