Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

TITAN UNBOUND, I

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The traditional concept of Russia, which still lingers in the minds of
American statesmen, is a great inter-continental land mass with a popula-
tion of multiracial strains, sinister and inscrutable, ever crowding upon its
neighbors, but locked in by its lack of warm-water exits to the world out-
side. A titan, stirring uneasily within and suspicious of Western influence.
It was so when Peter the Great gingerly surveyed Western ways. But
through two centuries until the revolution it contented itself with harass-
ing its neighbors, making alliances in Europe and breaking them when its
rulers chose.

When attacked, as in 1812, Russia permitted such aggressors to perish in
its vastnesses and cold. And even in our century, when it was racked by
internal convulsions, Western eyes, except those of the most perceptive,
looked on with passive indifference.

Then, when the cold war started in the late 1940s, we and our Western
allies came to be alarmed by Soviet demonstrations of scientific progress
and military might. We conceived the threat to be directed against Western
Europe, Japan and the United States on land and in space and through sub-
version by Communist propaganda.

Our reaction has been to match the Soviet's military potential and by mas-
sive foreign aid to anticipate Soviet influence in needy countries.

We cannot deny the danger in such projections of power and influence nor
the need for countermeasures.

THE STRATEGY OF SEAPOWER

What we see superficially are Soviet policies to exacerbate centers of
conflict over the world, to make grand gestures in space, to rattle missiles
and to poison world opinion by propaganda glorifying Russian scientific
progress and vilifying the West as imperial and colonial.

But beyond those diversionary tactics is a major design rooted in the
Kremlin's comprehension of seapower, a key to breaking out of landlocked
isolation. Soviet strategists have been literate people. They have read in his-
tory that ever since Rome overcame Carthage, despite Hannibal's genius,
the nations that have been dominant have been powerful on the sea, com-
mercially and militarily. Nothing in our day has changed that.

Seapower is a nation's ability to project its identity into the seven seas
-its commercial potential in peace; in war, its fighting ships. To employ to
its advantage its capacity to use the seas-a navy, merchant ships, ship-
yards, seaports, a fishing industry and marine science and engineering.

Sometime before the death of Stalin fourteen years ago, the strategists
in the Kremlin decided upon seapower as a national policy. Once made,
that policy became binding upon all of Stalin's successors.

In creating long-term policy, a totalitarian police state has certain advan-
tages over free or, if you will, democratic states. For it has continuity in
its self-perpetuating oligarchy undisturbed by popular influences. Here,
Presidents and Congresses make not policies but expedients as political
tides change.

INTERNATIONAL PURPOSES

Since commercial intercourse is the basis of seapower, major wars must be
avoided. At first, at least, the building of a navy is designed for defense and
the possible destruction of an enemy's commerce. The Kaiser, who sought
seapower, made the mistake of building a navy for offense against the Brit-
ish Navy and failed in the test.

Soviet strategy has considered that. In addition to building defensive na-
val forces, the U.S.S.R. has concentrated on accumulating a vast mer-
chant fleet with all the auxiliary facilities. Soviet programs have been
models of efficiency and determination, directed to political, military,
economic and scientific ends.

The earlier ships were built for purely domestic needs. But now ships
are being launched for a complex of international purposes.

V.G. Bakayev, Soviet Minister of Sea Transport, has emphasized the
economic value of the program, especially to acquire for the Soviet more
and more foreign currency. But he added that by "participating in
the foreign-trade shipments between many countries of the world, the So-
viet sailors contribute to the expansion of the international ties with the
U.S.S.R." The role played in international economic relations creates, as
another Russian put it, "a new alignment of forces" in the world.

Russian maritime policy is well designed to achieve supremacy at sea in
relatively few years. In another piece I shall supply the details of this new
phase of the cold war.

Newsweek, July 24, 1967