Here's the text from the provided image, extracted and formatted to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

Who Would Pay for It?

by Raymond Moley

THE idea of government medical
care for the aged under social se-
curity was not new in 1960. But in
that year there were exhaustive Con-
gressional hearings and debates, and
the subject was a campaign issue.
Since then it has been a leading sub-
ject of discussion everywhere.
Considering this full "educational"
coverage, the wonder rises that, even
with the cynicism concerning public
intelligence which is so characteristic
of political life, extravagant claims are
now made about the King-Anderson
bill, claims as to cost and also bene-
fits. The matter is not complex when
we limit ourselves to who would pay
for it and how much and how long,
and who would receive and what
they would get.
Under the proposal, there would
be added to the present and future
rates of social-security taxes, in 1963
and thereafter, one-fourth of 1 per
cent on employer and employe alike.
Employes are told that this will buy
protection in their old age. That "pro-
tection" would be "up to" 90 days of
hospitalization, "up to" 180 days of
skilled nursing-home services, home
health services not exceeding 240
visits a year, and outpatient hospital
diagnostic services. The patient would
pay $10 a day for nine days for hos-
pitalization. Also, $20 for diagnostic
service. There would be no "free"
medical or surgical services by phy-
sicians, and the kind of drugs, etc.,
would be limited. For every benefi-
ciary there would have to be a 90-day
wait before a repeat.

LOW GUESSES

That is what the worker would get
when he is old enough. He can easily
calculate what he would pay for this
future benefit. It is a lot of money.
And it has nothing to do with his
own protection meanwhile, or his chil-
dren's, or his wife's.
Under the present law the social-
security tax will rise and rise. In 1962
it is 3% per cent on employer and
employe alike. In 1963-65 it will be
3% per cent. In 1966-67 it will be 4%
per cent on each. In 1968 it will be
4% per cent. If the King-Anderson
bill passes, one-fourth of 1 per cent
would be added in 1963 and there-
after. The self-employed would pay

higher percentages all along. And the
base pay subject to tax would be
raised from $4,800 to $5,200.
This tax bite for social security (in-
cluding the King-Anderson addition)
for both employer and employe
would in 1968 amount to $507, or
$21.12 a month each-an increase of
76 per cent from 1961.
All this is based upon the estimate
of the government that the plan
would cost $1 billion a year for a
while. But like all government
guesses, this is probably too low.
Competent actuaries put the figure at
two or more times that amount.

INEQUITABLE COVERAGE

This tax is discriminatory. It falls on
only those who pay social-security
taxes, excluding all others. It is
compulsory. But the need is alleged
to be a national responsibility, and if
that be so it should be paid by all,
not some, of the taxpayers.
And consider the small-business
man with a few employes. He cannot
generally increase his prices to cover
this expense. His plight is already
obvious. It would be much greater
under the King-Anderson plan.
There can be no argument about
the fact that there is a national obliga-
tion to make sure that no elderly per-
son shall lack medical and nursing
care. This country is rich enough, and
its people are humane enough to rec-
ognize that. Help is and should be
provided by private insurance, phi-
lanthropy, the doctors themselves,
and relatives. If, after a real examina-
tion of the facts, this is proved to be
inadequate, the government should
help. But the King-Anderson bill is
not really protection for the aged. It
is inequitable because it does not
cover all the old people who may
need the care.
The total cost to which I have re-
ferred must be a vague guess,
because the plan must deal with psy-
chological imponderables. It is not
based upon demonstrated need, and
it was shown in Britain that no gov-
ernment experts could safely estimate
the number of those who would avail
themselves of something "free."
Next week I shall consider the plan
from the standpoint of the present
and probable aged population.

Newsweek, May 14, 1962