TODAY IN AMERICA
By Raymond Moley

European Riddle

ON THE surface, the situation in
Europe looks disheartening indeed.
Just when the two great democracies
of Europe need all the show of solidari-
ty and of strength they can muster to
hold the Fascist dictators in some
semblance of international decorum,
France is revealed to all the world as
weak financially and split by internal
dissensions. Britain, acutely conscious
of her weakness in armament and
shaken by a recent constitutional crisis,
does not speak with her old tone of
firm authority. The steady rattle of the
executioners' rifles behind the Russian
curtain raises doubts as to the present
strength of Russia, either as foe or ally.
This conjunction of circumstances
would seem to set the stage for war.
Spain offers the pretexts. The bomb-
ing of the Deutschland, the alleged sub-
marine attack on the Leipzig, a dozen
other incidents have given reasons as
good as any warmaker needs. Hitler
and Mussolini betray by their increas-
ing brazenness in Spain that they are
fully aware of the preoccupations of
their neighbors.

Yet there is no general European
war, and the consensus of trained ob-
servers is that there will be none soon.
From the fact that this made-to-order
opportunity is not seized upon by some
aggressor, we may draw a kind of com-
fort. Evidently the time is not yet.

Why not? For one reason, because
the French army still is incomparably
the best in the world. For another,
foreign war might, just possibly might,
solidify Russia. But most important of
all, the "dress rehearsal" in Spain has
dismayed both Hitler and Mussolini.
The Duce has no reason to be proud of
the showing his troops have made.
Germany is grievously disappointed
with the performance of German
planes, equipment and line officers.
The high command is said to have in-
formed Hitler bluntly that it would not
assume responsibility for results if any
precipitate action provoked European
hostilities. Italy, of course, cannot for
a moment contemplate moving alone.
So a kind of peace is preserved.
True, the nonintervention pact in Spain
is turned into a farce, but Great Britain
and France play it out, swallowing
their pride. They play for time. I think
they should.

I never have held with the men who
say: "War is inevitable; better now
36
than later." Procrastination is always
better. In time, all things are possible.
Dictators die, and their satraps fall to
quarreling among themselves for the
vacant chair. In spite of OGPUS and
party purges, opposition organizes and
it overthrows regimes. The skies sud-
denly clear.
Nobody wins and everybody loses a
war. Nobody gains by hastening one.

Party Lines Crack

THE new New Deal, its philosophers,
its field marshals, its allies and, to
some degree, its program are at last
beginning to emerge clearly into the
public view. But to trained political
observers, the omens of its coming
were unmistakable as far back as 1935.
President Roosevelt's troubles with
Congress now do not differ in charac-
ter from his troubles with Congress
during that long, hot summer of 1935.
They differ only in degree. The moder-
ates in both houses balked then at his
holding-company death sentence and
his share-the-wealth tax program, just
as they are balking now at his Court
proposal, his sympathetic attitude to-
ward the C.I.O., his disposition to spon-
sor further reforms and the continued
budget unbalance.

But the exigencies of the coming
campaign prevented any fight to the
finish in 1935. Above everything, party
harmony was necessary. Conservative
Democrats decided to forget the past
and go along. Many, like The New
York Times, chose to believe that Mr.
Roosevelt would trim his sails when
reelected. And the smoke of the cam-
paign prevented any considerable num-
ber of people from seeing the currents
which were already in motion.

The significant development of the
last few months is the open resistance
that the President has encountered,
not from those members of his party,
like Glass, Byrd, Bailey, Tydings and
Smith, who have been more or less
hostile to Roosevelt since 1933, but
from such generally moderate leaders
of the party as Senators Robinson,
Harrison, Pittman and Byrnes. When
the WPA appropriation was under con-
sideration, these men, all of them, for
the first time openly opposed the Presi-
dent's desire for a free hand. Privately,
all have urged him to forget about his
program for the time being and let
Congress go home if he would avoid a
permanent schism in the party.

These men are profoundly worried
over the economic, social and political
implications of the new New Deal.
Their concern involves more than the
scheme to pack the Supreme Court. It
will certainly survive the settlement of
that issue. They see in Mr. Roosevelt's
semipolitical "alliance" with the C.I.O.,
in the talk of a third term, in the con-
tinuation of executive control over re-
lief funds and farm bounties, in the
attempts to control independent com-
missions and in the effort to govern
wages and hours through a Federal
board, two central purposes—a desire
to punish and impoverish private busi-
ness and a desire to create executive
leadership powerful enough to dispense
with them entirely and to build a strong
party of extremists.

Other than these, they see no threads
of consistency in the new New Deal.
Its program is not a program at all,
they say, but a congeries of lofty aspi-
rations, blinding prejudices and naïve
faith in the efficacy of economic pan-
aceas. And, at the moment, they are
determined to "save" the country, the
party and themselves by toning down
the Roosevelt program wherever pos-
sible and by choosing the next Demo-
cratic Presidential nominee.

But, in my judgment, these men
have not yet come to the point of an
open permanent break with Mr. Roose-
velt. They know that his hold on the
rank and file of voters, while consid-
erably diminished during the last few
months, is still strong. And they fear
his hold on the rank and file of Con-
gress—especially on the freshmen and
sophomore Democratic Senators, such
as Pepper of Florida, Schwartz of Wy-
oming, and Minton of Indiana.

On the other hand, the President
himself is certainly not anxious for
open warfare with the Robinson-Harri-
son group if he can avoid it. Whatever
his inner feelings may be, he is count-
ing on limiting his "purge" to his out-
and-out Democratic opponents of the
type of Copeland, Byrd and Smith, and
some of the more politically vulnerable
opponents of his Court plan. He is
counting on his ability to conciliate the
rebellious moderates by actual and
metaphorical fish fries or, failing that,
on his ability to drive them back into
line with the whip of patronage.

But he intends, in any case, to carry
on until the new New Deal, whatever
it may be, is well established. And
whether he succeeds depends less on
whether these men are willing to break
openly with him, than on whether they
will give assistance, even passive as-
sistance, to a fourth group of Demo-
cratic Senators, including Burke, King,
Wheeler, O'Mahoney, Clark and Van
Nuys. These Senators, more progres-
sive than the Glass-Bailey group and
more independent than the Robinson-
Harrison group, are already in the
thick of a last-ditch fight. Their de-
termination and courage may well be
the check rein on the new New Deal.

NEWS-WEEK July 10, 1937