Perspective

Money Gets Moving

by Raymond Moley

AS WE have heard on many occasions, the rallying cry of the
Kennedy regime is "Let's Get Moving." This strange device may yet appear on our currency, our stamps, and
on the President's great seal. It may replace on the great seal of the
United States, printed on our dollar bill: "Novus Ordo Seclorum." The latter was placed on our buck by the
late Franklin D. Roosevelt. He said it meant the New Deal.

The expression is in the tempo of the rocket age. In the beginning there was the horse, then the iron horse,
the propeller aircraft, the jet, and finally the rocket. Whether this be progress, time will tell. It certainly
is motion.

Herbert Hoover believed in action, too, but grappled vainly with the depression largely because a Democratic
Congress had political plans for him. But in 1932 he did prod Congress sufficiently to get authorization for the
Reconstruction Finance Corp. The fiscal principle back of the RFC, suitable only for a grievous emergency, was, I
believe, in violation of the constitutional directive that "no money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in
consequence of appropriations made by law." But that RFC principle has since been perverted into a means of
bypassing the Constitution for all sorts of purposes which have no justification at all on grounds of an emergency.
Unless, in truth, "politics is a perpetual emergency."

WAYS WITHOUT MEANS

The RFC was told to get the money for its vast lending operations by drawing it directly, and without Congressional appropriations, from the
Treasury. This money was to come from the sale of government bonds. It simply meant adding the amount
to the national debt and thus providing for fiat or inflationary money for the use of the bond-buying public.
The pathway opened to the back door of the Treasury has become a broad highway. It is so easy for Presidents, impatient with the business of
justifying themselves before responsible appropriations committees, and for a Congressional majority, itching to
give handouts without asking for more taxes to balance them, to have their ways without the means. All they do
by this "back-door" spending is to pass the I.O.U.'s to a generation which cannot threaten living politicians with
their votes. Apparently, when the President talks about sacrifice he is not addressing this generation, but the
next and the next. The Carolines and JFK Jr.'s can worry about that.

Many Federal agencies are now using the back door, among them the Commodity Credit Corp., the Export-
Import Bank, and several mortgage and housing units. There are loans to veterans, defense production loans,
subscriptions to the International Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Secretary Dillon estimates that there
have been such Treasury handouts amounting to $108 billion, of which not a third has been repaid.

'FINANCIAL DUPLICITY'

Under plans of the New Frontier the sum will mount to further astronomical heights. And now the Administration has asked for $7.3 billion
in such an authorization for unspecified foreign aid. When congressmen asked for some idea as to what this is
to be used for, they were told by Secretary Rusk that "full public discussion" of such plans is not desirable.
Secretary Dillon says this method is the more efficient and less costly method of financing such purposes.

It is highly doubtful that the Secretary of the Treasury is right about its being "less costly," but it is certainly
more efficient in the sense that an executive dictatorship is able to move faster than a constitutional republic.
Responsible leaders in Congress have for a long time denounced "back-door" spending. Clarence Cannon, experienced chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee, quite properly calls it "financial duplicity" and "fiscal insanity." But these protests
have been ignored. We are witnessing a government without responsibility, with a callous disregard of the
Constitution, and with a determination to pass on our extravagance to our children. Perhaps Uncle Sam,
whom a wise financier, Bernard Baruch, has often called "Uncle Sap," is deluded into believing that succeeding generations will have no worries except to settle the family's debts.

Newsweek, July 3, 1961