Here's the text extracted from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

TODAY IN AMERICA

June 12, 1937

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

THE FINE ART OF AVOIDANCE

THE President's denunciation of the wealthy tax
dodgers who incorporate themselves in the Baha-
mas, take their minor children into Wall Street part-
nerships or charge their pocket money up to business
expenses, is singularly unexciting. I have no sympathy
with tax dodgers. I think they are not only mean-
spirited, but stupid. They probably deserve what-
ever unpleasant notoriety they may get as a result of
Congressional action.

But when that has been said, the fact remains that
the whole affair is pretty small potatoes. The income-
tax figures for 1935 show that there were 235 income-
tax payers with incomes of $300,000 or more and that
they paid a total of $84,000,000 in taxes, which was 16
per cent of all income taxes collected. The ablest tax
expert I know tells me that if all evasions and avoid-
ances of the kind mentioned by the President were
detected and the money recovered, it might possibly
amount to 10 per cent of this sum, or $8,400,000.
Roughly, this amounts to less than half of one per
cent of the annual expenditures of the government.
It is an amount which, however unfairly withheld,
does not loom large in our national economy.

Tax dodging, says Secretary Morgenthau, is respon-
sible for "a very large portion of the deficiency in
revenues." Well, the Treasury estimates missed fire
by $400,000,000. Compare this with the $8,400,000
mentioned above.

The Treasury's egregious error is largely the result
of its miscalculation about the effect of the corporate-
surplus tax. When the President first proposed that
tax the Treasury permitted him to say, among other
things, that the tax would "stop leaks in present sur-
taxes." Now the Treasury, in order to alibi its $400,-
000,000 deficiency, would have us believe that the tax,
instead of stopping leaks, actually opened up new ones.
As a matter of fact, the implication that the methods
of evasion enumerated by Secretary Morgenthau were
invented only last year is absurd. Incorporation of
foreign holding companies has been going on for
years. The favored place for incorporation used to
be Panama; now it happens to be the Bahamas. In-
corporation of private estates is old stuff, too.

THE President calls the demand for the revision of
the tax structure this year an attempt to befog the
issue. It is a red herring, he says. Yet it is the un-
fairness and severity of the income-tax laws which
create the very condition of which he complains so
passionately; it is the harshness of the law which
goads taxpayers into seeking means of escape. Tax
evasion and avoidance always increase in direct ratio
with the severity of the tax; that is axiomatic.

The President concedes the ultimate need for over-
hauling the entire tax structure. There is only one
reason for the postponement of that job: it puts off
the day when the President and the Treasury must
defend or admit the unfairness of some of their major
tax policies, notably the enactment of the corporate-
surplus tax. To defend that tax will be difficult in-
deed, and the Administration apparently has no desire
to admit that it made a mistake in sponsoring it.
In this respect, recent events in London offer a con-
trast. Some time back, Neville Chamberlain, as Chan-


cellor of the Exchequer, submitted a thoroughly bad
tax bill—not like our surplus-profits tax, but open to
many of the same fundamental objections. The cli-
max of an informative debate on it was a speech by
Winston Churchill in Parliament so penetrating that
it deserves a wide reading in this country, particularly
in Washington. He said: "Mr. Gladstone—or perhaps
it was Mr. Disraeli—on one occasion, when reproached
for giving way on some point, said that 'in a demo-
cratically governed country, it is sometimes necessary
to defer to the opinions of other people.'" Mr.
Churchill pleaded with the new Prime Minister to
show sufficient resiliency of mind and largeness of
spirit to drop the proposal immediately and "to drop
it in the grand manner." This Mr. Chamberlain did,
frankly and engagingly admitting his mistake.

In Washington, the failure of the surplus-profits tax
and the Treasury's gross overestimates are simply not
discussed. The attempt to create a diversion by raising
a hue and cry about tax dodgers implies, of course, an
admission of error. But this can hardly be called a
manifestation of "the grand manner."

THE moral approach in Mr. Roosevelt is rather
highly developed. It has appeared once more in
the hazy generalities about moral frauds with which
his message is studded. The President is none too pre-
cise in his use of these terms to characterize, with one
stroke of the pen, devices which are clearly within
the law, devices which are clearly violations of the
law, and devices whose illegality is problematical. On
the other hand, the attempts of some commentators
to justify any form of avoidance not prohibited by
the letter of the law will not stand up, either in the
face of public opinion or modern moral science. The
public cares little about the legal distinction be-
tween "evasion" and "avoidance"; to the country as
a whole a tax dodger is a tax dodger. And most
modern ethicists hold with Father Blakely, S.J., a
brilliant editor of *America*, that the law imposes an
obligation in conscience and that "No man may use
his property in such a way that injury results to the
State or to any individual. He must administer it not
only for his own good, but also for the common good."

In my judgment, this describes the attitude of most
men of wealth today with reference to loopholes in
the tax laws—an attitude which is reinforced by two
very practical considerations: nothing they could pos-
sibly buy with the money they might save would give
them enough satisfaction to offset the notoriety that
evasion or avoidance usually entails; and even if they
succeeded in lessening their annual taxes, thus in
effect increasing the size of their fortune, their heirs
would have to pay just that much more inheritance tax.

The biggest individual taxpayers now are those who
hold large fortunes accumulated in the days when
neither income nor inheritance taxes were high. It is
unlikely that such fortunes will appear again. We are
fast cutting down the forest of big trees; there isn't
going to be any second growth to match it. Thus the
average man must ultimately shoulder more and more
of the burden. When he realizes that it is going to
take a sizable red herring to divert him from a pretty
ruthless attack upon the cost of government.

Page 1043 of 1087