Here's the text from the provided image, extracted to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

MEANING OF THE FAIR

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

We are living in a world in which
alien forces confront free people
on innumerable fronts, energized by
a philosophy that capitalism not only
fails to meet men’s aspirations but
is decadent and dying. The cold
war suggests the medieval thrusts
against Christian nations by the unbe-
lievers. The military clash after many
crusades was inconclusive. But in the
centuries that followed, the West tri-
umphed by its achievements in art,
science and productivity.

The essential theme of the New
York World’s Fair is to show in con-
crete forms what free societies have
done, what they can do and what by
the projection of imagination they can
expect to do to enrich the lives of
men who choose freedom. It is not
without significance that all efforts to
bring in a Soviet exhibit failed, for the
Russians, despite their space propa-
ganda, fear the contrast between
what they have done for their peo-
ple’s personal needs and what has
been done in free nations, especially
our own.

All the great fairs since 1876 pri-
marily have been manifestations of
the progress and potentials of the
industrial arts. The most famous was
at Chicago in 1893. It happened that
in that decade remarkable applica-
tions of electricity were made
in serving civilization’s human needs
and wants. That glorious dilettante,
Henry Adams, whose philosophy was
tinged with pessimism, marveled at
what he saw at Chicago.

EDUCATIONAL GAIN

He had been deeply disturbed by
the “social disequilibrium” in Ameri-
can life, and so “he set off to Chicago
to study the Exposition again, and
stayed there a fortnight absorbed in
it. He found a matter of study to fill
a hundred years, and his education
spread over chaos … At Chicago,
educational gain started like rabbits
from every building and ran out of
sight among thousands of its kind be-
fore one could mark its burrow.”

Adams was absorbed with the po-
tentiality of the Cunard steamers and
the railroads, but the dynamo was the
center of his speculation. He was
looking at what had been wrought
by such pioneers as Edison, Morse,
Brush and a score of others.

But sophisticated as he was and
as he tried to be, he
missed the essential source. Men
such as these, working in the free-
for-all climate—the excesses of which
troubled many more than Adams—
without aid of government, with
disregard of mechanical and cultural
traditions, even without the aid of
business institutions themselves, had
been free to play with their scientific
knowledge and engineering skills.
Their experimentation had opened
the way to a new and resplendent
material progress.

KEY TO PROGRESS

But even in New York in 1965, to
go and see and wonder at what is
shown is not enough. As in every ef-
fort to teach, the lessons must be
spelled out in words, sentences and
formulas. That is why visiting the
fair is not complete without a stop at
the Hall of Free Enterprise. This
building is the visible demonstration
of a concept of Fred G. Clark and
Richard S. Rimanoczy of the Ameri-
can Economic Foundation. The hall
is designed to tell in simple words
the philosophy which explains the
climate in which industrial, mechani-
cal and scientific progress has flour-
ished. After a good many years of
dedicated study and educational ac-
tivities, the creators of this exhibit
evolved what they call the Ten Pillars
of Economic Wisdom. Some of the
most pertinent of these are:

“Nothing in our material world can
come from nowhere and go nowhere
… Everything in our economic life
has a source, a destination and a
cost that must be paid … All pro-
ductivity is based upon three factors:
(1) material resources, whose form,
place and condition are changed by
the expenditure of (2) human energy
(both muscular and mental) with
the aid of (3) tools. Tools are the
only one of the three factors which
man can increase without limit …
The productivity of tools has always
been highest in a competitive system
in which the economic decisions are
made by millions of progress-seeking
individuals.”

Like Henry Adams, we lose the
meaning of the exhibits at the fair
without this key to the source of
progress in the Western world.

Newsweek, July 12, 1965