Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

All or Nothing?

by Raymond Moley

IT is a matter of real regret that this
piece may not agree with the sentiments of many conservative friends
whose confidence and encouragement, either directly or through
epistolary channels, I value beyond
measure. But it seems to me that
certain extremely practical reflections
should be expressed plainly, reasonably, and in good humor.

I refer to many conservatives who
in the past and recently have expressed, either in print or personally,
great unhappiness concerning political
leaders whose views and votes have
not completely and specifically met
their own convictions. The vice of
such irreconcilability is that it defeats
the very objectives that most conservatives are earnestly seeking. This
habit, it seems to me, is much more a
threat to sound government than all
the power and prattle of radicals. The
all-or-nothing attitude means a house
divided, which cannot stand.

A few specific examples will illustrate what I mean. There are those
who would abolish, not reform, the
income tax; or stop, not rationalize, all
foreign economic and military aid; or
smash, not regulate, labor unions. In
one state an irreconcilable ran for the
Senate last year and only succeeded
in electing a radical over the moderate Republican. In Idaho, to be more
specific, some businessmen insisted
upon putting right-to-work on the ballot against the advice of wiser heads
and almost defeated a good Republican governor. I believe in right-to-
work supported by law. But I also
believe that when the die is cast, the
proponents should be prepared.

These were not. At the moment, there
is considerable growling about Vice
President Nixon as a Presidential candidate: "He is too close to Secretary
Mitchell, and Mitchell is too friendly
to labor." "He is too hard on civil
rights and too soft on welfare." Etc.

CAN'T PLEASE EVERYBODY

President Eisenhower has been
"too soft" on many things during these
years, they say, and sometimes their
complaints have been well taken.
Even Sen. Robert A. Taft, some
conservatives thought, was too compromising. And Herbert Hoover, before Democrats created him as an
archreactionary, was too progressive
for many Republicans.

There are many conservative propaganda agencies sending out bales of
literature which convert only the converted. The country can't be saved
with words. It must be saved by toil
and sweat in the precincts, but this
the complainers leave to "those pros"
whom they likewise excoriate.

The all-or-nothing conservative must
realize that unless a political candidate or official is a hypocrite, he cannot conform to all the views of millions.
The election of a public servant under our system is a choice of alternatives. In reaching for the
branches, one may miss the firm trunk
of the tree. Finally, there is the political consideration that the expression of such ultraconservative views
gives the radicals exactly what they
need for ammunition.

NEW NATIONAL POLICIES

I yearn sometimes for the pastoral
days when I was a little boy and
McKinley was President and Mark
Hanna was running the Republican
Party. McKinley was vilified by the
New York conservative press in 1896
because he had voted for a silver act
in 1878. Hanna was Senator Lodge's
idea of a monster. But McKinley
espoused the tariff views since made
a fetish by Presidents Roosevelt,
Truman, and Eisenhower. Hanna was
a real friend of labor and a humane
and popular employer. And despite
the all-or-nothings of the time, the
1896 promise of a "full dinner pail"
was redeemed with interest.

Since then, certain issues have been
settled as national policy: The vicissitudes of old age are a national concern; securities selling must be regulated; the farmer must be protected from periodic ruin, and big
labor unions are here to stay.

I want to anticipate the "liberals"
who may read the foregoing. I want
no part of their present philosophy.
As for the taunts of "me-tooer"
and "so-you-would-do-all-those-things-
but-better," my answer would be that
I would like to see most of "those
things" done better, and some I would
quit doing at all. But while doing so,
I would dramatize creative capitalism as the last, best hope.

Newsweek, August 3, 1959