Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Hollywood's War With England

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—What there is left of
the optimism which created the
movie industry now finds expression in
the refrain: "England's going to be
sorry for this blow!" It might be added
that an excess of the same optimism
prevented the industry from antici-
pating the moment that Prime Minister
Attlee announced an ad valorem tax
of 75 per cent on American
films, that a compromise
would be arranged.

During the war years, Will
Hays, with the aid of the
State Department, repeatedly
ly released Hollywood money
impounded in England. This
time, there had been hope
that a settlement might be
reached by which 25 per
cent of American revenue
from films would be left for investment
or spending in Britain. But this hope
proved baseless, and the ax fell.
The first reaction here was bitter
anger. The blow was foul, it was said.
It violated many provisions in British-
American trade agreements. The second
reaction was retaliation. The industry
proclaimed a ban on all film exports
to Great Britain.

THERE is some hope that the State
Department may make future aid
to Britain conditioned on a removal of
the film tax. But Hollywood has, up to
now, received no assurance that Wash-
ington will extend itself in this matter.
The final hope is that British exhibi-
tors, who have millions of pounds in-
vested in theaters, will carry Holly-
wood's fight to Downing Street.
However, the effect on Hollywood of
this British action is extremely severe.
There are 167 pictures, worth $200,-
000,000, in the vaults awaiting release.
Shutting them out of Britain means a
loss to the American industry of all
the profits formerly counted on from
there. There are various estimates of
the net yearly profit to American com-
panies from films shown in Great Brit-
ain. The figure is probably more than
$40,000,000. This conservative estimate
is about one-quarter of the profits of all
American companies. The loss falls
most heavily on the so-called independ-
ent producers, who produce few but
very important and expensive pictures.
Charles Chaplin once said that he fig-
ured domestic sales of his big pictures
paid the cost and foreign sales repre-
sented the profit.
In such a situation drastic readjust-
ments are essential. Costs must be re-
duced and the number of productions
must be cut. American producers have
long been criticized for unnecessarily
high costs. But, except for a few com-
panies, this criticism has not been
heeded. Meanwhile, inflation-
ary forces have pushed
wages, salaries and materials
still higher. Not much relief
can be expected from raising
admission prices in American
theaters, because ever since
the end of the war there has
been stiff resistance by thea-
tergoers to what are widely
considered top prices for
second-rate pictures. Little
relief is expected through an escape
from the star system, because the Amer-
ican public demands stars and neglects
pictures which try to get by on merit.
While there is some griping here
about recent agreements to exhibit
British pictures in the United States,
the present situation has little to do
with British importations. J. Arthur
Rank has concluded a deal which per-
mits him to exhibit some of his pic-
tures in American theaters. But the
prospective profit of $12,000,000 is an
inconsiderable offset to the amount
American pictures earn in Britain, and
Rank himself is seriously injured by his
government's action, because of his vast
ownership of British theaters. Despite
the just praise and wide publicity at-
tending such pictures as "Henry V" and
"Great Expectations," British films do
not go well here, except in big cities.

The ban on American exports to
England may, if it extends beyond
the six months for which Britain is al-
ready supplied, create a grave problem
in the United Kingdom. The British
public heavily depends on Hollywood
for entertainment. Last year, about 70
per cent of the feature pictures shown
in British theaters originated in Holly-
wood. British theaters cannot now and
probably never will be able to depend
on British productions. In Britain, as
in America, the public demands Ameri-
can stars in American pictures.
And so the shadow of Britain's crisis
has darkened the lights of Hollywood.

Newsweek, August 25, 1947