Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting discrepancies may remain due to the original image quality and column layout.

**Strict Accountability**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

A vast and menacing unknown hangs over all speculations on the probable outcome of the Presidential election in 1944. It enters into every intelligent conversation on the subject, but it receives little public comment. It is the question how extensively and in what way public opinion about the Commander-in-Chief's military strategy will influence the vote for the President and his ticket.

Republican politicians hesitate to talk about this because it is a two-edged question. On the one side, there is the possibility that the war in Europe may end in a brilliant victory for the Allies well before the election. In that case, the Commander-in-Chief's strategy, the credit for whose making he shares with Churchill, will be graded A-1 by the man in the street. And every fourth-term orator will remind us of that fact. Hence, premature criticism of this or that campaign or battle may prove a boomerang.

Another reason for hesitation is the reluctance of political writers with no political axes to grind to write about strategy partly because they are not military experts and partly because they feel a certain reticence about associating political probabilities with matters of life and death on the battlefield.

Since the primary duty of those who comment in print is to inform their readers truthfully and frankly, however, we may assume that more will be said on this subject in the weeks and months ahead. And for certain very immediate reasons extensive comment may come soon.

It is becoming increasingly clear that the Commander-in-Chief is deeply involved in the military strategy of the war. His maps and globes, his lecture to the people on global strategy last year, his insistence that his conferences with foreign heads of states dealt with strategy, his appointment of a personal chief of staff over his other chiefs—all have encouraged the belief that he is not only his own Secretary of State, but of War and of the Navy too.

On this basis, his supporters have had a tendency to brush off criticisms of the home front. They have said that the President has been so busy being Commander-in-Chief that he has had no time for trivia; that production and price control were matters for businessmen in the government and for Congress; and that, if bureaucracy irks civilians, they should not blame the man who is directing armies in a great war.

If the very doubtful strategy of the Italian campaign meets further and drastic criticism in the United States and England, the effect on the voting public will be considerable. How much and how far this will extend cannot be predicted, since Messrs. Roosevelt and Churchill may have other moves planned which will be much more successful. But at the moment, the reaction is certain to be a serious threat to the President's chances of reelection.

For, despite the speeches, resolutions and good intentions of political leaders, it is the people who make the issues, and their disappointment seeks a responsible object. In this case, the use of the title "Commander-in-Chief" and the many evidences of Presidential concern with strategy invite a real challenge. The situation certainly does not suggest that opposition politicians should rush in for the political kill; but it does suggest that no matter what the parties do about it in their conventions, the voting public may be moved as greatly by questions of military policy as by domestic issues.

The dismal failure of what may be called psychological warfare is part of this picture. There have been shake-ups in our foreign propaganda machinery, but the changes in personnel have only emphasized the pathetic incompetence of those who have been vested with the duty of telling the people of Germany and of her satellites to turn out their rulers. The new personnel offers no considerable hope for improvement. In any event, there have been no results. Turkey is still neutral; Bulgaria, Hungary and Rumania are hanging on. The German people are fighting with desperation against "unconditional surrender." Nothing of the moving character of Wilson's potent appeal to the enemy people over the heads of their rulers has been uttered.

This is no time for stubborn adherence to wrong positions in psychological or military strategy. The public is growing impatient and, if this mood grows, the consequences in November will be severe for those now in power.