Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

PHANTOM FUNDS

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

This is the third week in which
I have commented upon what
seemed at first a perfectly simple way
to help tourists travel abroad without
adding a further dollar drain. As I
sought information from the Treasury,
the Congress, banks, and the General
Accounting Office, the facts became
"curiouser and curiouser."

Vast amounts of U.S.-owned for-
eign currency have accumulated in
86 countries, mainly because of our
sale to them of surplus agricultural
commodities under Public Law 480.
In Section 104 of that law there was
included, for American use of pay-
ments in foreign currencies, a wide
variety of military, diplomatic, and
official outlays, in addition to several
sorts of cultural activities. The ex-
istence of these funds first became
widely known to the American pub-
lic because of their use by members
of Congress who were touring on
junkets and by freeloaders who ac-
companied them. This noisome prac-
tice induced Howard Smith's Rules
Committee to establish regulations
for such Congressional spending.

LBJ'S REPLY

In 1961 someone thought about
making this money available for sale
for dollars to American tourists, and
authorizing amendments to the law
were enacted. But the executive de-
partment had made agreements
which excluded such sales to tourists,
and despite proddings from Congress
there were found all sorts of reasons
why the tourists' privilege could not
be realized. Finally the Administra-
tion negotiated agreements with Is-
rael and Egypt and has under way
a new agreement with India. Also,
there is an agreement with Yugosla-
via, which buys grain for dollars, to
make $250,000 available at the U.S.
Embassy in Belgrade for tourist pur-
poses. Among other countries which
have steadfastly refused to accept
the tourist program is Poland. Not
much effort has been made to pub-
licize the sale of currency in Israel
and Egypt beyond putting little pink
and green leaflets into passport of-
fices. The question that arises is
whether the government has really
tried to provide this means of help-
ing tourists and stemming the dollar
drain. Up to now, only $87,837 has


been used out of hundreds of mil-
lions which could be made available.
On Feb. 27 Henry J. Taylor pub-
lished a strong article urging the re-
negotiation of agreements which
stood in the way of the purchase of
counterpart funds by tourists. On
March 1 Senator Byrd wrote a letter
of inquiry on the subject to the Sec-
retaries of State and Treasury, with a
copy to President Johnson. On March
6 President Johnson replied, express-
ing his sympathy for the further use
of these foreign currencies and said:
"I intend to find those situations and
act accordingly." He also said that
Byrd would be receiving a more de-
tailed report from the Secretaries of
State and Treasury.

NEW DOLLARS ONLY?

But another serious aspect of the
lack of use of these U.S.-owned cur-
rencies emerges. In a debate concern-
ing the Inter-American Development
Bank, Senator Ellender, speaking of
Brazil, pointed out that under Public
Law 480 "we were supposed to use
at least 60 per cent of those funds
[representing more than $600 million
worth of surplus sales] to assist in the
development of the economy of
Brazil ... Instead of using it to de-
velop the economy of Brazil, much of
that money has been permitted to re-
main in the coffers of large Brazilian
banks. In the meantime, the Brazilian
cruzeiro has gone down and down
... to about one-third of its original
value. It is my contention that if the
huge sums we now have in Brazil
and other countries were used for
economic development, we could get
along much better and spend fewer
American dollars."

It became clear in this debate that
these countries, besides using our sur-
plus commodities, really want to tie
up the money they have committed
to us and compel us to use new dol-
lars to finance aid to them. That is
why there is so much reluctance on
the part of foreign countries to per-
mit tourists to use counterpart funds.
Meanwhile, members of the Ad-
ministration, from the President down,
have been telling tourists not to travel
abroad but to see the U.S.A. In this
connection, it is interesting to note
that Secretary Dillon's plans after his
resignation include "travel abroad."

Newsweek, March 29, 1965