IN THE course of the next few weeks
we shall be hearing and reading a
great deal about the Bricker amend-
ment. It will no doubt be the subject
of a full-dress debate in Congress. It
has already been before the country
for many months, and millions of words
have been written about it and the
related issues it raises. I shall from
time to time, as the discussion goes
on, state in this space the
reasons why I believe this
amendment or a relatively
similar amendment should
be adopted. But it seems
to me that at this time there
is needed a statement of
what it is and what it pro-
poses to do. Argument can
come later.
As revised by the Judi-
ciary Committee last June,
the three pertinent sections of the pro-
posed amendment (Senate Joint
Resolution 1) are:
1-"A provision of a treaty which
conflicts with this Constitution shall
not be of any force or effect."
2-"A treaty shall become effective
as internal law in the United States
only through legislation which would
be valid in the absence of a treaty."
3-"Congress shall have power to
regulate all executive and other
agreements with any foreign power
or international organization. All such
agreements shall be subject to the
limitations imposed on treaties by
this article."
Section 1 has raised no serious con-
troversy. Its purpose is to affirm a
point which the advocates of the
amendment say was left in grave
doubt by the opinion of Justice
Holmes in Missouri vs. Holland in
1920. Secretary-then Mr.-Dulles in
1952 stated without equivocation that
treaties could cut across the Constitu-
tion. This section opens the way for
judicial review of treaties. Some op-
ponents of the amendment merely say
that this section is unnecessary.
Section 2 would, to use a legal term,
make all treaties "nonself-executing."
That is, treaties would not automati-
cally be law, but would require statu-
tory law to make them valid in their
effect within the United States and
the states. A treaty with Italy, for in-
stance, if it did not directly affect in-
ternal law, would not require enabling

or "implementing" legislation. It should
be noted that when a treaty under
this provision would affect one of the
specified powers of the Federal gov-
ernment, Congress would have to pass
implementing legislation. If it affected
state powers, it would have to be con-
firmed by law in the state or states
affected. With reference to internal
Federal matters, it would simply cut
in the House as well as the
Senate and President.
The chief objection of op-
ponents is the requirement
for state legislation. The ad-
vocates point out that in
most countries in the world
a treaty cannot have the
force of internal law without
legislation. In Canada, for
example, a treaty which has
not been implemented by
legislation can have no authority in
matters involving private rights.
Section 3 is the one to which the
State Department and the President
seem to make the strongest objections.
The opponents point out that such
agreements are made in great num-
bers. It is said that 10,000 executive
agreements have been entered into
in relation to the NATO treaty alone.
It is understandable that busy execu-
tives want leeway in such matters. It
is also understandable that those who
fear executive power should remem-
ber executive agreements in the past
which have gravely affected the in-
ternal interests of the country.
I am omitting any description of the
Administration's proposed substitute
for the Bricker amendment because
several other versions have since been
proposed. Negotiations between Sen-
ator Bricker and the Administration
are still continuing. My information is
that a compromise between Bricker
and the Attorney General and the
President would be possible, but that
the real difficulty lies between the sen-
ator and the State Department.
THOSE who wish to examine in some
detail the issues raised by the
Bricker amendment should write to
their senators for Report No. 412 on
S.J. Res. 1 of the 83rd Congress, First
Session, which contains both the ma-
jority and minority views and argu-
ments of the members of the Senate
Judiciary Committee.
Newsweek, January 18, 1954