Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Battle in Arizona
by Raymond Moley

PHOENIX—Probably the most clear-cut campaign in the nation
between two philosophies of government is raging in this state. The
Republican candidates for the most important offices are not "modern" Re-
publicans. They are conservative in the best sense of the word. They
are incumbent U.S. Sen. Barry Goldwater, running for a second term;
Paul Fannin for governor, and John J. Rhodes, a candidate for another term
in the House of Representatives from the First District, which includes
Maricopa County.

Opposing Goldwater is Governor, and former senator, Ernest
McFarland. Opposing Fannin is the present attorney general, Robert
Morrison. Seeking the Rhodes seat is Joe Haldiman Jr., a businessman who
is ideologically just as conservative as Rhodes. In fact, Haldiman's views on
Federal spending, labor, and other economic issues are so pronounced
that the Democratic Party omits his name in published lists. This ostracism
indicates the extent to which the union political machine controls the
Democratic Party in the state—a control which has already become ab-
solute in certain other states.

Aside from the vigorous activities of the Democratic candidates them-
selves, the dominant force with which Goldwater and Fannin must contend
is the AFL-CIO Committee on Political Education—COPE. The conserva-
tive Haldiman, however, must go it alone among the Democrats.

BUSY COPE

Many COPE workers are abroad in the state, contacting voters, publish-
ing and distributing propaganda, and inspiring word-of-mouth stories.
COPE's finances seem abundant, and its interest even extends to electing
the sort of members of the State Legislature it prefers. There is no doubt
in any informed observer's mind here that the battle waged for Goldwater's
seat is regarded by the politically active union bosses through the nation
as important to them as was the defeat of the late Senator Taft in Ohio
in 1950. Their disaster on that occasion has taught them to operate less
conspicuously now. But the determination to eliminate their severest

Senatorial critic is just as great.
Fannin is inexperienced in politics, but has high standing over the state
as a businessman and civic leader. He is taking to the rough and tumble
of politics like a veteran. He is talking straight common sense about the very
considerable government of an incredibly fast-growing state. He in-
dulges in no personalities but is letting the voters judge his qualifications for
running state affairs as against those of his opponent, who seems to be just a
run-of-the-mill office-seeker, with no real record of handling big administra-
tive problems. This is very important in Arizona because industries moving
to the state are reasonably concerned about the quality of its government.

ANYTHING CAN HAPPEN

There is no right-to-work issue here as there is in California. The state has
such a law and has affirmed it over and over in tests at the polls.
McFarland was a mediocre senator and Senate leader and has managed
state affairs always with the idea that he might be restored to the Senate
seat from which Goldwater dislodged him. He is an inveterate handshaker
and knows the state like his own backyard. He also has the advantage, as
do all statewide Democratic candidates, of a two and a half to one Dem-
ocratic majority in registration.

The pitch of McFarland is that Goldwater has become a statesman
with a national reputation. It is a bit sad that such an argument carries
weight with some voters. But the fact that it does has compelled Goldwater
to enumerate his own services to the state at home and in Washington. And
the record is impressive.

Unlike California, the state of Arizona has a cohesive, unified Republi-
can Party. All its candidates are working for each other. Goldwater, a
brilliant campaigner, is carrying on with great energy.

At this stage it is difficult to evaluate the prospects at election. But at the
moment it seems to most informed people that the races are about even,
with Rhodes probably ahead of his opponent. Goldwater and Fannin seem
to be gaining. But in the weeks ahead almost anything might happen in a
year like this.

Newsweek, October 13, 1958