Perspective

Trade Associations

by Raymond Moley

AMERICAN trade associations are of
many forms and have many pur-
poses. They may comprise companies
in a specific industry or in a segment
of an industry. There are 450 na-
tional trade associations in the metal
industries, 150 of which are in steel
alone. A director of the American
Society of Association Executives
lists more than 1,800 organizations.
Then there are numerous state
Chambers of Commerce and manu-
facturers' associations. And there are
the two big, all-inclusive organiza-
tions, the Chamber of Commerce of
the United States and the National
Association of Manufacturers.

I am not including the latter or-
ganizations in these comments, except
as they are specifically mentioned.
Among trade-association executives
there has been no little concern in the
past year and quite a lot of critical
examination of the quality and na-
ture of their services to their mem-
ber companies. There have also been
specific signs of diminishing mem-
bership due to mergers and to
general business economies. With stif-
fer competition ahead, corporation
budgets must reflect an evaluation of
what the several associations provide
in return for their membership fees.
I discussed this briefly in a news-
paper article two months ago which
brought to me a number of exciting
letters from not altogether happy as-
sociation executives.

THE PRINCIPAL HAZARDS

I have no desire here to argue the
value of their research, their statistic
work, their member conventions, and
their legislative service to members.
All these have their values. I also
realize from the contents of their let-
ters that these executives are strug-
gling to find new and better methods
of service to their members.

I must say, however, that I find a
disappointing lack of evidence that
they are fully aware that, despite
their service in explaining pending
legislation and their contacts with
legislators, they are, in those respects,
losing influence. For with every elec-
tion legislators, national and state,
who are willing to lend a sympathetic
ear are diminishing in number and
influence. I wonder—perhaps I should
say doubt—whether a Taft-Hartley
Act could be passed over a Presi-
dential veto as it was ten years ago.
The opponents of business manage-
ment have shifted their attention, as
I have said before, from the place
where laws are made to where law-
makers are made.

Philip M. Talbott, president of the
Chamber of Commerce of the United
States, has warned that “the principal
hazards facing business in 1958 will
be on the legislative front.” Behind
that front is the political front. Acting
on that premise, the Chamber has
carried the issue to its membership
through its “1957 Aircade” to 8,000
businessmen from 800 communities.

MANAGEMENT EDUCATION

Charles R. Sligh Jr., executive vice
president of the NAM, in a notable
speech this month described how his
organization has tackled this prob-
lem. He warned his members against
saying that “business and politics
don’t mix” by pointing out that busi-
ness and politics are already mixed
by the opponents of management. He
implored businessmen to provide
more political leadership in their com-
munities and districts, and to realize
that to get that leadership there must
be organized inspiration as well as
education in the know-how of poli-
tics. To supply this, “during the past
year, the NAM has established a
public-affairs department, which will
work with businessmen and their local
groups to provide information on
sound legislation and on effective par-
ticipation in community affairs.” In
effect, it is the purpose of this effort
to educate management in some of
the political facts of life.

An increasing number of corpora-
tions have added to their manage-
ment individuals who, without direct
participation in partisan activities, will
encourage more active participation
in creating a better business climate
by helping in the nomination and
election of better legislators, national
and state.

Many trade associations might well
emulate the Chamber and the NAM
by accelerating this trend and by
helping to train such individuals in
the practical methods and problems
of their work.

Newsweek, January 13, 1958