Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure and avoiding overlap:


**The New York Political Battle**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Normally, the kind of political commando raid upon a state party organization which culminated in the entry of Senator Mead in the New York gubernatorial race would interest the country no more than another series between the Yankees and the Dodgers. But when the President takes time out in the midst of a year which poses as many critical military and economic questions as this to direct his party's choice for candidate in an election for the governorship of one of the forty-eight states, something more important than first meets the eye is obviously at issue.

The sponsors of the Mead candidacy were, first, the American Labor party, which led off by saying it wanted none of Bennett, then Bosses Flynn of the Bronx and Kennedy of Tammany, a small group of left-wing New Dealers, and Robert Wagner, who represents labor in the Senate. Then Mead nodded. And the President patted Mead's head. There was no special pro-Mead sentiment visible in New York State. Mead's entry into the New York race was simply a coup, put over by a small faction of the New Dealers, city bosses and laborites, many of whom are not Democrats at all.

Among the more obvious reasons that have been suggested for this move is the intimation that the president and his friends want to control the New York delegation at the convention of 1944. With Farley removed or discredited as a state leader, that would be easy. Another inference is that the Federal administration wants a firmer hold on the New York State government.

Washington supporters of the move say that Mead would be more likely to win, because Bennett is not an inspiring candidate, is too "conservative," and was not able, as was Mead, to register, through votes in the Senate, his agreement with the President's policies over the past two or three years.

On the other hand, Farley's supporters agree with experienced Republicans that Mead would be an extremely vulnerable candidate. First, they mention the deep resentment of Democratic leaders who have pledged support to Bennett. Even in politics these pledges are not lightly to be cast aside at a sign from Washington. Second, they say that the fact that Michael J. Kennedy, leader of Tammany, and Edward J. Flynn sponsored Mead's entry would be a big target for Republican broadsides. Third, they insist that the economic views of Mead, which run to all-out labor concessions and vast government lending, would not be popular this year. Fourth, they point to Mead's support of Congressional pensions. Fifth, they emphasize resentment against Washington domination of the state.

Speculation as to deeper meanings is everywhere. One guess is that the sponsors of Mead do not expect to nominate him but to force a compromise choice, perhaps Governor Lehman. Another is that they do not expect to nominate Mead but believe that Bennett will lose and that, by having suggested an alternative candidate whom Farley did not accept, they will destroy Farley's leadership.

However that may be, it is already evident that the Mead move raises some pretty serious issues of political principle which are bound to be bitterly fought this year. They are:

1—Shall the states be governed from Washington, through the control of party organizations in big cities, by a labor-New Deal bureaucratic alliance in Washington?

2—Can we still protect and preserve, not only in New York State, but the country over, the two-party system through which Americans have for generations operated representative government?

3—Should a state party be operated by a faction whose heads are largely Federal jobholders resident in Washington?

An almost forgotten political incident suggests itself. In 1914 Assistant Secretary of the Navy Roosevelt was told by someone high up in the Administration that President Wilson wanted him to run for United States Senator in New York. He ran in the primary, denouncing Tammany in his speeches. He lost. A Republican was elected that November. Figure out the parallels, if any, for yourself.