Here's the extracted text from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original image quality and column layout.


**The Propaganda War**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The war of propaganda between the Allies and Germany claims only a tiny place in the news from Europe, but in the final reckoning it may be of prime importance. German propaganda has been roaring at us over the short waves in vast amounts since the invasion. To a degree, the German hot-air artistry is cunningly contrived, but a careful examination of its content reveals weaknesses in German policy. It shows that the Nazi balderdash, told long to the German people, is so firmly fixed in the Goebbels mentality that it is now assumed that it can fool Americans, too.

The German story is that we are fighting a Red war to make a Red Europe. Stalin pulls the strings, we are told, and Roosevelt and Churchill dance. British imperialism is stressed to prejudice American listeners. Tito's people are "Communist bandits." Then, after attacking the Communists, the German propaganda steals the old Communist line for its own purposes. This is a capitalist war engineered by the capitalists of Britain and America, the short waves mention. Between musical interludes, horrible stories of Allied invasion losses and of attacks on Jews and flights of fiction designed to incite Negroes are offered.

The Allied propaganda counterattack cannot be described in general terms, largely because it goes out from so many places, is directed to so many types of listeners and is concerned with so many subjects. It is also difficult to appraise because it can be only partially heard over here. The best accounts of our propaganda appear in William L. Shirer's newspaper articles and broadcasts.

People in the OWI are willing to admit that our propaganda is weak, but they attribute that to the lack of a clear-cut and unified policy in the British and American Governments. As long as there is no agreement between the two big Western Powers on the future of Germany, of France or, in fact, of any part of Europe, they say, our propaganda can have no consistency.

The trouble with "unconditional surrender" as an objective is that few Americans or Britons really believe that surrender can be without conditions, while to Germans the slogan means that there will be no distinctions in punishment among the elements in Germany. To them it means that the Nazi party, the army and the mass of the people are to suffer equally, which can have no effect beyond tying together 80,000,000 Germans in a desperate unity.

To drive wedges between the Nazis, the army and the rest of the people should be among our first objectives. One way to do this would be to tell the Germans repeatedly what consummate lies the Nazis have told them. First, Hitler said that there would be no two-front war: Now, there are four fronts, plus the air war. When Italy fell, Hitler boasted that no enemy was within 600 miles of Germany: Now, our armies are slightly more than 200 miles from Germany in France and even less distant in Italy. Tito is at the border of Austria, and the Russian line itself belies Hitler's boast. The talk of West Walls, of the Dnieper, Gustav and Hitler Lines was a palpable sham. Finally, Nazi claims of self-sufficiency are now being blacked out by a new and terrible blockade. All this can be told, and it is all true.

American propaganda rightly wants to avoid lying and cynicism. Still, there are truthful things to say which can be said to divide the Germans. No American or Briton seriously expects that we will not discriminate in our postwar treatment between the Nazi party, the SS, and the Gestapo, on one hand, and the rest of the Germans, on the other. If this be true, why not say it? Nor can we deny that we will not discriminate between those members of the German Army who have perpetrated atrocities and those who have conformed to the laws of war. That could easily be got over to millions of Germans in and out of the Army.

A powerful German army was still fighting on this side of the frontier in 1918, when the famous guard at the Brandenburger Gate was disarmed by two unarmed sailors. Unarmed women tore off the insignia from staff officers' uniforms. Germany fell apart inside. It may be beaten that way again, for it is not a nation of Nibelungs.