Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Personal vs. Party Responsibility

by RAYMOND MOLEY

IT SEEMS like a long time, but it has
been only four years since in this
space I presented a piece entitled
"Freeze the RFC." Two years later,
I returned to the theme with "The
RFC That Came to Dinner." The oc-
casion then was the appearance of the
Hoover task force report, which rec-
ommended that the RFC be put in
cold storage pending another emer-
gency. Six months ago, I
wrote about "The RFC in
the Rattlesnake Business."

From time to time over
these years I have had the
benefit of a friendly contact
with Jesse H. Jones who
was the master of the RFC
for many years. His advice
four years ago was to reduce
the RFC to a skeleton form,
merely to liquidate loans available for
another emergency. His judgment was
that, as time passed, the directors of
the RFC would become more or less
hack bureaucrats or people vulnerable
to political influence. Jones himself
knew well the virulent nature of such
influence, which in his day came from
sources that were very high indeed.
But he was strong enough and wily
enough to resist it. Finally, in 1950,
Jones, after considering what was
happening in recent years, decided
that it would be best to liquidate the
whole RFC setup.

The danger of political influence
was stressed in all the pieces men-
tioned above. It was also noted that
when Executive power by-passes
Congressional appropriations by using
the credit of the RFC, a very serious
constitutional principle is involved.

A ND now Senator Fulbright and his
subcommittee have brought out
the revolting details. Apparently, po-
litical influence over the RFC has
almost directly involved the White
House. According to the Fulbright re-
port, the RFC, with its vast resources,
has been operating as a veritable
political treasury, and the report also
shows that there has been a veritable
traffic in influence.

Much of the report has appeared
in the press, notably the astounding
cases of E. Merl Young and of Joseph
H. Rosenbaum, Washington lawyer
who, according to the report, "claimed


...that Willett and Dunham [RFC
directors] were in his hip pocket."
In the Young case, the trail to the
White House is clear. It is also clear
in the case of Donald Dawson, "per-
sonnel adviser to the President of the
United States," who "apparently ex-
ercised considerable influence over
certain of the directors of the RFC."
Dawson's wife is the chief custodian
of the files of the RFC.
E. Merl Young, who used
the name of the President
on his list of references-a
use which the White House
did not repudiate, but instead
indicated that the
President would have per-
mitted-did very well by
himself. He rose from a small
job in the government to an
income which he himself estimated at
$60,000 in 1950. He recently held
two jobs-one with the
Lustron Corp. at $18,000, and another
at $10,000 with F. L. Jacobs, another
RFC borrower. Young's wife was an
employee of Senator Truman in 1940.
All this is in the report, with more on
Rosenbaum, Dunham, Willett, and
the Lustron and Jacobs enterprises.

IT SHOULD be noted that the Fulbright
report was deliberately held up to
see if Executive action might correct
things. Apparently, the subcommittee
decided that action could not be ex-
pected, and the blast was released.
And now Truman ridicules it!
This RFC mess, the use of the price-
administration jobs as straight political
spoils, the effort of the President and
the Secretary of the Treasury to bend
the Federal Reserve Board to the po-
litical course of the Administration,
and the grotesque padding of the
President's budget with welfare projects
are all of the same piece.

Party responsibility has disappeared
in the Federal establishment. Instead,
we have a species of personal machine
rule-sordid, ruthless, avaricious, and
blind to the proprieties of public life.
It moves into a great national emergency
with no determination to place
the nation's interests above those of
the machine. And as the emergency
grows, so will the power of the machine
grow. For nothing so suits the
purposes of politics as the protective
coloring of a great national crisis.

Newsweek, February 19, 1951