Here's a text extraction of the provided image, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlaps:


**Miracle in Texas**

by Raymond Moley

This piece is written after fifteen days in Texas observing what Mark Twain would describe as a planned miracle.  It was a most exciting demonstration of political revolt. At the moment, it seems that the revolution is an accomplished fact. A new conservatism has won all along the line.

Two weeks ago, I wrote in this space that Democratic leaders of the conservative movement to wrest control from the so-called liberal supporters of the Washington regime were fearful lest in the precinct conventions of May 3rd so many of their partisans would go into the Republican side that they would be denied a majority in their own party. But in thousands of neighborhood conventions so many voters appeared that there were enough to win for the conservative Democrats and to provide an Eisenhower majority on the Republican side as well. I attended a Democratic precinct convention in Fort Worth. Before the proceedings began, the conservative leader told me rather anxiously that at least 50 of his people had gone to the Republican convention in the next block. And yet, when the voters were divided on the crucial roll call, he had 50 and his opponents only 32. Over in the Republican convention, the division was 50 to 23 for Eisenhower. That sort of result prevailed all over Texas.

I have never seen a more inspiring example of citizen action at the voter level than the precinct convention that I attended. It was called to meet at a drugstore. Ordinarily, so few would have attended that it could have convened behind the prescription counter. But this time the crowd gathered out on the sidewalk and on the grass patch. It was a tense but orderly group of men and women. First they checked in with the poll list. Then the precinct chairman called the meeting to order. The liberal (pro-Administration) leader moved that the convention express itself in favor of the so-called pledge. This would bind delegates to follow the decisions of conventions all along the line, including the national convention in Chicago. A conservative moved that delegates remain unpledged. This is the decisive issue, because it is the determination of the conservatives under Governor Shivers to remain free to act all along the line. There were some speeches. The vote was taken, with the result indicated above. Thereupon, the liberals bolted and held a rump convention about a hundred feet down the sidewalk. Both groups proceeded in an orderly manner to select a slate of delegates to the county convention.

In that county convention, three days later, the conservatives were seated and the liberals bolted. These bolts are quite normal procedure in Texas whenever a real contest is involved.

At the Democratic county convention which I attended at Dallas, the vote was about four to one conservative. The chairman's keynote speech contained a reference which is a significant indication of what may happen at Chicago and later. He said: "I for one will not be greatly disappointed if we are not seated [at Chicago] for in that event the State of Texas and the leadership it will provide will probably determine who shall be the next President of the United States." That may prove true.

I noted at the beginning of this piece that this result in Texas was a planned miracle. It has required the devoted energy and brains of a great many people over a period of ten years to prepare the way. First, the people of the state had to be told how the rise of Federal power was threatening their liberty. Next, they had to be impressed with the importance of taking part in the mechanical activities of government, from the precinct convention to the final election. Then a better primary and election law had to be drawn up and passed by the legislature. Finally, there had to be leaders in every community to get voters to do their duty. A lot of Texas people have been working at that job without hope of reward, without publicizing their names, and without taking a specific organization name. This result is the payoff. It is a very significant example of what can be done by the persistent action of a few citizens.

Newsweek, May 19, 1952