Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective

The Road Back From Bureaucracy

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The efforts of government in the 12,000,000 men overseas or in camps,
months ahead to terminate war con- the shortage of housing makes us, to
trols will resemble the maneuvers of say the least, uncomfortable. As these
a fly trying to escape from sticky pa- millions return, they will find no empty
per. The musca domestica lifts one houses. Hundreds of thousands have
foot, then another-sometimes two or married, and numberless children have
three at a time. But few flies have come into a muddled world. The best
ever survived the experimentation prospect for new homes is an estimate
needed to get all feet loose at once. of something short of a million units a
A current OPA problem has been year, if all materials are available. But
to fix ceiling prices on the the Bureau of Labor Statis-
automobiles manufactured tics says that, thanks to
this year. The OPA ap- shortages of materials, we
proached the task very gin- can expect no more than a
gerly. First, a softening-up half-million units per year
barrage of questionnaires for some time.

descended upon bewildered
manufacturers of parts.
Then "task forces" of OPA
experts, pencils in hand,
moved into Detroit and else-
where to figure with com-
pany accountants. Difficul-
ties appeared on every side. Hundreds
of parts manufacturers were involved,
practically all of whom have produced
no automobile parts for years. All their
cost factors have changed. Moving
into civilian production gradually
means balancing profits on war goods
against initial losses on civilian goods.
That, as anyone can see, is a matter
which no generally imposed govern-
ment rule can cover fairly. The 1942
prices on specific models are no guide,
for manufacturers will introduce scores
of changes. There are dozens of "ifs"
like these which might induce the
OPA to let the whole industry go natu-
ral, since it has always regulated itself
by competition. But the OPA would
then face demands for the same free-
dom in hundreds of other lines of
activity. It is in a prison of its own
precedents and it must go on adding
to the walls.

Housing shortages after
the last war forced govern-
ment into the unpleasant
job of rent control. This
time, it may force a con-
tinuation of rental restric-
tions already in force. De-
mands will be made for priority for
veterans in rentals. That means more
complications. War housing can be
kept, of course, and government may
build still more flimsy emergency
houses to meet the critical shortage.
But no one has planned to meet
the permanent problem, and private
capital will be hesitant to enter the
field, with labor and material uncer-
tainties ahead.

This is only one muddle which will
provide no optimism in months ahead
for either government or for the pub-
lic. Cattlemen, who met with Secre-
tary Anderson recently, returned home
feeling that the meat situation shows
no signs of improving. Secretary Ickes
warns us that there isn't enough coal
to go around. The textile mess will
probably get a little better in a few
months, although transportation trou-
bles will last until the New Year.

Just as these current pains begin to
ease, a situation will arise as the Army
comes home, which may well be the
most serious of all-housing. Now with


These peacetime perplexities will
break through our current optimism
and end the political honeymoon we
are now witnessing. For an accumula-
tion of discomforts always reacts,
however unjustly, against the govern-
ment in office. It was the accumula-
tion of discomforts, not a sudden
ideological turn, which swept out the
British Conservatives.

Our present mood, despite some
troubles, is confident and optimistic.
Germany is beaten. Japan is stagger-
ing. Our adoption of a world role is a
bracing adventure. The charter and
Bretton Woods are auguries of a better
international future. Money is easy to
get, and employment is full. Employ-
ment is full, incidentally, because de-
mobilization has been slower than was
first planned. But the domestic prob-
lems of the year or two ahead are
bound to take their toll. This column
is simply designed to put in the record
the suggestion that it is much easier
to get government into private affairs
than to get it out.