PERSPECTIVE

PAYING FOR POLITICS?

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It is strange indeed that members of
Congress, who appropriate billions
for the poor, should have neglected
those of their own membership who
are too poor to finance their own campaigns for re-election.

Present methods of financing political
campaigns are deplorable, and
most who have studied the subject
have concluded that assistance
should be provided by the government itself. Both Presidents Kennedy
and Johnson recommended action, but
nothing has been done except to
adopt, at the end of the 1966 session,
Sen. Russell Long’s plan for the optional designation on every income-tax return of $1 (or $2 on a joint
return). This would apply only to
Presidential campaigns. The money
thus set aside would be evenly divided between the two parties. It is
estimated that if all taxpayers responded, this would give $30 million
to each party. Additional provision is
made for a minor party receiving
5 million votes. If a third-party candidate (such as, say, Wallace) got
the required number of votes in 1968,
the money would not be available
until 1972.

THE OLD ABUSES CONTINUE

Perhaps one reason why the Democratic majority did not provide a better plan is that those members were
permitted by LBJ to exploit to their
constituents projects like post offices,
Federal buildings, government contracts and welfare outlays for which
they claimed sponsorship. That is reprehensible. It comes close to bribing
whole communities or the residents
thereof with their own tax money.
But the Long plan is only a small
nibble at the basic problem. The
$30 million for each party is only a
glass of water dumped in a muddy
ocean. Moreover, taxpayers will object to giving money half of which
will be for a party they oppose.
The old rackets would still remain—the President’s Club, the $10- to
$1,000-dinner shakedowns, contributions from contractors, pressure for
contributions on employees in state
and local governments, labor-union
subsidies for obedient congressmen
and state legislators, etc.
There would also remain the hard
fact that only rich men or men supported by rich men can afford a primary campaign for the nomination for
President.
Corrupt-practice legislation at the
Federal, state and local level is
purely negative. The moment a restriction is imposed, smart fellows
find a way to evade it. The Taft-
Hartley restriction on labor unions is
a dead letter.
The principle of government support for legitimate campaigning is
perfectly sound. Government pays for
the mechanics of elections and primaries. It should also pay for the process
through which the two-party system
operates in campaigns.

AN INCENTIVE TO CONTRIBUTE

The best plan, it seems to me,
would be this:
Every income-tax payer would be
given one of two options. The more
affluent would be allowed a deduction up to $3,000 for gifts to their
parties. A less affluent person would
be allowed a tax credit of $10 if he
gave $20 to his party. The credit for
half his gift would be an inducement
to give the $20. And the national,
congressional and senatorial committees would still feel the pressure and
have the incentive to solicit those
small funds.
The money would be given to the
authorized people in the party organization, and strict accounting for
its expenditure would be required.
This plan would apply to the expenses of candidates for Federal offices only—for President, senators and
House members.
In order to extend this idea to
state and local elections, a similar device could be adopted by states
which have income taxes. This has
already been proposed by one of the
candidates for governor in the state
of New York.
Expenditures in campaigns beyond
these sums would be strictly regulated. The Dodd case should bring
about legislation to deny to any candidate the personal use of money
collected by dinners, etc.
Present practices are unsatisfactory.
Reform is long overdue. The purity
of our political system of government
must depend upon the character of
the whole system of choosing public
officials.

Newsweek. November 14, 1966