Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Pensions, Politics, and the Law
by RAYMOND MOLEY

F, as in the Bethlehem settlement, a
I company pledges itself to make up
the difference between government
pensions and $100 a month, a great
deal of pressure will be taken off the
Democratic Party, pressure which
would otherwise be exerted for larger
benefits in the next session of Congress.
A bill providing broad extension of
social security passed the House in the
recent session. On the last
day Senator George ex-
plained that, since the bill
covered 200 pages, he could
not provide adequate Fi-
nance Committee hearings
before January. By that time
the CIO and possibly other
labor elements which form
so large a part of Mr. Tru-
man's farmer-labor party
will be measurably ap-
peased, at the expense of private in-
dustry, and will be less insistent upon
government aid.
It is also a fair assumption that the
Truman Administration looks to the
immense reserve funds that may be
created under these plans as a good
market for government securities. The
government can sell its deficit in the
form of bonds to the companies for the
union members. Banks can unload
their government bonds and be in a
position to take more.
more coverage that can be gained for
such plans, the less excuse there will be
for government medicine.
Small businesses, which have been
the object of solicitous political appeals
by government in antitrust suits and
other actions, will hardly enjoy this
encouragement of company-supported
pensions. For while the guarantee of a
pension by a big company may be car-
ried out, it is clear that such
a charge cannot be sustained
by most small businesses.
Some small companies can-
not even afford the actuarial
talent to figure out their pen-
sion liability incurred in
hurried bargaining under
ruthless pressure by an im-
mense and monopolistic in-
dustrywide union. Once
more, as under the New
Deal, the government has penalized
smallness while talking against monop-
oly and big business.
The legal implications of this great
experiment will not be resolved for
many years. What happens when a
company goes broke? What is the posi-
tion of a prospective pensioner among
the creditors of such a bankrupt? Will
this payment enjoy the same status as
a claim as unpaid wages? Since this
will put hundreds of employers into
the annuities business, will the laws
now applying to insurance companies
be applied to them? Will the SEC re-
LSO, the Truman Administration, al- quire companies to state their future
though it hesitates openly to pro- liabilities in their prospectuses? And
mote inflation, will welcome the certain how on earth can such liabilities be
inflationary effects of this new charge computed? For buyers of securities will
upon steel and its users. This charge want to know whether a company has
will then be passed on to steel con- bargained itself into a state of insol-
sumers.
vency in a few years.
Finally, the Truman Administration
will take great credit in this scheme for
itself and its extralegal fact finders and
for settling a strike that it did little to
prevent.
But there are political debits, as well
as credits.
The Truman Administration in this
imbroglio has seriously weakened
itself among pioneer groups of old
people having millions of votes. There
is nothing in industrial pensions for
today's aged, but there is much that
they must pay.
The Bethlehem settlement and
others like it involve a vast expansion
of the Blue Cross plan of private health
insurance. It is perfectly clear that, the
FINALLY, this settlement is a rich ex-
F ample of the politics of labor lead-
ers. Murray and others have won a
victory, the value of which cannot be
determined until they are safe in their
graves. A strike was called to force a
quick agreement on a complicated sub-
ject for which even Mr. Truman's own
board suggested months of study. This
whole business was not a fit subject for
bargaining in the normal sense. Some-
body has bought a pig in a poke, and it
will take many years to identify the
owner and to weigh the pig. For noth-
ing so complicated ever came down
the labor pike.

Newsweek, November 14, 1949