Here's a text version of the provided article.  Note that perfect column separation is difficult due to variations in the original layout, but I've done my best to keep the columns distinct.


Perspective
Stop? Or Go?

It has been clear from the time when
the monopoly committee—the TNEC—
was established, that one of the most
baffling of its jobs would be to get a defi-
nition for the terms it would have to use.
It was predicted on this page that there
would be special difficulties about the term
"competition" and, as the committee's pro-
ceedings get under way, the prediction has
already been fulfilled.

It seems, according to Leon Henderson,
the committee's executive secretary, that
one of the most important changes that
have taken place in the business world is
"the decline of competition"; included un-
der "the decline of competition" is the sug-
gestion that more aggressive sales policies
are to blame. This fits in with Assistant
Attorney General Thurman Arnold's re-
cent statements in connection with the
Ford-Chrysler consent decrees, when the
same general notion was advanced. Both
of these ideas hark back to President
Roosevelt's complaint, months ago, that
aggressive sales policies were to blame, in
part, for the recession.

While it isn't easy to reconcile the
idea that competition is declining with the
complaint that it is getting too intense,
there is a suggestion of consistency be-
tween these two apparently contradictory
positions. Those who stand with one foot
planted on each would have us believe that
there are islands of aggression in oceans of
decline. Or, to change the figure of speech,
they would have us believe that as con-
centrated power increases, competition in-
creases in energy and declines in quantity.
In electrical terms, the voltage goes up
and the amperage goes down. The wattage,
theoretically, would stay the same if the
charge were equal but, according to what
seems to be the Arnold theory, the lamp
of progress presently burns out.

Considering the similarity in point of
view between Henderson, Arnold and other
Administration stalwarts, we may assume
that this theory is widely held in the Ad-
ministration: competition increases up to a
specific point and then declines. As it gets
over the hump and the big fellows get
things into their own hands, competition
settles down to a lower amperage. Hence,
according to this reasoning, the process
known as competition thrives best among
more or less equal rivals. It declines in
amount as its bitterness increases. Even-
tually the bitterness or energy in the com-
petition itself runs down. The government,

then, is required to see that the energy
or the volume or the pep or the umph of
competition remains the same at all times.
To make good on this job, government
must be able to say just when competition
is correct and proper. When competition is
too mild, antitrust prosecutions are in or-
der. When it is too violent, presumably
some other sort of regulation is called for—
perhaps the kind of regulation that may
emerge from these monopoly hearings.

But under the present setup, these de-
terminations are largely made by the De-
partment of Justice. And here is where a
troublesome situation arises with regard
to the whole relationship of this investiga-
tion to the Department of Justice. It be-
comes clear, as we examine the statements
of the Department of Justice on this sub-
ject—statements which are doubtless writ-
ten by Mr. Arnold—that the device of the
consent decree will be widely used to en-
force upon business certain conceptions of
proper economic arrangements that are
held by the Department of Justice.

The method is, first, to bring criminal
proceedings against businessmen. Then
these businessmen agree to abate certain
practices, and a consent decree is signed
and accepted. Finally the cases are nolle
prossed, and the regulatory methods agreed
upon in the consent decree become a part
of the established order in business. Thus,
without any legislation at all, the consent-
decree process substantially puts into op-
eration the theories of the prevailing group
in Washington. The threat of personal
criminal prosecution when used in this way
inevitably tends to force officials of com-
panies to yield the legitimate rights of
their stockholders in order to protect them-
selves. It also tends to sap all meaning
from criminal prosecution by directing it
toward practices that involve no moral
delinquency.

But if the Administration is wait-
ing for the TNEC to discover what the
appropriate means to regulate business are,
why does it proceed, on another front, to
establish its ideas through an aggressive
policy of action? This suggests nothing so
much as the course of the late William
Jennings Bryan following the campaign
of 1896: after he had waged the battle for
a theory of money that would have com-
pletely upset the economic system of the
country and after the people had repudi-
ated him, Bryan solemnly announced that
he had decided to make a "thorough study
of the money question."

In short, business is being asked to par-
ticipate in a quiet process of self-examina-
tion while, at the same time, it is being
subjected to the beginnings of regimenta-
tion along a fairly clearly defined line. Is
this supposed to be reassuring? Is it sup-
posed to be helpful? Does it help a school-
boy to concentrate on his studies in school
when he knows that his mother is reor-
ganizing his room at home—throwing out
such fishing tackle, marbles, slingshots and
baseballs as she considers unnecessary?

It must be remembered, moreover, that
this study was asked for last spring be-
cause the Department of Justice said, in
substance, that the antitrust laws were
not adequate, that they needed revision
and that they needed to be implemented
by appropriate governmental mechanisms.
Now that Congress has given it what it
wanted, the Department is apparently re-
fusing to wait for the findings of the com-
mittee and proceeding to put together a
regulatory system of its own.

One of the things that troubled busi-
nessmen at the time when Mr. Arnold
made a statement in connection with the
Chrysler-Ford consent decrees was the fact
that, after discussing the exact practice to
be abated, Mr. Arnold took occasion to
throw in some dicta which indicated that
he felt that the spending of "vast sums
to advertise particular brands" was
undesirable. When questioned on this point,
Mr. Arnold replied to Mr. Elliott of Ad-
vertising & Selling magazine that he had
not intended to imply that under the law
the amount or intensity of advertising
could be limited. It would seem that Mr.
Arnold was speaking as a lawyer when he
discussed the unlawfulness of manufactur-
ers' advertising the services of finance com-
panies and was speaking as an economist
when he decried the amount of advertising
carried on to advertise trade names. But,
when an Assistant Attorney General be-
gins to talk economics, it is not illogical
to wonder whether he is getting ready to
penalize the business community for not
only what the law says is illegal, but for
what he thinks is undesirable.

There is another point here—and
a grave one. Assistant Attorneys General
come and go. If we have learned anything
in the past forty years, it is that there is
and can be no continuity of policy in the
Department itself, much less in its anti-
trust division. It is difficult to see how,
under any circumstances, regulatory power
that calls for infinite discretion and flexi-
bility can usefully be whizzed from one
hand to another like a bucket in an old-
time fire brigade. A rehabilitated Federal
Trade Commission or an entirely new com-
mission—where the terms of office would
give some assurance of continuity—is the
only intelligent place to lodge such power.
It cannot be entrusted to a series of offi-
cials whose philosophies may be as far
apart as those of John Dickinson and
Thurman Arnold.