Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**The Truman Training Plan**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It is well that President Truman has brushed aside all the hypocritical alternatives to universal military training. They all tend to make complex a very simple problem. That problem is to provide this country with a sufficient number of trained men to cover our greatly enlarged commitments in the Western Hemisphere, in the Pacific Basin, in the Atlantic, and, potentially, in Europe and in Africa.

To cover present commitments, a large navy and a small professional army are adequate. But these existing commitments can be made permanent and real only if we have the reserve force ready at all times to protect them in a possible war.

To try to avoid this direct need by some form of sugar coating is pure self-deception. To interweave the necessary training with high-school and college training would weaken our educational system and provide very spotty military training. To give boys a chance to choose one of a series of years, from 18 to 25, is to encourage postponement and to disrupt careers. To put the whole thing off until we see how the world organizes itself will make it necessary to warm up the whole thing later. To say that the atomic bomb, etc., has changed it all is to exchange what we know for what we don't know. To say, as some silly commentators are saying, that Russia might be offended is to underestimate the good sense of Russia. And to say that strength invites attack is to fly in the face of 1917 and 1941. Weakness invites attack, not strength.

Objections based on the possible impact of training on our free institutions can be met by the methods used in training. The indoctrination of trainees should be rigidly supervised by non-political and non-military educators. And the small number of men in training and the small professional establishment are not sufficient to militarize the nation.

President Truman's plan would not seriously interrupt civilian careers. To pause a year at 18 would simplify and improve college education. It has been my conviction, after 30 years of college teaching, that most freshmen are too immature to be in college. The colleges and industries can make better plans on the basis of taking in 19-year-olds with a year of military training than 18-year-olds.

Those parents who dread the possibility of having their boys exposed to warfare should assure themselves that such a danger exists, training or no training. Two successive generations have already been called to the colors. There is no assurance that a third will not be called, willy-nilly. But there is assurance that, if we are prepared, there is less likelihood that the next generation will ever be called to battle.

The plan fits the pattern of democracy in two ways. First, all boys are taken at the same age and at the same educational level. To take men at 21 would provide distinctions between those who had gone to college and those who had gone to work. Native capacity, aptitude and character will be the only distinction in the boys taken at 18. Moreover, to take a year from all boys is to leave them, after they are out, in the same relative position, career-wise. In addition to that, democracy can do no more to equalize opportunity.

The incidental benefit to the health and morals of these boys may be great. The age suggested is, in a boy's life, a moment of physical vigor, mixed with occasional serious basic infirmities. Boys attain a man's strength before they have a man's judgment about conserving that strength. Diet, rest, precautions against infection and exposure are now generally learned the hard way. The benefits provided by discipline, medical and dental care and hygiene, can be imposed by authority. Most parents will agree that they should be so imposed.

The government should stoutly resist all the special causes which will try to use this opportunity to sell their wares. This precious year definitely should not be turned into a school of uplift or of entertainment or of political and economic propaganda. Its purpose is quite clear and simple. It is to train men in the science of war and to provide the medical and moral care essential thereto. Beyond that, it should not go.