PERSPECTIVE

TAXATION AS DISCIPLINE

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It may seem deplorable for a writer
who has been gratified by the Republican renaissance in 1966 to poke
at one of the GOP's most promising issues with the blue pencil of principle.
That issue is the sharing of Federal personal-income-tax revenue with the
states and local communities without restrictions as to the use of said wind-
fall. Republican governors greet the idea with enthusiasm, and GOP congressmen, led by the highly intelligent Melvin Laird, promise to press
for it in the next session. Even Walter Heller, formerly the President's economic adviser, came out for it a couple of years ago.

The principle to which I refer is best expressed by my old friend Herbert J. Miller, who says: "Of all the purposes for which we use taxation, none is more vital than the creation of discipline needed to make government responsible as well as responsive." A definition of responsible is, "Capable of being deterred by consideration of the consequences."

THE INEXORABLE MASTER

My own respect for Miller's judgment is long standing. After years as a tax expert in Minnesota, Miller joined the Tax Foundation in 1942. He retired as its executive director in 1959 and has since served as its Federal affairs counselor. From 1947 to 1949 he was research director of the first Hoover commission. This concept of taxation as discipline is, he says, the essence of everything that he has learned after 40 years of study of fiscal policies.

What he means is that governments, as well as companies and housewives, have an inexorable master, the balance sheet. Recognizing the realities of changing times, Miller is not passionately enamored of a balanced budget. But he maintains that somehow the people who direct the affairs of government—Federal, state and local—must direct their course by measuring their expenditures in the light of what they can raise by the taxes they impose upon their constituents. If they decide that expenditures must rise, they must take into account the means of raising money from the people who are the beneficiaries of such outlays. When that means raising old rates or imposing new ones, they must have the courage to levy them and the intelligence to explain them. And, what is most important, the same constituency that receives the benefits must pay for them.

This principle of taxation is an essential part of what the Constitution calls "the blessing of liberty." Liberty implies the capacity within a viable order to create an environment favorable to those who possess it. That is what Edmund Burke said to Parliament when he demanded that colonies participate in the government under which they were taxed.

The argument for sharing the Federal personal-income-tax receipts with the states and localities is based upon three assumptions, each of which is subject to serious doubt:

1. That the states and the localities dependent upon them find the burden of services greater than their resources. Two weeks ago I presented the findings of a Tax Foundation study which shows that the taxable resources of the states, together with the Federal government's help already assured, will be adequate in the years up to 1975.

2. That the Federal personal income tax is a fairer and a more productive tax than any that might be imposed by the states and the local governments.

3. That the money to be returned to the states is the same money exacted from the citizens thereof. No formula yet devised can be equitable, and in the political context of Congress no such formula would be possible. Moreover, if the Federal government is running a deficit, the money given to the states would in fact not come from them. It would be made in Washington, through the Federal Reserve System, by fiat.

But the major objection to tax sharing is that the money given to the states is not raised in the place where it is spent. It is collected by a distant government. It imposes no discipline upon the recipient governments. It will be a windfall and will be used, as all windfalls are used, without responsibility and probably wastefully.

Perhaps these matters of principle will be ignored by Congress. But it may be well to remind our lawmakers that such principles exist.

Newsweek, January 2, 1967