Here's a text version of the provided Newsweek article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original image quality.


**Wanted—Two Chairmen**

*by RAYMOND MOLEY*

Both major parties are faced with
the job of selecting a new chairman.
The Republican National Committee
meets on Dec. 7 to choose a successor
to Joseph Martin Jr., who has served
since 1940. No date has as yet been set
for a Democratic Committee meeting,
but those who follow politics closely
look for its announcement within a
month or so, when Edward J. Flynn,
the present Democratic chairman, is
expected to resign.

With the restoration of a close balance
in party strength, the choice of a new
chairman in each case is not unim-
portant. In fact, it may provide some
clue to the political events of 1944.

In the Democratic party the Presi-
dent will dictate the decision. His
problem will be only to make a selection
from the rather scanty list of possibili-
ties. But these facts are, of themselves,
meaningful symptoms of the party
organization's state of health.

It can hardly be said that there are
any active candidates for the chairman's
job in the Democratic party. Post-
master General Frank Walker might be
drafted by the President, but he would
accept only with the greatest reluctance.
Leo Crowley, Alien Property Custodian,
is most frequently mentioned. Joseph E.
Davies, former Ambassador to Moscow,
and John W. McCormack, majority
leader of the House, are possibilities.
None stirs much enthusiasm. It will be
many a day before another Farley is
found. The bloom is simply off the job.
Not much patronage remains to be
given out, and the New Deal inner
circle provides what political counsel
the President needs.

The fight for the chairmanship in
the Republican party, on the other
hand, suggests the vigor of the party's
hopes. So does the fact that so many
prospective Presidential candidacies are
in evidence. The GOP is feeling the
oats of the November victory. Party
insiders say the new chairman must be
experienced in politics and must come
from the Midwest or West. Circum-
stances may alter these specifications,
but now they seem pretty important.
Most frequently mentioned is Werner
W. Schroeder, national committeeman


of Illinois, who, since 1940, has presided
over a sort of renaissance of Republican-
ism in his state. He is pretty violently
opposed by Willkie friends, however,
because they say he is too close to the
McCormick-Brooks people. This opposi-
tion may turn the choice elsewhere.
There is a strong call for Alf M.
Landon, who is reluctant to serve. Other
possibilities are national committeemen
Harrison E. Spangler of Iowa, Ralph H.
Cake of Oregon and Sinclair Weeks of
Massachusetts. Likewise John Hollister
of Ohio, former congressman and law
partner of Senator Taft. The chances
that the committee will go completely
outside the party organization to select
some well-known businessman are ex-
ceedingly slim.

After an insistent demand by Mr.
Willkie a statement on foreign affairs
was adopted at the April meeting of
the Republican National Committee.
This time there is little demand for
statements of party policy. That is
fortunate because the making of any
resolution on national policy by the
national committee is an impropriety.
It has no legal power to bind the party.
The convention does that. The com-
mittee's job is to keep the national
party alive between Presidential cam-
paigns, to prepare for the convention
and the campaign, to raise money, to
conduct research on national affairs and
to maintain contact with state and local
organizations.

Mr. Willkie's influence in the forth-
coming meeting will be of some im-
portance. But it will not be decisive.
The 1940 candidate will, it is said, con-
trol not over a quarter of the 106
members. The rift between him and the
party organization is now pretty deep.
But arguments among Republicans,
while troublesome, are not signs of
weakness. In 1920 the Republican party
emerged from years of internal conflict
to win the election. In 1932, though the
preconvention fight of the Democrats
was bitter, they carried through tri-
umphantly. The real test of the Re-
publican party will be the performance
of its 22 governors, it 209 members of
the House and its 38 senators, not what
its members say about each other.