Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


A Son of the Gottscheers

by Raymond Moley

ALMOST exactly eleven years ago, in
an article in this department of
NEWSWEEK, I noted that Frank
Lausche, Mayor of Cleveland, had
journeyed to Washington to invite
King Peter of Yugoslavia to visit his
city. The invitation was spoken in
three languages—Serbian, Slovenian,
and English.

This month, on the television pro-
gram, "Meet the Press," four
Washington correspondents, accustomed
as they are to double talk, could
hardly have been more astonished
had their guest, Gov. Frank Lausche,
addressed them in the language of
his forebears.

Those forebears left Germany ten
centuries ago and settled in the rugged
mountains of what is now Yugoslavia.
The "Gottscheers" never lost their
identity despite waves of Slavic
migration, savage invasions by the
Turks, and the unavailing attacks of
German armies in two world wars. Many
Americans, including the cynical
political fraternity, learned in a short
half hour that there is plenty of the
untamed Gottscheers in Frank Lausche.

He owed his first appointment as
municipal judge to a Republican
governor. From that time on, in election
after election, as judge, as mayor, and
five times as governor, he has asked no
favors of a party and has consistently
defied the traditions of politics. Even in
1944, when he first ran for governor, he
ignored the national ticket in his
speeches and swept the state by 112,000
while President Roosevelt was losing it by
10,000.

As governor, he has sponsored
legislation which Democrats would call
"liberal" and the Eisenhower people
"dynamic conservatism." Lausche refuses
to draw the curtain of a phrase over his
policies, but simply does what seems to
him will meet the needs of a growing
state with thrift and without ostentation.
In the annual governors' conferences he
has commanded more and more respect as
a jealous defender of the rights and a
devoted sponsor of the responsibilities
of the states.

Many Ohioans protest, however, that
his habitual flouting of party regularity is
so extreme as to endanger responsible
party government. It was a deadly serious
man who on "Meet the Press" discussed
national issues with a frankness far beyond
that of any candidate, declared or
potential, of either party. There was no
Kefauverean humbug about a sacrificial
offering of self to save a country
crumbling into ruin. Lausche hopes that
Mr. Eisenhower will run again and he
admires what this Administration has
done. He has a modest idea of what he
could bring to the White House, but he
regards his chances of nomination as nil.
He favors fair employment all the way,
including the highly controversial right to
work. Unlike spokesmen of all parties, he
makes no apologies for the Taft-Hartley
Act. It is "in the spirit in which our
government should be run." Yes, he voted
for Taft in 1950 because the candidate of
his party would have been the mouthpiece
of labor bosses. He disapproves of the
demand for high, rigid farm supports.

Thus, with a clear realization of what he
was doing, he drew the portrait of a man
who in the cowardly vernacular of politics
is not "available." His case underlines the
unpleasant fact that, despite the desperate
need of human beings for first-rateness in
the high seats of authority, they must often
settle for the inadequate and sometimes for
the unworthy. If the ruler must be hereditary,
we must take what is provided by the
caprice of nature. If we live in Russia, we
must bow to brute force. If we live in the
United States, we take the watered-down
product of compromise. Our presidential
candidates are subject to innumerable
disqualifying tests, practically all of which
are unrelated to the demands of the job.
That is what we call "availability."

ECCLESIASTES provides a text often
quoted to describe this political bar to the
first-rate. It deserves repetition every four
years: "Surely the race is not to the swift,
nor the battle to the strong, neither yet
bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of
understanding, nor yet favor to men of
skill, but time and chance happeneth to
them all."

Newsweek, January 23, 1956