Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, excluding the advertisement on the left:

PERSPECTIVE

WORLD WAR I DEBTS

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The debts owed to the United
States by European governments,
which arose at the time of the first
world war and its aftermath, have a
way of popping up continually, like
King Charles’ head. Most recently,
they were discussed when Secretary
Dillon appeared before the Senate
Banking and Currency Committee
with the Administration’s proposal to
release part of the gold coverage
from Federal Reserve Bank deposits.
Noting that the French Government
persisted in nibbling away at our
dwindling gold supply, Senators
Robertson and Douglas proposed that
when the French presented further
demands for gold in exchange for
dollars we should not give them gold,
but credit the dollars to the old
World War I debts which are still on
our books.

Dillon replied that this would be
“impractical” because the French still
hold that since they had forgone
World War I reparations imposed
upon Germany, we should in turn
cancel their debt to us.

There never has been any valid
relationship between the debts owed
to us by the European allies and
their agreement more than 30 years
ago to forgo reparations payments.

AGREEMENT ON PRINCIPLES

In 1931, because of depression
conditions, President Hoover and
Congress agreed upon a year’s mora-
torium in debt payments. But imme-
diately after the 1932 election, with
the end of the moratorium in sight,
Hoover asked President-elect Roose-
velt to discuss the debts with him at
the White House. Roosevelt took me
with him to that meeting, and Secre-
tary of the Treasury Ogden Mills ac-
companied Hoover.

At that meeting, in correspondence,
and at another meeting in January,
Hoover and Roosevelt agreed upon
certain principles:

(1) That the debts were valid ob-
ligations with the several countries,
for which we held their promissory
notes; (2) that we would deal with
each country individually, not collec-
tively with all of them; (3) that the
debts were wholly unrelated to repa-
rations, for the United States had ex-
acted no reparations and had no part
in forgiving them; (4) that the
United States would demand the re-
sumption of payments in December;
(5) that the United States would al-
ways be willing to discuss the debts
with the debtors; (6) that since Con-
gress had specified that the debts
should not be “canceled or reduced,”
Hoover and Roosevelt would respect
this directive; and (7) that when a
debtor claimed inability to pay an in-
stallment, payment should go over
until the next due date.

These principles were agreed to in
separate statements. Hoover wanted
a new debt commission to be author-
ized by Congress, but Roosevelt held
that to be unnecessary because debts
and related subjects could be dis-
cussed in the ordinary channels of
diplomatic intercourse.

DUBIOUS ‘QUO’

Hoover had suggested that a re-
duction of the debts might be made in
return for concessions. This he called
a “quid pro quo.” Roosevelt was dubi-
ous about this because the United
States had a real “quid,” but nobody
knew what the “quo” might be.

The British paid in December and
the French defaulted. In the new
Administration I was directed by
Roosevelt to manage the debt nego-
tiations. When June came we ar-
ranged a token payment from the
British, and again the French de-
faulted. Our policy was to keep the
debts alive, despite dim prospects of
eventual payment, to serve as warn-
ing to European countries that we
would take a hard look when they
came once again for help.

And so the debts remain today.
Only Finland paid, year after year.
Now the British owe $9 billion (in-
terest and principal) and the French
$6.3 billion, while other European
countries owe lesser amounts.

In 1933, as now, the French had
plenty of gold. But Dillon is saying in
effect that while the U.S. has never
recognized a relationship between the
debts and reparations, the French still
claim there is one; therefore, we
should not arrest the French drain on
our gold in the way suggested by
Robertson and Douglas. In short, we
should meekly submit to the old false
claim about reparations. The debts
are mutually agreed-upon obligations.
The reparations were a fine.

Newsweek, March 1, 1965