Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Please note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original layout and OCR limitations.


NEWSWEEK, DECEMBER 18, 1939

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Business Statesmanship

"National security" would be an appropriate way to designate the theme of the annual Congress of American Industry recently held by the National Association of Manufacturers. "National" because in its extraordinarily well-planned program, in its statement of principles and in the general atmosphere surrounding the meetings the congress emphasized the broad interests of the nation rather than the narrower problems of industrial management alone. "Security" because the Congress sought to point the way to a spiritual and material knitting together of the many dissociated elements of our life through a healthy increase in productive power, an equitable distribution of the products of industry, a sound financial policy, a humane but workable division of responsibility for individual welfare between industry and government, an improved mechanism for labor adjustments, and a clarified definition of private enterprise and of American constitutional democracy.

The congress clearly recognized that the true defensive strength of this country is in the healthiness of its industry, its agriculture, its transportation and its financial system and, further, in the degree to which these are bent to the common objective of national unity.

Such a conception serves a far better purpose than repeated appeals for the special security of multitudinous individuals —appeals that have been so popular among politicians these past few years. Facing a Presidential year, American industry has given both parties plenty to think about and, better than that, it has given them a line of reasoning that may well stand them in hand as they face the task of offering their own programs to the people in the forthcoming election.

The program of speeches before the various meetings was carefully prepared to provide a unified expression of the principles of democracy and private enterprise in a world in which these concepts are being challenged on every side. First, the American concept of government was examined. Its historic evolution was described, as were its essentials in terms of civil and religious liberty, private enterprise and constitutional, representative democracy. The speeches then proceeded to outline the distinctive accomplishments and the future opportunities of private enterprise. They then analyzed in detail and with utter frankness the several responsibilities of business, education, youth, agriculture, labor, management, for the maintenance of democracy and private enterprise.

The platform of this representative group of industrial management is built upon the excellent and progressively improved platforms that the congress has put forward in the past few years. It states in the outset: "In America today, we are far from having satisfied the wants of our people. These wants can be satisfied only by the production and distribution of more goods for more people. The problem is that of expanding production of goods and services needed and desired with the widest possible distribution of real purchasing power created through productive effort."

It then proceeds to a detailed account of how the interests of consumers, employees, investors and management may be conserved in an expanding economy, and it ends with a hopeful view of the future. "If we are to fulfill the American dream of political and religious freedom, of assurance to the common man that opportunity is rich and free, that each may go as far and climb as high as his abilities can carry him, we must fortify with hope and purpose the spirit of our people. We must give this spirit substance by seeking the new horizons which can be opened out before us by the processes of research and industrial activity, with their promise of more goods for more people, and a higher standard of living for all."

A series of resolutions supplements the general platform. These, together with the platform and the speeches, outline a number of principles that might well be kept before the American people in the year to come:

1-Free enterprise can be progressively undermined by ill-considered attempts to extend, even with the best intentions, the power of government over private affairs. Such extensions should not be imposed without ample consideration of all the factors involved, and when they are imposed, they ought from time to time to be reconsidered, refined, and, whenever possible, curtailed.

2-Government finance must be administered with regard to the maintenance of a free flow of private savings into productive enterprise. Oppressive taxation, occasioned by wasteful activities or by discredited economic theories of pump priming, can well be a factor in paralyzing such a flow of life-giving private investment.

3-In the interests of safety, a policy of pay-as-you-go ought to be applied to security measures. Further, the underlying purpose of all unemployment compensation should be the reduction of unemployment. Hence, employers who seek to regularize and stabilize employment ought to receive special consideration in all laws that touch the question of unemployment relief.

4-The legitimacy and desirability of protecting labor's right to collective bargaining is unquestioned. Nevertheless, there is need for a revision of the National Labor Relations Act "to remove inequalities, to insure impartial administration and fair hearings and to guarantee to employees real freedom in the selection of their representatives without intimidation or coercion from any source whatever."

5-Since, as James Madison pointed out, it is the function of government to govern itself, our legislators are urged to pass the Walter-Logan Bill, which is designed to bring all parts of the vast bureaucracy of our Federal government under control of legal processes administered by the courts.

6-The needs of our transportation system are critical. Government is tacitly reminded of its failure, over a period of years, to work out helpful measures for the rehabilitation of railroads.

7-While the basic theory of reciprocal-trade agreements is sound, the effective working of such a system requires that the present plan be amended. Such amendments ought to provide for genuine bilateral agreements, for a wider opportunity for all interested parties to appear when such agreements are being negotiated and, in line with sound constitutional practice, for the approval of such agreements, which are essentially treaties, by the Senate.

Secretary Perkins is quoted as having said, after reading the platform of American Industry, that she rubbed her eyes with astonishment. Presumably her astonishment was occasioned by the liberal tone of the published expressions of the congress. It might be remarked without asperity that Secretary Perkins' eyes must have been turned in another direction on several Decembers of the past few years. These expressions are not entirely new. The N. A. M. has given them utterance repeatedly, though those who refuse to see the vision and liberalism of modern industrial management have passed them by with contemptuous asides. It is to be hoped that the eye rubbing confessed by Secretary Perkins will become contagious in Washington.

Page 584 of 1087