Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

Splinter-Party Folly

by Raymond Moley

A NUMBER of conservative Republi-
cans in New York have received
a manifesto and appeal for support by
a few ardently conservative men and
women. This document calls for the
creation of a Conservative Party in
New York State. The stated purpose
is to "bring down [I assume this means
to defeat] the liberal Republican ap-
parat" which would "transform the
Republican Party into a carbon copy
of the worst elements of its Demo-
cratic antagonist." Also, the expressed
hope of this group is "to provide a
model and inspiration for conserva-
tives in other states."

The sponsors of this call for a new
party are, no doubt, sincere young
people. But their qualifications as
workers in Republican politics are
meager and their chance of success is
doubtful. Their cause will vanish in
two or three months when the hill-
sides, along with Christmas jewelry,
turn green. But their concept of fur-
thering the cause of conservatism is so
widespread in the nation that it de-
serves comment. For a large number
of people who call themselves con-
servatives hold that the Republican
Party can be made more conservative
by remaining outside its ranks and
deliberately furthering its defeat.

TWO-PARTY PRINCIPLE

I disagree with Governor Rockefel-
ler on several national issues. But the
job he holds and seeks to retain is
chief executive of the state of New
York, and his record in that respect
has been good. Republicans in 1964
will have the opportunity to oppose or
support him for the Presidential nom-
ination if he is a candidate. Senator
Javits, the other bête noire of the
rebels, is an extreme exception among
Republicans. But a big party can af-
ford such dissenters. The Democratic
Party has been able to tolerate its
deviationists. A party's health im-
proves by assimilation, not elimination.
The Republican Party's complexion
is determined by those who join its
local units, work for its candidates at
all levels, and prove their value by
hard work. The party will not be
changed by those who remain aloof
and seek its defeat. On the seas of
politics, you do not, like Columbus,
seek the East by sailing west.

Abstainers and rebels indulge in
what has been called "delusive he-
roics" by claiming a monopoly on prin-
ciple. But high among the principles
which have made the Anglo-American
system the most stable and the best
protector of individual liberty is that
of the two-party system. The proof
is in more than two centuries of An-
glo-American political life. During
those centuries we have seen multi-
party systems become first one-party
systems and then one-man systems.
Those Northern Democrats, and
there were many, who in 1935 and
1936 saw that President Roosevelt had
fundamentally changed the nature of
the party of their traditions did not
abstain or form a new party. They
joined and worked for the Republican
Party and Republican candidates.

GOLDWATER'S ADVICE

Since conservative rebels and ab-
stainers regard Sen. Barry Goldwater
highly, they should at this moment
seriously review what Goldwater said
at the Republican convention in 1960.
He told his admirers to get into the
party, work for it, and elect the Nixon-
Lodge ticket. But a sufficient number
of conservatives ignored that advice
and either abstained altogether or
openly quarreled with the Nixon po-
sitions on issues to provide the nar-
row margin which resulted in his
defeat. Thus, they lent their aid to a
consolidation of a national regime in
Congress and the Executive against
which they now so furiously rage.

I suggest to conservatives a final
and most important consideration. It is
too late to seek ultimate success for
their principles by inviting Republican
defeat on the theory that things must
get worse before they get better. The
drift away from the proved principles
of government of this republic has
been and is very swift. I am not sug-
gesting and never have suggested a
return to the remote past. But it is high
time, before it is too late, to find better
ways of serving the interests of prog-
ress and the needs of a changing civi-
lization. More than 34 million voters
expressed that view in 1960. That end
can be achieved through the two-
party system. Conservatives should
not, like the boy in Lamb's essay, burn
the house to roast a pig.

Newsweek, January 22, 1962