Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Keys to Atomic Power—III

TOOLS OF PROGRESS
by Raymond Moley

AT THE end of the war in 1945 Gen.
Leslie R. Groves, who had
directed the construction and development of the atomic bomb, commissioned Prof. Henry D. Smyth, physicist at Princeton, to write an account of that massive undertaking from its inception in 1940 to Nagasaki. His monograph, known as "The Smyth Report," is basic history.

This recital falls into a number of parts: The scientific problem involved, the pioneer work of the lonely scientists, their cooperation in universities and private institutes—all these at first working with the objective of civilian use, not war—then the feverish quest for a bomb, the innumerable committees, the test phase with materials and equipment from industry, the contract phase with tasks entrusted to private companies, and the ultimate product.

An indispensable component in this development was American industry long engaged in converting scientific knowledge into the daily service of Americans. No other nation had such a resource available. Indeed, at the end of 1941 the only available uranium metal was at Westinghouse where it had been developed on an experimental basis. Other such raw materials were available in a number of other companies. Early work in universities and government laboratories secured their means of experimental progress from those sources.

HELP FROM INDUSTRY

With the aid of larger and larger financial means the work expanded, notably at the Metallurgical Laboratory at Chicago which ultimately became the great Argonne Laboratory and consistently cooperated with the manufacturers involved.

Then came the decision to go full scale into the big job. The Manhattan Project started with the Stone & Webster Engineering Corp. building the plant and du Pont operating it. Du Pont volunteered to undertake the work without profit and without patent rights to any technical developments. It merely asked that it be protected against loss. Then came other plants, employing, under contract, other companies, notably the Union Carbide and Carbon Corp.

As these companies came into the business of large-scale production they brought with them the many technical skills and men who had worked on the numerous other activities of these companies in the past. After all, nuclear operation, both in the bomb stage and later in power production, involves a highly complex arrangement of many homely matters well known to manufacturing. Metallurgy with knowledge of metal which could meet the terrific demands of great pressures and heat. Chemistry to manage fuel. And just plain mechanics—pipes, fittings, joints, pumps, valves, gauges, nuts, and bolts. These were the commonplaces of industry. Now they were required to meet indescribably severe tests. The companies approached the problem as they had other less exacting ones. They mobilized men and plans from many, many plants and concentrated them in this war-born industry.

MESHING OF INTERESTS

I cite an example of industrial cooperation from the Smyth Report:  "In describing the production of plutonium, we discussed the division of responsibility between the Metallurgical Project [laboratory] and du Pont. The electromagnetic separation plant was done under a somewhat different scheme of organization. The responsibility was divided among six major groups. The Radiation Laboratory at the University of California was responsible for research and development; Westinghouse for making mechanical parts, i.e., sources, receivers, pumps, tanks, etc.; General Electric for electrical equipment and controls; Allis-Chalmers for the magnets; Stone & Webster for construction and assembly; Tennessee Eastman for operation."

This is the pattern of American progress—science, research institutions, private industry with government to help where it can, mainly in the job of coordination. This meshing of interests is unknown to totalitarianism. No other form of society can produce such results.

Newsweek, February 3, 1958