Here's the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

PERSPECTIVE
GUARDING GUARDIANS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The Senate of the United States is
far more than a lawmaking body.
Under the Constitution it plays an im-
portant role in foreign affairs. Its "ad-
vice and consent" are essential to the
selection of important Presidential ap-
pointments. And its committees as
investigating bodies serve to protect
the public interest against malfea-
sance, misfeasance, and nonfeasance
in the executive department. Its
Rules Committee, by custom and by
designation by the Senate, is respon-
sible for the conduct of Senate mem-
bers and the Senate's employes.

On Oct. 10, 1963, a resolution in-
troduced by Senator Williams of Del-
aware was enacted, directing the
Rules Committee to investigate any
type of misconduct by any employe
or former employe of the Senate. At
that time it was specifically under-
stood that the authority given under
that resolution was broad enough to
include any such irregularities on the
part of any senator or former senator.
For it was obvious that the wide-
spread operations of Robert Baker
and his associates must have involved
some contacts with the senators by
whom he was employed. Majority
Leader Mansfield has since admitted
this understanding with those who
proposed the resolution.

BITTER BRAWL

However, after the investigation
had been substantially terminated
because Baker and others invoked
the Fifth Amendment, the chief
counsel of the Rules Committee ren-
dered an opinion that the resolution
did not contain any authority for the
committee to investigate alleged im-
proper conduct by a member or for-
mer member of the Senate.

On May 14 Senator Williams in-
troduced a new resolution which
would have overruled this opinion
of the chief counsel and which would
have permitted the committee to ex-
tend its investigation to members and
former members of the Senate. There
ensued one of the most disorderly
brawls ever seen in the Senate of
the United States.

Opponents of the new Williams
resolution, including Mansfield, held
that it was unnecessary because the
original resolution was adequate.
Other opponents demanded that

proof of members' complicity with
Baker be presented. This was wholly
irregular since the Senate as a body
is not a preliminary hearing. Such
evidence is properly the business of
a committee hearing, perhaps in ex-
ecutive session. While the bitter,
shouting proceedings went on, the
young and inexperienced Sen. Ed-
ward M. Kennedy was in the chair.
He lost his head completely, and
even the Senate parliamentarian re-
versed himself.

RUTHLESS MAJORITY

Finally Mansfield, who led the on-
slaught against the new Williams
resolution, brought about a vote to
table the resolution by a ruthless ex-
ercise of the power of the huge
Democratic majority. The vote was
42 to 33 to table. But eleven senators
who were not present were recorded
as opposing the motion to table. It is
notable that nine Democrats broke
with Mansfield and voted with the
solid Republican minority.

There is thus raised the ancient
question: "Who shall guard the
guardians?" (Quis custodiet ipsos
custodes?) So formidable are mem-
bers' privileges and immunities, so
secure is the tenure of so many of
them, and so tight are the ties within
the Senate as a "club" that this ques-
tion at the moment remains unan-
swered, and the public interest is
left exposed at a very vital spot.

In many instances in the past the
two-party system has operated to
perform the function of guardianship.
The minority-party members have
broken through to force investiga-
tions of a majority party's officials in
the executive department. In the
early 1920s, with Republicans in the
White House and in a majority
in Congress, Democratic Senators
Thomas J. Walsh and Burton K.
Wheeler brought to heel and to the
bar of justice two Cabinet members-
Albert B. Fall and Harry M. Daugh-
erty-and other powerful members of
the executive department, and a
President went to his grave with a
sullied reputation.

But now against such an over-
whelming Senate majority, far greater
than the majority in 1923, the Repub-
lican minority stands at the moment
subdued and powerless.

Newsweek, June 15, 1964