Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

As the Conference Opens

Whenever Norman Davis goes to
a party with realistic and experienced representatives of foreign governments, those
Americans who know his abilities and prejudices quake in their boots. This week’s
Brussels shindig is no exception. Nothing goes to Mr. Davis’ head more quickly
than a talk about world salvation through collective action. A few long quaffs, and
Mr. Davis will, with complete abandon, swing a nimble foot to foreign pipes. In
fact, he has even been known, at the height of the merriment, to offer to give
his hosts the shirt off Uncle Sam’s back.

This, remember, is the same Norman Davis who, as a delegate to the Arms
Conference in 1933, committed the United States to the following proposition in
return for some undesignated limitation of armament: “We are willing to consult
other states in case of a threat to peace with a view to averting a conflict. Further
than that, in the event that the states in conference determine that a state has
been guilty of a breach of peace in violation of its international obligations and
take measures against a violator, then, if we concur in the judgment rendered as to
the responsible and guilty party, we will refrain from any action tending to defeat
such collective effort which the states may thus make to restore peace.”

As it happened, Mr. Davis’ generous proposal was looked upon with such extreme
disfavor in the sober atmosphere of the Senate’s Foreign Relations Committee, that
the Senate tempered it, qualified and, later, partially nullified it in terms which left
no doubt that that body was determined not to consent to the abandonment of
neutrality by the United States. But repudiations of this kind have seemingly neither
dampened Mr. Davis’ ardor nor disqualified him to represent us at affairs of the
Brussels variety—a joyous service which he has rendered first under Wilson, then
under Hoover and now under Roosevelt.

The special danger in the present situation lies in the fact that, in the weeks before
November 3, the Administration has inferentially carried us far beyond the Norman
Davis Commitment of 1933. Mr. Davis merely pledged that, in return for a limitation
of armaments, we would, in the event that the League states took coercive measures
against the “aggressor,” refrain from any action to defeat such collective effort if we
concurred in their judgment as to the guilty party. What we have now done is to
encourage and provoke Geneva into action against Japan in the vain belief that our
leadership in hostility would not become so apparent. We announced the guilty party,
and then Geneva followed suit.

Theoretically, the Brussels Conference might have acted as a mediator—and an impartial
one. But the Chicago speech and the State Department’s subsequent naming of Japan as
an aggressor have made impartiality impossible. Americans who listened to the metaphors
of the Chicago speech may not have realized that when Mr. Roosevelt used the word
“quarantine” he used a word which has a definite meaning. In terms of its own technical
definition, and interpreted in the light of the context, it meant to segregate, boycott or
otherwise engage in specific punitive action against Japan. The use of such language was,
at the very least, a negation of the idea of suspended judgment and unbiased interposition.
Thus has the moral force of impartial mediation offered in good faith been blighted before
it could be invoked.

Now the Conference has no choice but to act as a punitive agency or to do nothing under
the guise of doing something. The alternatives, wholly needlessly, are now war or
frustration.

There is another point. Mr. Davis will be dealing with representatives of European nations
that are rapidly reaching a temporary modus vivendi. It is utterly unlikely that they will
be willing to take any action which might destroy the respite that they have secured after
endless negotiation in the capitals of Europe during the past six months. They may well
regret what is happening in the Far East, without being disposed to jeopardize that fragile
and conditional peace they have bought so dearly at home. Germany and Italy, moreover,
are quite likely to sabotage any efforts to adopt coercive measures.

The directing genius behind British foreign policy is not the naive Mr. Eden, but as hard-boiled
a European statesman as has been developed in the past twenty-five years: behind Neville
Chamberlain, an infinitely stronger character than his brother Austin, is the tradition of his
father Joseph, the most forthright imperialist that England produced since the days of Warren
Hastings. But even if this were not the fact, even if Anthony Eden were Prime Minister,
England could not go to bat in the Pacific.


NEWSWEEK

And so Mr. Davis, boiling with moral indignation and fresh from counsels with an
Administration itching to “do something” about Japan, is going into a huddle with men
whose only object is to see us attempt, single-handed, to discipline Japan. What will
his reaction be as the facts begin to dawn on him? To what will he be moved to commit
the United States, lest his pilgrimage result in complete humiliation? What impulsive
gesture will suggest itself as an alternative to frustration?

Only the presence of Congress in special session at Washington may protect us from
embroilment beyond that dangerous point to which Mr. Davis slid in 1933. For the
feeling is strong in the Senate that whether war comes now or later, the Administration,
wittingly or unwittingly, will have made its contribution toward it.


Beer Since Repeal

Last week at Pittsburgh, the United States Brewers Association celebrated its diamond
jubilee. The occasion brings to the fore discussion of the present status of the brewing
industry, the government regulations that concern it, the tax burden it bears and the duties
and responsibilities of the industry in the new era that began with the adoption of the
Twenty-first Amendment.

The legalization of beer in the spring of 1933 was, of course, primarily a recovery measure
and only incidentally the fulfillment of a Roosevelt campaign pledge. The figures presented
to the public last week are an impressive demonstration of the part in recovery which the
industry has played in the past four and a half years. One billion dollars in excise taxes have
gone into the Federal Treasury. State and municipal treasuries have enjoyed a comparably
invigorating rain of revenue. Hundreds of thousands of workers have been reemployed, and
vast amounts of agricultural products have found a market.

As might have been expected, the return of beer has been accompanied by a vast amount of
regulatory legislation. More than four years of experience now point to the need for careful
revision of this complicated growth—not for the purpose of relaxing the government’s
watchfulness, which is indispensable if the old evils are not to recur, but in order to make
the regulation more simple, more intelligible and more adequate. The need for legislative
overhauling and simplification is certainly not confined to this field. But the industry is
itself so thoroughly conscious of the fact that it must prevent the recurrence of the evil
conditions which contributed to the enactment of Prohibition and so forcibly demonstrating
its own ability to curb those abuses which might bring it into disrepute, that a start might
well be made here.