Perspective
U.S. Patent Office

Atomic Socialism

by Raymond Moley

NO AMERICANS except the handful
of misty-eyed members of the
little old Socialist Party advocate so-
cialism under its real name. The no-
table gains of collectivism in this
country have been made under names
and for alleged reasons flattering to
the American's belief in private prop-
erty and individual enterprise.
The Federal government went into
the electric-power business to estab-
lish a "yardstick," or to control floods,
or "conserve" resources. In all cases
it became the man who stayed to
dinner. It grew to monopolistic propor-
tions by using tax money to sell at
less than cost and by discriminatory
"preferences" in the law.
The same old semantic fraud now
appears in a plan to fasten the grip of
a Federal government on the peaceful
uses of nuclear power. Sen. Albert
Gore is the major prophet of this
collectivist scheme.

MONOPOLY

His bill (S. 2625) would authorize
the Atomic Energy Commission to
construct six nuclear plants for indus-
trial or commercial use in selected
geographical regions. Each design
would be different from the others,
and they would cost $2 billion.
Presumably the geographical selec-
tion would enable these centers of
Federal business to dominate regions
already occupied by Federal hydro-
electric installations such as the TVA
and the Northwest. This is the old
idea of valley authorities under a new
guise. It is recognized that, despite
the vast amounts spent by the Federal
government, hydroelectric will in the
age ahead sink to insignificance, and
that to sustain a Federal monopoly
this new source will have to be cap-
tured. It is estimated that in 40 years
50 per cent of all electric power will
be generated by nuclear installations.
The Gore plan would therefore deter-
mine the fate of investor-owned com-
panies and, indeed, the economic
future of the country.
The semantic screen for this new
collectivism is a tapestry of exquisitely
contrived doubletalk. According to
the language of the bill, these Fed-
eral facilities would be "designed to
demonstrate the practical value" of
nuclear power. They would be in-
tended to advance the "science and
technology" of the new source of
power. The senator fears that unless
we hurry up we shall be left behind
by Britain and Russia. Private indus-
try, he fears, is moving too slowly.
And finally, that supreme overworked
excuse for almost anything these
days: "Global" prestige.
At the moment private companies
are moving with energy and great
expenditures of money toward antici-
pating nuclear power. Forty-four in-
vestor-owned companies, either singly
or in groups, are building or planning
nuclear power plants. They are plan-
ning the variety of designs sought by
the Gore bill because there will be
several different types of installation.
These companies are spending their
hundreds of millions because Congress
and the AEC have given assurance
that government will permit private
peaceful uses of the new source of
energy. The AEC has taken many
steps to further the efforts of the
private companies.
In short, the Congress has estab-
lished a policy of helpful cooperation
of a great development almost en-
tirely financed by private investors.
But despite this commitment, the
Gore bill would turn the clock back to
government operation and control.

INSURANCE

The companies face one problem
before they can proceed with the
necessary speed. That is insurance. In
calculating the risks there is not only
property damage but personal injury
to be considered. While a reactor ac-
cident might not release widespread
radioactivity, the release of lethal
gases might impose enormous liabili-
ties. Private insurance companies are
able to assume only a part of the risk
involved, perhaps up to $75 million.
Beyond that, government must offer
some sort of insurance. Bills have been
offered by members of the Joint Con-
gressional Committee on Atomic En-
ergy to cover this, and there is a good
chance of action in this Congress.
This sort of practical aid is what
the Federal government can do to
further a great and revolutionary ad-
vance in the American economy. So-
cialism such as Senator Gore proposes
would check that advance.

Newsweek, June 25, 1956