Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:

PERSPECTIVE

LBJ'S GREAT SOCIETY

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It has become a tradition for a Presidential candidate to have a general
characterization for his miscellaneous
collection of panaceas. This is to provide a seeming coherence for irreconcilable items of policy.
TR had two such characterizations, the New Nationalism and the
Square Deal. Wilson countered with
the New Freedom. Then there were
the New Deal, the Fair Deal,
and the New Frontier.
Lyndon Johnson wanted something
new without the word "new." And so
some bookish friend supplied a Great
Society. This was taken from the title
of a book by an English reformer,
Graham Wallas, published in 1914.
The practical gentlemen around
the President were delighted. For
they realized that the Great Poverty
would be depressing, and the Great
Divide might frighten the 45 tycoons-
for-Johnson.
Graham Wallas was one of the
original members of the British
Fabian Society. He joined the group
in 1886 and left it when he became
a member of the London County
Council. In a biography by G.D.H.
Cole, a socialist, Wallas is listed with
Bernard Shaw, Sidney Webb, and
Annie Besant, the theosophist, as one
of the authors of the Fabian Tracts
of 1889. Cole differentiates Fabianism
from Marxism on the ground that it
was not a call for a class struggle but
a mild means of attaining socialism
through changes in the suffrage and
in representation.

COLLECTIVE MUDDLING

Wallas became a member of the
faculty of the London School of Economics and was professor of political
science in the University of London.
After he retired, Harold Laski succeeded to the same chair.
Well before Laski had fired the
imagination of so many American
academicians and his books were required readings in so many of our
college courses, and before Joseph P.
Kennedy sent his sons Joseph Jr. and
John F. to study with Laski at the
London School, Wallas was fairly
well known in academic circles here.
He had taught briefly at Harvard in
1914. "Progressive" people here
found his book "profound" rather
than stimulating. As one reviewer put
it, Wallas believed in organizing people's lives to fit a collective norm, but
was vague about how to do it.
I have found this to be true in rereading the book, "The Great Society." The three major chapters are
"The Organization of Thought," "The
Organization of Will," and "The Organization of Happiness." In these
pages the author is passionately
struggling with a desire to get everybody to think together, act together,
and enjoy together under some sort
of direction by an elite. But he gets
hopelessly muddled in the practical
problems involved.

SHOCKER FOR JOHNSON

For example, in discussing what he
calls a Will-Organization, he favors a
combination of Property (Individualism), the democratic State
(Socialism), and non-local Association
(Syndicalism). "All three elements
will obviously be required in the future State; but this organization will
require invention rather than merely
mechanical combination." And Wallas
was no inventor.
Wallas's futile groping underlines
something I have always believed.
We need not fear totalitarianism in
the United States so long as collectivists are so incompetent in their expressions of objectives and methods.
Mr. Johnson will find these chapters hard going if he looks there for
what is meant by the Great Society.
For LBJ is an activist who can get
people under his influence to act. So
far as thinking is concerned, his formula is "think Democratic and leave
the driving to us."
But if Mr. Johnson will only read
the book through to the last two
pages, he will have a great shock.
For Wallas writes: "Aristotle, in one
of those conversational flashes which
lie in wait for his readers on almost
every page of the Ethics, says: 'Virtue is rightly defined as a Mean, and
yet in so far as it aims at the highest
excellence, it is an Extreme," Wallas
says further:
"No social Organization is, we feel,
good which does not contain that element which Aristotle here calls the
Extreme . . . the Extreme as a personal ideal for those who are called
by it is a necessary complement of
the Mean in public policy."

Newsweek, September 28, 1964