Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, maintaining the column structure:

**Bricker of Ohio**
by RAYMOND MOLEY

COLUMBUS—As governor of Ohio,  For this change Bricker deserves major
John W. Bricker is at once the heir of a  credit.
notable tradition—the well-known avail-  The men around Bricker speak well
ability of Ohioans for the Republican  for him. The lieutenant governor and
Presidential nomination—and the vie-  attorney general are lawyers highly re-
tim of a great handicap—Harding’s  garded by the profession. Liquor con-
failure and the infamy of the “Ohio  trol, an immensely important function
Gang.” Neither of these circumstances  under the Ohio law, is headed by a
is relevant in appraising Bricker these  professor in the state university. Brick-
days. To give him priority for the nomi-  er’s highway commissioner in his first
nation merely because he comes from  years as governor is now a major gen-
Ohio would be wallowing in supersti-  eral in command of the 37th Division.
tion. To oppose him because of the  His tax commissioner and welfare di-
Harding “gang” is not only senseless,  rector are well thought of by people of
but cruelly unfair.                 both parties. It would be hard to find
                                    a state with so much competence and
What are the facts? Bricker is not  so little politics in its administration.
now going after the nomination. No  When he became governor in 1939,
Mark Hanna or Harry Daugherty is  Bricker inherited a deficit of some $40,-
out prowling through the states in his  000,000. At the end of 1942, the state
behalf. There is no Presidential head-  surplus was $45,000,000. He has recom-
quarters here in Columbus. That the  mended the freezing of $15,000,000 for
1944 Ohio delegation will be for him is  the beginning of a ten-year postwar
taken for granted. But any Ohio gov-  building program.
ernor would get that in a year when  
the field is broken. This isn’t to say  Bricker’s history offers no ground
that he won’t seek the nomination. But  for believing that he will side-step any
he isn’t seeking it now.              pertinent issue. But because he has
                                    stuck closely to his job as governor, he
The effort to smear Bricker with  has not felt it incumbent upon him
Harding mud certainly won’t stand up  either to debate issues of foreign policy
in the face of a personal, firsthand  or to offer a full-dress exposition of na-
knowledge of Ohio politics going back  tional philosophy. As an individual, he
to 1892, the year before Bricker was  represents a familiar American type. He
born. There have always been two  was born of parents in moderate cir-
major Republican factions in Ohio—  cumstances in a small town near Co-
one centering in Cincinnati; the other,  lumbus, taught school and put himself
in Cleveland. Fifty years ago they were  through the state university. After prac-
bossed by Foraker and Hanna, respec-  ticing law in Columbus, he served first
tively, who were followed first by  as counsel for and, later, as a member
George B. Cox and the late (not cur-  of the State Utilities Commission. When
rent) Senator Burton and, later, by Rud  Roosevelt swept the state in 1932,
Hynica and Maurice Maschke. All these  Bricker not only survived but was
regimes were of the old-fashioned ma-  elected attorney general. His third elec-
chine variety. In 1920 an intermediate  tion as governor in 1942, by a majority
machine, led by Harry Daugherty and  of 365,000, was a phenomenal exhibition
centering in Columbus, held the balance  of popularity.
of power and spawned the crowd that  There is no rant, cant or pretense in
followed Harding to Washington.       Bricker’s manner; yet he has exceptional
                                    moral courage. Two years ago, an ac-
That sort of thing is all gone now.  count of his fight with the city of
In the Cincinnati region the party is  Cleveland over relief funds appeared
governed by a committee which rotates  on this page. He had, I remarked then,
the chairmanship yearly. Cincinnati has  the faith that “a just cause sooner or
clean government. The nominal head of  later becomes a popular cause.” Now,
the Cleveland organization is Congress-  after two years, I have not found an
man Bender who, because his office de-  informed Ohioan who does not admit
pends upon statewide support, must  that both his fight and his victory were
defer to Bricker. Control over all the  right. There is a lot of firmness and
usual prerequisites of politics is held,  staying power in this friendly and at-
as it should be, by the responsible  tractive man.
elected and appointed officials of the
state. Government is run by men elected
by the people, not by back-room bosses.