Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Fragile Statesman

by Raymond Moley

It was probably destined, when nature wove together the strands
that became the personality of Adlai
Stevenson, that “at some disputed
barricade” his rendezvous would be
not with glory but with bitter frustration. The tragedy which befell
Stevenson in Minnesota was implicit
in the nature of the man.

Nothing more revealing was ever
said by Stevenson than a
sentence in a speech at the
University of Minnesota
during the recent campaign
in that state: “One of my
rewards for political campaigning is that occasionally
I can detour into a college
campus.” In such an environment, walled in from the
seamy side of life and politics, his indubitable talents
could have been exercised with credit
to himself and benefit to his students
and colleagues. He is urbane, witty,
and without pretense. His tolerance,
his transparent fairness, and his gentlemanly bearing would grace an academic scene. But his philosophy is not
hardened, as was Woodrow Wilson’s,
by deep conviction, powerful insight,
and wide reading in political and
economic science.

He might indeed have taken counsel long ago from Wilson who wrote
while at Adlai’s alma mater that a
“literary politician” is a “man who has
the genius to see deeply into affairs,
and the discretion to keep out of
them.” Had Stevenson applied himself to his books in the past, he might
have been a literary politician. But
nothing could provide for him the
stern stuff essential to the vicissitudes
of practical politics. His is a craft ill-
suited to heavy seas but designed for
sunny skies, gentle winds, and
smooth, sheltered water.

Those who have read the comments on this page will know that I
am not wont to offer myself on the
hard altar of prophecy. But on a number of occasions I have indicated a
belief based upon my appraisal of
Adlai Stevenson that he could not survive in 1956. In November 1954 I
wrote that Stevenson might not get
the nomination in 1956. “His stylized
manner and his quips and quiddities
will grow stale… While I entertain
no admiration for Kefauver I have believed for two years that he would be
hard to beat in 1956.” In November
1955, a year later, I wrote that “to win
the nomination he [Stevenson] cannot
again avoid Presidential primaries.
Can he win in state after state against
a tough adversary like Kefauver? In
that game, like the quest for $64,000,
one slip and you are in the Cadillac.”
In a forecast for the American Legion
Magazine written last November, I said: “I have
never been convinced that
Stevenson could be nominated again. Suppose a vote
getter like Kefauver should
decide to contest some of
the early primaries?”

The weeks spent in the
Minnesota campaign must
have been a nightmare for
Stevenson. Dutifully he
went from pillar to post. He uttered
the well-worn criticisms of the
Eisenhower Administration. He tossed
out longish words and cracked his
little jokes. Everywhere he must have
seen the dissatisfaction with his efforts
on the faces of people who had in
past years been inured to the ruthless, cynical collectivism of Floyd
Olsen and later to the bland, humor-
less efforts of Harold Stassen. Life
is no joke to these descendants of
vikings. They are out for more government help this year, and they are
no friends of moderation.

Kefauver, on the other hand, offered them his hand, his heart, and
through promises consigned his soul
to the Old Nick of politics. Later, the
reckoning can be compromised with
more promises.

If it were possible, I would feel
sorry for the self-styled intellectuals who so fervently followed the
Stevenson banner in 1952. Notably
the British correspondents who in October were cabling their papers that
their man was going to win. And the
college faculties whose round robins
were dedicated to the discovery of
culture in politics. And those professors who wrote letters to me reviling
me for suggesting that their man was
too fragile to reach the top. But the
intellectual rates his education as
something that suffices in itself rather
than as a tool for the more literate
expression of common sense.

Newsweek, April 2, 1956