Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Money Against Nature

by Raymond Moley

LAST week on this page I described
in general terms the folly of our
government’s policies concerning the
support of agriculture. They are, as
I noted, a challenge to the titanic
forces of nature, with capital provided
by the taxpayers of the nation. Those
natural forces are the ever-growing
appetite of the beneficiaries, the am-
bition of politicians, and the illimita-
ble fecundity of Mother Earth. Since
that was written, the specifications of
that folly have been graphically por-
trayed in a booklet which I have
received from a member of the Presi-
dent’s Council of Economic Advisers.
This was prepared from data from the
Department of Agriculture and the
Bureau of the Budget.

The charts present the factual (I
might add “fatal”) picture of “the ef-
fect of present agricultural price-
support policies on the Federal
budget, the status of the Federal gov-
ernment’s investment in price-support
inventories and loans, and the histor-
ical trend in production, consumption,
and carry-over of wheat, feed grains,
and cotton, which represent the major
part of the agricultural surpluses ac-
quired under present price-support
legislation.” The facts portrayed
hardly need explanation. The figures
bespeak their stark threat to the Fed-
eral budget.

THE STARK FACTS

The chart showing the cost of agri-
cultural programs over fifteen years
beginning in 1946 shows rapidly rising
expenditures for all agricultural affairs,
but a sensational surge in payments
for “stabilization for farm prices and
income.” These are mandatory under
present legislation. The jump, with
occasional halts, has been from less
than a billion dollars in 1946 to an es-
timated $5.4 billion for the present
fiscal year, an all-time high. This is $2
billion more than the average for the
four years 1955-1958. The cost of ag-
riculture for this year will be two-
thirds of the deficit. Thus, it is a major
factor in inflation.

The government’s investments in
commodity loans have, except for two
small declines, moved relentlessly up-
ward in the eight years beginning in
1952. In 1960 the investment will
reach an all-time high of close to $10
billion. Wheat and feed grains ac-
count for 78 per cent.

These immense stores of commodi-
ties, in addition to the supports and
loans, cost great amounts for storage,
transportation, and interest charges.
In 1960 a cost of $300 million will be
for storage of wheat alone.

Wheat is the major headache. De-
spite all the plans for reduced acre-
age, including the latest soil bank, the
carry-over will be 1.4 billion bushels
in 1960. The dent made by the very
expensive soil bank (helped as it was
by a drought) was in 1956 and 1957
when the level dropped slightly be-
low what it was before the soil bank
was tried. But soil bank or no soil
bank, the great Mother Earth pushed
production up through the billion
mark and on well toward 1.4 billion
in 1958. Almost the same trend has
been going on with feed-grain pro-
duction and carry-over.

THE OMINOUS FUTURE

Cotton production has shown some
decline since 1953, but it will jump
from 12.4 million acres in 1958 to
nearly 17 million acres in 1959. And
it should be noted that to help keep
the carry-over down, the export of
cotton is subsidized. This is, of course,
an added budgetary item.

This brings us to the ominous future
that we face under such laws as are
now on the books. I quote from the
document on this subject: “Longer-
term prospects are for increased gov-
ernment investment in price support
under present laws. An advance pro-
jection of CCC investment in price-
support loans and inventories with
programs continued under present
legislation indicates the total will rise
to nearly $12 billion by June 30, 1963,
from the total of $9.8 billion expected
to be reached by June 30, 1960. Of
the total on June 30, 1963, wheat,
corn, other feed grains (oats, barley,
and grain sorghums), and cotton add
to $11.2 billion, or 93 per cent of the
total of $11.9 billion expected by
June 30, 1963.”

There is the story, documented, of
how futile are the efforts of man-made
laws struggling against the inexhaust-
ible forces of nature, of increased
technology, of politics, and of the ap-
petite of beneficiaries.

Newsweek, June 29, 1959