Here's the text extracted from the provided image, attempting to preserve the column structure:


**Saltonstall of Massachusetts**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

BOSTON—Most accounts of the political successes of Gov. Leverett Saltonstall emphasize his distinguished ancestry, his social standing and his comfortable private means as news. Yet these are the least unusual things about him. Massachusetts doesn't elect aristocrats: it chooses them for office when they show signs of the capacity to give good government. Saltonstall does.

A third of the population of Massachusetts is of Irish derivation; 10 per cent are French Canadian; 10 per cent are British Canadian, and about a fifth are Italian, Jewish, Polish and Swedish. The Yankees are down to about one-fifth now. Occasionally a demagogue exploits class prejudices, but he is ultimately discarded—for what he is. For whatever reason—the age of the state or the behavior of the really intelligent inheritors of famous names like Saltonstall—its electorate very often has enough sense to recognize that the art of government is something specialized and technical, that it has little to do with a flair for oratory or cheap sensationalism and that when certain people give their lives to it and honestly master its details, they are good fellows to put in office. Massachusetts chose Leverett Saltonstall, as it chose Coolidge, the elder Lodge and, a hundred or more years ago, the Adamses, Saltonstalls and Leveretts before him. They chose him as a professional public servant by tradition, by choice, and virtue of a lifetime's study of politics and government.

With Harvard and the last war out of the way, he started his steady climb in Massachusetts in 1921, becoming, in turn, alderman, assistant district attorney, district attorney, state representative and Speaker of the House. This record, not his name, glamor or accident, elected him governor in 1938 and reelected him in '40 and '42.

The governor professes to be a New Dealer in principle. But pressed for details, he soon makes it clear that he is trying to describe a general belief that government must have a broad interest in economic and social affairs and that most of the New Deal objectives have ceased to be matters for party contention. Take social security, for example. Massachusetts has been a pioneer state, and much of the philosophy the Federal government embodied in its social-security system originated here. But it is significant that when, a year ago, a spurious clamor went up for a Federal grant of 300 millions for the relief of unemployment in Detroit because of the reconversion of the automobile industry, Saltonstall led the fight of governors against it. The governors won. And the facts have since justified their victory over the unions and the Administration.

Recognizing early the need for the assumption of war emergency powers by the heads of the state governments, Saltonstall's plan was not only the first, but became the model for other states. His home defense setup was miles ahead of the Federal government's.

Saltonstall entered office under two handicaps in handling state finances. There was a deficit, and there was no sales tax. But by the end of next year, he will have cut a deficit of 41 million by 92 per cent. Massachusetts will have credit for postwar needs, and many of its towns and cities will have nest eggs for public works.

No governor has made more intelligent preparations for postwar problems. His Committee on Postwar Readjustment has already submitted its preliminary report. The common sense of this report is in marked contrast with the other-worldly ruminations of the National Resources Planning Board report just submitted to Congress by the President (see page 31). Instead of starting by recommending the spending of government money, the Massachusetts report tries first to find every potential non-government job and every potential private dollar for investment.

Saltonstall also believes that by doing their job, the states can save us from the Washington bureaucracy. There is a notable firmness in everything he says about the dangers of bureaucracy. These days, of course, Boston is full of busy little emissaries from the Washington alphabetical bureaus. The story is told that one morning one of them briskly entered a self-service elevator in the state house. A plain, quiet-looking man was the only other passenger. "Next floor," snapped the bureaucrat to the governor, who, in a glow of inner amusement, obeyed. But even before Cromwell, the Massachusetts Saltonstalls have known bureaucrats. They never cared for them. And the most distinguished current bearer of the name thinks the voters agree with him on that.