PERSPECTIVE

NLRB's Thrust for Power

by Raymond Moley

IF PRESIDENT KENNEDY fails to convince management of his friendship for business, a large element in the reason is the pro-union bias of his National Labor Relations Board. He appointed two of its five members and reappointed another.

Two months ago I discussed a ruling by the board ordering a National Maritime Union election on ships registered in Honduras. This order reversed the age-old international law of the flag and substituted new criteria to determine nationality.

Fortunately, the Supreme Court on Feb. 18 reversed the board.

But in another sector of the economy, the NLRB in April 1962, in the Town and Country case, overruled a principle which had guided its decisions since the beginning and on which business management has had every reason to rely.

In that case the management, for predominantly economic reasons, had discontinued its delivery service and made a contract with a trucking company. The board held that the management should first have bargained with the union over any such business decision. Its failure to do so constituted an unfair labor practice, and under mandatory bargaining, the union enjoyed a right to strike.

BOARD REVERSES ITSELF

This reversed a standard decision handed down in 1953, in the Fiber-board case. In line with that decision the board until 1962 had held to the following pattern:

Let us suppose that a company had decided to discontinue its business in whole or in part, or to move in whole or in part to a new location, or to subcontract a part of its operations. In any of these instances workers were displaced.

Upon complaint by the union, the NLRB would weigh the considerations which motivated the employer's decision. If it found that the motives were predominantly economic, the complaint would be dismissed. If it was found that the decision was primarily to evade responsibilities to the union, remedies were applied such as an order to return to the status quo ante, or to provide back pay, or for the company to bind itself to give preference to the discharged workers in new hiring.

In the Town and Country case, an entirely new factor was introduced. In any projected decision which would displace employees, an employer must submit the plan to the union for bargaining before he acts. This plunges the union into matters of pure business judgment. It would mean months of delay. It would also compel the employer to disclose his books and records which, if revealed, would benefit competition.

BOARD MAKES NEW LAW

In a recent speech T.C. Kammholz, formerly general counsel for the board, pointed out that this reversal of precedent would punish employers for actions which, when taken, were perfectly legal. If bargaining fails and the employer carries out his plan, the board may not agree with his reasons and he will be guilty of violating the law.

This new posture of the board thrusts government as well as the unions into management decisions. It ignores the fact that management in making such decisions takes all the business risks. The board loses nothing if a valuable business is destroyed by its decision, which may be to restore a status quo which management believes to be unprofitable and inefficient.

In his dissenting opinion in the Town and Country case, NLRB member Philip Ray Rodgers, an Eisenhower appointee, declared that in the light not only of NLRB precedents but a long line of court decisions it has been made clear that Congress never intended that the law should be applied in this way. Those decisions have consistently held that the judgment of management based upon grounds of greater economy and efficiency should not be subject to collective bargaining. "For, obviously, to require an employer to bargain over this aspect of his decision does not leave him free to make the decision." And so the New Frontier's NLRB has sought not only to make new international law in the shipping case, but in the domestic field to ignore the courts and Congress itself.

Newsweek, April 8, 1963