Here's a text extraction from the provided image.  I've attempted to preserve the column structure as much as possible, but some minor adjustments might be needed for perfect alignment.


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Uncle Sam vs. Small Business—II
by Raymond Moley

As was indicated in this space last
week, the Federal government,
despite its solicitude for small business,
is actually in bitter and unnecessary
competition with hundreds upon
hundreds of small enterprises.

The Hoover commission, building
upon a vast amount of evidence of unfair
government competition collected by
House subcommittees, presented an
arresting picture of the magnitude of
the problem.  It found that in the
Department of Defense alone the
government is conducting
approximately 2,500 commercial and
industrial enterprises. The total
investment in these is more than $15
billion. At least 1,000 could be
eliminated without impairing the
defense effort and with great savings to
the taxpayer.

To list all the kinds of these
enterprises would fill this page. I offer
only a few select types: Coffee-roasting
plants, motion-picture studios, ice-
cream-manufacturing plants, cobbler
shops, tree and garden nurseries, liquor
stores, commissaries and post
exchanges which are in reality supermarkets,
rope-manufacturing plants, medical- and
dental-manufacturing plants, and
watch-, clock-, and jewelry-repair shops.

In the course of extended hearings
before subcommittees of the House
Committee on Government Operations,
representatives of private enterprises
with which these government businesses
are in competition presented plenty of
evidence that they could take on a great
deal of this business competently and
efficiently.

Opposed to their contentions there
appeared several members of the military
services. Their arguments ranged over
all the familiar field traversed by
bureaucrats when the justification of
any government operation is questioned.
Two excuses, however, were unique and,
to say the least, highly questionable. One
was that these operations, meaning perhaps
the convenient package stores run by the
military, were contributions to "morale."

A major general, testifying in 1953,
begged that the Army retain its commissaries
in order "to obtain and hold high-caliber
career personnel." Perhaps he meant that
if the wives of the colonels were able to get
cheap groceries, including liquid refreshment
for entertainment, they would be more
amiable and thus fill the household with
good cheer.

Another justification was that goods
and services at prices below cost should
be regarded as a "fringe benefit." Since
those "perquisites and emoluments" which
the general mentioned are actually enjoyed
by only a part of the military service, this
means of raising compensation is discriminatory
and unfair. A simple answer to this is that
if present compensation of military
personnel is inadequate, it should be
increased directly rather than through the
highly irregular means of what the major
general called "the perquisites and emoluments
of the military service."

The first step taken to cut back the
business activities of the Defense Department
was in 1952 when the Secretary of the
department issued a directive which provided
that facilities should not be continued "where
private commercial facilities are available."
The next year Secretary Wilson took more
vigorous action, and this year he reported
that 97 such facilities had been discontinued.
The Bureau of the Budget issued detailed
instructions for a vigorous investigation of
the subject. In the present Congress, Senator
McClellan has introduced a bill which, if
enacted, would sharply reduce the commercial
activities of all departments.

ALARMED at these moves to take
Uncle Sam out of his little businesses,
congressmen and senators, both Democratic
and Republican, whose districts and states
have enjoyed the benefit of these activities,
rallied this spring to insert in the Defense
Appropriation Act a requirement that such
eliminations be reported to the appropriations
committees, who would then have the power
of veto. This highly questionable invasion of
the executive power, the President in a
message in July promised to contest.
Meanwhile, the Secretary of Defense is
moving toward getting his department as
far out of these small businesses as possible.

Newsweek, October 17, 1955