PERSPECTIVE

NIXON ON VIETNAM

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In an off-the-record speech before
a private group in New York,
Richard Nixon analyzed the Ameri-
can position in Vietnam with such
precision and force that many who
heard him persuaded him to commit
it to writing. Since the mechanical
means of recording the speech when
it was delivered had failed, he care-
fully wrote it out for what has been
until now a limited circulation. Al-
together, in the space of ten pages
his statement is the most comprehen-
sive as well as convincing argument
why the United States cannot aban-
don its responsibility in Vietnam that
has yet appeared.

Nixon said, in introducing his sub-
ject, that "the American people are
entitled to know why we are there,
what is at stake, the riches that are
involved, and the goals we seek."
His position was that President
Johnson's strong action over the past
two or three months deserves general
American support. It ignored the cav-
iling about details of our operation
that have so distorted public debate
on our policy in Southeast Asia.
These are not relevant to the cen-
tral issue.

Moreover, this statesmanlike ex-
pression should strengthen the general
belief of Republicans that Nixon is
now the foremost voice of the GOP.
By very force of character and knowl-
edge of the issues he is entitled to
leadership in these gloomy days of
opposition.

RISK INEVITABLE

Let us, in considering Nixon's use-
fulness, stop here and now any talk
about who should be the Republican
candidate in 1968. Three years lie
ahead of us before that decision will
be made, and many things will cer-
tainly happen during that time. Next
year there will be the mid-term Con-
gressional election, and history shows
that candidacies will not be crystal-
lized before that. New names and
faces will appear. The state of the
world is in flux, and great military
decisions may be forced upon us.
The state of our nation probably will
be profoundly changed economically
and politically.

The point is that now in 1965 the
Republican opposition desperately
needs leadership which Nixon is, not

only by experience but by freedom
from factional entanglements of the
right or left, qualified to provide. That
fact should be accepted not only by
the very large and sincerely dedi-
cated following of Barry Goldwater
but by the smaller GOP faction which
was forced to surrender its leadership
in 1964.

A vast national interest is at stake
in Southeast Asia and in the Pacific
Ocean, the support of which is vital
to our position in the world and to
our own national security.

Nixon's statement makes this clear.
He recognizes and disposes of the
arguments against strong measures in
Vietnam. It is not a civil war. It is not
true that the Vietnamese cannot be
saved because they are unwilling or
unable to save themselves. The risk
of spreading the war is not too great
to be faced. And negotiation now is
not the answer.

FREE ASIA'S JOB

If Vietnam is abandoned, all of
Southeast Asia will be lost to Commu-
nism. Respect for us in Asia and most
of Europe, Africa, and the Middle
East will vanish. The war by infiltra-
tion which we now see in the thickets
of Vietnam, North and South, will
move to the Philippines. For the Phil-
ippines are only a short step from
Indonesia, which would most certainly
fall completely to Communism. Japan,
for its own reasons, would inevitably
become neutral if not pro-Communist.
Retreat will not stop the Communist
advance; it will accelerate it.

This is not a parallel to the Korean
conflict. For there, geography fa-
vored intervention and support by the
Chinese and the Soviet.

Military victory, Nixon contends,
must have priority. But he most
strongly urges the initiation by the
United States of a conference of na-
tions affected by the Communist
threat, particularly Japan, South Ko-
rea, Nationalist China, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Vietnam, Australia, New
Zealand, and Thailand. The future of
Asia must and should be determined
by Asians and not by Americans or
Europeans. The time has come, he
says, for Free Asian countries to sub-
scribe to a mutual-security program
of economic and military cooperation
-"a plan and purpose of their own."

Newsweek, April 12, 1965