Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

How to Hide a Handout
by Raymond Moley

SAN FRANCISCO—Representatives of
all parts of the electrical industry
in the West, gathered here for the
annual meeting of the Pacific Coast
Electrical Association, are primarily
interested in what the new Adminis-
tration proposes to do about Uncle
Sam’s light-and-power combine. In
general, the portents in Washington
are encouraging them. Secretary
McKay, they believe, is
a middle-of-the-road man
who is willing to give pri-
vate industry the green
light whenever he can be
shown that it is safe and
economical to do so.

His withdrawal of the op-
position of the Interior De-
partment to the applications
of the Idaho Power and
Light Co. to build projects
on the Snake River puts the fantastic
Hell’s Canyon dam plan on the shelf.
His sacking of 1,322 of the Reclama-
tion Bureau’s assortment of econo-
mists, marketing experts, and press
agents is also good news. For this part
of the country has been infested for
years with swarms of Federal propa-
gandists and uplifters.

As always, the House of Repre-
sentatives is the real barrier against
Federal expansion. In reporting the
Interior Department bill, the Commit-
tee on Appropriations laid down the
following policy: “The Interior De-
partment should be concerned with
only those functions or activities which
private enterprise cannot or will not
undertake… Wherever possible, pri-
vate enterprise shall be taken into
partnership… In all future projects
or new starts which include transmis-
sion lines, private enterprise shall be
urged to take the initiative in con-
structing, owning, and operating such
works before money is made available
for Federal construction.”

With this report there went a slash
in appropriations for the Reclamation
Bureau of 43 per cent from the
Truman requests.

It must be noted, however, that
these sentiments and economies are
subject to revision by the Senate and
by future Congresses. For the pres-
sure for subsidized power and recla-
mation is eternally at work.

The real influence which disturbs
close students of reclamation affairs

is the extent to which extravagant
subsidies, and with them the insidious
invasion of governmental power, are
hidden in complicated bookkeeping.
Some of these are so complicated that
members of Congress vote favorably
without the slightest idea of what
they mean. Three years ago, in a de-
bate on an innocent-looking amend-
ment providing for something called
a “basin account,” the able
Sen. Guy Cordon, who, un-
like his Oregon junior,
speaks seldom, well, and
with carefully measured
words, pointed out that the
amendment would ulti-
mately pass out a subsidy of
$4,500,000,000 and that not
one member of the commit-
tee that passed it really un-
derstood what it meant.

There have been four notable in-
stances of such trick bookkeeping. The
first and best known is the habit of
allocating absurdly large proportions
of the cost of multiple-purpose dams
for nonreimbursable items such as
navigation, flood control, wildlife pro-
tection and thus providing a means of
subsidizing users of electric power.
Another was a complicated scheme
to use what is known as the “interest
component” as a means of subsidizing
irrigation. The Congress never ap-
proved that one, and the “basin-
account” device was invented. Now
we have another, known as the
Collbran formula. The point is that
no one expects that irrigation projects
can be paid for by the farmers who
settle on them. But reasonable advo-
cates of subsidies for them want the
amounts to be moderate and openly
given. This is of increasing importance
because costs are rising for irrigation.
The seriousness of this problem as
a burden on the budget is shown by
the immense growth in the appropria-
tions for reclamation. During seven
and a half years of Truman they
amounted to 150 per cent of all appro-
priations in the 44½ preceding years
from T.R. to F.D.R. inclusive.

The forces of economy and pri-
vately owned enterprise have won
a battle under Mr. Eisenhower, but
they have not won the war. For while
figures won’t lie, bureaucrats can be
powerfully plausible with figures.

Newsweek, May 25, 1953