Government by Thespians

by RAYMOND MOLEY

REGARDLESS of what may eventually
be done about radio crime shows
or the length and loudness of commer-
cials, something should be done before
1948 about the dramatization of con-
troversial public issues over the air. Or
else the conventions should nominate
the best available script writers or
crooners for President. With ghost-
writing, hillbilly bands and sound
trucks, we have already come
a considerable distance from
a fair presentation of issues
and claims in the seeking of
public office. But if, as may
happen, the parties to an ap-
peal for votes turn over their
campaign to a bunch of
actors, musicians and sound-
effect men, we shall not only
make a mockery of the demo-
cratic process, but also de-
bauch art and entertainment as well.

Radio executives are apparently
vaguely conscious of this problem. Two
provisions were inserted in the code of
standards proposed last week by the
National Association of Broadcasters—
one condemning "the dramatization of
political issues," the other condemning
"dramatization of controversial issues."
Principles to guide radio executives
and the FCC about political dramati-
zation do exist, if they will seek them.
Aristotle, more than 2,000 years ago,
expressed the best and most lasting defi-
nition of the drama and of political ar-
gument. Two of his major works were
his "Poetics" and "Rhetoric." In the
"Poetics," he laid out the principles for
analysis of the fine arts, including the
drama. The drama he described as an
imitation of human action. Unlike his-
tory, which describes what has hap-
pened, the drama describes what may
happen. The drama is, of essence, not
subject to rules of proof, contradiction
or of scientific test. Its purpose is en-
tertainment, in the classical sense of
that word.

POLITICAL discussion falls within what
Aristotle calls "rhetoric." He de-
scribes three forms of rhetoric—deliber-
ative, forensic and epideictic. Forensic,
which deals in the main with the courts,
we need not consider here. Nor need we
consider epideictic, which generally
concerns ceremonial speechmaking. A
political campaign or any consideration
of public policy calls for deliberative
rhetoric or oratory. The rules under
which deliberative rhetoric should op-
erate are, unlike those of the drama,
based on truth, logic, proof and room
for contradiction.
If, at first sight, all this seems highly
theoretical, I can simply suggest that
principles of public action can only op-
erate on such reasoned criteria. There
is a wholly practical distinction in the
matter at issue, which is to
bring to the processes of free
government the essential in-
formation for wise decisions
by voters and legislators.
If there is a mélange of
truth, fiction, imagination
and logic—if the presenta-
tion mixes the form of art
with the form of rhetoric—
we deny the voter or legis-
lator any fixed basis for a
decision. The appeal is neither art nor
science nor history. The decision will
spring from a composite of habit,
prejudice, emotion and of bits of un-
related fact and logical sequence. That
is a sad outlook for democracy, for the
end would be chaos. And out of chaos
there must emerge some articulated
reason and authority, probably in the
rule of one person. Unless government
operates under logical rules, it cannot
serve the essential needs of men.

WHILE the purpose of this column
is not to offer opinion on the fine
arts, I must add that the true interests
of art are degraded by any mixture of
drama and rhetoric—by a mating of
dissimilar forms of expression. Such
mixtures are mongrels of the air.
The place of propaganda in the
drama has been debated for centuries.
The decision has been left to the pa-
trons of the legitimate stage, and that
decision has run toward pure entertain-
ment. In the motion pictures, other
issues are involved—the major impor-
tance of the movies as mass entertain-
ment, the vast outlay in production and
the need to protect the young and the
weak. The policy, not always main-
tained but generally respected, is to keep
propaganda out of entertainment. The
same policy should apply to radio.
The radio industry might well go
back to first principles on this issue. Or
it may find that the heavy hand of gov-
ernment will compel what it has been
too short-sighted voluntarily to enforce.

Newsweek, September 29, 1947