Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


**The Pink Flag Flies**

by Raymond Moley

THE American Association of Universities resolved this month in annual convention to nail its pink flag to the mast and go down fighting. It is reported that it has lost 4,000 members during the past year. Good Americans will hope that this loss will now be accelerated. For its so-called "principles" not only damage the dignity but reproach the intelligence of the profession which the association professes to represent.

The immediate controversy concerned a censure of several institutions which had dismissed faculty members who had either invoked the Fifth Amendment or had refused to cooperate with Congressional committees or had refused loyalty oaths. But the basic issue is the position that the people who control the association have taken over a period of years. That position was crystallized in a set of "principles" adopted at the convention, which hold that an institution should not dismiss a professor because of taking the Fifth Amendment or because of present or past membership in the Communist Party.

It seems to me that this is about the worst time in our history for a group which includes in its membership a large number of college teachers to make known to the world that it is in direct conflict with its government and with the responsible administrators of many of our institutions of learning. This gesture of neutralism will be rich propaganda over the world at a moment when our foreign policy is seeking to show a stiff opposition to international Communism.

On a smaller scale, but on the same grade of perniciousness is the invitation to Alger Hiss by the Whig-Cliosophic Society at Princeton. That amazing performance by a group of boys with a passion for asininity will be welcome news abroad.

The Association of University Professors claims to favor "objectivity" as a cardinal virtue of a teacher. But past or present membership in the Communist Party is a denial of "objectivity." The Communist faith demands unquestioning dedication. Moreover, the assertion that students may be taught by Communists so that they "can be checked by open discussion" is nonsense. What goes on in a classroom is not "open discussion."  The teacher has every advantage over his students—age, scholarship, articulateness, and authority over giving or withholding credits.

Moreover, Communist teachers operate not so much by proselyting in the classroom but in little groups and cells outside. There are many teachers who serve the cause by subtly destroying the student's faith in American political and economic liberty. I have always felt that the soundest reason for ridding the colleges of present and past members of the Communist Party is a test not only of loyalty but of competence. People who joined the Communist Party at any time in the course of the past 25 years showed themselves to be very silly specimens. Their belief that capitalism was dying or should be destroyed, or that the masters of the Soviet were legitimate reformers was an absurd delusion. It was proof of their gross lack of judgment and capacity to weigh facts.

Judgment is indispensable in a good teacher. A faculty member should be much more than a classroom teacher. He should be a friend and counselor. American parents are entitled to know that their sons and daughters in college may consult teachers who have the judgment to give wise advice on most of the problems which young people must face. A teacher in that sense has a sacred obligation to serve in loco parentis. Does the association now assert that these students must be exposed to the advice of fools and knaves? And that the character and competence of those advisers of the young are none of the business of trustees and administrators?

I BECAME a member of the association in 1925. In recent years, however, I witnessed with growing concern the anti-anti-Communist obsession of the people who seemed to be making the decisions. Finally, after an investigation I dropped my membership with but one regret—that I had not done so years before.

Newsweek, April 23, 1956