Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


**The Navy as Educator**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Never, since the days of Admiral Nelson, has a nation's morale been so lifted as ours has been by the realization that at long last we have an incomparable Navy—a Navy not just authorized, or on the drawing boards, or in the shipyards, but on the sea, in battle and victorious. When our admirals tell us that they can go anywhere on the seas without fear of defeat, they mean what they say. The rise of our Navy since Pearl Harbor is the most important event in a generation of history.

Since June is the season for talk of education, it is appropriate now to give the Navy a special superlative in that regard, for it has become a vast and diversified educational institution. Faced with the prospect of fighting a war and with the need for greatly increasing the size of its fleet, it found the size of its traditional means of training officers at Annapolis and elsewhere wholly inadequate. The colleges and universities obviously had to be enlisted to help. So, three years ago, the Navy War Training Program was started.

At that time, three profoundly serious problems had to be faced: first, the Navy’s critical need for trained personnel; second, the colleges’ need for preservation, despite the drastic cut in the number of their students; third, the fear that the education of a whole generation of young men between 18 and 22 would be destroyed by the war. Somehow, now that three years have passed, the Navy seems measurably to have solved these problems. And the credit goes to those who have made the V-12 program a success.

Vice Admiral Randall Jacobs, Chief of Naval Personnel, met the problems of the colleges and the young men involved with profound sympathy and understanding.  “This is a college program,” he explained. “Its primary purpose is to give prospective naval officers the benefits of college education in those areas most needed by the Navy. We desire, insofar as possible, to preserve the normal pattern of college life.” But it was made plain that the supreme purpose was to serve the needs of the Navy.

A year ago, the earlier designations of V-1, V-5 and V-7 were merged in V-12, and the program now goes by that name. At the beginning of this year, 77,000 students were enrolled in 131 colleges and universities under the V-12 program. These young men came from more than 900 colleges, from 109 medical and dental schools, from the fleet and from shore establishments. They were all officer candidates for the Navy, the Marine Corps and the Coast Guard.

The drawing of men from the services and their placement in the colleges was an experiment in democratic education. The verdict is that its results have been excellent. The lack of formal preparation for college retards these men for the first term or so, but after that they do as well or better than the regular college students.

From here on, the proportion of such men drawn back from the service will increase, and that of the younger men coming up from high schools will decrease.

Vice Admiral Jacobs, as well as Captains Holloway and Adams of the Bureau of Personnel, all testify to the remarkable way in which the faculties and administrative staffs of the colleges have fitted into the program. Even a cursory survey of the colleges makes it clear that the morale of the boys enrolled in the program is very high.

It is plain that this educational experiment will have a permanent and healthy influence on the colleges of the future. It has shown, for one thing, that students can learn a lot more in a shorter time than the colleges ever before realized (see Postwar Horizons, page 101). There are boys leaving the V-12 for Midshipmen’s school this month who have practically finished the requirements for graduation, although they entered college only two years ago. I doubt whether the colleges will ever go back to the old long vacations and to the time-for-everything four-year course.

The Navy’s insistence upon mental, physical and moral discipline has had a tonic effect everywhere. The personal qualities that make a good naval officer are abundantly needed in every walk of life. It has not been amiss to remind the colleges once more that their job is to make strong and responsible as well as learned men.