Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


On Not Changing Horses
by RAYMOND MOLEY

A manager of one of the candidates for the Republican nomination recently asked: "What position should a Republican candidate take in answer to the argument that to vote against Mr. Roosevelt is to vote against continuity in the prospective peace negotiations? In short, what is the answer to the don't-change-horses argument as applied to foreign affairs?" This is a pertinent question. In fact, it may describe the paramount issue in the coming campaign.

The purpose of this article is to suggest an answer which is consistent with the seriousness of the question and the right of voters to make their choice of a President on the basis of the relative capacity of the candidates. Obviously, it is not going to be enough to provide identical platform planks on foreign affairs for the two parties. That would merely mean the arrangement of a formula of words similar to the Senate (Connally) Resolution or to the Republican Mackinac declaration. Admirable as these were, they did no more than offer generalities which pledged both parties to some form of international cooperation consistent with national independence and the Constitution. The real problems of living foreign policy begin where such general statements leave off. Plainly, no formula of words can define foreign policy, which is a living thing determined from day to day by living human beings.

The suggestion, frequently made, that Mr. Roosevelt might be made chairman of the peace conference is scarcely realistic. First, it may be that no peace conference, as such, will be held. Or the conference may have no chairman. Moreover, a chairman is a moderator, and a moderator might better be the representative of a small state.

A real answer to the question stated above is as follows:
That continuity in foreign policy is desirable has been recognized for 83 years by the Republican party. A long succession of distinguished Republican Secretaries of State, namely, Seward, Fish, Evarts, Blaine, Foster, Hay, Root, Knox, Hughes, Kellogg and Stimson witness this. It is noteworthy that among the greatest of these, Seward, Blaine and Hay served under more than one President, and the policies they initiated were carried on by their successors. It is further noteworthy that, in general, under Republican administrations foreign policy was conducted by the Secretary of State—not by the President. In contrast, Wilson and F.D.R. have tried to be their own Secretaries of State, not always with satisfactory results, since the job of running foreign policy is a full-time affair.

Finally, in order to meet the don't-change-horses argument, a Republican candidate might well say that for the period of the peace negotiations, and in order to maintain the utmost continuity, he would retain Cordell Hull as Secretary of State. This would reassure the Senate as well as the millions who believe in Mr. Hull's integrity and wisdom. He might add that he would also keep for that period those ambassadors and others who have demonstrated capacity. If such a suggestion were made, Mr. Hull could not easily decline. He could very well accept the suggestion as a well-merited compliment.

Mr. Hull's success at Moscow has distinctly shown his capacity when he is operating with a minimum of interference from the White House. The Moscow conference will, when history is written, overshadow Teheran and Cairo in substantial achievement. There is the further fact that Mr. Hull's international economic policies, notably his reciprocal agreements, are the outgrowth of policies formulated long ago by Blaine and Hay. His good-neighbor policy goes back to Blaine. There is nothing in his record incompatible with Republican tradition.

Continuity of foreign policy is in keeping with the best European tradition as well. Long stretches of peace were doubtless due, in part, to continuity in foreign offices. Bismarck, through his position as Chancellor and through his son in the Foreign Office, comes to mind. Delcassé, in France, survived many changes of government. Further back were Metternich and Talleyrand, who served under many regimes.

The candidate who points out that continuity in foreign policy does not need to mean continuity in the White House will have destroyed the heaviest, fourth-term argument.