Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  Due to the image quality and column layout, some minor inaccuracies might be present.


NEWSWEEK, DECEMBER 26, 1938

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Defending Latin America

Whatever the outcome at Lima—and about all anybody expects is a psychological outcome—the essential trade problem between us and Latin America will remain. The stark fact is that in 1920 we exported $2,200,000,000 worth of goods to Latin America, and in 1937 and 1938 something less than $1,000,000,000. Even if we capture more of Latin America’s present volume of foreign trade, we can do no more than increase our exports to the countries concerned by, say, 20 to 30 per cent over the next few years. Such increases are going to be thoroughly inadequate either to affect our own economic well-being or to help put South America on a basis where she is able to resist effectively German, Italian and Japanese trade invasions.

This situation remains obscure because our statesmen and, to some extent, our businessmen have failed to face certain axiomatic facts:

1—The countries of Latin America, like our cotton and corn belts and like many other producers of specialized export commodities, can no longer remain dependent upon their limited range of exportable goods because of the contracting international commodity market.

2—They are no longer able to absorb increasing quantities of textiles and other consumers’ goods.

3—Hence it is pointless for us to attempt to compete with the English, Japanese, Germans or Italians on the present level or on the present basis. The total exports of our chief competitors to the twenty Latin-American countries are insignificant by comparison with our own annual production of consumers’ goods. We produce $30,000,000,000 worth in a bad year. Even if we were to push our sales of such goods to Latin America up one billion dollars (fantastically more than we can hope for) the effect upon our economy would be trifling.

4—No trade policy oriented to the isolation, poverty and desperation of most of these countries will yield permanent political or economic returns. The United States cannot win security in Latin America by compounding the attempts of Germany, Japan and the others to play one country off against the other and to keep them all on a commodity-exporting, consumers’-goods-importing basis. The entire continent should be treated as, potentially, a single economic unit.

The solution of the fundamental problem is suggested when we consider the sources of our major imports of basic and strategic raw materials. Many of these— notably tin, rubber, manganese, antimony and vegetable oils—have been coming from Southeastern Asia. But now, in the light of the swift “readjustment” that is going on in the affairs of Asia and Europe, we can no longer be certain of the Pacific or the Mediterranean routes for these materials. Our only alternatives are: (1) to stock up on reserves bought now and not consumed; (2) to attempt the slow process of developing alternative domestic supplies, either from marginal resources or synthetics; (3) to use our need as our great opportunity to win political and strategic security and also a vast, new economic outlet in Latin America by asking Latin America to develop its potentialities for producing these necessary materials and by offering to help in the process of industrializing and capitalizing to produce.

The choice of the last course would offer this country precisely the type of stimulation it has needed during its six years of halting and uncertain recovery. It would, at the same time, rescue Latin America from her critical dilemma and tie her to us on a sound investment basis.

Latin America wants the means for industrialization. Such means cannot, as things now stand, be secured either in quality or quantity from England, Germany, Italy and Japan. About all they have to offer her is secondhand scrap machinery, low-grade steel and iron for pipes and oil barrels and quantities of cheap consumers’ goods. Obviously this is a situation which ought to tempt a nation that has before it such a pressing problem of business recovery as ours.

Of course, the long-time result of a concentration upon Latin America as a market for heavy goods—including all sorts of machinery, of which we produce the best in the world—will be to make these countries increasingly self-sufficient. But it seems to me that this process is the only effective way of protecting Latin America from wretched subservience to European and Asiatic countries. Certainly we will simply drive her further into the harness of Germany, Italy and Japan if we insist on competing with her grain, meat and cotton at the same moment that we try to ram more tablecloths and knickknacks down her throat. We are not likely to suffer any shrinkage of this market for our consumers’ goods. But, even if we should, that loss will be more than compensated for by the political and strategic benefits attained, by the opening up of an immense market for our heavy industries and by the facilitation of that inevitable job that lies ahead of us—the absorption of our marginal agricultural population into industrial processes.

Mr. Eliot Janeway, who writes of Latin America with clarity and realism, has suggested a mechanism for achieving the swapping of heavy equipment for essential supplies of raw materials. He suggests that there be organized an all-American clearinghouse having as a subsidiary an Industrial Bank of the Americas.

The first job of this Industrial Bank would be to assure the United States of adequate supplies of rubber, tin, manganese, antimony, etc. To do this, it would be empowered to invest in mining equipment, rail and road equipment, utilities, etc. Immediately, the purchasing power of Bolivia, Brazil, Mexico and others would be multiplied by the mobilizing of capital funds in basic enterprises. This newly created market would be turned over, in effect, to Argentina, Uruguay and the other food exporters. The Clearinghouse would credit to the Argentine, Brazilian, etc., account all revenues derived from the selling of food, textiles, ores, etc., throughout the continent. With these credits, Argentina, Brazil and the others would be permitted to buy American capital equipment and durable goods on a large enough scale to lay the basis for balanced economies in these monocultural exporting countries. Such purchases of our capital equipment and durable goods would similarly be credited to our account at the Clearinghouse. Against these credits, and similar ones built up through our exports of mining equipment and the like to raw-material-producing countries, we could buy up to the productive capacities of the continent in those supplementary and strategic materials required by our economy. To complete the circle, the raw-material-producing countries would be permitted to apply their credits at the Clearinghouse to purchases of foods and other consumer goods elsewhere in Latin America.

In this way, Mr. Janeway suggests, we could offer Latin America the prospect of growing into a balanced, economically independent organism. And unless that happens, there is no security against Latin America’s becoming a duplicate of the British-Dutch plantation economies.

Mr. Janeway’s proposal is challenging. Its most striking characteristic is its freedom from the lack of realism of those who would either pursue Latin-American business through conventional trade promotion or continue to drift on a tide of meaningless, good-neighbor oratory. Something bold and new is in order—something that is in line with the legitimate demands of Latin America for ultimate economic freedom.