Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure and avoid overlapping text:


PERSPECTIVE

Report on Wasteland—I

by Raymond Moley


HEREWITH begins a report on a report which incorporates many reports. Some who find my recital boring may seek more heady stuff. But I warn you that in my tale of government wastefulness you are the patsies. The money which the bureaucrats are tossing away is your money earned by the sweat of your brow, the aches in your joints, and the worries that haunt your days and nights.

I select April for the publication of this and the pieces that follow because it is the month when you must face the tax collector.

My major text is the annual report of Joseph Campbell, Comptroller General of the United States, whose General Accounting Office is your friendly watchman in the vast corridors of the bureaucracy. This report summarizes hundreds of specific reports which he submitted to Congress or the committees of Congress or to individual members of Congress.

Almost daily throughout the year I receive these reports, neatly bound in blue. I find them most interesting albeit dismaying reading. To comment upon them as they appear would leave me little room for anything else. And so I shall offer certain examples of what they reveal and conclude with certain reflections. My conclusion may well be an essay in frustration. For neither Campbell nor any other single individual has a miraculous remedy for the waste that goes on perennially in the sprawling bureaucracy that has grown up within the life span of most of us. That bureaucracy is so prodigious that it virtually imprisons Presidents and Congresses in its coils and makes our substance fodder for its growth.


UNIQUE STATUS

Among all the highest officials of the Federal establishment, the Comptroller General has unique status. To be sure, he cannot correct the conditions revealed by his investigations. He has no hand in creating the programs and agencies. Like the two Hoover commissions, he cannot, except inferentially, evaluate the worth or need of such activities. He can only determine how they are operating and place his findings before the Congress which either created them or permitted them to be created and which seems so powerless to make sure that they operate efficiently and properly.

But Campbell enjoys a freedom which is denied any other officer except members of the judiciary. He is now completing the tenth year of a fifteen-year term. He cannot be removed at the caprice of the President. And Congress itself would have grave difficulty in displacing him.


CAMPBELL’S COMMENTARIES

When his successor is appointed by the successor of John F. Kennedy, his reports may well be the most significant of all commentaries on our allegedly democratic government. If liberty proves to be something which this nation cannot afford, it will not be because Campbell has not warned us.

Campbell’s predecessors stressed only one of the two major responsibilities of the office. They audited the accounts to see that there was legal justification for the expenditures of most of the administrative agencies of the government. Before the days of the computers, that alone was a colossal task. But Campbell has actively used his power of investigation, of criticism, and of recommendation for improvements. This activity is what concerns me here.

The General Accounting Office employs 4,763 lawyers, accountants, auditors, and clerks. Last year in actual proven savings it paid for itself four times over. The net savings were $162,875,000. But beyond that, there were recommendations which, if adopted, would no doubt save more than the cost of the TFX program.

As I have indicated, it is not for the Comptroller General to question why an agency was created or a program instituted. Only rarely does Congress ask him for advice on proposed new laws. His job is to report on how the activity is being administered. But the “how” throws a bright light on the “why.” For it has never been difficult for warm hearts and eager fingers in Congress to create, every year, services and functions which cannot even remotely be carried out in practice.

Newsweek, April 15, 1963