Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Ford Foundation

by Raymond Moley

THE first published reactions to the
announcement that the Ford
Foundation is to divest itself of a part
of its holdings in Ford stock are that
this will remove any hint that a private
business might dominate a philan-
thropic institution. A more important
angle, however, from the standpoint
of the Ford family, is that this and
subsequent sales of Ford stock will relieve the company of the
burden of the criticism involved in the controversies
in which the foundation has been
involved from its beginning. The Ford Motor
Co. has plenty of work on its
hands in producing and selling
its products in a highly
competitive field without
having to explain some of
the controversial activities
which the foundation has financed.
The president of the foundation,
H. Rowan Gaither, deplores criticism
which he characterizes as "misinformed." And on the same day Robert
M. Hutchins lashes back furiously at
the critics of his Fund for the Republic. But considering the lines of activity
to which the foundation dedicated
itself when it started to function, criticism both informed and misinformed
will continue to be inevitable. Indeed,
criticism of the disposition of tax-exempt wealth which borders on political issues is as important and
necessary as criticism of government.
Since the foundation designates its operations as "private action for public
good," the public is entitled to an
opinion about what is good for it.
Moreover the very size of the foundation, the mammoth proportions of
which are just coming into view, implies a public interest beyond that of
any privately controlled institution
hitherto seen in this country. In 1952
the Cox committee of the House of
Representatives was informed that
the assets of the Ford Foundation
were in the neighborhood of $500 million. We now learn from unofficial estimates that the value of this "initial
offering" of stock will run from $400
million to $500 million. On the basis of
such prices the entire assets of the
foundation must be worth between
$2.5 billion and $3 billion.
Political action and influence has
generally been regarded as contrary to government regulations concerning
tax-exempt institutions. The Treasury,
however, has been vague, not to say
lax, in enforcing its own regulations,
and a number of so-called foundations are clearly operating in the field
of politics.
In the case of the Ford Foundation
three of its five announced "areas of
action" have inevitable ramifications
into political policy. They
are international relations,
domestic political policies,
and economic affairs.
The other "areas" concern
"activities to strengthen,
expand, and improve educational facilities and
methods" and "to increase
knowledge of factors which
influence or determine human conduct." Properly administered these forms of activity
would very properly fall within the
scope of tax-exempt philanthropy. It
should be noted that in the past year
or two great sums have been given to
improve the salaries of teachers, indeed a worthy purpose.
After some time had passed under
the administration of Paul Hoffman as
president and of Robert M. Hutchins as
associate director, there was
mounting criticism of the character
not only of some of the projects financed but of some of the people who
were employed as workers. The trustees then bestowed one of its administrative divisions, the Fund for the
Republic, along with a dowry of $15
million, upon Hoffman and Hutchins.
The foundation has disclaimed responsibility for the fund.
This disclaimer raises two very important questions. First, the announced program of the fund follows
very closely the description of "Area
2" in the 1950 program of the foundation and, second, the trustees of the
foundation must have been quite familiar with the bent of mind and intentions of Hoffman and Hutchins.
This confused idea of what is and
is not responsibility should be
cleared up, presumably by some definitive action of the Treasury Department. It is also high time for the
Treasury to define specifically the respective areas of political action and
of pure philanthropy.

Newsweek, November 21, 1955