Here's a text version of the provided article, maintaining the original column structure as much as possible:

**Politics in Texas**

by Raymond Moley

HOUSTON—The only way to understand the intensity of this precon-vention fight in Texas is to appreciate how passionately leading and influential people have wanted to be rid of President Truman. Now that Truman has decided not to run, the ardor of these Texans has not cooled. They hate the Truman policies just as intensely as they hate the author thereof. Anyone who subscribes to these policies will be resisted with the same vehemence. These Texans—and they are well represented in the press, in the state government, and in most of the Texas delegation in Congress—want freedom from government interference and from the trend to socialism, a restoration of the stolen powers of the state, and free and unlimited enterprise. Texas may yet be the last best hope of the American spirit of individualism.

On May 3 the citizenry of the two political parties will have their only whack at the choice of a President. Precinct conventions are held on that day for each party. These conventions select delegations to county conventions, which in turn select delegations to the state conventions late in May. The respective state conventions then choose their delegations to the national conventions in Chicago. All along this line of conventions the fighting will be fierce.

On the Republican side, the formal party organization is headed by Henry Zweifel of Fort Worth. He succeeded the late R. B. Creager. He carries on the Creager tradition, which is to keep the so-called Republican Party small and neat, as one reporter put it. This governing group is apparently not concerned in building up the party to a point where it can carry the state. It wants to be ready, if and when a Republican President is elected, to make the best use of the Federal jobs that will then be available. Zweifel is for Taft, although for a while two years ago he leaned to Eisenhower.

Opposing Zweifel and his regime is Jack Porter of Houston, who is leading the Eisenhower forces in the state. Porter’s dual purpose is to win the state delegation for General Eisenhower and also to break down the old Republican order in the state and build up one of the other halves of a real two-party system.

This contest is bitter. There is being circulated anti-Eisenhower literature the major purpose of which is to identify the general with all sorts of undesirable supporters. The effect of this, however, may be favorable to Eisenhower, for the so-called literature is hardly worthy of this kind of contest.

In my contacts here in Houston I have found very strong Eisenhower support. In line with the point mentioned above, these people are passionately concerned first and last in getting rid of Trumanism. Nearly all of them admire Taft, but they feel that Eisenhower could carry Texas and that Taft could not. Among the younger elements there is very strong Eisenhower sentiment.

In the May 3 precinct convention the Eisenhower people will be most numerous. However, it is likely that since the Taft people are more experienced politicians they will ultimately control the state convention. A majority of the Texas delegation to Chicago will probably be for Taft, with a few members for Eisenhower. But it will be bound by the unit rule.


VOTERS can attend either precinct convention, but of course not both. At the moment, a powerful conservative Democratic group under Governor Shivers seeks to wrest the control of the state organization away from the Truman people. It wants to control these precinct conventions and thus move into the state convention powerful enough to send an anti-Fair Deal delegation to Chicago. But the Shivers group fears that the Eisenhower-Taft battle will draw away a great many conservative Democrats from the Democratic precinct conventions and into Republican ones. That might so weaken the conservative Democratic movement as to permit the Fair Deal people to control.

In short, the state of Texas is predominantly conservative, but there may not be enough conservatives to control both parties. We shall know the answer to this after the rallying day on May 3.

Newsweek, May 5, 1952