Here's a text version of the provided article, respecting the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation isn't always achievable due to the image quality and column layout:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Durable Joan

by RAYMOND MOLEY

HOLLYWOOD's extraordinary portrayal-
al of Joan of Arc not only shows
what the American motion-picture in-
dustry can do if it chooses, but its
showing over the country can afford a
strong draught of idealism in the midst
of economic strife at home and a cold
war abroad. I cannot qualify as a judge
of the picture as a work of art, but my
own reexamination of the established
and recognized facts of his-
tory shows that it is true and
faithful to the record.

Since in the past so many
liberties have been taken in
telling the story of Joan, it
needs to be pointed out that
her life is now established as
one of the most thoroughly
documented and incontro-
vertible facets of history.
That is principally because
of the monumental labors of Quicherat,
Andrew Lang, and others.

The figure of the Maid emerges as
one of the most durable in history.
It has survived Voltaire's ribald "La
Pucelle," Anatole France's distortions,
Mark Twain's imagination, and Ber-
nard Shaw's polemics. These critics
of men's cherished beliefs have
emerged from their examination of
the subject chastened by the reality
of Joan's common sense and deep
piety. Even Shakespeare's libels fade
out in the strong doubt that the great
dramatist had much to do with the
play "Henry VI."

JOAN'S great contribution to French
patriotism is largely explained by
the fact that she was understandable.
There was immense impact in the sim-
ple lines of her personality, her mis-
sion, and her achievement. But she
could not have succeeded if simplicity
had been her only distinction. Her
parents were not ordinary peasants.
Her knowledge of the world was very
considerable because she lived where
war and politics were known and dis-
cussed. Her practical education and
knowledge were strengthened by a po-
tent intelligence.

This is all in the record. No ordinary
youth could have so dominated mili-
keen flash of insight. She agreed to the
"confession" only insofar as it was
God's will.

In a singular way, Joan becomes a
possession of all and not a part of the
Christian world. She asserted her right
to direct revelation and personal com-
munion with God and with the saints.
It is an exaggeration to say, as Shaw
does, that she thus was a precursor of
Protestantism. The Church
later upheld the author-
ity of her individual con-
tact with heavenly direction.
And her appeal to Rome was
an act of submission to the
Church.

The vast drama that fol-
lowed her death not only
spares the Church from
blame but reinforces the
fact that the girl who came
to the dauphin was one of the world's
massive characters. Twenty-five years
after her death, in 1456, an appellate
court constituted by the Pope after a
long inquiry reversed and annulled
the sentence and found that the in-
famous Cauchon, Bishop of Beauvais,
had acted without authority of law or
of the Church. Nearly five centuries
later Joan was canonized.

She was truthful and honest in a
public life in which, as Machiavelli
said a century later, power and re-
wards went to deceit, sham, and ruth-
less brutality. In an age of frippery and
fawning she maintained a simple
dignity in the court and in the councils
of war. Her roots and traditions were
in feudalism, but unerringly and with
sharp eloquence she upheld national-
ism. This was revolutionary in her day
and, significantly, Burgundy and the
English, the enemies of French nation-
alism, hounded her to the end. She
denied that she hated the English. All
she claimed was that they should leave
French soil.

She had less to work with than any
leader in history, with cowardice, cor-
ruption, and despair on every side.
She reversed the tide of conquest and
gave France an authentic government.

AND in an age enclosed in narrow
horizons she conceived of a peace
based on the principles of divinely in-
spired morality. These are factors
which make Joan of Arc close and im-
portant in our own time.

Newsweek, December 27, 1948