Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Natural Law Takes Over

by RAYMOND MOLEY

“IT was the Wheat, the Wheat!” said
Frank Norris in “The Pit.” “It was
on the move again… Almighty, blood-
brother to the earthquake, coeval with
the volcano and the whirlwind, that
gigantic world-force, that colossal bil-
low, Nourisher of Nations, was swelling
and advancing.”

It is the wheat again, breaking
through the calculations of economists
and international committees, through reports, esti-
mates and speculations, that
has thrown both economic
and political reckonings into
chaos. There are no villains
in this play, unless Mother
Earth herself is a witch.
Last October, the Inter-
national Emergency Food
Council estimated the ex-
portable world surplus of
grain for this fiscal year at 29,000,000
tons. Its estimate of worldwide need
was very much higher—an estimate
which the Administration seems to
have scaled down to 33,500,000 tons.
Thus, there was a gap of 4,500,000 tons.
That calculated gap had a lot to do
with the rise of grain prices.

It should be added that through 1946
and 1947 the IEFC was unduly pessi-
mistic in its estimates. Herbert Hoover
discovered that in his world tour in
1946.

A few economists, notably Dr. Julius
Hirsch of New York, challenged the
October figures of the IEFC shortly
after they were issued, but his warning
seems to have been missed.

Meanwhile, the news in the past two
months from Argentina, Australia and
other grain-exporting regions has made
clear that the supposed gap was shrink-
ing. Now the IEFC itself revises the
figure of 29,000,000 tons of exportable
grain to 32,000,000 tons. And a careful
examination of figures in the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and in such
reliable British publications as Broom-
hall’s Corn Trade News indicates to
Dr. Hirsch and his collaborator, Edith
Hirsch, that the true figure will be
near 34,000,000 tons.

It is reasonable to believe that experienced traders in the market appre-
ciated these changed conditions and
adjusted their positions accordingly.
And so the prices of grain turned down-
ward, and a reaction in food prices
generally set in. Perhaps the end is in
sight; perhaps not. This is not the
prophecy department. But it is worthy
of note, when we are thinking of economics and politics in the spring and
summer, that these changed figures include no prospective gains in the exportable surplus of the United States
and Canada. The wheat is under the
snow, and there are fairly good reasons
to anticipate a better grain
crop this year.

Since the major factor in
postwar inflation has been
food, rather than manufactured
goods, the readjust-
ment may greatly change
political strategy in the campaign to come.

The over-all effect cannot
help but relieve Republican
anxiety. When President
Truman warned us about inflation,
blamed Congress for killing the OPA
and proposed a restoration of controls,
Republicans were really on the spot.
Some national leaders suggested that
the President be given his controls on
the political theory that he couldn’t
stop inflation anyway. Others opposed
controls as a matter of principle. Still
others favored a few controls.

Now the break in prices has relieved
Republicans of their embarrassment. When natural law takes over,
man-made controls are unnecessary.
Republicans can say that people who
can’t count surely can’t control.

The Taft-Hartley Act may well escape the danger of a new round of
strikes. Greater industrial peace could
then be claimed for the act.

The effect of the decline on the
budget must be watched. Lower prices
and a lower national income mean a
smaller surplus and less opportunity
for tax cuts. The uncertainties ahead
suggest great caution in determining
the amount of tax reduction. The political implications in this are clear.

The break reminds us, once more,
how deeply America is involved in
world affairs. Isolationism can find little support in a situation in which better crops south of the Equator, in
Russia, Poland and in the Balkans can
turn American affairs topsy-turvy.
Wheat is, as Frank Norris said, a world
force and a nourisher of nations. The
world is a common bread basket.

Newsweek, February 23, 1948