Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Chestnuts Redivivus

Front-page news was made the
other day when the President, accompanied
by a professor of forestry, discovered some
small regrowths of chestnut trees on the
Hyde Park estate. This is cheering news
for those of us who, as youngsters, used to
heave sticks and stones into the high
branches as soon as the nip of October
opened the burrs. The reappearance of
this favorite after the blight which swept
it from our countryside is heavy with
sentiment.

Less exhilarating is the news of the
reappearance of an economic chestnut
blighted by the New Deal attack on
Hoover in 1932.

The Administration is seriously worried
about low farm prices. Secretary Wallace
has suggested new processing taxes as a
remedy, but he is thoroughly aware that
there is little prospect for their enactment
—that an Administration which has grown
to depend so heavily upon big city ma-
jorities will do anything to avoid this
direct method of shifting income from
industrial workers to farmers.

And so Mr. Wallace has also thought-
fully suggested the cure of subsidy—in
particular a subsidy for the increased
domestic consumption of cotton. Politi-
cally, the subsidy-cure would be far more
satisfactory than processing-tax enactment
since it would shift once more the losses
of a large group to the relatively small
group that pays income taxes. Also it
would subsidize not only the producers of
cotton but the consumers of cotton, and
two subsidies are better than one, political-
ly speaking.

That this course would bear a resem-
blance to Mr. Hoover’s farm remedies
would, of course, be awkward. Still we
may expect the Administration’s embar-
rassment to be minimized by the in-
vention of new and toney aliases for this
policy. The “socialization of losses,” to
mention one, has already been suggested.

Some years ago a European economist
said that the United States had a partial
socialism—the socialization of debt. That
began in the Hoover Administration with
the RFC. But the “socialization of losses”
is a step further. It anticipates the debt
and takes it over before it becomes a debt.
Government purchase of suits from the
clothing industry and the proposal to
subsidize manufacture of cotton cloth are
examples of this idea. Perhaps, if price
fixing in the coal industry fails, producers
will ask the government to buy surplus


NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 17, 1938

coal, although it will be pretty hard to
determine the surplus when it is principally
underground. And who knows what other
purchases on the part of government may
suggest themselves?

But if you are a 100 per cent New
Dealer you will believe that the plan to
subsidize cotton production is a brand-
new idea and hasn’t any relation to any
other remedies that ever failed to work
before.

Saber Rattling

If Charles R. Hook, president of
the National Association of Manufactur-
ers, were to attend a meeting of employers
in a foreign country and were to shout to
the international delegates assembled there
that American labor unionists were at-
tempting to impose Communism upon the
United States, Washington would roundly
condemn him for rattling the saber. And
yet when the Beau Sabreur of labor, John
L. Lewis, appearing before the Interna-
tional Labor Congress in Mexico City not
so long ago, declared that American em-
ployers were attempting to bring about
Fascism in the United States and that the
great corporations were the enemies of the
workers of the whole earth, he went with-
out public reprimand. Nor was there, so
far as anyone knows, any rebuke for Mr.
Edwin S. Smith of the NLRB, who, at
that same Congress, delivered himself of
sentiments appropriate to a labor leader
addressing a group of strikers, despite
the fact that as a quasijudicial officer of
the United States he is morally obligated
to observe a strict neutrality as between
employer and employe.

And all of this took place at a time
when the relations between our government
and that of Mexico were exceedingly
strained, when the presence of responsible
Americans lauding the President of Mex-
ico and his regime could hardly be expect-
ed to create any impression except that
either there was hopeless disunion in the
national Administration of this country, or
that the vigorous language of Secretary
Hull in defense of the rights of American
citizens in Mexico did not mean what it
said.

In December, the United States is to
participate in a Pan-American conference
of nations at Lima, Peru. Our influence in
that conference ought to be directed
toward the fostering of a solidarity of feel-
ing among the nations on our side of the
world. If, however, the South American
countries are led to believe that Mexico can

with impunity defy the legitimate demands
of the United States for the protection of
the property of our citizens, that defiance
will spread to other Latin American coun-
tries, corroding, as it goes, the ties of
friendship and sympathy that have been
so painstakingly woven in recent years.
And we will certainly invite it if we permit
the impression to prevail that the legiti-
mate demands of our government are
simply the expression of a few selfish ex-
ploiters of labor and recognized enemies of
American institutions.

The Story of the C.I.O.

With the coming of the NRA in
1933, American labor entered upon the
most significant era in its history. The need
for and the inevitability of industrial
unionism was one of the most striking con-
clusions of the NRA days—a conclusion
which induced even the A.F. of L. to
suffer the creation of the C.I.O. in 1935.
The phenomenal growth of the C.I.O., its
inevitable conflict with the parent organi-
zation, its weaknesses and its tribulations
are the subject of a book, “The Story of
the C.I.O.,” by Benjamin Stolberg.

Mr. Stolberg is a man of strong feelings
and of incisive utterance, and bitter criti-
cism has come from the Left about the
story told in his book. He is, however, a
sophisticated reporter of labor affairs, a
man of integrity and an uncompromising
advocate of industrial unionism. And for
these reasons his fear of Stalinist in-
fluences in the ranks of American labor is
not to be lightly brushed aside with the
familiar cry of “Red-baiting.” He rolls up
an amazing array of names, dates and
circumstances to substantiate his thesis.

That the growth of the C.I.O. has been
seriously checked is apparent. Of the
3,000,000 members of the C.I.O., only
1,200,000 had kept their assessments up to
date by March 1938. The loss of the fight
in Little Steel, the depression and chiefly
the Stalinist disruption Stolberg names as
causes. Stolberg sees no chance of either
collaboration or amalgamation between the
C.I.O. and the A.F. of L. He does not ex-
pect independent political action in 1940
and finds the political potentialities of the
C.I.O. severely limited by the opposition
of the A.F. of L. to Labor’s Non-Partisan
League, by the infiltration into various
local politico-labor organizations of Stalin-
ists and by the increasing confusion of
New Deal policies. He believes that the
C.I.O. has a distinct place in politics, but
that its strength is impaired in exactly the
proportion to which it permits the in-
filtration into its ranks of men who are
“neither Red nor Communist nor labor,”
but the avowed partisans and agents of a
foreign state.

Here is a book indispensable to an un-
derstanding of the industrial and political
scene.