How to Behave Like a World Power
by RAYMOND MOLEY

9-Russia-Rival or Friend?

The late London Conference was
prematurely called and badly managed.
As a result, isolationism and suspicion
in both Russia and the United States
have been nourished. There will be
other conferences and other failures.
But there will be successes, too. The
long view of American-Russian rela-
tions will prevail. The long
view is good.

There are several answers
to the question above.

The answer in history is
that there has never been a
war or a threat of war be-
tween us. There are reasons
for this record, rooted in the
other answers which follow.

The answer in sociology is
best given by a great master
of that science, Sorokin of
Harvard. Both countries are "melting
pots of diverse racial, ethnic, national
and cultural groups and peoples."
They have "unity in diversity." This
means that they seek universal values
—the same values that are cherished by
believers in world cooperation. There
are no master races in their cosmos.
Each is what Whitman called a "na-
tion of nations."

The answer in ideology is hard for
people in either country to understand.
Each has tried, at times, to impose its
political system on other nations and
each has had only superficial success.
They have learned, or should learn,
that a system of life, like communism
or republicanism, cannot be imposed
from without. Such systems grow up
within a country. Communism is re-
ceding everywhere in the Western
World and in China.

The answer in economics is that the
United States has more of what Russia
needs than all the rest of the world
combined.

The answer in geography is most
important. On the one side are Rus-
sian dimensions, which suggest over-
powering superiority and self-suffi-
ciency. On the other side are weaknesses, which will probably always
point to dependence on our good will.
Russia, which covers one-sixth of the
land of the world, is a major factor in
two continents facing two oceans. Its
natural resources are vast. Its population was, before the war, growing faster than that of any other nation.

But in viewing its size, we are likely
to overlook its weaknesses. Its population is awkwardly distributed. Millions
of square miles are unable to support
a settled population. The inaccessibility
of its "heartland," so valuable for defense, is a bar to trade and internal development. Its climate is a handicap.
Its winters, which smashed Napoleon
and Hitler, bear heavily on its own
people and their means of
livelihood. For centuries,
Russia has been kept out of
the more favorable channels of ocean transportation
and cultural intercourse.

Its natural resources are
great, but in most essentials,
it is still far behind the
United States. We have half
of the world's coal. Russia
has less than half as much.
The "proved and prospect-
ed" oil of the two countries are in
about the same proportions as coal.
The two countries have about the
same agricultural crop areas, but
Russia has more than twice the agricultural population. These comparisons take no account of mechanical
development, in which we are generations ahead.

These weaknesses have developed
two factors in Soviet foreign policy
which surely offer no threat to us. One
is the need for a generation of peace
to pull things together. The other is a
fear that, once more, the world will
keep Russia from better ports on
warmer water. The gruffness of Russian diplomacy and the secretiveness
of its political system arise from fear,
as well as a sense of power. Russia has
been crippled by czarist misgovernment and racked by revolution. And
its suspicion of some of the nations
that hemmed it in, only 25 years ago,
is quite natural.

It must also be added that the late
war lessened in no degree Admiral
Mahan's thesis that the great maritime
nations inherit the earth.

Our current relations with Russia
call for patience and still more patience. We are not, as were England
and France in 1938, retreating before
a threat. Time will bring out more
clearly the factors that make for Russian-American friendship. We can afford to wait for a full flowering of
peace. In fact, we cannot afford
not to wait.