Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

NEWSWEEK, AUGUST 5, 1946

Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Politics by Remote Control
by RAYMOND MOLEY

It is strange that as seasoned a
politician as President Truman should
make it known that he is going to defy
one of the oldest principles of politics.
He indicates that he is going to interfere
with internal politics in states and
Congressional districts. That is risky,
not to say foolish, business. For political
action is not adaptable to remote
control. Almost always, an effort to
reach into a political unit
from without results in violent
sparks, blown fuses and
burnt fingers.

This is true in townships
and in nations. It has been
tried in a thousand ways,
and the few successes have
only proved the rule. But
there is something mothlike
in politicians, and they persist
in defying the flame.

The most vivid recent example
of such interference was the late
President Roosevelt's attempted purge,
in 1938. He took the step against the
experienced advice of Messrs. Farley
and Flynn and with the amateur encouragement
of Messrs. Hopkins and
Corcoran. His candidates took heavy
shellackings, from Georgia to California.
His batting average was zero
when September came around. He
then turned to E. J. Flynn of New
York for help in the last contest. It was
in New York City, and the sacrificial
lamb was Rep. John J. O'Connor. Mr.
Flynn took the assignment on condition
that no Washington politician
should interfere in any way. He succeeded
because it was a strictly New
York City affair.

In the Slaughter primary in Kansas
City, Mr. Truman followed this pattern
by putting the local Boss Pendergast
in charge. That assured an inside
job-inside Jackson County. But beyond
that, Mr. Truman will be in
rough water. He probably hurt more
than he helped in the Wheeler primary
in Montana.

This tendency of voters to resent
outside interference is good insurance
against many evils. For example, if
outside management and money could
sway Congressional elections, a single
person or organization could procure
the election of a whole bloc of national
legislators. Infinite possibilities of evil
would open up, and national legislation
could measurably be controlled from a
single center. But such interference, when
known (and it is almost always discovered),
is used as a club against the favored
candidate.

Labor papers and spokesmen have
admitted, over the past year, that the
PAC's greatest weakness is that it is
centralized. It doesn't follow the traditional
pattern of political power, despite
its money and despite the cleverness of
its propaganda. Ultimately, it must
decentralize or perish.

This principle is true in world affairs,
too, and that is something which world
savers must learn. Colonel Perón was
delighted to have Argentinians think he
was running against Spruille Braden and
Uncle Sam. Great placards proclaimed
that the choice was Perón or Braden.
This made Perón invincible.

A few amateur politicians are writing
silly stuff about how the United States
should, as part of its foreign policy, find
means to back Social Democratic and
other non-Communist parties in France
and elsewhere. By so doing, this country
would deny the most potent argument
against Communism, which is its direction
from Moscow. The final and irrefutable
argument against the American Communist
party is subservience to Moscow. In my
opinion, that should, if true, warrant its
legal extermination. That is the argument
which should be used against Communism
everywhere, for in the last analysis remote
control cannot prevail against the pride and
national sentiments of any people.

There is further reason why American
policy should avoid entanglements in
domestic politics abroad. In every case,
it means partnership with this or that
disreputable or reactionary element, the
nature of which cannot be understood
from a distance. In France, it might mean
mixing with the feeble progeny of the
Bourbons. If Americans had interfered in
the British elections a year ago, they would
not merely have been backing the heroic
Churchill. They would also have been supporting
some of the most shopworn Tories that
ever exploited humanity. Supporting a
nation is one thing. Supporting a faction
of a nation is another. At home and abroad,
the best rule is to mind one's own business.
The business of elections belongs to the
home folks.

Page 779 of 1201