Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Keys to Atomic Power—IV
MANUFACTURING

by Raymond Moley


In 1953 the President made a
speech, written by a promotion-
minded subordinate, which oversold
the extent and immediacy of civilian
nuclear electric power. Many Ameri-
cans envisioned homes supplied with
electricity from the atom, automo-
biles, ships, and aircraft with reac-
tors, and do-it-yourself boys rigging
contraptions in the cellar or wood-
shed. Some industrial leaders, be-
witched by the prospect, added to
the verbal fallout. The result was in-
evitably many blue Mondays with
agonizing hangovers of frustration.

They should have heeded the case-
hardened advice of Charles Weaver
of Westinghouse, who warned in
1953 about "the time, the skilled
manpower, and money needed to
overcome the difficulties of develop-
ing and building a large reactor." His
company learned this in building first
the prototype and then the reactor
used in the submarine Nautilus.

Westinghouse, General Electric,
Union Carbide, and General Dynam-
ics had the great advantage of pre-
vious war and defense work, also an
adequate supply of skilled manpower
and money. The management and
stockholders realized they had a re-
sponsibility imposed by the unbelieva-
bly great demand for electric power
in ten or fifteen years. One executive
has told me that there has been no
complaint from any stockholder about
necessary and unprofitable expendi-
ture of millions.

WHAT'S IN THE WORKS

Smaller companies are essential in
supplying components and in building
small reactors. This interdependence
of the bigs and littles is the basis of
American manufacturing progress.

Despite perils and problems, sev-
eral manufacturers are deep in pro-
duction. Westinghouse, for example,
has 7,000 employed in its atomic
program, of which 1,400 are engi-
neers, scientists, and technicians.

At the end of 1957, according to
the Atomic Industrial Forum, these
installations were completed:

By Westinghouse, at Shippingport,
Pa., 68,000 kilowatts in the Duquesne
Light Co. system; by General Electric


for the Pacific Gas & Electric Co. at
Vallecitos, Calif., 5,000 kilowatts; by
North American Aviation, two for the
Atomic Energy Commission, at San
Susanna, Calif., and Arco, Idaho,
6,500 and 16,000 kilowatts.

Under construction for completion
by 1960: By Babcock & Wilcox for
Consolidated Edison of New York,
163,000 kilowatts; by GE for Com-
monwealth Edison of Illinois at Dres-
den, 180,000 kilowatts; by Power
Reactor Development Co. at Monroe,
Mich., 100,000 kilowatts; by Westing-
house for the Yankee Atomic Electric
Co. at Rowe, Mass., 134,000 kilowatts.

Contracts for construction have
been approved for Allis Chalmers to
build a 66,000-kilowatt plant for
Northern States Power Co. and ten
other power companies; for North
American to build a reactor in Ne-
braska for the AEC. Subject to
approval are projects for the Carolina-
Virginia Nuclear Power Associates and
the Florida Nuclear Power Group.

RELIANCE ON INDUSTRY

Moreover, American companies are
building a reactor for Belgium and
have contracts for the construction of
reactors in Italy.

The foregoing does not include
many companies engaged in construc-
tion or under contract for the AEC,
for the Defense Department, for uni-
versities, for medical research, and
other purposes in the nuclear field.

In manufacturing there is need for
limited help from the government.
The government should still assume
a major role in building prototypes
and in research. But a crash govern-
ment program would be most unwise
and wasteful. Reliance must still rest
where it is—in private industry. In
1955, 110,000 were employed in this
field under contract by private com-
panies; 6,000 worked for the AEC.
Manufacturers refer to plants in
terms of "generations" of experience.
The present one is on plants to be
finished by 1962. Beyond that will
be another series, perhaps vastly dif-
ferent and certainly larger. The prob-
lem of competition with coal, oil, and
gas must be solved by ever-increasing
experience and larger units.

Newsweek, February 17, 1958