Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  I've done my best to maintain the original formatting and paragraph breaks as much as possible, but some minor adjustments might be necessary for perfect accuracy.  Because the image resolution is low, some words might be slightly off.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Five Young Men

Next month, when the honorable
Justices of the Supreme Court hang up
their gowns and seek the coolness of
mountain and sea, they will leave behind
them an astonishing edifice of new labor
law. They have been moving through old
landmarks like a panzer division. Nothing
will be as it was before. The black robes
have marched: Rome has new masters.

The aftermath of this great legal con-
vulsion may or may not bring sleepless
nights to the gentlemen who effected it.
No doubt they feel that they have struck
valiant blows for justice. Those who will
inevitably find themselves worrying are
the beneficiaries of this revolution, the
dues-paying union members. For they are
on their own now. That is what the up-
heaval is all about. Theirs is the power and
the privilege. Theirs is the responsibility as
well. And it comes to them at a moment of
unprecedented difficulty—a moment when
production per man must increase if we
are to make good at the job of defense.

Entering a long struggle on the assump-
tion that labor and management had un-
equal powers, the NLRB and the Court
have cabined and confined management
over so much of its area of choice that it
retains only a vastly impaired responsi-
bility. It is responsible for planning within
its own shops, for planning purchases, for
planning operations and for planning sales.
It can hardly be held responsible any long-
er for morale within the works. That rests
with the government and the unions now.
Morale is now the problem of agencies
outside the shop.

In fixing responsibility for the in-
tensity of the defense effort, the public
has definitely been told where it is to look.
Organized labor has almost a monopoly
of the power to interfere with defense pro-
duction. In fact, it begins to seem as if the
chief contribution the unions could make
in promoting production is to refrain from
exercising all their new-found powers.
There remains little restraint upon the
unions except that which may be exer-
cised by the NLRB. The NLRB can regu-
late the organizational scope of the union.
Yet, after the Board has made its deci-
sion, the union can go on harassing the
employer either by picketing or boycott.
And there is no recourse! This is the
strange situation the statesmanship of the
Court and the Board has wrought. There
is power in the Board to help the union
to render management powerless. There is

no power in the Board to compel the un-
ion to assume the resultant obligations.
That, in any showdown, is presumably for
an angry public opinion to do.

Let us look for a moment at some
of the decisions through which the change
has taken place. In the Consolidated Edi-
son case, decided in December 1938, the
Court sanctioned NLRB regulation of
companies in which neither employers nor
employes were engaged in interstate com-
merce. In April 1939, the Court went a
step further by deciding in the Fainblatt
case that the Labor Act was applicable
to a company in which the employers nei-
ther bought nor sold anything. Thus al-
most all companies are brought under
NLRB jurisdiction.

This established, the Court thirteen
months later held in the Apex Hosiery
case that a union could cause any amount
of damage to a plant without being liable
for conspiracy to interfere with commerce.
In February 1941, in the case of the AFL
v. Swing, the Court held that pickets can
operate, whether or not there is an exist-
ing labor dispute, merely for organization
purposes. The Anheuser-Busch decision
of the same month held that a union can
boycott an employer regardless of the fact
that the boycott arises not out of a dis-
pute between employer and employe but
out of "an internecine struggle between
two unions." Within the month Mr. Jus-
tice Frankfurter has put the capstone on
this legal edifice which he has had so
large a share in building. He delivered the
Court's opinion in the Phelps-Dodge case.
That opinion held that an employer must
hire and give back pay to applicants for
jobs whom the NLRB finds were not hired
because of their union affiliation.

Now the Wagner Act prescribed a pen-
alty against employers who refuse to re-
instate employes discharged because of
union affiliation. It did not prescribe a
penalty for refusal to hire or instate men
who had never been employes. Still, by
building a precarious ladder of words, Jus-
tice Frankfurter has nailed that penalty
into the Act.

The economic consequences of such an
addition to the law are obvious. Judicial
word-juggling has taken us a long way in
the direction of a closed shop. This deci-
sion puts the employer in a position where
he courts penalties every time he declines
to hire a man sent to him by a union. But
the terminology and reasoning of the
Frankfurter opinion are themselves far
more alarming than the economic conse-
quences. For they reveal, unmistakably,

NEWSWEEK MAY 19, 1941

that the process of lawmaking and policy-
making for which the old Court was so
rightly criticized is going on now at break-
neck speed.

The technique is perfectly illustrated in
Justice Frankfurter's decision. First, there
is the bold assertion that it was Congress'
purpose in making law to "codify" the
history of the right of employes to organ-
ize and bargain collectively. Then Justice
Frankfurter offers his interpretation of
what that history has been, pouring into
the record a stream of citations of re-
ports, surmises and theories which he
characterizes out of hand as "common-
places in the history of American indus-
trial relations." Then turning to the Wag-
ner Act, with much talk of "spontaneous
textual reading" and "the background of
industrial experience" and how wrong it
would be "to shrivel a versatile principle,"
he observes that "it would indeed be sur-
prising" if Congress penalized discrimina-
tion in firing and did not make the distinc-
tion. Apologetically, the comment is made
that "unlike mathematical symbols, the
phrasing of such social legislation as this
seldom attains more than approximate
precision of definition." At which point
the irate taxpayer is tempted to shriek:
"What am I hiring Congressmen for? To
write laws or to write poetry?"

Finally, we get the dénouement. The
law, Frankfurter maintains flatly, entrusts
to the NLRB "the maintenance and pro-
motion of industrial peace." But does it?
Or does it protect "the right of employes
to organize and bargain collectively" in
order to "eliminate . . . obstructions to
the free flow of commerce" to the extent
to which they have been caused by the
denial of these rights? The justification for
the enormous future expansion of NLRB
power which the Frankfurter opinion le-
gitimizes is apparently not in the sub-
stance of the Wagner Act but in the long
rambling "declaration of policy" that is
its preface. But our jurisprudence never
contemplated that such essays in political
theory should grant power or confer juris-
diction.

What we are getting, then, are de-
cisions on the Continental order—decisions
in which a philosophy is enacted into law
and judges are given unlimited latitude
in applying the philosophy to specific cases
regardless of precedent. This runs counter
to the basic principle of Anglo-American
law—a principle which holds that law shall
be specific in its intent and that judges, in
passing upon cases, shall be limited by the
law as construed in the light of precedent.
The difference is the difference between a
government of laws and a government of
men. This is what the friends of Court-
packing complained about. This is the old
Court in reverse. The words are the words
of Frankfurter, but the tune is the tune
of McReynolds.