Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlapping text:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

By-passing Congress
by Raymond Moley

The debate over the Bricker amendment has brought into sharp focus the dangers of executive agreements, especially those that have to do with raw materials. Four weeks ago on this page I discussed the dangers to the freedom of our economy in international raw-materials agreements negotiated in the dimly lighted channels of our Foreign Service bureaucracy. Space did not permit me at that time to describe the valiant efforts of Sen. Homer Ferguson to bring one such agreement to light and his unsuccessful attempt to check such activity through legislation by Congress.

During the 81st Congress, from the winter through the spring of 1952, the senator from Michigan meticulously and masterfully presented the case against the International Materials Conference. He told how it had been conceived by Socialist Prime Minister Attlee and sponsored by our State Department. He demonstrated that it was in reality an international cartel, dictating the amounts certain nations could consume, and what prices could prevail. He pointed out how the Administration enforced the IMC allocations and price "recommendations" through the Defense Production Act. And he showed how it had been detrimental to our economy and national security, how it had caused unemployment and cuts in production, and how it stymied our strategic stockpile program.

Ferguson's stand was substantiated by the testimony of numerous committee witnesses, including men high in the State Department, the IMC, and the DPA. Vocal opposition came mainly from Senator Fulbright in thin arguments reflecting opinions of the State Department and those participating in IMC.

In March 1952 Ferguson introduced an amendment to the Defense Production Act which in effect repudiated U.S. participation in IMC. On June 4 the Senate adopted the amendment by a roll-call vote, 43-40. In the light of the fact that former Sen. Blair Moody may be Ferguson's opponent for re-election next fall, it is interesting to note Moody's observations appearing in the current issue of Holiday magazine. Moody describes most melodramatically Ferguson's fight to amend the Defense Production Act. He states that Senate approval of the Ferguson amendment came as a "shock" to him, and that it was "slipped through as a quick rider on one of those afternoons when most senators were busy elsewhere." Incidentally, Moody was not one of the thirteen absent senators.

This development rallied the familiar assortment of extreme internationalists, left-wing economists, and bureaucrats. A few days later, Fulbright came up with another amendment to the DPA, designed to keep the IMC in business. It stated that the President may, "any other provision of the law to the contrary notwithstanding, use the authority vested in him by this act to make it possible for this nation to carry out the recommendations made by any such conference." Fulbright defended this preposterous assignment of the power of Congress on the ground that the Ferguson amendment would "have the effect of destroying the controlled materials plan." With a number of drastic modifications, Fulbright's amendment passed the Senate.

Still the Congress was unwilling to let the IMC situation stand. The Senate Appropriations Committee in reporting the State, Justice, Commerce, and Judiciary appropriations for 1953, included a new section prohibiting any of the funds from being used in connection with the IMC. But the zealots determined to carry on. While State Department funds were not available, "there may be other sources from which to pay for participation," Fulbright declared. The Comptroller General ruled as Fulbright predicted, and IMC carried on.

This is an example of what men like Homer Ferguson confront in attempting to see that fundamental American interests and principles are not violated by executive agreements which by-pass Congress. It is a compelling reason why there should be a constitutional means of keeping a constant check on executive agreements and their impact upon our society.

Newsweek, March 1, 1954