Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlap:


'FREE' FOR WHOM?

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Los Angeles—The controversy about
higher education in California is
not likely to be resolved for many
months. For it concerns not only the
relationship of the colleges and universities to the state government, but
taxation, administrative methods, educational priorities and, what is most
important, the responsibility and maturity of students.

It has been most unfortunate that
so many interrelated issues should
have emerged at a time when a new
governor took office and the regents
decided to dismiss president Clark
Kerr. Governor Reagan was not to
blame for that confusion. Certain reforms and reorganizations, however,
not only were overdue but were implicit in the mandate that Reagan
received from the electorate in November. The new governor had
hoped that decisions might be made
over a period of many months. But the
dismissal of the university president
was precipitated by Kerr himself and
the regents. And so a great confusion
of issues resulted.

One decision, which Reagan has
already postponed, is for an additional charge for students' tuition. But
since he and Lt. Gov. Robert Finch
have declared that it is ultimately
necessary, it may be useful to get the
facts in perspective.

REAGAN'S PROPOSAL

The California system of higher
education consists of nine universities
governed by the regents, eighteen
state colleges each with its own
board of trustees, and 87 junior colleges governed by local boards.

Reagan proposed that an additional tuition charge of $280 a year be
paid by students in the universities
and $150 by those in the state colleges. I say "additional" because the
average fees now paid amount to
about $243. The governor has made
it clear that the new charges should
be accompanied by more scholarships and by provisions for loans to
needy students.

The claim that the new fees would
be an excessive burden is absurd.
Since under current standards of eligibility the students, especially those
in the universities, come from a limited number of middle- to high-income
homes it seems unfair to impose the whole cost of their education upon
the generality of taxpayers.

The economic status of families
from which the parent-supported students (83.6 per cent at U. of C.)
come was calculated in 1965 by a
state scholarship commission, of which
the chairman was Governor Brown. It
reported that the median income of
families supporting University of California students was $12,000. For
state-college students the figure was
$10,000, and for private colleges it
was $12,300. This would indicate that
there is little difference in the source
of support of students in the state institutions and in private colleges that
charge tuition. The median income of
parents of students in the two big private universities was $15,000.

PROPORTIONATE VALUES

In the present controversy, opponents of the governor's proposal can
hardly make a case on financial
grounds. Rather, they fall back upon
the tradition of "free" education. That
reactionary argument from those
claiming to be "forward looking" is
strange indeed.

In these present years the cost of
a student's higher education has risen
to staggering heights and is far, far
more than the suggested modest tuition charge. It is only fair to ask those
who receive the benefits of high-quality education to pay a small part
of the cost.

But as I have already indicated,
the issue is not financial. Additional
tuition charges would be a means,
however small, of developing a sense
of responsibility among students and
parents alike. The parents who support students might remind themselves that the additional tuition
would be less than the price of that
color television set. And less than
what some pay merely for the insurance and upkeep on Junior's car. For
those who borrow the money for their
tuition, their notes would be a reminder that the education they are
receiving will be a major factor in the
earning power and status they will
enjoy after their graduation. Certainly
there has been evidence in the past
two or three years that there is ample
room for the development of a more
sharpened sense of responsibility
among students generally.

Newsweek, March 20, 1967