Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

PERSPECTIVE

THE AUTO SAFETY DISPUTE

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The Senate investigation of auto
safety is moving ever more distant
from the major cause of accidents—
the licensed driver. There is a real
reason and an alleged reason for ev-
ery political decision. The real rea-
son for concentrating attention on the
car is the high visibility of the four
big manufacturing companies. They
are well known, successful. They
make large profits and they have very
few votes. Like all human institutions,
including governments, they make
mistakes.

In every nationwide crusade hot
indignation in millions of people must
be mobilized. Since among those mil-
lions there are great numbers of care-
less, incompetent and defective
drivers, one cannot expect them to
blame themselves. In every accident
every participant blames someone or
something other than himself for the
mishap. And the people who drive—
nearly a hundred million of them—
also have votes.

But the alleged reason given by
the critics is that while they acknowl-
edge that drivers and roadways cause
accidents, they say that nothing much
can be done about those factors.
Since the cars sometimes are guilty,
their makers can move quickly to cor-
rect defects. Hence, elaborate legis-
lation is proposed requiring changes
in car design which the companies
have accepted.

RECALL CAMPAIGNS

Such changes in design, while de-
sirable, would be only a minor con-
tribution to lessening the number of
highway casualties. If there is an ac-
cident, no car, however designed, can
protect the occupants from some in-
jury. The major objective is to prevent
the accident itself. What happens in
the vehicle is the inevitable conse-
quence of the crash.

The most recent major piece of
news emanating from the Ribicoff in-
quiry is that in the past six years 18.5
per cent of all cars manufactured
have been called back by the com-
panies to repair defects in construc-
tion. In presenting these data Senator
Ribicoff says that “many” of these
defects were not related to safety.
He would have been more accurate
if he had said that the vast majority
had nothing to do with safety.

It is a pity that the Ribicoff sub-
committee and the President failed
to give priority in their crusade to the
granting and renewal of drivers’ li-
censes, now so loosely prescribed and
administered in the states.

In the great majority of states the
possession of a driver’s license is re-
garded as a right, like the privilege
of voting or of a fair trial if accused
of crime. In the first place, the age at
which a driver can get a license is too
low. The tests are sloppy and inade-
quate. And the renewal in most
states is mere routine. A driver can
renew his license far into his declin-
ing years. He can renew it even if he
goes blind or has a heart condition or
paralysis. He can renew it if his eye-
sight or his mind becomes defective.

FEDERAL LICENSING

Some of us have lived with the
hope that the 50 states might agree
upon new and drastic requirements
for getting or renewing drivers’ li-
censes. But that hope has vanished.
Only a tiny minority of the states
have set such standards, and still
fewer have enacted improvements
since the Ribicoff crusade began
more than a year ago.

What we must come to if there is
to be real reform is Federal licensing
of all drivers. This would, unfortu-
nately, mean a new invasion of states’
rights and responsibilities. But it
would be a great step toward safety
on the highways.

This could not meet constitutional
barriers. For Federal power under
the interstate-commerce clause has
already been greatly enlarged. Cer-
tainly, if a restaurant owner can be
said to be in interstate commerce if
he sells ketchup made in another
state, the Federal licensing of drivers
could not be denied.

Hundreds of thousands of cars cross
state lines every day. Those cars in
great numbers use highways built
with Federal money. The gasoline
used is federally taxed.

If the senators and the President
really want to reduce accidents, they
should work toward enacting legisla-
tion requiring a Federal license for
everyone who drives or wants to
drive a motor vehicle. And when that
is enacted, there should also be Fed-
eral inspection of all motor vehicles.

Newsweek, May 23, 1966