Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlapping text.  Note that some formatting details (like paragraph breaks and italics) might not be perfectly replicated.

**The MacArthur Epic**

by Raymond Moley

The initial Communist thrust into South Korea was confronted by only a poorly trained constabulary force of South Koreans. The only other forces of the free world within thousands of miles were the American occupation troops in Japan and some elements of the American Navy and Air Force. But fate decreed that there was available a military genius whose peer has not been seen in our time. The test which faced MacArthur was twofold. He was compelled to use his slender forces in Korea and at the same time to continue the remarkable progress he had made in peacefully returning Japan to normal conditions. He was well on the way to a brilliant success in these efforts when the Red Chinese projected seven armies into the conflict. Once more, as in the early days of the Pacific war, MacArthur had to improvise a fresh formula for victory.

The fate of that formula, the virtue of which few except violent partisans of the Truman-Acheson regime will now deny, was the culminating act in a massive drama which originated at Bataan. A loyal and informed witness, Maj. Gen. Courtney Whitney, tells this story in his book, "MacArthur, His Rendezvous With History."*

Not the least of the marks of a military genius is his capacity to bend both subordinates and superiors to his plans of action. This stands out everywhere until MacArthur's last, fatal (to our prestige in Asia) conflict with the brass and the bureaucracy in Washington. Even F.D.R., who was no partisan of MacArthur, was won over in the famous 1944 meeting in Honolulu.

Moreover, MacArthur's opposite numbers in the Navy paid him the compliment of agreement except in a few notable cases. Concerning these instances, in which two high commands and two great traditions were at odds, there will always be dispute. Under the circumstances it is not surprising that Whitney should fail at times to give the Navy marks for its contribution to victory.

Ultimately there was glory enough for all. In meeting the acute problems of the occupation MacArthur was compelled to cope with the Soviet Union, the British, our own State Department, and the Japanese. The irony of it all is that he had the least trouble with and the greatest cooperation from the late enemy, the Japanese.

The war in Korea will always stand out as a cloudy page in American history, but a recital of its story adds new stature to the commander. His audacious delaying tactics before the Pusan perimeter meant the difference between maintaining a foothold on the peninsula and retreat to Japan. The Inchon operation was MacArthur's and MacArthur's alone. Against almost united opposition from Washington he won grudging consent to attempt what was praised by the British Chiefs of Staff as "among the finest strategic achievements in military history."

Whitney's indictment of our State Department goes beyond a mere recital of the appeasement and fear which held back the arm of the commander after the Red Chinese hordes attacked our forces. The greater sin is that in some way the Red Chinese were able to commit their armies with the assurance that they would suffer no injury beyond the Yalu. Strong circumstantial evidence exists that Burgess in the British Embassy in Washington and MacLean in the U.S. section of the Foreign Office in London had a hand in this business.

MacArthur's final ordeal was the frustration of his plan for complete victory by Acheson, Marshall, the British, and Truman. Their substitute proved to be profound humiliation for American arms. But the views of MacArthur were left behind in the minds and spirits of Ridgway, Van Fleet, Stratemeyer, and Admiral Joy. Joy has this to say:

"Serious consideration was being given to extending United Nations Command military operations into Red China. Thus at the last, the one negotiating factor that Communists respect above all else was beginning to appear: Naked, massive power and the willingness to use that power... It was as simple as that."

Newsweek, January 30, 1956