What Can Germany Give?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

In light of the many demands upon Germany for reparations in goods which I described here last week, the question that immediately presents itself is what and how much Germany can give. The answer to this must initially depend on what kind of peace is to be imposed on the Reich. A Morgenthau or Vansittart peace would reduce the German industrial economy to so low a level that little could be produced except what the Germans would critically need for themselves. That sort of Germany could pay only with a few consumer goods, some potash, building stones and, if coal mines were not regarded as parts of heavy industry, coal, lignite and some minerals. But assuming that Germany will not be denied heavy industry, the next question will be the size and scope of the Fourth Reich and the nature of the occupation by the four Allies. When, after the last war "the Hun did not pay" because he could not, France and Belgium tried to enforce the impossible by the blockade of the Ruhr, demoralized the structure of German industrial existence, increased the government's deficit to astronomic figures, and it all ended in the crash of the mark.

If cessions of large territories in Silesia, Pomerania and in the West are imposed, the goods delivered will be reduced considerably.

The aim of reparations in goods should be two-fold. First, the goods should be what the claimant countries need and, second, they must be what Germany can best produce. If we take as a guide the stuff exported before the war, the list would include coal, coke, iron, steel, building stone, brick, chemical products, fertilizers, especially potash and synthetic nitrate, railway equipment, electrical machinery, machine tools and farm machinery.

But a too-great specialization in goods, in machine tools, for example, would reduce the size of American exports in some European areas. It would have the effect of making the recovery of Europe irregular and spotty and might make the recipient countries dependent exclusively on German repair parts for decades to come.

What can and should be done?

The first goods Germany could deliver would be the products of her mines. Her coal mines are relatively rich. Her chemical plants based on this wealth may be badly injured, but much needed fertilizers may be produced before long in large quantities. Coal tar products, an old German specialty, will be in great demand. Ships can be built if steel mills are still operating. Machinery, before the war one of the largest items of export, will be needed and in time and under tolerable conditions, can be delivered in some quantity.

Other observers speak about German gold, bank balances, securities, business partnerships and patents in Allied and neutral countries. Most of this is already seized. The various countries will use it as a "clearing" item against claims which their own citizens and that of other Allies now have on the property seized in or by Germany.

Another group of claims against Germany may show up in marks left by the Germans in occupied countries or for such indemnities which may be payable within Germany. A smaller percentage of such amounts may be used as "travelers' marks" for traveling and sojourn in Germany. But few will be eager to travel in a devastated and depressed Germany.

Obviously, the whole situation must be viewed in light of present conditions and prospective methods of control. It cannot be assumed Germany can and will produce what it did before. Considering the depths of destruction, the loss of population, the loss of territory and the resulting movement of population, the destruction of transportation and perhaps also the effects of Russian and French occupation of two great industrial areas, the prospects for collection within several years are not bright. This is certainly the reason why Russia sets such store on extracting what Germany will have in some quantity-manpower. I shall consider various aspects of that problem here next week.