Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Issue In Arizona
by Raymond Moley

PHOENIX—In 1958, Arizona will be
a major center of political interest,
just as Ohio was in 1950. For the
campaign for the re-election of Sen.
Barry Goldwater, like that of Senator
Taft seven years ago, brings into sharp
focus the issue between traditional
conservatism and the collectivist aims
of the political machines of the big
unions. In Taft’s case, there was on
trial the Taft-Hartley Act, which en-
deavored to bring the tremendous
power of the unions within the realm
of law and order. In Goldwater’s case,
the issue is whether the basic reform
in Taft-Hartley, which was to put
the unions within the same rules in
political action as corporations, shall
be maintained.

Since Arizona is a small state popu-
lation-wise, the AFL-CIO Committee
on Political Education will no doubt
follow the plan of action by which
Oregon, Idaho, and Colorado were
taken in 1956. For the impact of im-
mense power coming over state lines
from what is substantially a national
political party is difficult to resist.
Arizona is in a process of bewilder-
ing growth. Ten years ago, agriculture
was the leading industry. But the
state has since had a singular attrac-
tion for manufacturing—both new and
small concerns and branches of big
ones. Its output has multiplied four-
fold in eleven years. And what is sig-
nificant politically, its manufacturing
employment has tripled.

THE NEW MACHINE

Goldwater, a businessman, was
elected senator in 1952. Because of
his forthrightness and remarkable ca-
pacity for self-expression, he has be-
come an outstanding national figure.
Most important has been his stand
on the rights and wrongs of the politi-
cal arms of the unions.
Goldwater has seen that the dere-
lictions in unionism which have been
exposed by the McClellan committee
are not the most serious problems in
that field. For hoodlumism and rack-
eteering are manifestations of civil
disorder for which the remedy is
mostly local police action. The uses
of union treasuries for the creature
comforts and private business trans-
actions of leaders are serious, but they
can be curbed by existing legal proc-
esses and by action within the labor
movement itself. Even the mishan-
dling of welfare funds can be cor-
rected by the appropriate arms of
the Federal government.
But vastly more serious is the de-
liberate, overt, and systematic use of
the general funds and employed per-
sonnel of certain unions for the pur-
pose of building a gigantic political
machine. This makes possible the ac-
tual capture of the government itself
in many states and in the Congress of
the United States. If, through the
capture of the Democratic Party over
much of the nation, these forces can
control legislation, all efforts to control
the abuses revealed in the McClellan
hearings must be frustrated. As Jus-
tice Frankfurter said of this use of
political power in speaking for the
Court in the UAW case last March:
“What is involved here is the integ-
rity of the electoral process.”

THE CAPTIVES

The root of the great power exer-
cised by the leaders who control
those unions is the fact that the closed
or union shop makes captive the treas-
uries, the officers, and shop stewards.
This brings into the picture the funda-
mental rights of a man or woman
to join or not to join a union. Ari-
zona has a right-to-work law, and
Goldwater has been a champion of
such legislation generally.
No doubt, the effort will be made
in next year’s campaign to depict
Goldwater as an enemy of labor. But
the interests of every union member
are involved in this great effort to turn
the labor movement into a political
party. Goldwater himself has stated
the case this way: “A political party
cannot be a bargaining agent in a free
country. A political party cannot dic-
tate the terms under which labor and
management will work… When or-
ganized labor takes on the appear-
ance of an over-all political party, it
invites opposition where none other-
wise might develop.”
This is the issue which will be
drawn in the election in Arizona next
year, and it will be a question of na-
tional importance. The verdict must
rest with public opinion at the polls
and with the millions of union mem-
bers themselves.

Newsweek, September 23, 1957