Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


Advertising in Wartime—III

by RAYMOND MOLEY

No one will easily forget the touching story of "Sorrell and Son," or the motion picture based upon it. It told of a soldier, rich in honor, who returned to a civil life that had forgotten him—a story with literally thousands of counterparts in this and every other country that fought in the last war. It is not easy to suggest that the plight of a forgotten business should elicit similar sympathy, because no one seems to feel sorry for a corporation. But those who recognize that the fate of a business carries within it the fate of hundreds or thousands of employees can feel and comprehend the injustice of destroying the name of such a business. To convert a going business into war work without allowing it the means of retaining its good will impoverishes and dislocates the life of everyone connected with it.

In this period, when the people who made our automobiles, tires, electrical appliances, building materials, clothing, office and factory equipment and a hundred other articles are engaged in war work, there is every reason why the bond of good will should be retained between manufacturer and customer. The manufacturer's products are still in daily use. He still services those products. He has the right to remind his customers that he is still in business and that he has not forgotten them. The user of these goods or equipment, too, likes to be so informed. A fair amount of advertising preserves the tie and prepares the way for renewed dealings after the war.

To a degree, government is helping businesses, at this time, to maintain their good will. On this page last week the Treasury's policy toward advertising as an element in production costs was discussed. It is a clear and fair policy. But the process of maintaining good will through advertising faces difficulties from another direction.

The great purchasing departments of government, such as the Army, the Navy, the Maritime Commission, properly exercise a strict control over the costs allowed in figuring compensation in government contracts, so that the taxpayer is protected against unfair profits, swollen salaries, and advertising costs out of proportion to the need for them.

But the Army, the Navy and the Maritime Commission have been under such pressure to get contracts made and to get goods rolling that fixed policies on costs have only partially been arrived at. Despite all efforts to formulate them cogently and fairly, policies remain disturbingly uncertain. Company budgets have been held up, and confusion has been caused by the differences in policy that are reported among the innumerable subordinates who deal with contractors.

Simply to suggest the complexity of the points under discussion at the moment, let us take one—the disposition of some subordinates to prohibit the allowance of any advertising costs on the theory that it does not require salesmanship to sell things to the government. But such a policy, if generally applied, would force a manufacturer having government contracts to pay advertising out of the profits he makes from his contracts or, if he is not working 100 per cent for the government, out of the margin of his business which he still sells to his prewar customers. The first would be unfair because the manufacturer's percentage of profit is severely limited to what the government thinks he needs for a return on his investment. The second would be even more unfair because it would permit a company which is making little or nothing for the government to maintain its good will with the public while a competitor, who is entirely or almost entirely in government service, would be blacked out for the duration.

This, and a good many other points at issue, need clarification. The simplest and most reasonable solution would seem to be the adoption, by all purchasing departments, of the broad policy of the Treasury. This, it should be added, is substantially the solution reached last month by the Canadian Government after a conference with the Association of Canadian Advertisers. It recognizes the right of government to prevent advertising costs clearly out of line with past experience and reasonable future prospects, the wholesome effect upon public morale of information concerning the war effort and the necessity of retaining for the postwar period, American standards of demand.