Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've tried my best to preserve the original formatting and avoid overlapping text from different columns, though some minor adjustments might still be needed due to the image quality.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Why the Purge Petered Out

"Politics," I was recently told by an old political maestro, "is assimilation —not elimination." High-spirited men in public life find this principle hard to remember. Wilson never learned it, and certainly those who have been talking of a party purge never even heard of it. But great politicians have learned to make their enemies, not as the psalmist says, their footstools, but their handmaidens. Mr. Roosevelt has wavered between the two processes of transmutation. His political personality is forever hanging around the neck of his reforming instinct. This, it seems to me, is the long-range explanation of the recent swing across the country.

Preparations for a political trip of this kind are made during the week or ten days that precede the takeoff. Some speeches are prepared, some are outlined, and others are just left to be done "on the train." The fireside speech that preceded the departure was carefully prepared, and prepared in the atmosphere created by the bitter band of reformers who had attempted, on their own, to defeat Gillette and who had pushed the amiable Jim Farley into his unfortunate Pennsylvania foray. Biting words were the order. "Yes-but" men were to be given the cold shoulder. Their opponents were to be encouraged. It is true that some, like Clark, were reputedly too strong to oppose. But while the noble New New Dealers disdained the Venetian maxim that one should kiss the hand one cannot bite off, silence, or the routing of the train through a state in the late night hours, would serve as well.

The President was to split his personality and leave the chief magistrate of the nation to inhabit the White House like a ghost during the hot summer. The leader of the party was to take his sword from the wall and fare forth to smite the infidels. This bit of mysticism, however, did not set well with the country—largely, it seems, because such a conception of dualism not only affronted the logic of the intelligent, but strained the credulity of the ignorant.

The difficulty first appeared sharply in Marietta. The planners of the trip had apparently overlooked the circumstances that Marietta is the oldest settlement in a state which is celebrating the 150th anniversary of the opening of the Northwest Territory: that the President's speech was to signalize that event; and, horror of horrors, that Marietta is the home town of former Governor White, who is attempting to oust the loyal pro-Roosevelt Senator Bulkley from his seat. Now the President is gracious and well-bred, and graciousness and good breeding do not permit you to denounce the man who introduces you to an audience of his own townsmen. The best that the President could do was to offer some well-deserved commendation to Senator Bulkley.

Across the river, the irrepressible good nature of "Happy" Chandler made the going still more difficult. After all, he is Governor, the ceremonial head of the state, and his smiles are hard to frown upon. Seated with the President, his face and that of Senator Barkley resembled nothing so much as the decorations that a past generation invariably placed on the proscenium arches of the theatres of the Gilded Age—the masks of comedy and tragedy. But Barkley must be saved. The prepared speech must be delivered. And so it was, despite the awkwardness of the moment and the speciousness of the argument. Only by the farthest stretch of the imagination could Oklahoma be considered a proving ground of New Deal sentiment. To ask a man to choose between the ideas of Senator Thomas and those of Gomer Smith is to ask which would ruin the country first, a 10-cent dollar or a universal $200 monthly pension. True, Gomer drew a rebuff, but it was couched in such diplomatic language that it might have applied almost equally to Elmer.

And then, after a rest, Colorado. But by this time speeches prepared in Washington were out of the question. Improvisation became the order of the day, and the bracing air of the Rockies came as a pleasant relief from the steaming midlands. Gone was rancor and the idea of a new order founded upon iron discipline by an unquestioned leader. So far as the President's utterances were concerned, there might have been no senatorial campaign in Colorado. There followed Nevada. Commending the opponent of the independent and talented Senator McCarran would have been like coming out in Georgia for "Man Mountain" Dean as an opponent of Senator Walter George. Young Al Hilliard may be for Roosevelt right or wrong because "he can't be wrong," but Mr. Roosevelt, on hearing his extravagant endorsement must have felt, with Pope, that praise is like ambergris: a little whiff of it, and by snatches, is very agreeable; but when a man holds a whole lump of it to your nose, it is a stench, and strikes you down. So Nevada saw no purges.

And finally the Presidential cortege reached the Golden Gate and the new International Exposition, a thing of beauty so other-worldly that the intrusion of partisanship, even of nationalism, would seem a desecration. Obviously only a speech in worldwide terms could be appropriate. And the President's sense of the appropriate triumphed.

In short it seems that, as a means of purging the Democratic Party, the trip was a washout. But, as a pleasant, colorful, stimulating vacation, it was a success. What threatened to be the conquering march of a Tamerlane turned out to be the good-will trip of an Edward VII. One can well imagine the anguish of the zealots in the heat of Washington. They were not taken along. Zealots make poor traveling companions. Instead the President preferred more amiable company—the politically minded Marvin McIntyre, the generous-hearted Steve Early and the ebullient Chip Robert, who thinks that when the President speaks of the underprivileged one-third of the population, he means the people who voted for Landon. Here are advisors who can take malevolence out of a man's heart. Apparently that is what they did. One can imagine Chip, getting out the backgammon board, counseling his chief as did the wise jester who said, when Henry VIII was striving for the Pope's title of Defender of the Faith: "My dear Harry, let us contend with each other, and let the Faith defend itself."

Under the circumstances, such advice is irresistible. For the man Roosevelt has not two, but three personalities. He is a President with a deep sense of the importance of that office. He is a fighting party leader. But he is also a troubadour. Washington wears to a fine edge the best of good natures. But faring forth in the great spaces, redundantly singing of a life abundant, is another thing. It is broad rivers, green forests, waving corn and undulating wheat; it is crowds of friends, from the half dozen who, seated on a baggage truck, wave toward the friendly face at the speeding window, to perspiring thousands on a race track; it is hands extended in welcome, voices warm with friendly greeting, faces reflecting his smile along the interminable wayside. These are the things which ever and ever renew the life of the troubadour. What has purging to do with friendship and happiness? Travel is to make friends and influence people. And travel is in the blood of the Reise-Roosevelts.

And so the sun shines on the "yes-buts" and the loyalists alike—McCarran, Adams, Clark, Gillette as well as Barkley, Bulkley, Thomas and McAdoo. And what of the little band of purgers left behind in Washington? They have found, to their consternation, that their leader did not take the trip to please them. He took it to please himself. To him a good cause does not justify any trip, rather a good trip justifies any cause. Stark tragedy sits with them. The purge has "gone West."