Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column structure:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Texas Giant
by Raymond Moley

THE career and personality of Jesse
Holman Jones have an immediate
significance these days. He termi-
nated his long and loyal service to the
national Democratic Party when new
and strange leadership took over, and
in 1948 supported Thomas E. Dewey
for President. In an editorial which
he wrote in his Houston Chronicle at
that time he announced that "we in
the South can no longer be taken for
granted in national politics." A large
number of Texas voters agreed with
that sentiment, and in 1952 enough
more were added to carry the state
for Mr. Eisenhower. More still joined
the party secession in 1956. With
reservations, Jones, until his death last
June, supported the President.
The final consummation of a two-
party system in Texas and elsewhere
in the South will depend upon the
extent to which new, young, and vig-
orous Republican leadership can ap-
pear at the local level.

JONES' LEADERSHIP

A Jesse Jones at 22 could have pro-
vided that sort of leadership, for in
1896 he deserted the party of his fa-
ther to vote against William Jennings
Bryan. Principle prevailed over tra-
dition. His career, a study in brilliant
and constructive business and civic
leadership, illustrated a capacity for
independent action. That career is
now written in a colorful, comprehen-
sive, and authoritative story, "Jesse
H. Jones, The Man and Statesman,"
by Bascom N. Timmons.*
The author had very special ad-
vantages. His relationship with Jones,
personal and professional, extended
over many years. Timmons has been
a Washington correspondent since
1912 and thus was able to maintain
close contact with Jones, not only dur-
ing Jones' thirteen years of service
which ended in 1945 but when
Woodrow Wilson was President.
Since Jones almost singlehanded
was destined to rescue free enter-
prise from the wreck of the depres-
sion, there is meaning in his early
preparation for that task. From his
early boyhood on his father's farm in
Tennessee, he was essentially a busi-
nessman. Unlike many other success-

*400 pages. Holt. $6.

ful Texans, he avoided the hazards
and renounced the rewards of the oil
business. His passionate interest was
building, with time off occasionally
for politics. An enduring monument
to the memory of Jones is the Houston
skyline. That, and his efforts toward
bringing the sea to Houston were
massive services.
In 1932 President Hoover, follow-
ing the recommendation of Speaker
John N. Garner, appointed Jones to
the board of the RFC. Here, in an in-
stitution unique in American history,
the genius of Jones manifested itself
in the tremendous task of putting the
strong shoulder of government credit
under the shaky edifices of private
banking, of the railroads, and, later,
of many other private businesses. It is
high praise to say that he handled
billions of dollars of government
money without a scandal. But it is still
greater evidence of his capacity that
he brought all this vast aid to a sick
economy without making that econ-
omy permanently dependent upon
government help. His skill in manag-
ing this task, despite the caprice of
President Roosevelt and the bitter
envy and antagonism of men like
Wallace and Ickes, marks Jones as a
statesman of the first order.

TRIBUTE BY CONGRESS

It is also true that banks and rail-
roads still bear the evidence of wise
managerial suggestions by Jones. The
highest tribute that can be paid is the
trust reposed in Jones by Congress.
This confidence was summed up by
Garner, who declared that what Con-
gress had given Jones "it ought to give
no man, but that he would have voted
for it." Senator Taft, on the other side
of the political spectrum, said, when
Congress took the extraordinary step
of permitting Jones to hold both the
offices of Loan Administrator and Sec-
retary of Commerce, that "with the
exception of the President of the
United States no man ever enjoyed so
much power . . . but I think it is an
extraordinary precedent justified only
by the character of the man and
which I hope will never be repeated."
It was not repeated and probably
never will be—at least until a man of
the stature of Jones again finds serv-
ice under a President.

Newsweek, December 3, 1956