Here's the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

Mendicant Governors

by Raymond Moley

THE attitude of the state governors
who attended the 1961 Gover-
nors Conference in Honolulu two
weeks ago offered a deplorable con-
trast with that which characterized
such meetings a few years ago. I have
attended a number of Governors Con-
ferences—earlier as a journalist, this
time as a guest speaker. In the early
1940s there was strong and articulate
opposition by a majority present to
the invasion of the prerogatives and
authority of the states by Federal
handouts and to a progressive seizure
of the tax sources of the states and
local communities. This time, there
were fewer than a third who spoke
and voted for state responsibility. Re-
publican as well as Democratic gov-
ernors were in the queue for a place
on the gravy train.

There could be no more striking
evidence of the decay and disintegra-
tion of our Federal system, the finest
contribution of Americans to the po-
litical institutions of the American republic. Until
the creation of the American republic
there was never so meticulous a dis-
tinction among the responsibilities of
local, state, and Federal powers.

Certain figures are pertinent to the
meaning of this change. In 1940 Fed-
eral aid to states was $667 million.
In 1950 it was $2,275,000,000. In
1960 it was $6,382,000,000. Even al-
lowing for the fall in the dollar, itself
a result of federally created inflation,
Federal aid has increased more than
sixfold in twenty years, and in ten
years it has more than doubled.

EXPEDIENCY THE RULE

The major subject of discussion at
the 1961 Governors Conference was
Federal aid to education. Despite the
fact that up to now the states and
local communities have proved them-
selves quite capable of meeting the
great enrollment increase in the 1950s
and despite the fact that enrollment
increases in the elementary and sec-
ondary schools will, in the 1960s, be
less than half of what they have been,
the governors were for Federal aid,
35 to 12.

The discussion on this subject was
depressingly illuminating. Except for
Texas, the big states, where there is
the greatest wealth, spoke for Fed-
eral aid. Less wealthy states such as
Montana, South Carolina, Arizona,
and Mississippi, where there is the
more alleged need, opposed it.

I found no indication in what the
proponents said that they realized
that the money involved must come
from their citizens and that there is
no money tree in Washington—only a
great suction pump. They thus ig-
nored, because of political expedi-
ency, the fact that with courage and
ingenuity they might levy taxes and
keep the money for themselves. Also,
that any Federal money they get will
be through Federal deficit financing
which will, through inflation, increase
prices paid by their citizens and in-
crease their own governmental costs.

FORGOTTEN PRINCIPLE

There was little perception of and
less concern for the obvious fact that
Federal aid for the elementary and
secondary schools will mean Federal
control of what future generations of
children will be taught. That control
will be exercised by a Federal elite
centered in the Office of Education.
There are, in fact, built-in controls
and discrimination in the bill already
passed by the Senate.

Most distressing was the lack of
perception of the difference between
Federal aid for highways, airports,
and waterways, which are inanimate
and have an interstate character, and
the molding of the minds of children.
Gov. Jack R. Gage of Wyoming put
into words what was clearly the un-
derlying sentiment of most of his col-
leagues. He turned to me and asked
that his sentiment be put into NEWS-
WEEK. Here it is:

“We should get all the Federal aid
we can get, whether we need it or
not, because if we don’t get it, some-
body else will.”

The schools will profit little from
the present plan because some gov-
ernors and many communities are al-
ready considering the reduction of
their own efforts to support education
if Uncle Sam assumes a part of the
burden. But it is politically embarrass-
ing to raise their own tax levies. Let
Congress take the blame!

Thus a basic principle was forgotten
amid the events of a gay holiday in
Hawaii—another picnic at the taxpay-
ers’ expense.

Newsweek, July 17, 1961