Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


NEWSWEEK NOVEMBER 24, 1941

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Freedom of Choice

These are days when we test the
timbers under our house, count our posses-
sions, reckon our assets, review our mis-
takes, add up our successes, look ahead
and measure our steps. And when we have
done with reckoning, reviewing and spec-
ulating about the future, we go to bed and
ponder some more. They are days of long,
long thoughts.

As we turn them over, one idea enters
into our calculations that never before
played such a role. We realize, suddenly,
that we are thinking less of our own per-
sonal concerns and more of the concerns
of all Americans. We realize that no man
can save himself alone. Maybe this aware-
ness is part of the "new" day. Maybe the
New Deal has done this for us. If it has,
it has done a lot. But to think of collective
life and collective security is not to follow
all the seductive half-truths that modern
reform has fashioned for us. For collective
life existed centuries before the birth of
modern reforms. And interdependence is
the basis of our economic life. Our little
show is only a sideshow. It cannot do busi-
ness unless the main show is running.

We are, everyone tells us, mobiliz-
ing to save, to defend and to preserve for
our children a way of life—something that
has given us spiritual certitude and the
material means to live and enjoy it. Well,
asks the grim crisis that is upon us, what
have you that contributes to this way of
life? Are you part of it? Do you move in
time with it? Reach out and see what you
touch. Flap your wings. Does anyone take
note of you?

The crisis calls upon Americans acting
in unity to perform a double task. They
must forge the weapons to fend off foreign
threats—threats to America and threats
to the friends of America. At the same mo-
ment they must safeguard the health of
American democracy, for they must not
lose here the values which they prepare to
defend abroad. This twofold job is greater
than that which the Axis faces, since the
Axis Powers have deliberately and coldly
rejected freedom at home in the interest of
efficient striking power abroad. We must
preserve freedom while we arm and hold
tenaciously to the elements of unity in our
life. That unity is our interdependence.
That interdependence is our unity.

True, there has been bitter controversy
among our interests and groups. In the
hurly-burly of the past decade nearly
every calling, every business, every pro-


products aimed at his need. Freedom of
choice permits him to shop around. Ad-
vertising brings alternative products to
his attention. Now there are other ways to
offer him a chance to buy. A totalitarian
government can make the choice of what
he can buy for him. Or a dealer can de-
cide what to offer him. But he cannot en-
joy freedom of choice, which is quite an-
other thing, unless he knows all the pro-
ducts from which he may make his choice.
And there is no way in which he can know
that without advertising.

Granted that this is so, does the con-
sumer pay too much because the product
he buys is advertised? The answer to this
lies in the inner nature of our economy.
He does pay for the advertising in the
price of the product. But advertising, by
enlarging the market, increases the pro-
duction and lessens the unit cost of the
article. This can be demonstrated tens of
thousands of times over. The reduction
in price because of greater production is so
vast that the cost of advertising per unit is
infinitely small.

But why is advertising desirable during
the emergency? What, in particular, is the
justification for advertising by companies
which have given up a part or all of their
normal business and which are devoting
70 per cent, 80 per cent or even 100 per
cent of their energies and productive facili-
ties to the manufacture of goods for de-
fense? What function does advertising ful-
fill for them or for us? Is it a sheer eco-
nomic waste, since they have no goods, or
almost none, to offer us? Or is it the only
way in which they can keep their light
burning until normal times return?

At this moment hundreds of busi-
nessmen are profoundly disturbed lest a
failure to understand the implications of
these questions will ultimately put them
out of business. Many factors have con-
tributed to this fear, although several gov-
ernment officials have hastened to insist
that it is baseless. The most serious of
these factors is a bill sponsored by the in-
fluential Carl Vinson, chairman of the
House Committee on Military Affairs. This
bill (HR 5781), entitled "Defense Con-
tracts Profit Limitation Bill," would allow
a manufacturer accepting defense con-
tracts a profit of 7 per cent above cost but
would not permit him to include in his
costs ten items of business costs, one of
which is advertising and publicity.

Such a restriction would lower the cost
of some defense contracts—microscopi-
cally. But what would it cost the nation—
all of us—collectively, in the days when
war contracts are done and we try to pick
up the threads of normal life? Would this
restriction touch only a few people or
would it place a burden upon the economic
life of the whole country? Is this a ques-
tion that affects all of us? I believe it is,
and next week and the week after I pro-
pose to explain why.

Page 287 of 1087