Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Mr. Farley Lives and Learns
by RAYMOND MOLEY

JAMES A. FARLEY'S current series in
Collier's, "Why I Broke With Roosevelt," reveals a trait which has remained firm in the former National Chairman in all his years of growth and change. It is a compulsion to tell the truth. Farley's conversational habits constantly betray this inner urge. His favorite phrases are "to be frank" or "between us" or "in the room." These expressions are like the fluttering of the wings of a pinioned bird.

His opinions over the years were imposed and superimposed by a series of loyalties to causes, persons and ideas. They never compelled Farley to tell a lie. But they compelled tactful moments of silence.

Farley's present narrative is not only that of a break with Roosevelt, but of Farley's break with himself as a politician and official. He has decided that truth is the final value, and it shall be served, no matter whom it hurts.

THE Collier's series is the story of an ordeal. Farley was caught in a mesh of conflicting loyalties. In the early days, his outlook and duties were simple. He was loyal to his church, his party and his family. Large questions of public policy and interest were handled by others-by Charles Murphy, Al Smith and, later, by F.D.R. Such questions were matters for oratory. As a party man, it was Farley's duty to get out the loyal vote.

He acquired another loyalty when he entered the Administration-loyalty to the Boss, as he called the President. Matters still continued on a simple basis until after the great victory in 1936. And then the ordeal began in earnest, for new loyalties emerged, and the old fell into conflict.

Loyalty, according to Josiah Royce, is "the willing and practical and thorough-going devotion of a person to a cause." But what happens when there are many causes?

The root of Farley's Promethean agonies was the complex personality of the President. The 1936 victory was heady wine for Roosevelt. It induced him to put himself above the party. The first challenge was the Supreme Court fight. In this, Farley went along for the Boss, but the fight failed because a group of Democratic senators resolved their own loyalties in favor of the traditions of the nation. No doubt, Farley learned a deep lesson from them, although he fought them with all he had.

The attempted purge in 1938 was decisive in Farley's evolution. Here his choice was simpler. Here was the party of which he was the head. There was the President whom he served as a Cabinet member.

In 1642, Charles I came to the Commons and demanded that the Speaker point out the members he desired to arrest. The Speaker fell on his knee before the king and said: "Your Majesty, I am the Speaker of the House, and being such I have neither eyes to see nor tongue to speak, save as this House shall command."

In a way, Farley made a similar choice in loyalties when Roosevelt sought his aid in purging Congress in 1938. He firmly took the position that he could have no eyes to see distinctions among Democrats. Then, as everyone knows, F.D.R. relied upon a small coterie of Federal officials to do the purging and failed.

A dramatic account is given of the next test. Cardinal Mundelein came fresh from the White House and advised Farley to go along with the third term and, in the interest of the church, to forgo his own ambitions. This was a blow for a devoted Catholic, but Farley again made a distinction in loyalties. He looked the Cardinal in the eye and said, in substance, that the church should avoid influencing political decisions.

His final step was to distinguish between the traditions of the country and his interest in party success. He resigned in 1940 and took no active part in the third-term campaign.

IN the broad history of politics, Farley's account of a struggle with loyalties should have an important part. Every man, to cite Royce again, is a meeting place of many streams of tendencies—ancestral, religious, political, personal. His way to a settled and harmonious life depends upon his wisdom in choosing among these influences. If he grows, he builds more stately mansions of loyalties.

Newsweek, June 30, 1947