Springtime for Politics

by RAYMOND MOLEY

With a Taft at the wheel of the steering committee and an Ickes back organizing reform movements, nostalgic dreams creep over those of us who have lived a span of years. Things seem, once more, what they used to be.

After all, it seems natural to have Republicans back in office. For 80-odd years they seemed to be accepted as inevitable rulers. They were and are comfortable fellows. They didn't want to change things much, because things had been good for them. They were not people to get nervous about criticism. They took the philippics of Democrats and the tirades of radicals in their stride. They didn't worry much about their methods. And when the country was doing all right, we found Republican rulers satisfactory embodiments of a leisurely authority. Their yoke was easy, and, because they were taxpayers themselves, their burden was light.

Democratic interludes under Grover Cleveland and Woodrow Wilson seemed mere aberrations. Republicans got careless or divided among themselves, and a Democrat got into the White House. But Cleveland and Wilson were not disturbing. Even F. D. R. seemed like another Cleveland or Wilson—at first. To Republicans opposition, occasionally successful opposition, was part of the order of nature. Republicans always came back when things got stable again.

Despite economic pains and troubles, that's how it seems again as 1947 comes in. All over the land Republican governors are starting their terms. They are proposing nothing very exciting: tax cuts here and there, veterans' housing, good roads, refurbished prisons and lunatic asylums. People are not being asked to meet impending doom.

One of the greatest assurances that normal times have come is the restoration of reformers to their wonted roles. Men like Ickes and Wallace and La Guardia were never comfortable in public office. They seemed strained and nervous. The harness of authority raised blisters. Although they were authentically in power, with great majorities behind them, they still acted like minority leaders. They snapped at their critics. They sniffed a crisis every morning.

Now they are back in their old milieu, organizing citizens' committees, writing manifestos, fighting among themselves, screaming at complacent Republicans, threatening to form new third parties.

Much has changed in the past fourteen years. Principles and prices unknown in the old days are here. They are gains—social gains, if you will. Republicans will accept them. It would be difficult to eliminate them, and Republican rulers are not interested in difficult tasks. They can live with change, as long as somebody else does the changing.

President Truman seems to have caught the spirit of the age. He is, as PM petulantly says, "hell bent on normalcy." He can live with Republicans. He believes in getting along. To toss a score of war powers out would have spoiled F. D. R.'s New Year's dinner. Truman probably helped himself to another plate of turkey and stuffing.

This capacity of the President to adapt himself to the spirit of the times is something that overconfident Republicans may overlook. They should not assume that the 1948 election is in the Republican bag. Truman can be reelected. He is one man, and Republican leaders are many and varied. He still has the veto power, a lot of patronage and a first mortgage on the votes of a dozen states. He is, on average, entitled to lucky breaks in the next year or two. He is not hard to like. And, to repeat, he can adapt himself to that middle-of-the-road course which Americans momentarily prefer.

The inhibitions imposed by war, the approach to war and the birth-pangs of peace are gone. We shall not have to find some critical national interest to justify political differences of opinion. We can even indulge in a bit of humor about our rulers without cries of bad taste or trading-with-the-enemy. Politics is our national avocation, our escape from economic worries, foreign perplexities, personal complications, and the fear of death. Life will win back lost interest, and, what is equally important, the country will be better off.