Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


PERSPECTIVE

Arraigning the Critics

by Raymond Moley

It is a hard job to comment accurately on the conduct of American foreign affairs. Three drafts of this piece were discarded before this was composed and filed. For by the time a comment on something by one member of the State Department is digested, another member has either denied the first spokesman or radically changed his explanation. On Dec. 28 Carl T. Rowan arraigned not only Tshombe and the European-owned Union Minière industrial operations, but American critics of the Administration's support of the U.N. military action. It was reliably reported that his speech had been cleared "all the way to the top." We assumed that "the top" was the Secretary of State. At least, it used to be.

Four days after the Rowan speech, George C. McGhee, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, said that Rowan, who is Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs, had made a speech that was "very good in many respects," but that some elements in it "more or less represented his personal views." What is "more" and what is "less," deponent answereth not.

Two aspects of the Rowan speech remain even after the McGhee remarks. One is the reflection upon American critics of the U.N.-U.S. war against Katanga. There are also Rowan's comments concerning the European-owned Union Minière, a profitable capitalistic company. The latter point is considered by my colleague Henry Hazlitt in this issue.

TSHOMBE'S AGENT

Rowan gave considerable attention to the presence in this country of one Michel Struelens. This man is a resident of Katanga. He has lived there 25 of his 33 years. He has an office in New York and represents Tshombe's government of Katanga. According to Rowan, he spent $140,000 last year presenting the Tshombe side of the controversy. Struelens says it was $85,000 and that according to our law he filed reports with the U.S. Attorney General on finances, activities, and staff. Rowan said that Struelens "has gotten some extremely vocal help in dispensing a string of myths," etc.

Clearly, this is directed at the American critics of the U.N. Katanga policy, which includes responsible newspapers, commentators, and other American citizens. Ample material for that criticism was available in the reports by responsible wire services published in our press and in British newspapers.

The inference that one man, operating in a small office in New York, could sway the American press is silly. The State Department and the United Nations spend millions to influence opinion, but apparently even those large amounts were unable to prevent the criticism complained of. American opinion makers are not dupes and are not for sale.

WITHOUT DUE PROCESS

The United States has legally authorized hundreds of information services serving the interests of scores of nations, practically all of which spend far more than the amounts mentioned above. My desk is cluttered daily with their releases. Also, what of the tens of millions spent by our government in foreign countries "selling" America and its policies?

The U.N. operation has as one of its announced purposes the elimination of white "mercenaries" from Katanga. The definition of "mercenaries" is not clear. A purging has been going on through the summary seizure and deportation of a number of white people. Certain questions are pertinent. Who makes up the list of people to be expelled? What are the criteria for including people in that list? What means has the U.N. to give such accused persons due process of law in determining their status? Since the United States is a partner in this operation, why do we not insist upon the application of our principles of jurisprudence in these seizures and deportations? Have we one standard of justice in the United States and another in our operations abroad? Are we not trying to teach new nations our tested principles of liberty and justice? Is not the U.N. dedicated to the rule of law? These are only a few of the many questions which critics are going to pose, despite reproofs from a badly addled State Department.

Newsweek, January 15, 1962