Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Court Appointments

I might have been worse, of course.
The President might have appointed as
Chief Justice of the United States one
of the "five young men" already there.
Instead he promoted a man whose
record, capacity and attainments entitle
him to stand without embarrassment
with his twelve predecessors who have
held that high office. For this relief,
much thanks.

But before we make a final judgment
about the two new judges, let us look at
the Supreme Court of the United States
as it stands in our American system of
things. The representatives of a new na-
tion, men who rank with the great of all
time, tried in 1787 to build for their coun-
try a government of such permanence that
they might indulge the hope that down
through the capricious moods of time
American institutions would afford the
framework for national growth and indi-
vidual opportunity. Their work was good.
It stood.

That work consisted of a written con-
stitution with a carefully conceived divi-
sion of powers. But the Constitution was
only a structure of words. Its meaning was
interpreted by a Supreme Court. And the
Court succeeded in the most difficult task
in the world. It won the permanent re-
spect of several generations of Americans
as almost no institution composed of men
has. Its voice had an almost reverential
hearing, its judgments an almost unques-
tioned confidence. The attempt to tamper
with it in 1937 brought about the Presi-
dent's first and greatest defeat.

Five new appointments were made. The
President, as was his right, selected men
whose general philosophy jibed with his
own. Some of them might have been abler
or more experienced in the law. Still they
agreed with his and with the people's con-
ception of what the policy of government
should be. So far so good.

This year two new vacancies appeared.
They suggested to many people, as they
might have suggested to the President,
that the Supreme Court is the nation's
Court. It is not a majority's Court. It is
not a party's Court. It is not the New
Deal's Court. Nor is government by the
people government by the majority. It is
a form of government in which decisions
are made by a majority with participation
by and consideration for every substantial
minority. A court is infinitely more than a
place where a point of view is expressed.
It is a place of justice, of impartiality, of
detachment, of mediation and of medita-
tion.

A better balanced Court might have
been achieved by the appointment of two
men with longer judicial experience than
the five who preceded them, with more
sympathy for points of view at variance
with the trend of majority opinion and
with records of more detached and greater
intellectual power. The shortest judgment
on the new appointments is the simple
statement that such a balance has not
been achieved.

Attorney General Jackson is liberal, hu-
mane and courageous. I cannot think of a
man in America who, as Attorney General
in the difficult emergency days ahead,
would have more scrupulously guarded
civil rights than he. But his economic
views are not well grounded and his ca-
pacity to form statesmanlike judgments
has not been demonstrated. Some of his
utterances have been flavored with rather
gaudy partisanship.

Senator Byrnes is a man of conservative
instincts. He is a master parliamentarian.
His knowledge of government is encyclo-
pedic. His partisanship has been oversharp,
however, and his capacity for broad judge-
ments is doubtful. As an antidote for some
of the radical tendencies in the Court he
is excellent. Yet an antidote is not enough.
Senator Byrnes deserved high honor and
promotion. But the Court's needs and the
country's needs were greater than his.

Oil in Troubled Waters

If hot words could fend off the
frostbite of next winter or verbal blasts
explode in combustion engines, the Presi-
dent's selection of his Oil Something-or-
Other would be perfect. But people have
learned, by now, to ask two questions
when a man is appointed to an emergency
post. First, what power does he really
have? Second, what are his qualifications
for the real or nominal job which has been
created?

Headlines proclaiming Mr. Ickes as "oil
dictator" or even "oil administrator" have
been pretty far over on the silly side.
There is little power in Mr. Ickes' job. The
President's letter calls him "Petroleum Co-
ordinator for National Defense," which
may mean what it may mean. All it tells
him to do is to investigate most anyone
most anywhere, to study the facts and fig-
ures, to consult with people and to recom-
mend that government agencies do what
they have power to do. Perhaps the Presi-
dent, within even the ample scope of his
NEWSWEEK JUNE 23, 1941

own power, could not do more to give his
militant friend some part in the emer-
gency. For an emergency of which Mr.
Ickes is not a part would seem like a
springtime without flowers.

The President's letter said clearly that
Mr. Ickes should study, recommend and
consult. But Mr. Ickes had apparently
done his homework in advance. At any
rate, he started with a bang and a threat.
Gasless Sundays were suggested for the
East. Cold houses next winter were men-
tioned. There were diversions, of course.
Robert Moses, who has provided with rare
vision and efficiency for most gaseous and
enjoyable Sundays for New Yorkers, paid
tribute to Mr. Ickes by saying that the
whole oil emergency situation "was sprung
on the public by an arbitrary fellow in
Washington without study or investiga-
tion." Mr. Ickes retorted by calling Mr.
Moses "god of New York and demigod of
Westchester County." So much for a start.

The essential facts are still not very
clear. Certainly the shortage is not as seri-
ous as Mr. Ickes suggests. And just as cer-
tainly there is danger that fear of a short-
age might precipitate Congress into au-
thorizing a proposed pipeline from Texas
to New England. The pipeline would be
costly, it would divert precious materials
from more urgent uses and it would be a
long while building. Even its ultimate ne-
cessity is not clear. Meanwhile, experi-
enced oil men point out that by building
short pipeline loops and by connecting
lines within the already existing network
of oil lines a great improvement could be
made in the delivery of oil to the East.

The oil industry itself, if it had a work-
able relationship with the government,
could do the job. But the industry has
been hampered by the feud between Wash-
ington and the states and by the fear that
cooperation in the present emergency may
later be prosecuted as a violation of the
antitrust laws. Oil people are convinced
that the Federal government has been
trying to establish a permanent Federal
dictatorship over them since 1933. They
wonder whether the present move is a way
of doing that under war power. Besides,
the memory of how they tried to cooper-
ate at the urgent demand of the govern-
ment in NRA days and how they were
subsequently prosecuted in the Madison
oil cases for their pains is still fresh. The
appointment of Mr. Ickes was perfectly
suited to recall that sad experience. The
assurance of protection against its repeti-
tion would do much to make certain the
adequacy of delivery through present fa-
cilities.