Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

**Perspective**

Politics in Idaho, Washington and Oregon

by RAYMOND MOLEY

PORTLAND—Firsthand observations of the political conditions and trends in Idaho, Washington and Oregon emphasize factors which I noted last week. The enormous crop now just at the beginning of the harvest, together with almost full employment, induces a feeling of well-being that dulls people’s interest in politics. Crowds at political meetings are small, the turnout at primaries below normal. Republicans now in office are fairly safe. A few Democrats are in trouble. Everywhere the Democratic organizations are in fairly bad shape except in cities where the CIO is very strong. The political cohesion created by the magic of Roosevelt’s name and by Farley’s genius for management is slowly disintegrating. In many places Democratic leadership has fallen into strange and incompetent hands. This, coupled with mutterings about corruption and high prices and the CIO, will be the real reasons if, as seems possible, Republicans gain and Democrats lose this fall.

In the state of Washington, New Deal democracy reached a high degree of ascendency. The governor, two United States senators and four of the six congressmen are Democrats. Most of these are to the left of center and some are very radical.

In the First District a bitter primary fight was waged, in which the issue seemed to be the redness of Congressman Hugh De Lacy. His opponent, Howard Costigan, was pretty left-wing himself. De Lacy was supported by James Roosevelt, Costigan by Anna Roosevelt Boettiger. The incumbent won. The party in that district is split by the primary. The Republican candidate is not especially popular but is given a meager chance to win. In the Second District the incumbent, Henry Jackson, is a Democrat and will win. In the Third, Republicans are confident of winning. In the Fourth and Fifth, sitting Republican congressmen are safe.

In the Sixth there will be fireworks. John M. Coffee has become well known to newspaper readers during the past month. He took $2,500 from a government contractor. The contractor said it was for service. Coffee said it was a campaign contribution. Senator Mead, in ending the hearings, said that, “while this may be morally wrong—the government did not lose anything.” This episode will be a serious shock to Coffee. His opponent is popular. The Republicans have a good, not a sure, chance to win. Coffee is popular and resourceful. The Republican candidate for the United States Senate is Harry Cain, twice elected mayor of Tacoma, with a notable record in the war. His speeches put him ideologically in Stassen’s class. He is youthful, personable, aggressive and intelligent. His opponent, Sen. Hugh Mitchell, was assistant to the present Governor Wallgren when the governor was congressman and senator. He was appointed by Wallgren a year ago. He has made no important impression upon the people of the state. Republicans may pick up a Senate seat in this contest.

In Idaho there is trouble in the Democratic party. The Republican Senatorial candidate, Henry C. Dworshak, was in the House. He is well known. Sen. Charles C. Gossett, his opponent, was governor and was appointed a year ago. He is not aggressive and may lose.

In Oregon nothing much is happening politically. All congressmen are Republicans. The only real contest is in the Portland district, where the odds favor Homer Angell. In Oregon the Democratic organization is very weak. The beginnings of an organization of young Democrats by Farley have disintegrated.

The May and Coffee episodes have raised serious questions in all these states as to how great a revelation may be in store as to waste and impropriety in the great spending which took place during the war. A most profound impression has been made by Comptroller-General Lindsay Warren’s statement that “billions” were squandered by “fraternization” in Washington. It may be that the combination of billions of rapidly flowing money, hundreds of lobbyists and dozens of congressmen who were none too strong may have produced irregularities of which we have only seen a small sample. I repeat that this and not the cost of living may be the major 1946 campaign issue.