Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

AFTER THE PRIMARIES

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The hysterical outcries of many politicians and pundits during the first days after the California primary were genuinely amusing. Perhaps the distemper which afflicted these people was due to their loss of faith in their own infallibility and influence. For after they had hammered Goldwater for more than two years with verbal artillery, a sufficient number of Republicans, by their primary votes and in their selection of delegates, seem to have made the nomination of the Arizona senator inevitable. Everything failed the opposition. No alternative candidate or non-candidate gained altitude.  Then a coalition flopped. Polls proved to be an illusion. Ominous warnings scared only those who uttered them. The Gettysburg Cincinnatus declined to panic. And the final flutter in Cleveland died in resignation.

Now the tumult and shouting have ceased. Most of those who have been so intemperate in print have had no intention of supporting any Republican candidate. They were just as vehement about Nixon four and five years ago. They have an alternative: LBJ will, they believe, save them from catastrophe.

The body of political jargon has been fattened by this anti-Goldwater crusade. Old words have been torn from their meaning and have been applied in politics.

The word "moderate" has been immoderately used. It is a weapon word used to oppose Goldwater. I am not a "moderate" in this new context. But I am not for that reason immoderate, I hope, or irresponsible.

WHAT MAINSTREAM?

The word "mainstream": I cannot find this word in an ideological or political sense except in the very latest dictionaries. Its use against Goldwater assumes that there has been a Republican "mainstream." However, the policies of both parties have, to use Rockefeller's word, meandered for a century, like a river over the plains which changes its course with every spring flood.

A party's policies are what the leadership at any given moment makes them. Anyone in a party may seek to change party policy at any time and win a majority in the party to his views. Roosevelt did that in 1935 and 1936 in his radical change in direction from 1932. Since then, the Republican Party has been indeterminate in its policies. Some have wanted to occupy the ground abandoned by Roosevelt. Others have favored a blurry facsimile of liberal democracy. The latter had their choice of candidates in the '40s and '50s. The former, under the leadership of Goldwater, have now won the choice in 1964.

LOYAL PARTY SUPPORT

It has been charged that Goldwater has been out of step with the Republican mainstream within his party. But if we compare the voting record of Goldwater in the Senate with those of two of his critics, Senators Kuchel and Javits, Goldwater has been far, far more consistently in step with his Republican colleagues. What must be understood is that, according to the compilations of voting records by the Congressional Quarterly, the Republicans in the Senate have been more and more polarized against the liberal Democrats during the past five years. They have provided an authentic, responsible opposition.

Goldwater's Republican colleagues selected him for five years as chairman of their campaign committee. In this role he has raised and distributed funds and made innumerable speeches over the nation for all Republican candidates. When he retired from this post last year, his colleagues gave him a glowing resolution of appreciation. In 1960 he made 200 speeches for the Nixon-Lodge ticket in 35 states.

That help when help was most needed is what has given him the affection and respect of Republican leaders in so many states. They have responded in their primaries and conventions. In the primaries he has had a great aggregate majority of votes over every rival. It should be noted that delegates are not handpicked by bloated, irresponsible political leaders. They are selected for the most part by people who respond to the choices of their constituents.

This is the reality which all Republicans face as they approach the July convention.

Newsweek, June 22, 1964