Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

Buried in Data

by Raymond Moley

THEORETICALLY, a free government operates under the watchful eyes of the citizenry. Actually, because of the prodigious bulk of our system, the citizen cannot know much, and what he knows he cannot understand. He pays his taxes, he hopes, sometimes he votes, and he prays.

This condition becomes more serious because the bureaucratic squid envelops itself in a self-generated inky mist, called data. Our stupendous defense production offers a prime example. There the stage is reached at which the bureaucrats are unable to understand their own operations. The situation is compounded by the need for official secrecy. Also, in making contracts there is the necessity for concerns to keep certain secrets from their competitors.

An article by Denham Scott of the Garrett Corp. describes a painful headache which afflicts both industry and the Pentagon. Millions of drawings must precede the manufacture of innumerable defense weapons. The Pentagon works on the concept of hoarding everything in case something might be needed. Therefore it contracts for such drawings. Generally, this is justified on the ground that there must be repair, overhaul, and maintenance.

There is little regard for the multi-million-dollar costs of such drawings or for the fact that there are also maintenance manuals.

50 MILLION DRAWINGS

In a report to the General Accounting Office, Assistant Secretary of Defense Thomas Morris said last year: "At the present time there are an estimated 50 million drawings in the system, 13 million of which apply to aeronautical parts. Large quantities of these are obsolete or incomplete, and must be segregated from those that can be used to meet current needs. The annual increase in this documentation runs in the millions as existing material is modified and new weapons and equipment enter the system at a growing rate."

The effort now is to gain some control of this vast accumulation. Since companies producing the "hardware" for defense operate within the free-enterprise system, they conceive it to be their right to see that their designs should not be available to their competitors. Also, they are dealing with technological matters in which last month's innovation becomes this month's obsolescence. Their struggle to preserve their proprietary rights has gone on for a long time.

Scott suggests that if there were a task force drawn from the industry, assigned to deal with the job of simplification, it would recommend "a few well-placed bonfires."

SIMPLE SOLUTION

No manufacturer is in business to design products for the benefit of his competitors. Therefore, contractors have protected themselves in their negotiations with the Pentagon by contractual provisions which permit them to withhold certain proprietary data. The only way to accomplish this is to remove such information from their drawings. The obvious result is that the drawings they deliver are more costly to prepare and are incomplete and of dubious value.

"Being human," Scott says, "vendors who spend time, money, and talent in designing, developing, and testing specialized equipment feel that the fact that they are in a favorable position to compete for a production contract is something they have earned by their initiative and industry." Their drawings represent very valuable property which they have no intention of giving away. After all, "the common law decrees that the owner legally loses his right to property once it passes into the public domain."

Scott's solution is relatively simple, which is probably the reason it has not been comprehended by the bureaucracy. The prime contractor should be contractually obligated to choose vendors who would agree to maintain up-to-date, acceptable data packages, available to the Pentagon. The designer should be assured that if his privately developed proprietary information is needed for competitive procurement, the Pentagon will be willing to negotiate with him to establish fair and equitable compensation. Scott makes clear that there is no such assurance today.

Newsweek, December 10, 1962