Here's a text extraction from the provided image.  I've done my best to separate the columns and avoid overlapping text, but some minor inconsistencies may remain due to the image quality and column layout.


Perspective
Republican Prospects

The Republican party has more
spring in its step and a better song in its
heart than it’s had for ten years. It’s look-
ing younger every month. This was in-
evitable after the elections in November
which—despite the Rooseveltian thesis
that what happened at the polls then had
nothing to do with him—have properly
been described as a drift away from the
recent New Deal excesses and toward the
ancient faith of moderation and caution.
Even more exhilarating to the Republican
party is the obvious fact that the rift in
the Democratic party is yawning wider
and wider. It begins to seem for the first
time since 1929 that possibly, just possibly,
the Republicans may land their candidate
in the White House.

Of course, that leaves the question of
whom the Republicans have to suggest as
candidates. The answer to that is clear—
clear because it doesn’t involve the ques-
tion whether their candidates would make
good Presidents. It’s too early to think
about Presidential qualities. But it’s time
to think about the qualities of Presidential
candidates, which are quite different.

There’s no question but that
Thomas Dewey has a considerable lead in
the preferences of those articulate people
who express themselves in polls or in public
prints. His lead is based upon the long-
established fact that the most complete-
ly satisfactory American whipping boy
throughout the country is a strange and
little understood creature known as Tam-
many Hall. It captures the loyalty of
hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers,
who are, as men and women go, as honest
as the next. But non-New Yorkers lift
their noses in the air when Tammany is
mentioned, and whacks on the Tiger’s
back are heard round the world. Presidents
have been made that way. Tilden, who
came close to being President, was one;
Cleveland was another; Wilson repudiated
Tammany; and the two Roosevelts walked
to glory over Tammany’s prostrate body.
It must be frankly recognized that Dewey
has fitted the armor of St. George as neat-
ly around him as any man of this time.
Dewey’s enormous popularity through-
out the country has made the first breach
in the ice barrier surrounding the island
of Mr. Hoover’s favor. Up to now, Mr.
Hoover has industriously, in private con-
versation, eliminated all important Re-
publicans as candidates except himself.
Of late, he has warmed up to Dewey. He


NEWSWEEK, MARCH 27, 1939

says that Dewey has fired the imagination
of American youth. The two men have
conferred long and earnestly, and, in a
sense, Hoover has made the promotion
of Mr. Dewey’s candidacy his immediate
mission in life.

But this has caused some difficulties in
Dewey’s own back yard. Kenneth Simp-
son, president of the New York County
Republican Executive Committee, had
been giving out enthusiastic statements
about Dewey until the Dewey-Hoover
flirtation began. Simpson is identified with
a faction in New York politics that has
been violently anti-Hoover. So the Dewey-
Hoover tie has seriously impaired the
Dewey-Simpson tie. Putative national
candidates have tripped and gone sprawl-
ing over less than that.

It’s hard to tell whether the Dewey
popularity will stand up through the next
twelve months. He is going to find it
difficult to find new dragons to slay, since
Tammany leaders are not very dragon-
like these days, and he has already knocked
off the biggest. He cannot very well build
up a business-baiting campaign. And the
routine of the District Attorney’s office
provides pretty small pickings for a man
who wants to keep in the headlines of
the papers over the country.

Dewey’s handicap is that he is not deal-
ing with national questions. I think it is
not unfair to him to say that he knows
little or nothing about national questions
and has never expressed any important
opinions bearing upon the innumerable
problems that confront this country. He
will be able to do that, of course, when
the campaign comes along. But whatever
is said will have to be a pretty synthetic
product. It certainly cannot rise out of
Mr. Dewey’s parochial experience. But
again, it must be remembered that millions
of voters want dash, spice and glamour.
Dewey has all of these.

Governor James of Pennsylvania,
on the other hand, has none of them. And
yet he cannot be dismissed as a possibility,
since both in the primaries and in the
election he ran far beyond the expecta-
tions of the experts—even when they had
discounted the effects of the Democratic
split there. If James decides to try for
the nomination, he will have behind him
one of the most competent state organiza-
tions in the country, some of the shrewdest
political advisers living and wholly ade-
quate finances for a nationwide hunt for
delegates.

The chances that the Republicans might
nominate La Guardia—which were never
very good at their best—grow less and
less as the Republicans get more confident
of winning. La Guardia would qualify
about as well as a standard bearer for a
reviving Republican party as Aimee
McPherson would for the papacy.

There have been a few timid “feelers”
about Wendell Willkie as a possible candi-
date. It is true that he has shown, in his
long battle with the Administration, as
much capacity to think, speak and act
effectively as any man we have in business
or public life today. Brilliant, resourceful,
experienced, well-schooled in public affairs,
he might conceivably go far with the
generally futile slogan of “a businessman
for President.” But I cannot imagine a
convention composed of politicians ventur-
ing to nominate a businessman in 1940,
regardless of his ability.

Which brings us to Bricker, Taft
and Vandenberg.

There are obstacles to the nomination
of Governor Bricker. One is that all that
can be said of him as Governor is that he
was elected. The second is that, under the
Ohio law, Bricker would have to decide in
May 1940 whether to stand for President
or Governor. And Bricker seems to have a
bird-in-the-hand approach to things.

Taft has common sense, superior in-
tellectual ability, moderately liberal views
on the objectives of government, a quiet,
pleasant, reassuring personality and a dis-
tinguished name. Moreover, politicians are
superstitious, and it must be remembered
that in nine of twelve elections since the
Civil War in which the Republican party
has gone to town, it has had as a candidate
either a native or a resident of Ohio.

Vandenberg is as able as Taft. He has
had infinitely greater experience. For the
past six years, he has been the most
effective member of the opposition. Yet,
like all men who have been in public life a
long time, he has taken positions that
have alienated people, and, when a political
party is looking for a candidate, it usually
prefers a man who has offended nobody.
Vandenberg seems disinclined to seek the
nomination, but this apparent indifference
is probably merely strategic. The party will
certainly regard it as such until it learns
otherwise.

To be successful, the Republicans need a
candidate who is cut in the pattern of the
times. He must seem capable of clearing
up some of the debris that the intense
activities of the New Deal have left
scattered around. He must be able to
capitalize on the growing drift toward
conservatism in this country. And yet,
somehow he must make it clear that he
knows 1932 marked the end of an era in
American history. To define that position
exactly, to make it convincing in a world
that loves white and black but mistrusts
grays, will be one of the most difficult
exercises in political technique that a
candidate for the Presidency has ever faced.