Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

PERSPECTIVE

SEMANTIC TYRANNY

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Senator Javits, seldom able to restrain his oracular zeal, leaped into the business of 1968 two days after the 1966 election. He rejected the efforts of so many loyal Republicans to unify their party. He said: "I think the experience of 1964 shows you've got to fight it out."

The experience of 1964 is precisely the reason why the Republican blood-letting of that year should not be repeated. For in that year the unnecessarily bitter things that Republicans said about each other and the ideological hobgoblins that were exorcised provided the ready-made weapons that made LBJ's task so easy in the campaign that followed the San Francisco convention.

There were hysterical incitements to fear, meaningless semantic labels, quotations out of context and personal vituperation. And the voice of reason was stilled.

Two years' reflection should show that the differences among Republicans that year might have been resolved within the broad tolerance which should characterize a national political party. But we lived then, and some seem to prefer to live now, under a tyranny of semantics.

WORDS WITHOUT DEFINITION

Words like "extremist," "moderate," "right wing" and "left wing" are like ink splattered on the houses of people we don't like. They are words uttered without meaning or definition. Even now, in a post-election column by a well-known commentator the words "moderate" and "moderate-Republican" appear six times. Presumably he means that everyone with whom he disagrees is immoderate or extreme. The cream of the corny jest is that he and many of the unctuous pundits of the airwaves are Democrats playing the old game of tossing apples of discord into the party they hope to defeat or destroy.

A better case can be made for the labels "conservative" and "liberal," even though the latter term has been wrenched from its traditional meaning. But these labels have no relevance in defining the alternatives presented in a two-party system. Both parties should allow for internal shades of difference about what government should do or not do.

I have given a good many years of thought to the subject of party alternatives. In 1962 I wrote a small book on the subject. And I see no good reason why all the notable Republican leaders cannot be fitted within the four corners of a common party loyalty. There are, among many, Dirksen, Ford, Goldwater, Nixon, Percy, Scranton, Reagan, Rhodes, Rockefeller and Romney-a range of rich talent.

All these men would restrain the Federal invasion of the states. All would demand Federal fiscal responsibility. All deplore the vast growth of Federal bureaucracy. And all would call for the preservation of individual initiative and the growth of what is called the private sector. All favor free enterprise. Finally, all would demand better administration of the many programs enacted under the Johnson regime.

THE PRICE WE PAY

There may be differences of method and degree among the views of the leaders named above. But there is no reason why these cannot be discussed seriously and peacefully within the GOP.

Two issues which cut across party lines have no real ideological identity -civil rights at home and resistance to Communist aggression abroad. But here also we have differences in method and timing. Republicans should not and need not, as Javits says, "fight" about these.

A national party spreads through 50 states. These states have varying interests, needs and constituencies. What concerns New York, Ohio, Illinois and California may not concern Nebraska, Oregon or Texas. But if we are to have a two-party system --and everyone but a few splinter-minded people professes his allegiance to that institution--both national parties must allow differences in degree and method. That is the price we must pay for our party system, which is all that preserves us from the multiparty chaos that inflicts such countries as West Germany at the moment. We should pay that price in tolerance, in rational discussion, in fair compromise and in a disposition to abide by intraparty majority decisions.

Newsweek, November 28, 1966