Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've done my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns. Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original layout:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Three Worlds

Public impatience with our defense setup is understandable. The machinery was tragically late in starting. It does not satisfy people's sense of the form that an administrative organization should have. It is unlike the successful setup that President Wilson adopted after a year of mistakes. It is behind schedule. Set up to prevent bottlenecks, it has become a bottleneck itself.

But it seems to me that the time has arrived when we shall have to take some things for granted and try to understand some of the reasons why things are not as they should be and why they are not going to get much better for a while, so far as organization is concerned. It is also time to realize that forms of organization may not be the most indispensable things in the world.

A wise observer who has seen the defense setup in operation recently made the following comment:

"These forms of organization of defense are rather artificial after all, and I believe Knudsen thinks so. He was associated for some years with another production genius who thinks so—Henry Ford. In that big outfit there are few officers. They just get to know who's in charge of this and that. They do specialize, but they don't go to a lot of work naming the specialty so that outsiders will recognize it. Knudsen and Hillman and the others can work together, as the weeks and months go on, without having to have a draftsman redraw the organization chart every little while. The test won't be the setup itself, but whether men of talent sufficient to the enormous task are there, and whether they have the will to work together, and whether F.D.R. will keep his hands off."

These shrewd observations are worth more than reams of comment that is currently appearing. The kind of defense organization that will emerge pretty rapidly will be conditioned by the three worlds that are attempting to coexist in Washington these days. The first is the world of bureaucracy, of which, in this instance, the military and naval bureaucracy form a considerable part. The world of bureaucracy has habits, language, standards and forms of organization all its own. It has jealousies, precedents and prejudices that arise from its very nature. No one has ever changed it. No one ever will. There is inevitably in Washington a world of politics as well. Leisurely, lazy, verbose, suspicious, it too has a language and a code of propriety all its own. This is not to say that direct partisan privilege is obtruding itself. It is to say that as long as this is a democracy, public work will pass through the hands of people whose patterns of thought and conduct have been shaped by experience in politics. No one will change that either. Finally, there is now introduced into this complex situation a large sector of a third world—the world of private business. Here is another language, another set of values and another set of work habits.

Presiding over these three worlds is Franklin D. Roosevelt. For eight years the world of business has enjoyed a relationship with him that might euphemistically be called armed and alert neutrality. The blame for that state of affairs need not be discussed here. What is important now is that, as a result of past antagonisms, each has acquired a minimum knowledge of the psychological characteristics of the other. And such knowledge is essential to effective cooperation in this crisis. It can be asserted confidently that as soon as Mr. Knudsen and his associates from the business world who are working in Washington thoroughly understand the unusual administrative habits of their boss, things will begin to hum with activity. It is to be hoped that an understanding can be reached before there is any sort of break.

What makes such an understanding difficult is the fact that the President's habits of administration are paradoxical. He seems to delegate very little. Actually, he delegates a great deal. Those who have known him well realize that it is hard to get definite grants of authority from him. His subordinates must not figure out exactly what he wants them to do; they must figure out what they can do which will subsequently meet with his approval. His orders cannot always be clear because he is not always clear about his own plans. In matters relating to the industrial processes he simply does not know the details. He will not admit this lack of knowledge. It has to be silently and courteously assumed. And with that assumption Mr. Knudsen and his associates should proceed to exercise wide authority. They will not have serious trouble as long as they get results.

For at this point another attribute of the President comes into the picture. He stands by his close subordinates with great loyalty. Sometimes in the past years this has not been good for the country. There have been subordinates who have done unwise things and who, because of the President's loyalty, have continued in office to make more mistakes. But there have been others who have taken chances to do wise things. Some of the best public servants he has around him have succeeded for that reason. He likes them to succeed. And half the authority which they exercise is implied, not specified. It is important to keep him informed. But, in the process of keeping him informed, a competent subordinate can have a large part in shaping the policy under which he works. An understanding of this characteristic of the President is lesson No. 1 for the business members of the defense group. It ought to be lesson No. 1 for some of the President's journalistic critics.

To be sure, this does not conform to the best of all possible administrative charts and diagrams. But diagrams are often histories rather than prophecies. It is not going to make any muskets to spend time wishing that Mr. Roosevelt were not Mr. Roosevelt. In two senses of the word, the hunting season for Presidents ended on November 5 of the late and lamentable year 1940. The Constitution tells us how a President is to be selected. Mr. Roosevelt was chosen according to those specifications. And in a blurry world the Constitution is about all that an American eye can keep in focus.

I wish some philanthropist, that is, someone who anticipates any cash balance after March 15, 1942, would buy sets of Sandburg's four-volume "Abraham Lincoln: The War Years" for each of the businessmen temporarily working in Washington. They might well use it for bedtime reading. It would tell them about a great President who brought to a tremendous administrative job the working habits of a not-too-orderly lawyer and many of the impulses of politics in the classic sense of the much-abused word "politics." Lincoln let the men around him build up a huge and magnificently equipped army in the East. Whenever he asked McClellan to go out and use that army, the answer was that it was not big enough and that it did not have enough equipment. The army grew so large that, when it did try to go out and fight, it fell all over itself. Out of Missouri came an obscure soldier named Grant. It is not clear how carefully Grant's western campaigns were guided by Lincoln. It is quite probable that Grant took great risks in depending upon his own judgment. But he came to the top like a frog emerging from a murky pond. He answered the problem almost before Lincoln had a chance to frame the question. And Lincoln blessed him for it.

One of these days that will happen in Washington. Mr. Roosevelt will be very, very happy. And so shall we all.