Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Every Prospect Pleases
by Raymond Moley

For the short run, the length of
which may extend to November
1956, the President’s assorted messages and programs during the past
month show a grasp of good political
strategy. In politics, the short run is
paramount, for if the next election is
lost all is generally lost. The rest
of us must live on far into the future,
and at the moment we shall be well
advised to think of the cold,
clear morning beyond the
bright sunset.

The President finds nothing
unpleasant in the future
except “speculative activity” and
“monopoly,” which
he and Congress could curb.
He fails to note the unlovely
traits in human nature
which may reveal themselves in labor relations,
in politics, and in foreign relations.
The President’s calculations are
based upon the best of all possible
concatenations of the best of all circumstances in the best of all worlds.
Just one eensy slip, and the deficit will
grow and grow like a jinni. Personal
incomes cannot stand still, but, the
President predicts, must rise. The military must find the $1.7 billion which
the President cannot specify. Congress must pile more postage on those
who use the mails. The TVA must
raise its own money and, what is more
important, Congress must agree to cut
off the fodder from this sacred
Democratic cow.

It is ironical but true that if Congress even gives him authorizations
for the dams and other public works
which he recommends, the 1956 deficit will jump.
The states will have to find the billions he wants for highways, and his
imagined Federal highway and school
and other corporations must sell their
guaranteed bonds in a market which
is already hesitating about buying past
Federally guaranteed offerings. Senator Byrd has already declared that
the Clay highway plans are unsound.
The same characterization will probably apply to the forthcoming plans
for school financing.

The vast and mounting public and
private debt is not regarded as a menace by the Administration, but many
people outside that circle of optimists
will do so. The highway, school, and
other plans contemplate the creation
of vast debt contracting and spending
units outside the regular budget. This
destroys the whole concept of a single,
comprehensive, executive budget.
The budget under such circumstances becomes only a partial glimpse
of fiscal realities. It also becomes,
under the skilled hands of political
speech writers, an exercise in semantics, rather than a sober portrayal of profit and loss.
F.D.R. introduced this sort
of thing in his 1939 budget
and I said at that time in
NEWSWEEK that one part of
the budget was to tell you
“what the government is
costing you and the other is
supposed to make you feel
better about it.” In this
Eisenhower document, domestic expenses become “civil benefits,” and military outlays, including
foreign giveaway and propaganda
programs, are “protection.”
There is also a curious revival of a
use of the word “asset” reminiscent of
the gay, mad ‘30s. Almost anything
that costs something and has length,
breadth, and thickness is called an
“asset.” I have been taught to believe
that in a serious economic document,
public or private, an asset is something
that can produce income or can be
translated into monetary value. All
else are liabilities needing repairs
and replacements. If we have assets,
there should be an item of depreciation which is not present in the budget.

Those who must calculate upon the
future must always allow for the
perversities of human nature. In labor
relations the President has been happily spared a crisis in his two years in
office. But there is a cloud in the sky
no larger than a Reuther’s hand to
suggest caution. Who can calculate
the pressures and purposes that may
move that hand? A powerful and resourceful Democratic Party is already
preparing to destroy this Administration. Chairman Cannon has loaded the
House Appropriations Committee to
that end. And there are always the
pernicious, unpredictable, mysterious
minds in Peking and Moscow.
Let us hope that all of the President’s wishes come true. Let us not
forget how fragile wishes may be.

Newsweek, February 7, 1955