PERSPECTIVE

HIGH MOUNTAIN SHEEP

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Last week I gave some of the background of a very important case decided by the U.S. Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in late March. It sustained a ruling by the Federal Power Commission giving a license to the Pacific Northwest Power Co. to build a hydroelectric dam on the Snake River at the High Mountain Sheep site. The PNPC was formed by four of the private power companies in the region, the Washington Water Power Co., the Montana Power Co., the Portland General Electric Co. and the Pacific Power and Light Co.

Back in 1954 the group applied to the Federal Power Commission for licenses to build two dams at a location on the Snake about 100 miles down the river from Hell's Canyon. In 1955, the FPC granted a preliminary permit which was to expire in three years. Meanwhile, the Interior Department was considering the building of a Federal dam at nearby Nez Perce. In 1957 a group of public-utility districts of the state of Washington also applied for a license to build an immense dam (more than 700 feet high) at Nez Perce.

END OF NEZ PERCE

The Pacific Northwest company had anticipated a fatal bar to the Nez Perce site. It is below the mouth of the Salmon River, and the company's engineers said that a high dam at that place would block the passage of salmon and steelheads to and from their spawning ground up the Salmon River. But the Interior bureaucrats and the public-utility districts (PUD's), blind to the problem posed by the fish, insisted for three years upon the Nez Perce project.

In 1958 the Pacific Northwe: Power Co. filed an application for a license to build a single dam at a neighboring site called High Mountain Sheep, up the river from the mouth of the Salmon. In 1960 the curtain fell on Nez Perce, for the U.S. Army Engineers Corps declared that the fish problem could not be solved for fifteen to twenty years. Then the Interior Department and the PUD's switched to the High Mountain Sheep site. In the long hearings before an examiner for the FPC and the commission itself, it was claimed that the Northwest Power group's permit had expired. However, in 1964 the FPC decided to issue a 50-year license to the private company. It overruled the rival public power agencies, declared that the Nez Perce site was impractical and that Pacific Northwest had prior rights because of the earlier application and permit.

The estimated cost of the private company's construction would be considerably less than the public development. Private development would yield tax returns of several millions a year to the local, state and Federal governments, although that element did not enter into the FPC's decision. A Federal construction would be a burden on the Federal treasury and it, like the PUD's development, would yield no taxes.

ECONOMY PLUS TAXES

A minority of the FPC agreed with the rival applicants that "preference" must be given to public power agencies. The FPC majority overruled this claim. The Interior Department and the PUD's took to the courts.

In the March decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals, the decision of the FPC was sustained against both the PUD's and the Interior Department. It held that preference applies only in a case in which no preliminary permit has been issued. It held also that the FPC had the authority to interpret "preference" and to maintain the priority of the private company because of the earlier permit.

It summarily disposed of Secretary Udall's intervention because of his long delay in opposing the grant to the Pacific Northwest Power Co.

Thus, unless the Supreme Court reverses the case, which is regarded as unlikely, private investment will, without cost to the Federal government, proceed with this valuable asset to the Northwest and begin to pour in tax revenues. Apparently, the Administration speaks with two voices. The President and the Treasury assure us of their desire for economy. The Interior Department wants to spend more for something which the company is ready and willing to build. But the long delay of more than ten years will increase the cost and has denied revenues to the governments concerned.

Newsweek, April 25, 1966