Reconsidering Our Power Policy

by Raymond Moley

SIGNS are rapidly accumulating that
the election returns are followed
by even the more socialistic members
of the Administration now about to
pass into history. Two such portents
come from the Interior Department
and they bear upon the problems of
the Northwest, where the most vigorous
efforts have hitherto been made
by the Federal government to dominate
or absorb the private
utility companies and state
autonomy. Both have to do
with the problem of supplying
that great region with
electric power.

The first of these signs is
a proposal of Dr. Paul J.
Raver who for thirteen years
has been the head of the
Bonneville Administration of
the Department of the Interior. At a meeting in Seattle in December, Raver suggested that there
be considered a plan to take the
power business of the Northwest completely out of the hands of the Federal
government. What he had in mind was
the creation of a regional commission
to be elected by the people or appointed by the governors of the states
concerned to take over the administration
of the great hydroelectric plants
and to undertake the construction of
future projects. Financing would be
by bonds sold in the open market.
For years the Department of the Interior, backed by Presidents Roosevelt
and Truman, tried in vain to put over
a vast Columbia Valley Authority modeled in part after the TVA. This effort
failed because it was opposed not only
by private industry but by the governors
of the states involved. Then many
other schemes were hatched and proposed to push the Federal government
further into the power business.
There is little question but that Raver
himself was a devoted advocate of
Federal power.

The importance of such a development as the Raver proposal to those of
us who are far removed from the
Northwest has to do with the burdens
on the taxpayer of vast Federal power
projects as well as our concern in the
general development of all parts of
the country. Those costs are rising for
two very important reasons. One is inflation and the other is the higher and
higher expenditures necessary, since the better water-power sites are used
up and the new ones are in more inaccessible valleys with less available
water. One estimate of the cost of constructing the 34 projects planned for
the next 15 years is $5,416,000,000. Of
this $4,015,000,000 would be charged
to power to be repaid out of sales.
But the rest would be charged off to
"navigation and flood control" and to
irrigation. The great dam
proposed for Hells Canyon
would itself probably cost
close to a billion dollars. But
experience with the "repayment" ideas of the Interior
Department proves that it
would be many a long year
before the nation's taxpayers
would feel any relief.

Behind this question looms
a portentous longtime consideration. Scientific and technological
progress already on the horizon may
make us wish that we had not put so
much money into these hydroelectric
projects. Steam plants fueled by coal,
lignite, or oil are becoming more and
more efficient. Oil from shale is already being extracted by the Bureau
of Mines and if costs can be lowered
there will be inconceivably large resources. There is also atomic power.
But the Northwest has always
claimed that since it had little or no
coal or oil that "white coal" (its name
for water power) must be used. Even
to transport fuel from other sections,
it claimed, would be excessively expensive. But there are vast coal deposits and much new oil in neighboring
provinces of Canada. Thus transportation will become less important.

Which brings us to the second bit of
evidence from the Interior Department of a new light beginning to
dawn. There is now suggested in an
elaborate report from the Bureau of
Reclamation a supertransmission system to bring power to supply the
needs of the Northwest from steam
plants in coal-producing states west
of the Mississippi River.

The new Administration might well
pause for a reconsideration of Federal policy toward the entire subject
of further investments in hydroelectric power, the cost of high dams, and
the development of the great river
valleys of the nation.

Newsweek, January 12, 1953