Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

An Impending Crisis

by Raymond Moley

ORGANIZATIONS pressing for equality
of the races in the South, en-
couraged by victories two years ago
in Texas and Oklahoma, are now mak-
ing the ultimate demand—the end of
segregation in all schools. A case that
presents this issue has come up to the
Supreme Court and is only momentar-
ily detained by procedural obstacles.
Thus the hot poker is tendered to the
high court, and it may be
assumed that its blinding
incandescence is haunting
the Presidential dreams of
the Hon. Frederick Moore
Vinson, Chief Justice of the
United States.

This case originated in
South Carolina. When James
F. Byrnes assumed the office
of governor of that state last
January, a suit was pending
in the Federal courts against a school
district in his state. It had been
brought by some Negroes. It de-
manded, first, that educational facili-
ties be equalized between the two
races and that the separation of the
races, now required by the Constitu-
tion of South Carolina, be abolished.
These demands were made on the
basis of the equal protection clause in
the Fourteenth Amendment of the
U.S. Constitution.

It is important to note the distinc-
tion between the two issues involved.
The first is the right, long sustained by
the Supreme Court, of both races to
equal but, if the state so decrees, sepa-
rate educational facilities. The second
is a claim that the two races shall
use the same schools and facilities.

BYRNES’S first concern as governor
was to improve the dreadful con-
dition of the Negro schools in the rural
districts of the state. He induced the
legislature to provide a bond issue of
$75,000,000 and, to meet this cost, to
impose a sales tax. Vigorous efforts
were launched to bring the Negro and
white schools to equality. Byrnes
frankly admitted that the state had
been derelict in its duty.

Meanwhile, the Federal suit was
tried and decided by a three-man
court. The very distinguished and
able Judge John J. Parker of the Fed-
eral Circuit Court delivered the opin-
ion. In that opinion the claim of the
Negroes for equal facilities was upheld,
but the demand for the abolition of
separate schools was denied.

Since the Byrnes improvement pro-
gram was already under way, the
court gave the state six months to show
progress. That period will terminate
on Dec. 21, and it seems likely that
the court will be satisfied that the
state is, in good faith, making progress.
But the Negro plaintiffs meanwhile
have appealed the lower
court’s denial of the demand
to abolish separation (which
is a more accurate term than
segregation). The technical
situation is that the appeal
has a docket number but
because the state has filed
motions, the case is being
moved along on the calen-
dar. In other words, the
Supreme Court has not yet
admitted it to be heard. And it can be
assumed that the Chief Justice is not
averse to letting it ride that way.

If this issue comes to the decisive
stage in the court, vast interests, emo-
tions, and political consequences will
be involved. For 50 years the Supreme
Court has in many decisions upheld
separation of the Negro and white
races in schools. Seventeen states
require separation by law or by con-
stitutional provisions. Congress has pro-
vided for separation in the District
of Columbia. To upset this situation
would bring chaos and bitter conflict.

NO DOUBT the people who are press-
ing this issue were encouraged
by the reasoning of Chief Justice
Vinson in the Texas case, involving
separate but equal law schools, and in
the Oklahoma case, which limited a
Negro graduate student in his classes,
etc. Vinson asserted, in effect, that
separation in those cases, even when
the facilities were equal, denied
equality of education because the
Negroes could not associate with the
people with whom they would later
have professional contacts. If such a
principle were applied to lower
schools, separation would fall under
the ban. This reasoning, which it
seems to me was unnecessary, may be
the ban which will fall upon Vinson as
a Presidential candidate acceptable
to the South. That view, I may add,
is held by notable Southern Demo-
crats who know the facts.

Newsweek, December 10, 1951