Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

**How You Can Get a Better Congress**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Bob La Follette has lived in the atmosphere of the United States Senate during 41 of his 51 years of life. For six of those years, he was secretary to his father, and for 21 years he has been a senator in his own right. No senator can claim such an education in the science of government.

La Follette has the ambition, a quite unusual one, to use his long experience to make Congress a better servant of the people. For years he has been studying Congress as a service organization. Seriously, in the intense manner of a La Follette; tactfully, as is his personal wont; persistently, he has sought to persuade his colleagues to reconstruct the machinery of which legislation is the product. Eighteen months ago, he secured the appointment of a joint committee to "recommend improvements." A capable congressman, Mike Monroney, served as vice chairman of the committee.

The result was a bill, S. 2177, which La Follette got before the Senate last month and which, because of its reasonableness and the senator's long missionary work, was passed by a healthy majority.

It is no exaggeration to say that this bill is the most constructive measure to improve the efficiency of the national legislature that has appeared in a hundred years.

The new plan is immense. Only a bare outline can be set down here. It reduces the number of committees in both Houses and brings their functions clearly in line with the broad interests of government. Under the plan for the Senate, a senator serves on only two committees, instead of half a dozen. Special committees are banned. Joint meetings of House and Senate committees are provided for. Policy committees of the two parties are set up in both Houses.

Fewer committees mean a greater burden of administrative work for each committee. To meet that, the bill provides four administrative assistants at good salaries to supplement present clerical staffs. To provide further expert service, the bill sets up in the Library of Congress a Legislative Reference Service. (The idea of a legislative reference service was born in Wisconsin when La Follette's father was governor.) The office of Legislative Counsel is strengthened. The Comptroller General, a servant of Congress, is directed to make analyses of various offices of the Executive Branch of the government. The old Congressional Record is streamlined.

Since the basis of efficiency is the individual member, the bill not only makes Congressional service more attractive to able men and women, but increases the services at the disposal of each member. An administrative assistant is given to each member to lift the burden of innumerable contacts with Executive departments in behalf of constituents. Members' and officers' salaries are increased, as they should be. And, to promote security and to encourage the retirement of the superannuated, a pension system is created. Lobbying is further regulated. All persons, and the number is legion, who serve private interests in connection with legislation are brought under reasonable regulation.

This comprehensive program ought to win the sympathy of every citizen and taxpayer. It is absurd to expect a Congress which spends billions and imposes regulations upon all aspects of our life to operate through antique methods and to be niggardly about providing itself with working tools. We shall have better congressmen and better legislation only when service in Congress becomes more attractive to exceptional people.

However, La Follette has labored against enormous handicaps. Members of both Houses are jealous of their prerogatives and patronage. Many are walking in the grooves of the past. Others live in fear lest some demagogue at home attack them because they have raised their own salaries. These considerations may block action by the House in this Congress.

A still greater handicap is the lack of public interest in the dry and detailed matters I have outlined above. Public interest goes to the sensational and bizarre in Congress. But incompetence costs more than a thousand scandals. If this bill goes over to January, reform must wait two more years. Tell your congressman now to put his House in order, if he expects you to keep him in Washington.