Here's the text from the right-hand column of the provided image:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

There Is a Joe Ferguson!

by RAYMOND MOLEY

COLUMBUS—It was extremely important to my peace of mind to see, hear, and shake hands with Joe Ferguson. So much so that leaving his State Auditor’s office in the old state capitol, I stood for a while, just to be sure that he was real, watched him enter his dusty Buick, turn and wave a friendly hand at me, and drive far down the street on his way to a farmer’s meeting out in the state.

For I had begun to have the strange sensation of moving in the dim confusion of a dream. In Cleveland and Columbus I had talked with many people—newspapermen, labor leaders, the party chairmen, various politicians, old Ohio friends, Ferguson’s acquaintances of his hungry days of yore, and also Charley West, whom I knew in the early New Deal. Charley, once Roosevelt’s ambassador to Congress and the pet hate of Harold Ickes, is writing speeches for Ferguson now.

I had examined the United Labor League’s campaign book and turned over 211 pages before I found the name Ferguson, and then there were only seven pages about him.

Three months ago at the Governor’s Conference, I talked with Frank Lausche, Democratic governor, but the name Ferguson never came up. He talked about Taft, and there was warmth in his voice. On this trip, when I saw regular organization Democrats they turned away almost sadly when I mentioned Ferguson, as if the name were associated with some unhappy lapse that should not be mentioned.

TAFT people had never seen Joe Ferguson, because, they said, he scrupulously avoids meeting his opponent. Newspapermen said that Ferguson was very hard to see, especially for out-of-state reporters.

An Inner Voice began saying to me: “There is no Joe Ferguson!” This was the same I.V. that years ago whispered: “There is no Santa Claus.” Now it said that Ferguson is something that leaders of the CIO and AFL thought up because they hated Taft. They searched for a knight in white armor to slay Taft and couldn’t find one. And so my I.V. told me their imagination brought forth Joe Ferguson, just as Shakespeare invented Touchstone and Disney made Mickey Mouse. They put pictures of him in their millions of funny books that smeared Taft. Joe Ferguson, a man of lowly rootage to win farm and small-town votes. As for city votes, it is sufficient to sell anti-Taft. Ferguson doesn’t need reality there. But there is a Joe Ferguson—a small, lively figure of a man who reminds one of a cartoonist’s conception of Truman. He came of humble origins, worked at odd jobs around Columbus, brought forth eight children, and in 1936 by some miracle was elected Auditor of State. There for fourteen years he has used the opportunity of high office to make himself known in the byways of the state.

The union leaders attempted to keep Ferguson out of the primary, but they have made the best of their failure to do so. Shrewdly, they have turned from competition to contrast. Since Ferguson cannot be made to match Taft, they advertise the contrast. The accusations against Taft, recited in the Labor League’s black book, are that Taft’s forebears were successful men, that they held high office, that little Robert preferred books to sports, that he studied hard, went to college and law school, taught himself to debate, used facts in debate, went to the Versailles Peace Conference to serve Wilson and Hoover, stood by his party, and has supported unpopular causes. Of all these blemishes, their candidate is free. And Ferguson glories in the distinction. This may seem strange to the rational mind, but it is politics.

IT MAY work again. The real danger to Ferguson is that, as he feels the warm glow of victory grow near—and that is already present—he will throw aside restraint, show himself more, talk to reporters, and bring to bear upon himself the great white light of public scrutiny. That would be fatal. Unless that happens, union money, propaganda, organization, and prejudice will prevail, and Washington will see Ferguson in the Senate seat once occupied by John Sherman, Mark Hanna, and Robert A. Taft.

Newsweek, October 16, 1950