Here's a text extraction of the provided magazine article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Scatteration
by Raymond Moley

The invention of the good word
"scatteration" is attributed to
Frederick T. Gates, the genius who
did so much to shape the wise philan-
thropic policies of John D. Rockefeller.
Gates used it to describe the danger-
ous and wasteful policy of disbursing
funds and energies in many bits and
in many directions. This trend, as I
indicated in this space last week, is
the abiding sin of most U.S.
colleges and universities.

James B. Conant de-
plored this in his twentieth
and final report, but three
years before Conant be-
came president of Harvard,
Abraham Flexner, in 1930,
raised the issue in a book,
"Universities." This devas-
tating criticism was written
by a man who, as an officer
of the Carnegie and Rockefeller en-
dowments, had first exposed the de-
fects and deficiencies of medical
schools and then had pointed the way
to their present excellence.

The monumental task of rediscover-
ing liberal-arts education in our col-
leges calls for many new Flexners.
In his book Flexner points to the
absurd lengths to which colleges go
in mixing bits of cultural education
with small pieces of vocational train-
ing. The product, he says, is "neither
a substantial secondary education nor
a substantial vocational training."

Flexner's illustrations of the con-
geries of courses taught in the name
of education are hilarious. The steps
to a bachelor's degree could be
courses in "wrestling, judo, and self-
defense," "family meals," "clothing
decoration," "food etiquette and hos-
pitality," "principles of home launder-
ing," "gymnastics for men, including
clog dancing," and "tap dancing."

Professorships proliferated, too, ac-
cording to Flexner. There were pro-
fessors of "books," of "biolinguistics,"
and of "extra-curricular activities." A
college for women had (perhaps still
has) an "Institute of Euthenics." What
is "euthenics?" It is the science of
efficient living: "mental hygiene,
child guidance, nutrition, speech de-
velopment, family problems, wealth
consumption, household technology,
food preparation, and horticulture."

Last week I offered an example of
how far "scatteration" has gone in
graduate instruction. In that field the
obsession for inconsequential detail is
reflected not only in types of courses
but in subjects selected for doctoral
dissertations. Read, if you wish, the
titles of current "research" projects in
our institutions of what is presumptu-
ously called "higher" learning. Flexner
cites a number, of which these are
samples: "A Study of Controlled Con-
ditions in Cooking Ham," "A
Time and Motion Compari-
son on Four Methods of
Dishwashing," and "Style
Cycles in Women's Under-
garments."

Two factors are involved
in this perversion of educa-
tion. One is the pressure of
mistaken parents who want
Johnny or Mabel to be
taught something "useful."

The other is the eagerness of educa-
tors to do something "different."
Many or most of these Ph.D.'s be-
come teachers of undergraduates.
Then, according to Flexner, college
men and women "may learn the 'prin-
ciples of salesmanship from a Ph.D.
who has never sold anything, or the
'principles of marketing' from a Ph.D.
who has never marketed anything."

Recently there has been organized
a "Council on Financial Aid to Edu-
cation." On this council are a number
of distinguished leaders in American
industry. One of their quite worthy
objectives is to determine how corpo-
rations can help hard-pressed colleges
and universities. They can help, of
course, by financing genuine graduate
professional training and thus freeing
funds for the liberal arts. But they
should ask for some assurance that
the liberal arts are to be freed of
some current excrescences.

These business executives might
well turn the tables on a certain
professor who, in directing a psycho-
analytic study of the business execu-
tive, told the students to conduct their
interviews so as to "bring to light the
emotional conditioning or the types
of experience which have led one man
to become bitter, another pugnacious,
another very diplomatic, and still an-
other frank and open in a cooperative
way." Perhaps the Council on Finan-
cial Aid will find all four of these
characteristics among educators.

Newsweek, March 2, 1953