Here's the text from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible.  The advertisements have been excluded.


**Good and Bad Propaganda**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The silly and potentially tragic broadcasts of the Office of War Information after the fall of Mussolini highlight once more the weakness of our propaganda efforts to date. Europe must be getting the impression that the United States is two countries, one of them represented by the State Department, which, in its attitude toward North Africa and Italy held American lives and military necessity above ideology; the other, voicing an irreconcilable, amateurish and bungling insistence that its beliefs come first, whatever the cost.  This Administration has succeeded in living with an ideological war in its own household, costly though it may be. But to permit a propaganda front to reveal such schisms costs lives, months of war and prestige.

Propaganda must run on a single track, be dictated by a single point of view and be geared to a profound understanding of the people at whom it is directed. That is why Wilson was so effective in splitting the German people away from their government in the last war. And that is why Stalin, whatever we may think of his ideology, has been the master propagandist in this war. He has been consistent, simple and shrewd beyond words.

The fall of Mussolini brings to light one of the most brilliant facets of Stalin's war of words. His propaganda since June 1941 was consistently conducted on the hypothesis that Italian Fascism was the weak spot in the Axis armor.

A remarkable feature of all Stalin's "orders of the day" and other official proclamations has been his use of the word "Fascist" in describing the enemy. An examination of two years of Stalin's pronouncements reveals not one use of the term "Nazi." Nor is Communism stressed. It is "German Fascists" that he denounces—the "Fascist beasts" and the "treacherous Fascist fiends." In Stalin's first order, ten days after Hitler invaded Russia, the term "Fascist" is used no less than eighteen times. In the most recent one, it is employed nine times. Always, it is used specifically to describe the German regime. Italy is contemptuously ignored.

There is deadly purpose in this use of the term. It conveys, with loathing, the ideological reason why Germany struck Russia. It opens up the way for efforts to induce Germans to strike down Ger-man Fascism. Above all, it identifies Hitler with the Fascist movement. For, in the midst of the early fury of the war, Stalin must have foreseen with unbelievable shrewdness the distant day, now happily arrived, when Fascism would crack—falling even before the German Army was banished from Russia.

There has been another sedulously observed feature of Stalin's propaganda. In the Russian communiqués, German soldiers are "killed." That word "killed" is pounded home with the relentlessness of fate. It is not "Fascists" who are "killed": it is always "Germans." Every day the German people are reminded, then, that "Germans" are dying for "Fascism." In short, Stalin has been hammering into the minds of the Germans the message that the clownish head of a nation for which they have only contempt was, in fact, the ideological master and mentor of their own Führer. Thus Stalin has been preparing for the time when he can drive the inevitable wedge between Hitler, the army and the German people.

Following the single-minded course of turning Germans against their rulers, Stalin has acquiesced in the launching of the made-in-Russia "National Committee for Free Germany" at the very moment Italian Fascism was ready to fall. In so doing, there is implicit recognition that the concept of republican government has always moved many Germans. A deep democratic feeling has always existed among many German intellectuals, especially South Germans, in the years since the Frankfort Convention of 1848. British and American observers may well believe that the "Free Germany" committee is a Communist affair. But at the moment its purpose is primarily to crack the German home front. And that is what we want, too. If it succeeds, hundreds of thousands of Americans, British and Russians will be spared.

Propaganda, in its elements, is not a pleasant weapon for a free people to wield. It consists of selected truths, half-truths and untruths, designed to induce a mass opinion favorable to those who direct it. Largely, it is an appeal to prejudice, to the subconscious and to the selfish in man. But it is a powerful weapon of war. It saves lives. We have not been using it as well as we might. We could learn a lesson from Stalin.