Here's the text extracted from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The President's Job
by Raymond Moley

OCCASIONALLY, and only occasionally, a commentator may reach into his personal experience to enlighten a point of public interest. Twenty years ago I spent more than three years, at first officially and then unofficially, in being somewhat helpful to a President of the United States. No one then had a better chance to see the Presidential job at close range. My observations then as well as my reflections since confirm me in a belief that it need not be a man-killing job. Self-discipline by the President and those around him can easily bring it within the physical means of the man described by the Eisenhower doctors.

1—Mechanical. The President must sign thousands of commissions, orders, short routine letters prepared by secretaries, and photographs of himself for friends and politicians. This can be lightened by Congressional action removing some of the requirements for the Presidential signature. Initials will do sometimes. The final net should be small. This would be no more strain than doodling on a scratch pad.

2—Expendable visitors. There was really no reason why F.D.R. should have seen at least three quarters of the people who shouldered their way onto the appointment list. Then when he had them in the office he did most of the talking. McIntyre, his secretary, entreated people not to encourage F.D.R. to talk. Coolidge sped the parting of a guest. He didn't "answer back."

3—Domestic and personal. The selection of agreeable, restful guests for a meal or a week end or vacation should be routine for secretaries who should know the personal allergies and affinities of their boss. A bore may be more deadly than a brink of war.

4—Press relations. The fourth estate is an exacting master. F.D.R. spent hours reading and denouncing hostile newspapers. There is no reason why a President must read newspapers except for relaxation. A Steve Early or a Jim Hagerty can convey press opinion to him. The press conference probably must be continued. But the President could greatly help himself by cultivating a habit of fewer and shorter answers.

5—Speeches. The President's speeches must generally be written. That means the employment of a helper, not a ghost writer, who has adequate background together with sufficient skill to put the President's (not the writer's) views in happy prose. With such help, and the President apparently has that help now, this burden is light. Delivering speeches is not hard. It is the collateral activities that hurt, such as getting to and from the speech site, the crowds jostling and pawing for recognition, and the perils of strange food. A drink of polluted water during a speech killed Mark Hanna.

6—Political. Political advisers struggle among themselves and around their chief for precedence. Every decision is opposed by all but one of the advisers. Some individual, perhaps the Republican National Chairman, should have precedence and, with three or four members of the President's staff and two or three members of Congress, should form a Political Security Council to formulate decisions for the President. They should protect the President from the agonizing necessity of putting a figurative arm around every candidate who is in need of approbation.

7—Administration. Here the quality and acceptance of responsibility by Cabinet members and other high officials is indispensable. F.D.R. preferred second-rate Cabinet members, and second-raters always try to pass judgments to the chief. See the Ickes diary for scores of examples of such imposition upon F.D.R.

8—Foreign policy. Somebody should be a constant liaison between the Secretary of State (who in these days is itinerant) and the President. This is a job for Nixon. On both fronts, foreign and domestic, the President is creating a frame of policy into which decisions can easily be fitted. Things will grow more easy as the years pass. Matters that once required agonizing analysis and cogitation will become routine. Vast judgments of peace or war come seldom. But "the readiness is all."

Newsweek, February 27, 1956