Here's a text extraction of the provided image, respecting the column structure and omitting the advertisement:

Senator Vandenberg's Leadership

by RAYMOND MOLEY

An important factor behind recent British, French and Russian opinions and actions designed to stabilize Europe by a series of two-party treaties is a great and sinister fear. That fear rises from a belief that after American military power has finished the conquest of Germany, differences in the United States may cause us to withdraw our heavy and decisive hand from Europe and that, once more, a malignant Germany may strike. No doubt, both Britain and Russia are as familiar with our election statistics as we are and they have seen the President's party challenged by the most formidable opposition in recent history.

It is true that the vote for Governor Dewey was not a vote for isolation, but the opposite, since Mr. Dewey himself is already being attacked within his own party for his international views. But we cannot expect our Allies in Europe to read the returns with the penetration we can have. They fear—and Mr. Churchill has well expressed that fear—that the indefinite character of the President's commitments, coupled with the presence of an enormous minority who voted against the President, makes future practical aid from the United States so problematical that they must, without delay, equip themselves with whatever imperfect and time-worn arrangements they may have to assure safety for themselves.

That is why Arthur Vandenberg's leadership in the Senate is a fact of such singular importance. His speech on Jan. 10 deserves preservation as one of our classics, not only because its choice of language was that of an artist but because its calm reason was that of an authentic statesman.

Still more important, he speaks for a vastly more important group than his party or a faction of it. The real Loyal Opposition was larger than the millions who voted for Mr. Dewey. It included all those who, despite their dissatisfaction with the Administration, voted for continuity in the war effort. It included those in the South who voted Democratic for reasons other than support of the Administration. Senator Vandenberg has provided for doubting Europeans the proof that the President, when he meets the heads of Allied governments, will have a substantially united country behind him.

Senator Vandenberg has made it clear that he intends to devote himself in his remaining two years in office wholly to a nonpartisan effort to build a good peace. To free himself of partisan concern, he has declared that he will not run again for the Senate. Moreover, it is a fact known to a few that when he was recently offered an opportunity to be head of one of the greatest newspapers in the country—a tempting spot for a former editor and publisher—he renounced the opportunity because he conceived it to be his duty to see a good peace treaty through the Senate. His service as a senator's senator is much more promising than that of the late Sen. William E. Borah, for Vandenberg is less legalistic and less a lone wolf in his relations with his own party and with the Administration.

His immediate proposal for creating a joint organization of the Allies now to keep Germany demilitarized after the war has several virtues. It is directed toward Germany alone and it gives full power to the President, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, to use force for an indefinite period without returning to Congress for authorization. It permits other phases of peace-keeping by the United Nations to be created with some leisure, once the impotence of Germany is assured. It permits a similar plan for guarding Japan to be created when Russia is free to participate. And it should remove from the large nations of Europe the feeling of urgent unilateral action for their own security.

Finally, he suggests joint action now to hasten the end of the war by weakening the resistance of the German people who are now told by their leaders that the reward for resistance will be Allied disunity. The Vandenberg proposition is that Germany shall be told that there will be no Allied disunity about the proposition to prevent Germany from ever recovering the military power to conquer Europe. Also, he says that "without any remote suggestion of appeasement, I wish we might give these Axis peoples some incentive to desert their own tottering tyrannies by at least indicating to them that the quicker they 'unconditionally surrender' the cheaper will be 'unconditional surrender's' price."