Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

THE FORTAS APPOINTMENT

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In any thoughtful appraisal of the
President's appointment of Abe
Fortas to the Supreme Court it may
serve us to stand back and consider
certain principles that govern our col-
lective life.

We live under two institutional
systems. The one is our political
structure, which has its validity in
our acceptance of popular sover-
eignty. The other is the reign of law.
These are not inimical one to the
other. But they operate in what
should be quite separate climates of
thought and action. Both are essen-
tial to the supreme value, individ-
ual liberty.

The life and vitality of these de-
rive not only from our experience
as a nation but from the centuries'
struggle of Anglo-Americans for the
individual's protection from arbitrary
authority.

Our political structure rests upon
a widely based suffrage and an
elected Executive and Congress.
These were designed to be balanced
one against the other. And within
the political structure there is the
two-party system, which serves or
should serve as a restraint upon the
opposition and as a means of appeal
to the electorate.

But there is the equally essential
reign of law which, in the present
context, is the Federal judiciary.
Here the individual may resort for
protection not only from his fellow
citizens but from the political gov-
ernment itself. At the summit of this
judicial system is the United States
Supreme Court. Its members are ap-
pointed, not elected, and to secure
its independence from the political
structure, its Justices have life tenure.

ROOSEVELT'S CHOICES

During a large part of our experi-
ence as a nation, certain qualifi-
cations have been observed by
Presidents in their appointments to
the Supreme Court. One desirable
qualification has been previous and
distinguished service on the bench.
Another has been substantial experi-
ence at the bar. A quality which
has been recognized is something
vaguely called "temperament." It has
not always been desirable to rule out
political experience. Some of our
most renowned Supreme Court Jus-
tices before their appointment had
been active in politics. Witness
Taney, Chase, Taft and Hughes. But
they were exceptions.

An aspect of politics which is called
"ideology" became a governing crite-
rion, however, when President Roose-
velt proposed to "pack" the Supreme
Court in 1937. Those who successfully
opposed him in the Senate and else-
where based their case on the tradi-
tion stated above. The American
people sustained that opposition and
the Roosevelt plan failed. But Presi-
dent Roosevelt permitted himself to
be guided by ideological considera-
tions in his subsequent appointments.
With one exception, each was clearly
a choice based upon the appointee's
vigorous allegiance to the Roosevelt
reforms. Previous experience on the
bench or at the bar was ruled out.
Only two of his eight appointees had
even been judges, and they had
served only as police-court magis-
trates. Only two had practiced law
for any considerable time.

INSTITUTIONAL BREAKDOWN

Of the four Truman appointments,
two had enjoyed judicial experience.
President Eisenhower, in justifying
his appointment of Warren, said that
he liked Warren's philosophy and
also his capacity as an administra-
tor. Neither qualification was either
relevant or the real reason for the
selection, which was flagrantly politi-
cal. But four subsequent Eisenhower
choices were men who had served
on the bench.

The Kennedy appointments re-
verted to the Roosevelt pattern. They
were close personal or official friends
and wholly sympathetic with the
New Frontier.

The appointment of Abe Fortas is
an especially pronounced return to
the reformist tradition, as well as a
recognition of personal and political
ties. If this is to be the trend, it must
be expected that Mr. Johnson, after
breaking down the balance between
the Executive and Congress, will turn
to the third branch of the Federal
government for support for his politi-
cal and ideological objectives. That
suggests the coming of a profoundly
disturbing alteration in our institu-
tional life. The reign of law will yield
to the reign of politics.

Newsweek, August 16, 1965