Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Want and Need

by Raymond Moley

THE hearings on Federal school aid
before the House subcommittee,
despite the frantic and discourteous
efforts of some members to beat down
opposition, simply deepened the im-
pression that the plan is half-baked
and that aid is unnecessary. Statistic
after statistic has been offered by the
Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare only to be demolished
by the facts. Indeed, a close examina-
tion of the department's big key table
showing enrollment and housing for
the states indicated in a footnote that
when states failed to report, the U.S.
Office of Education filled the gap
with guesstimates.

The reports for the states are based
on wants, not demonstrated needs.
There is a wide variation among states
in their interpretation of the mean-
ing of "school rooms." In one case
in 1955 two-thirds of what was asked
for was for auditoriums, gymnasiums,
and other collaterals.

Secretary Folsom in his letter to
the Chamber of Commerce of the
United States, and in his statement
to the House subcommittee, based his
estimates on what "state education
agencies" sent in. There is no evi-
dence of independent investigation.
And to ask a professional educator if
he needs a new building is like asking
Johnny if he wants a new bicycle.

Meanwhile, representatives of tax-
payers' associations from a dozen or
more states, including plenty of the
so-called needy ones, have appeared
with incontrovertible evidence not
only that the states are able to care
for their own needs but that they are
rapidly catching up on a wartime defi-
cit. Several state Chambers of Com-
merce and farm-bureau units have
appeared in opposition, all of them
representing substantial taxpayers.

SHAKY PROMISE

Secretary Folsom's assurance that
the Federal government will step out
after four years must be balanced
against the fact that neither he nor
President Eisenhower will be in office
then. But the pressure groups intent
on Federal control, such as the NEA,
the ADA, and the AFL-CIO, will be
there in force to widen the breach
in the sound tradition of state and
local responsibility.

The Secretary did not deny in his
letter the assertion made by the
chamber that while the figures of his
department for "enrollment increases"
include children going to public, pri-
vate, parochial, night, model, special,
and Indian schools, the figures for
classrooms cover only schools built by
state and local public initiative.

In demanding this aid, the Ad-
ministration is disregarding its own
Kestnbaum Commission on Intergov-
ernmental Relations, which reported
that "we have not been able to find
a state which cannot afford to make
more money available to its schools
or is unable to support an adequate
school program." Also ignored is the
verdict of the 1955 White House Con-
ference that "no state present has a
demonstrated incapacity to build its
own schools." This admission was
made despite the elaborate rigging
which enabled the report of a con-
ference consisting of twice as many
laymen as professionals to be written
by a small group in which there were
three professionals to one layman.

LEAKY SIPHON

A false impression has been created
that the plan is designed to siphon off
money from rich states into poor ones.
Under one bill (H.R. 1) $584.1 mil-
lion would be collected and spent in
1958, but only a sixth of that would
be thus transferred. Under another
bill, only one-third would be trans-
ferred. And so the rich states would
be bribed by the return of their
money-in the aggregate more than
would be given to the poor states.
Of course, not all the money would
be returned to any state. Washington
would keep plenty.

The psychology behind the whole
thing is absurd. The White House
Conference said in effect that the aid
program was to build up the "political
determination" of the states to help
themselves. When, in the name of
common sense, has a person, or a
state or nation ever had its de-
termination bolstered to do something
it should do by taking away the neces-
sity to do it? Evidence of lack of
determination is present now in the
slowing up by states on their highway
programs since the Federal govern-
ment decided to take over.

Newsweek, April 1, 1957