Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

“The Way of the South”
by RAYMOND MOLEY

ATLANTA—For more than a century
the South has revealed to the rest
of the country a simple basic lesson in
government. And the rest of the country
seems to have been unable to under-
stand it.

That lesson is that the United States
is too big for a centralized government
and that the states are too small to ac-
commodate an expanding economy and
culture. The failure of our
Constitution to provide some
intermediate agency of gov-
ernment was all but fatal.
The Civil War might have
been prevented had there
been some means for the re-
gional settlement of a regional
problem. The drawing of a
simple choice between a
state’s right to secede and
the preservation of the Union
was rationally artificial.

Howard Odum, one of the notable
intellectual leaders of the South, points
up in his book, “The Way of the
South,” a plea for regionalism. “The
way to train youth,” he says, “. . . and
to guarantee security and reality for the
new generation, to raise standards of
living and insure equal opportunity and
security, is to develop regional capacities
and programs and to work out inter-
regional optima rather than drain some
regions to the benefit of others or con-
centrate abnormal situations subversive
to the development of a great unified
nation.”

IT WAS once the fashion in the North
to speak contemptuously of “section-
alism.” But regionalism is not sectional-
ism. The latter means isolation, sepa-
ration and political rivalry based not on
valid economic differences, but on sec-
tional rivalries. Regionalism points to
the development of national wealth
and unity through an attack on prob-
lems common to groups of states whose
physical characteristics have much in
common.

While the Constitution provides no
means for such interstate cooperation,
except through the rather vague concept
of interstate compacts, both national
legislation and private activities have
sought to meet the needs of regionalism.
In the Federal Reserve System, the law
has recognized regions. Business con-
cerns and educational and religious
organizations have found it wise to
break up the country into districts for
convenient operation. Military admin-
istration operates regionally. In recent
years, many regional meetings, which

grew out of the conferences of gover-
nors, have brought useful results.
The major problem of the South,
according to Odum, is to bring into
balance the Southern superabundance
of natural resources and “human
wealth” and its deficiencies in “tech-
nological, capital and institutional
wealth.” In working out this problem,
the South cannot achieve its purpose
through the building of more
bureaucracy in Washington.
Some of the most effective
opponents of Federal power
are Southern congressmen
and senators. The South
would rather bring its re-
sources and opportunities
into the orbit of an expand-
ing national economy and at-
tract private rather than
government capital.

In the field of industry,
regional balance is rapidly being
achieved. Here in Georgia, as in neigh-
boring states, new industries are grow-
ing, and established industries are
moving in to live. Atlanta, which in
1940 had a population of 300,000, is
expected to reach a million ten years
from now. The migration of Negroes to
the North and West has been greatly
exceeded by the numbers of white
workers, managers and technicians who
have moved South.

But the greatest change will be in
agriculture. As the rule of King Cotton
ebbs, truly diversified farming is grow-
ing. There will be more small owners—
farmer capitalists. Farm machinery will
hasten this change.

The net result will be an ever-
increasing similarity in outlook and
economic interest between the Midwest
and the South. (Georgia and Iowa, for
example, will have common viewpoints
on national problems.)

THE eternal question of the solid
political South will ultimately re-
flect this development. Already it is
clear that on fundamental issues South-
ern congressmen and senators are voting
with Midwestern and New England
representatives. This agreement on is-
sues will not for some years result in a
two-party system in the South. But
things are destined to move in that
direction.

That movement, however, will not be
accelerated by Northern interference in
purely Southern problems. Some people
in the North must learn that their ill-
considered clamor does nothing but
build up Bilbos and Talmadges.

Newsweek, June 2, 1947