Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

PERSPECTIVE

MR. O'BRIEN'S LEVIATHAN

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The time has come when political
management of a great public
service is not only bad business but
bad politics. It is significant that this
has been recognized by the capable
and experienced political manager
Lawrence O'Brien himself. And his
proposal to create a nonpolitical, busi-
nesslike corporation to take over his
job as Postmaster General was made
with that realistic fact in mind.

Starry-eyed idealists have long
since deplored the use of government
jobs, contracts and favors as rewards
for political service. But they fail to
realize that keeping the plum tree is
not a happy lot. The late Sam Ray-
burn once told me that whenever he
secured a job for a political applicant
he "made nine enemies and one in-
grate." He meant that for every avail-
able vacancy there might be ten ap-
plicants. After the choice was made,
nine people hated the hand that did
not give, and the fortunate one be-
lieved he had been rewarded for
some special excellence of his own.

No one knows Congress and mem-
bers of Congress better than Law-
rence O'Brien. He realizes that deal-
ing with job- or favor-seekers is
time-consuming, boring and politically
profitless. But when he announced his
plan for the postal service, he carefully
refrained from any comment about
problems of the statesmen on Capitol
Hill. For he still must haggle with
them to get the money to keep his de-
partment running.

BUREAUCRACY'S PRISONER

He dwelt, instead, upon the long-
standing restrictions imposed upon
him by law, custom and bureaucratic
sclerosis. Even if a Postmaster Gener-
al were a superadministrator, he still
would be a prisoner in his own bu-
reaucracy. The nation keeps grow-
ing, and the use of the postal service
grows even faster. The machinery of
the service cannot keep pace. Since
1961 two of the three occupants of
the job O'Brien holds have left in frus-
tration for happier occupations.

In a recent appearance before a
Senate subcommittee O'Brien said
"the conditions that produced chaos in
the Chicago post office" prevail in ma-
jor cities over the country. "We are
trying to move our mail through facili-
ties largely unchanged since . . . our
mail volume was 30 per cent of what
it is today."

He suggests that the office of Post-
master General be supplanted by a
nonprofit, government-owned corpora-
tion. Presumably the terms of the di-
rectors of the corporation would be
staggered and of sufficient length to
overlap the tenure of any President
and beyond the terms of all members
of Congress-perhaps fourteen years,
like the terms of Federal Reserve
Board members. The directors would
employ a chief executive of capacity
and business experience who would
make appointments and reconstruct
the machinery of the service.

O'Brien shrewdly realizes that this
proposal might well appeal to mem-
bers of Congress. For they could al-
ways refer solicitors of jobs and favors
to the securely entrenched postal-
service executive.

A POLITICAL VALUE

In the O'Brien package is a provi-
sion that the new corporation should
be empowered to issue government
guaranteed bonds, in the manner now
exercised by the TVA, for capital ex-
penditures. This introduction of pri-
vate capital would relieve the budget
burden for annual appropriations.

In the present context and looking
toward 1968 and even 1972, a higher
level of political interest no doubt ap-
pears to Messrs. Johnson and O'Brien.
For any Republican candidate would
be foolish not to make a major issue of
the failure in administering efficiently
the mammoth, unwieldy and unman-
ageable bureaucracy created by the
many Johnson programs. This monster
is already cracking at the seams.

Federal civilian employment in the
executive branch had already reached
2,864,626 in February, a great in-
crease since 1963. Of this number, the
postal service employs 691,521; the
Department of Agriculture, 105,436;
HEW, 100,290; Interior, 67,221;
State, 43,709; Treasury, 102,730. The
independent agencies have increased
like flies, to 66. And while the Presi-
dent's staff used to be a few dozen, it
is now 4,097.

The question now is not what gov-
ernment should do. It is how the mass
of operations shall be administered.
The O'Brien plan would be a measure
of relief-"a hook in leviathan."

Newsweek, May 1, 1967