Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Bob Taft's Lack of Color

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CINCINNATI—The most acute migraine suffered by those who are laboring to make Sen. Robert A. Taft the next Republican nominee for President is caused by no issue of logic or reason. It is caused by the problem of how to destroy a national cliché, as commonly spoken in this Federal Union as complaints about the weather. Over every dinner table, in every sitting room, in cocktail bars and railway lounges, the refrain is the same: "Yes, Bob Taft is a fine man and a big brain, but he hasn't any color."

All sorts of suggestions have been made to cure this vexing deficiency. It has been advised that the senator grow a Van Dyke, don a ringmaster's topper, tails and whip, swim the Hellespont as a warning to the U.S.S.R., launch a showboat on the Ohio River. A former aspirant for the nomination, who had been accused of the same imperfection, said to me the other day: "But isn't there color in courage?" True, Senator Taft has that. He blurts out his views on all public questions, with little regard for consequences. But immediately a great wail arises, not from the vast cliché-laden public, but from professional politicians: “Why can't Taft act like a politician? Doesn't he know that the way to power is through elegant banalities? People like hokum, and Taft sticks to facts and figures." Perhaps there is truth in what these worldly wise politicians say. There is abundant proof of their case in history.

In any event, Taft himself will don no motley, nor will he stop talking. The burden must fall on those who are responsible for his management. They must seek a means of getting Taft across to those who will determine the nomination of a candidate who can win. With human nature what it is, this will not be easy.

At the outset, it might be well to analyze the reasons why people persist in this talk about "color." For this sort of thing is a sinister specter which pursues all candidates now, as it has pursued candidates in the past. For example, John Bricker suffered because God made him handsome. Malicious tongues recalled another handsome Ohioan named Harding.

Thousands of American women—good, substantial home managers—squeal about Dewey's mustache. Of Stassen, one is expected to say: "He is a fine man, but he can't get the nomination." Or of Warren: "He isn't well known in the East." And so on and so on.

There is something in common behind these clichés. They are the language of speculation, not of selection. Americans persist in acting as amateur politicians, not as citizens making a serious choice of public servants. They regard elections largely as games to watch and enjoy. When they utter opinions such as the ones mentioned above, they are seeking to prophesy. And as they repeat their mildewed phrases, there is created a distorted stereotype of the man involved, rather than a verdict popularly arrived at after a consideration of the evidence. For when people try to talk the language of politics, they deal not with things, but with the shadows of things.

The managers of candidates seek to meet this handicap by all sort of selling devices. Sometimes they deliberately accept the outlines of the caricature and distort it still more. Sometimes they induce their man to perform in some unusual manner to create a different impression. Sometimes they try to create a new stereotype, often as foreign to the nature of the man as that which they seek to dissipate.

Taft might well be advised to deliver shorter and more general utterances, woven around a few big themes. The fate of the positions he has taken is in the hands of circumstance. If, as may happen, the Taft-Hartley Act should become popular, it will establish its co-author in a new perspective. In talking to those political leaders who will have the final word in Philadelphia, Taft's managers should stress the enduring qualities of their man. He would, they might argue, wear well. He would be able to last intellectually through three hard months of campaigning. He has, of course) been "good to the last drop." This would broadly suggest that a candidate needs something more substantial than color.

Newsweek, November 24, 1947