Perspective

A New Kind of Campaign

by Raymond Moley

CAMPAIGN orators are already filling
the air with platitudes about the
“new frontier” and the “challenge of
the future” and all that sort of thing.
But they must realize, especially those
who are campaigning for the national
tickets, that so far as campaigning
goes, the future is already here. The
maelstrom of world events in which
we find ourselves and the actual physical
business of campaigning distinguish
this top-level debate from all
others in the past.

After visiting a considerable number
of states from coast to coast, and
after receiving the communications I
have received from those reporters
who have visited other states, it is my
conclusion that upheavals and flaring
conflicts in Asia, Africa, and Latin
America are haunting American minds
far more than the fate of the farmer,
the family budget of the worker, concern
about possible catastrophic illness,
or housing or school classrooms.
These latter are important matters,
but when there is the possible collapse
of the U.N. and maybe a spread
of war which would engulf millions
and cast death over the land for civilians
as well as the military, there
is priority among apprehensions.

PARTY LINES IGNORED

More Americans than some of us
realize would phrase their feelings
like this: “Let’s let the home affairs
be cared for by congressmen and senators
and governors. The President is
the one in whose judgment will rest
the awful decisions which may mean
peace or war, annihilation or security.”
Thus there is developing a differentiation
in the estimates of voters
between district and state candidates
and the two individuals who are running
for President. I could name specifically
half a dozen states in which
it is more than likely that the majority
will go to one party in the state election
and to the national candidates
of the other party. Voters are likely
to ignore party lines in evaluating the
names on the national tickets.

Moreover, the sheer physical demands
upon national candidates this
year transcend anything candidates
have known and felt in the past. Radio
and television, as has been said over
and over, have made revolutionary
changes in campaigning methods. But
the candidates’ habit of traveling by
air has a still greater impact.

When a candidate traveled by
train, there were periods of quiet,
rest, and reflection between cities.
Reasonable seclusion from the pests
that pounce upon a candidate whenever
he makes a public appearance
was possible for nights and parts of
days. He was afforded a chance to
collect his thoughts, talk with his intimate
advisers, and rest his poor
bruised right hand, that bit of common
property with no holds barred.

BATTERED CANDIDATE

One of the most poignant scenes
I have ever witnessed was on a late
afternoon in Pittsburgh in the autumn
of 1956. I was seated in a plane
scheduled for New York. There was a
wait. The word was that candidate
Stevenson was due. He had been
campaigning all day, I believe, in
West Virginia. He appeared, a worn,
slight figure, garbed in a battered
raincoat. He was jammed into a seat
and we took off. At La Guardia Airport
there was a handful of politicians
to grab him and whisk him to Harlem
for many appearances, short
speeches, and thousands of hand-
shakes. Imagine weeks and months
of days like that. It is beyond the
mental and almost beyond the physical
and emotional capacity of one
human being.

In such a campaign, a candidate
may rely, sometimes unwisely, upon
words written by others. If he lacks
deep personal knowledge of the issues
and conditions, he must utter
the same routine again and again.
And now, when there are 50 states
with a thousand local problems, no
interest, however small, may be
slighted. No pressure group neglected.
No hand unshaken. No local
or state VIP overlooked.

In the confusion the voter loses all
comprehension of the detailed issues.
He will reach out for the man, feel
for his mental muscle, his essential
character, judge his strength and capacity
to bear the massive burdens
of the Presidency. The rest of the
issues he will regard as chores
for congressmen, senators, governors.
This is why this campaign is unique.

Newsweek, September 26, 1960