PERSPECTIVE

ANOTHER CO-OP CRUTCH

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Thirty years ago Congress established the Rural Electrification
Administration. It was designed to provide electric service to farmers remote
from the lines of private companies. Co-ops pay only 2 per cent for the
money, although as time has passed the Treasury has had to pay much
more in its borrowings.

Nourished by this subsidy, electric co-ops have grown in number, size and
affluence. There are nearly 1,000 of them. Their original purpose has long
since been achieved, for electricity is now within reach of substantially every
farm owner.

Hence, the co-ops have thrust their operations into urban and suburban areas
and into the industrial market. Some of their operations go well beyond
selling electricity.

But they have no intention of giving up the 2 per cent subsidy crutch, and
every year the REA demands more lending money from Congress. For fiscal
1967 it will be approximately $365 million.

Because of growing criticism of this subsidy, the co-ops' lobbying agency, the
National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, has planned for an ingenious
new crutch to supplement the REA and ultimately to get free from Congress
entirely.

One version of this scheme is in a bill introduced in the House by Congressman
Poage. A somewhat different one is the Administration's plan, emanating from
the Department of Agriculture (DA) and introduced by Chairman Cooley of the
Committee on Agriculture. The following is the Administration plan.

A NEW FEDERAL BANK

There would be created in the Treasury a "Rural Electrification Account," and
in the DA a "Federal Bank for Rural Electric Systems." Into the account would
be deposited all money received in repayment of loans to co-ops and interest, all
notes, bonds and property held by the REA, all appropriations for electrification
loans.

The bank would have a board of seven. Four would be officers of the DA
appointed by the Secretary. The other three board members would eventually be
elected by borrowers holding Class B stock. The administrator of the REA would
also be administrator of the bank.

Every year for fifteen years the bank would receive $50 million from the
account and would pay for this with its Class A stock. Thus, it would receive
$750 million by 1981. Every borrower from the bank would have to buy Class B
voting stock in an amount equal to 5 per cent of its loan. Also, Class C and D
stock could be bought for investment. The general idea is that sometime, by and
by, the Class A stock would be bought back and eliminated, and the holders of
the other stock would own the bank and thus get the government out—except for
the perennial loans by the REA. Nobody knows when this would happen.

DESIGN FOR MONOPOLY

The bank would be exempt from supervision by all state authorities, and
presumably from supervision by the Comptroller of the Currency. It would pay no
Federal income tax, and the co-ops, as before, would have similar exemptions.

The REA would still operate. As long as Congress should approve, it would
lend at 2 per cent. Presumably, the bank would lend at various rates of interest on
a 50-year basis.

The big source of capital would be debentures to be sold in amounts ten times
the capital of the bank. Thus, by 1981 the bank would have capital assets of
nearly $10 billion. The debentures would not specifically be guaranteed by the
Federal government, but if the bank at any time should be unable to pay interest
or principal, it could borrow for such purposes from the Treasury. These
debentures would thus be made attractive for private investors. When and if the
co-ops gain control, this huge financial institution would be completely
independent of the government but retain all the privileges originally accorded it as
a government agency.

This surpasses any previous example of government competition with an
investor-owned business. Ultimately the bank and the co-ops could absorb or
destroy all competition. This, then, is the reality of the Johnson Administration's
attitude toward the free-enterprise system.

Newsweek, May 30, 1966