Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Politics in Canada
by Raymond Moley

OTTAWA—As the two political parties in the United States gird
their loins, or whatever else we may
call these words and gestures indicating the coming of another Presidential election, the people of that
nation may find it profitable to consider how political parties operate in
other free nations. I shall therefore carry on with what I offered in some
articles sent from England last spring, this time gathering my material in Canada.
The distribution of party strength in the national government and in the provinces of Canada offers an
odd and irregular pattern. Something close to one-party government seems to
be the general rule, with the dominant party changing from province to province.
Three of the four Atlantic provinces, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, and Prince Edward Island, are predominantly Liberal. The other, New Brunswick, has a Progressive Conservative government.
The great province of Quebec, largest in square miles and second in population, is governed by the Union
National Party. That party has 68 members in the provincial Legislative Assembly; the Liberals, 22; and there is one Independent. None of the other
Canadian parties is represented at all.
The Union National Party and the government of the province are under the domination of a strong and by some believed to be an autocratic individual, Maurice L. Duplessis, who has under his control perhaps the most powerful political machine in all of
Canada. The UN Party came to power first in 1936 and held forth until 1939, when the Liberals took over for five years. But Duplessis came back strong in 1944 and has been in power ever since.
Strangely enough, despite the provincial strength of the Duplessis party, the Liberals in 1953 elected 66 of the 75 representatives of the province in the national house at Ottawa.
Ontario is heavily Progressive Conservative. Eighty-three of the 98 members of the provincial Legislative Assembly belong to that party, while it elects to the national government only 33 members. Fifty are returned to Ottawa by the Liberals.
As we move west, a bewildering variety presents itself. Manitoba is Liberal, with a sizable Progressive Conservative opposition. Saskatchewan is the heart of Canadian socialism, which goes by the name Cooperative Commonwealth Federation. That party has 42 of the 51 members of the provincial Assembly and elects eleven of the seventeen members sent by the province to Ottawa. Socialism gave the older groups a great scare in the 1940s, but it has made little progress except in the Far West.
Alberta and British Columbia present the strangest picture of all. There the Social Credit movement holds power. I shall have more to say of that party after visiting the provinces later in the summer. At this distance it would seem that this movement, which began as a radical mixture of politics and religion, and which slipped considerably in last month’s election, has been turned conservative by the sudden development of great natural resources in the provinces where it has its home.
The basic question is whether with this heterogeneous group of parties it is possible for the nation to have even the semblance of a two-party system. Does this mean that Canada is drifting toward the tragedy of France, where many parties make for instability and chaos? The answer is no, not now, and not at the national level. The Liberal Party in the national House of Commons, with 171 members, governs; but the Progressive Conservatives with 51 are a real and effective opposition.

I HAVE witnessed during this visit one of the most spirited parliamentary battles in Canadian annals. Despite the great parliamentary strength of the Liberals, they can take nothing for granted. The two old and essentially conservative parties are vital bodies, and while the other groups are backed by substantial numbers of voters, they are essentially local affairs. In another piece I shall deal with the ideology and organization of the two major parties and with their dominant personalities.

Newsweek, July 25, 1955