Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Cabinet Hot Spot
by Raymond Moley

FORT WORTH—Texas cannot be
called a "reclamation state," but
out here on the edge of the West
there is keen interest in the great
Department of the Interior.

I would rate the secretaryship of
that department as second in importance among the jobs the President-
elect must decide upon before his
inauguration. A successor to Acheson
must rate first, and there
will be plenty of commentators
busy with that one.
But I wish for the moment
to invite attention to the Interior Department.

To begin with, let us assess roughly the scope and
magnitude of the business
of the Interior Department.
It shares with the Army Engineers enormous public-
works programs. It builds vast river developments such as the Grand
Coulee Dam. It develops reclamation projects, manages national parks and
monuments, administers the territories, conserves fish and wild life, and
guards our petroleum minerals and
solid fuels for defense. Its budget requests for the fiscal year 1953 were
$686,044,500. It employs about
61,000 men and women.

This, however, is only a slight means of measuring its importance. Its
reclamation activities give it widespread influence over agriculture in
many states. Its concern with minerals, wild life, and territorial affairs
makes it master of a considerable portion of our natural resources. But its
increasing importance to the future of our free economy is its function in
developing, distributing, and selling electric power. Thus it has become
the biggest business in a number of states, and its overmastering ambition
is to dominate economic affairs in many more.

Under Roosevelt and Secretary Ickes this great engine of statism
moved with almost irresistible force against private industry under the
guise of protecting the people against private power companies. Under
Truman and his Interior Secretaries, this was accelerated.

The Bureau of Reclamation can ruthlessly crush private competition
by selling electric power below cost. It can and does flood areas west of
the Mississippi with propagandists passing as public-relations officers. It
is, in fact, an agency which for a large part of twenty years has been
systematically turning this republic into a socialist state. And it uses the
appetite for government money and public improvements to buy local support and to elect senators and congressmen amenable to its influence.

Of course, the Interior Department, since it is the custodian of such property
values, is a potential center of corruption. Actual corruption in that department
under Harding and charges of corruption under William Howard Taft were national
sensations.

Under Secretary Ickes there was money honesty and jealous guardianship of public
property. All Ickes sought was the theft by government of the economic
liberty of two-thirds of the nation. Eisenhower must find as Secretary
of the Interior a man who is (a) a strong and experienced administrator
of great affairs; (b) a relentless enemy of corruption; (c) a true friend
of the American system of individual enterprise. This is a very large order.

The West has always demanded a Westerner for this job. But Roosevelt
ignored this demand and picked a citizen of Chicago. What is really
needed is not necessarily a Westerner but a true friend of the West and a
servant of the whole nation.

THERE have already been rumors of Governor Thornton of Colorado
for this post, but his qualifications are quite inadequate. Governor Warren
would serve better as Attorney General. Governors Lee of Utah and
Langlie of Washington are possibilities, but both have been reelected
and have a moral obligation to serve their states. In my judgment the best
possibilities for this key post would be Sen. Guy Cordon of Oregon or Robert
Moses of New York—the former because he has shown in the Senate
a comprehensive knowledge of and sympathy for reclamation; the latter
because he is the most brilliant builder and administrator in public life today.
Both are Republicans and both are sound believers in economic liberty.

Newsweek, November 17, 1952