Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


NATIONAL AFFAIRS

ELECTION PERSPECTIVE

A Stinging Rebuke

by RAYMOND MOLEY

THIS election greatly resembles the
one held in Britain last February.
Only in the presence of foreign policy
over here this time is there a real dif-
ference. In both there was evidence of
public resentment and irritation with
incompetent administration, with the
giving of priority in critical times to
long-range radical ideological objec-
tives, with the dominance of an ex-
clusively labor interest in political
affairs, and with the failure of the
government to appreciate the peril of
radicalism and Communism on the
home front. In both cases these mat-
ters brought out a tremendous vote
in which the middle classes and inter-
ests, at long last, asserted their great
power. The final results have a strong
similarity in the fact that the balance
of power is left so even that, for the
immediate future at least, no radical
innovations can be carried through.
The Fair Deal here and socialism there
can govern, but they cannot reign.
In this election there was a strong
element of public anxiety which turned
voters to strong, experienced execu-
tives. The smashing victories of Gov-
ernor Dewey and Mayor Impellitteri
in New York were manifestations of
the unwillingness of citizens to permit
their affairs to be used as pawns in
subtle and selfish maneuvers of polit-
ical bosses. This was also present in
the victory of Duff in Pennsylvania
and of Warren in California.
There was also in the campaigns in
California, Illinois, Maryland, and in
several other states, bitter resentment
against the past tendencies of the
Administration toward compromises
abroad with the Soviet, with the aban-
donment of Asia as a legitimate con-
cern of the United States, and with a
soft and purblind policy toward Com-
munism in our midst and in the heart
of our government. Altogether this
was a vote of no confidence in our
present administration of foreign pol-
icy. It was also a stinging rebuke for
the Administration's tendency to talk
big and to carry a little stick. It was a
stiff dose of punishment for our lack
of preparation for Korea.
There was in this election, more-
over, a protest against the failure of
the Administration to tell all the facts—
the bitter as well as the sweet.
In Ohio, Utah, and in several other

states the efforts of the political
arms of labor and the Americans for
Democratic Action met disastrous re-
verses in the election. The people of
sovereign states, notably in Ohio, re-
sented invasion from beyond their
borders by well-financed and regi-
mented bands of political workers
intent upon usurping the power of the
legitimate local political parties. There
was ample evidence in Ohio that the
dues-paying workers themselves re-
sented having their dollars used by
such adventurers. Ohio has told the
country several things in this election.
First, that it is perfectly capable of
picking its own representatives in Con-
gress. Second, it deeply respects high
intellectual qualities in public men.
Third, it is willing to overlook the
occasional unpopular statements and
votes of a man like Taft, because it
respects the courage and independ-
ence of mind that lies behind such
violations of mere political prudence.
Finally, it has buried deep in the
earth the ridiculous assertions of labor
bosses, of Truman and his minions,
that the Taft-Hartley Act is antago-
nistic to the best interests of the wage
earner. The effort to repeal that act
is as dead as a dinosaur. The labor
bosses and the President asked for a
vote on this issue and they have had it.

PRESIDENT Truman’s Saturday night
speech, the broadcasting and tele-
vising of which must have cost a
fortune, proved to be a dud. It was
a specious and evasive effort to screen
the bad news from Korea, the raging
fever of inflation in our domestic econ-
omy, and the lack of the Federal
Administration to plan either a war-
time economy or a war machine. It
will be hard for a President, even so
stubborn and politically loyal as
Truman, to withhold the ax from
Cabinet members, such as Acheson
and other retainers. The times now
call sternly for the best brains in the
country at the center of things. Also
and parenthetically, we shall be spared
hearing that oft-told Presidential quip:
“Who won the election?”

The American people, all of them,
took charge of and won this election.

Mr. Moley’s regular column, Per-
spective, appears on page 108.

Harris-Ewing
Nixon: The edge broadened widely
against James Roosevelt. He had no need
to fight, breezing in with a smashing
plurality. But there was no joy in the
Warren household. On Election Day, the
governor’s 17-year-old daughter came
down with a serious attack of polio. She
was placed on the critical list.
Nixon, who was given the edge and
not much more, was the big surprise,
with a plurality of about 300,000—amaz-
ingly close to Warren’s lead.
Both the Democrats ran neck-and-neck
to defeat, with Mrs. Douglas slightly
ahead of Roosevelt.

CONNECTICUT:
The Boot for Bowles

In Connecticut, in many ways a sophis-
ticated New York City, a former actor
beat a former adman for the governor-
ship and a former adman beat a Wall
Street broker for the one Senate seat
in serious contest.
Chester Bowles, an advertising man
turned public servant when he began to
take on government duties during the
war, had been elected governor by a
small Democratic majority in 1948, the
year that Truman lost the state.
Twenty minutes before the end of
election day Bowles, trying to succeed
himself as no Democratic governor of the
state had ever done in an off-year, con-
ceded victory to his Republican oppo-
nent, John Davis Lodge, thespian
representative and brother of the senator
from Massachusetts.
Meantime, Bowles’s old advertising
partner William Benton was engaged
with Prescott Bush in a pull-devil-pull-
baker competition to succeed himself in
the Senate. The fact that Bush was a
partner in the Wall Street banking firm of
Brown Brothers Harriman did not seem

□ Newsweek

26

Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.

ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 134 of 1201