Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:

**The New Governor of Ohio**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CLEVELAND—No Ohio governor is without national political interest, for Ohio is central as well as pivotal. Frank J. Lausche (pronounce it Low-shey), Democrat, ex-mayor of Cleveland and now governor, has some points peculiar to himself. He is the only Democratic governor you will see on an airline trip from Massachusetts to Utah. Governor Lausche was the most popular mayor Cleveland has had in a generation, and Cleveland has had distinguished mayors. There is special interest in elevation to the national political scene of a son of Southeastern European immigrants.

Fifty-six years ago (Frank is 49), the parent Lausches came to America from Slovenia. They came from a small community, Gotscheer, in the heart of a Slavic country which was settled a thousand years ago by Germanic immigrants. The "Gotscheers" in that long history never lost their identity, their love of freedom, and their thrifty and devout habits, although time worked changes in their dialect. When young Peter of Yugoslavia was in Washington not long ago, Frank Lausche went there and invited the King to Cleveland in three languages—Serbian, Slovenian, and English.

Some echo of the spirit that defied German conquest in two wars in Yugoslavia must be in Governor Lausche, for despite his membership in the Democratic party, neither the Cleveland machine nor the Ohio organization nor even the New Deal can truthfully claim him as their own. He was first appointed municipal judge by a Republican governor. As mayor, he has given the local machine only what he thought was good for the city. And in the recent campaign, he gave only passing attention in his speeches to the national ticket. The voters didn’t mind this show of independence. He carried the state by 112,000. The President lost it by 11,000. Senator Taft got through only by the skin of Cincinnati’s teeth.

With John Bricker out of the state campaign, Republican State Chairman Ed Schorr once more had a candidate to his own liking, Mayor James Garfield Stewart of Cincinnati. For six years Governor Bricker had maintained a stern independence of Mr. Schorr’s Old Guard. Just when the picking looked good again, Frank Lausche came along and made, as his major appeal, Mr. Schorr’s interest in Mr. Stewart. The voters cruelly extinguished Schorr’s hopes, but gave the state to what they call, in Ohio, the Bricker-Dewey ticket. All around, the vote was cantankerous and independent.

The CIO-PAC supported Mr. Lausche, but the evidence is clear that Mr. Hillman’s organization had little to do with the result. The Lausche labor record is not that of a labor-owned official. In his judicial days, Mr. Lausche recognized no sociological distinction between violence in a labor dispute and ordinary hoodlumism. In a notable case he held that picketing was unlawful when the victimized business had no labor dispute. The higher state courts sustained him. The AFL has never liked him.

Lausche’s reputation in Cleveland rests on his activity on the bench in suppressing gambling. He was elected as a law-and-order mayor. As an administrator, he has the merits and demerits which usually go with a judicial temperament. He is independent of outside pressure, but does not easily delegate. In the city hall he kept his capable and resolute fingers on everything. That trait will probably go with him to Columbus. But his humble and simple manner suggests nothing of the autocrat. He has no vain pretense, and his immense popularity in Cleveland has not given him a swelled head.

Mr. Lausche has no elaborate program for making over Ohio. The principles of his administration as governor, as he outlined them to me, will be four. First, law and order. Second, economy. Third, equality of treatment among conflicting economic groups. Fourth, the development of unity between city and rural interests.

Lausche will have plenty of difficulties as governor. The Legislature is overwhelmingly Republican, and Ed Schorr is still a power in it. There will be sharp differences and plenty of vetoes. Every selfish interest and locality is itching to get a slice of the big state surplus that Governor Bricker and the sales tax have piled up. The sales tax brings in a million a week. There may be some reduction in taxes, but a deadlock between the governor and the Legislature may save the surplus for harder days ahead.