Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Proliferation

by Raymond Moley

WITH a number of the points made in James B. Conant's twentieth and last report as president of Harvard University it would be easy to disagree. On one point, however, he will elicit hearty applause from anyone who has followed the trend of higher education over the past generation. He deplores the "proliferation" of courses of instruction: "New courses have proliferated to a degree that seems absurd." One can agree but still wonder why he was unable to cut back this wild, lawless breeding in his own institution, since he leaves the university with a sizable financial problem.

I was recently told by a college official that a few years ago Smith College was offering more courses in English than Harvard. A teachers' college is likely to give 100 courses on method to ten on substantive knowledge. The product is a student who knows how but not what.

One of the best examples of proliferation I know is shown in the catalogue offering in sociology of a well-known graduate institution. There are eight pages of description of 55 courses, 36 of which are for half a year and the rest for a year. These courses are divided into six groups: social theory, methodology, demography and comparative social structure, social organization and social change, rural and urban sociology, and public opinion and communication. As if this were not a full offering, there are listed 28 courses in extension or in other departments of the university. Students with time for more can get into "university seminars," twelve in number, taught by more than 100 professors "and others."

There is a library on the campus where essentially everything taught in those courses can be found in books, neatly catalogued. Students in these days, however, are apparently suspected of incapacity to read. In any event, it is difficult to see when they get time to read, what with running from course to course.

These courses go on the principle of more and more about less and less. The atom of human knowledge has been split into countless fragments.

Take, for example, the group of courses on public opinion. There are, among others, six courses by one professor, on "the role of media of communication," "the study of public opinion," "studies in the change of opinions and attitudes," "the empirical study of reasons, motives, and attitudes," "prediction and interpretation in empirical social research," and "scales and indexes in sociological research." As a mere practitioner in public opinion for two or three decades, I confess that I never knew that so much could be known about public opinion, at any rate by one man. A final touch in this department's offering is a course entitled "technique of psychodynamic analysis of culture; illustrated by aspects of primitive and contemporary societies."

When as a junior professor the urge came to me to give a new course, the head of my department would say drily: "Why don't you write a book about it? Don't give a course. Students have eyes." He was right. Any professor, however learned, gives essentially all he has in one course. Maybe he can give a seminar also for those who failed to hear him the first time.

Thirty years ago the enormous department of sociology cited above was composed, I believe, of only three or four professors giving probably not more than a dozen courses. One of those professors was a man of immense stature and reputation. In these 30 years his equal has not been found. Can it be that among professors quantity has succeeded quality? Time was, we are told, when a university was Mark Hopkins, a log, and a student. It is now a student wandering helplessly in a thicket of professors.

The cost of maintaining such a confluence of professors mounts. Here is a very definite cause of the so-called "crisis in education," a crisis to a degree brought on by the ego of the educators themselves.

THERE is a more serious aspect of this. As students are induced to wriggle into these nooks and crannies, they know less and less of principles and structure. The student lives in "the thick of thin things."

Newsweek, February 23, 1953