Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and layout. Some minor adjustments might be needed for ideal formatting.


NEWSWEEK, AUGUST 26, 1946

Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Unkissed by Party Labels
by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—The political campaign in California will be an essentially right wing-left wing fight. Party labels will be missing except as the law requires. There will be eloquent appeals in the name of the liberal war President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, but only slight mention of Harry S. Truman. Issues will be cloudy because both sides will appeal to such a variety of political philosophies that clarity will be dangerous. One side will hurl the charge of Communism; the other will speak in sinister terms of reactionaries.

There will be little public appeal to the GOP. The brilliant success of Gov. Earl Warren has made nonpartisanship an attribute of singularly occult potency. Each man will run largely on his own. What is known as a list of party candidates in some states, a list which appears in campaign literature and indicates an all-for-one and one-for-all spirit, will be all but nonexistent among the officially designated Republicans. An important reason for this is the fact that a large majority of California voters are and have been for years registered as Democrats.

This has little to do with loyalty to the party, but Republicans realize that it is just as well to seek these voters on some basis other than Republicanism. Moreover, this year those Democrats who regard themselves as regulars are about fed up with what is called out here "packaging." That means putting together Democrats, CIO-PAC, and what not. Regular Democrats are at long last convinced that the best way to return their party to the ways of the past is to provide Republican candidates with enough votes to win.

The bond necessary to hold the package together in years past was Franklin D. Roosevelt. This year it was decided that the best way to supply the missing cohesion was to use a strand from the parent rope. In short, to use James Roosevelt as chairman of the state central committee.

This choice, however, has left a lot of bitter feeling. Those who have seen California politics for twelve years have heard recurrent complaints from the regular Democrats about the left-wing elements with which they have been compelled to string along. But the alliance is now at the breaking point. To relieve this tension, Chairman Roosevelt and some of the candidates are doing a great deal of talking about the regularity of the party. For the primaries indicated that the state is very definitely turning away from the radicals.

The race for the senatorship will be hotly contested. Will Rogers Jr., with a war record and a brief turn as a member of the House, is the Democratic candidate. He has personal charm, energy, youth and a distinguished name. He also has a flair for innovation in government. Against him is Sen. William F. Knowland, whose name is also distinguished in this state and who earned a good reputation in politics as a member of the state legislature. He made no personal contest for the nomination, but won in the Republican primary and made a good showing in the Democratic primary. Governor Warren's weighty support will go to Knowland, whom he appointed to fill the seat of Hiram Johnson. The betting is even on the Senatorial contest, but it looks now as if Knowland has the advantage.

Since national interest is centered on control of the House of Representatives, the major political problem here is how many Democratic seats can be captured by Republicans. At present, sixteen of the state's 23 seats are held by Democrats. Some Republican optimists believe five of these House seats can be taken by Republican candidates. My feeling is that this should be cut to three, including the seats now held by John H. Tolan, who is retiring; Ellis Patterson, who ran unsuccessfully for the Senatorial nomination, and either Claud Doyle or Edward Izac, who have strong opponents.

The rest seem to be safe. Two sitting Republicans, B. W. Gearhart and Carl Hinshaw, will have to fight for reelection. That is the picture, subject to change in the weeks before election.

It is believed that within a decade the population of California will reach from twelve to fifteen million. That will mean, before many years, an electoral vote of about 40. It is quite clear that California is to become one of the two or three decisive states in the nation's politics.

Page 770 of 1201