Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  I've done my best, but minor inaccuracies may remain due to the image quality and column layout.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Voice of Management

Last week, in my comments on this
page concerning Jerome Frank's ideas of
the relationship between government and
business, I suggested that the issue between
the more enlightened members of
this Administration and of business was
less one of economic theory than of faith
in each other. In some cases, notably that
of the Stock Exchange and Mr. Douglas
of the SEC, mutual distrust has been
dissipated, and the road seems clear ahead.
But the relations of the manufacturing
industries and government have been, and
are, anything but smooth. This is true, in
part at least, because Mr. Frank's unwillingness to see that the managers of
large-scale industry agree with him on
essentials is shared by most other members
of this Administration.

A piece of evidence that should be required reading for every New Dealer is an
unpretentious brochure issued by Mr.
Lewis H. Brown as chairman of the Commerce and Industry Committee of the
Seventh International Management Congress, which will meet in Washington in
September. It contains statements from
50 industrial leaders—most of them presidents of the largest industrial corporations
in America. If ever the voice of management has spoken, it is in this symposium,
which is far more significant than a platform of an association because it is a
collection of the individual views of responsible businessmen, speaking to the
public of their aims, aspirations and principles of economic progress.

Such a striking harmony of theme characterizes the collection, that a few
principles may be set forth in the words of individuals which may fairly be attributed
to the overwhelming majority of contributors. They are:

That the wealth and power represented in our great producing units are a trusteeship. James F. Bell says: "Until recently management was synonymous with ownership; today it is synonymous with trusteeship. It holds in trust the investment of the stockholders, and, still more important, it holds in trust the jobs of the workers."

That a new public conscience in our present-day society is making necessary a readjustment of many old business rules and practices. As Chester I. Barnard points out: "In business in the past there has been effective concentration on finance, and on the technology of production and on the distribution, especially the selling of its results. Government, legal rights and obligations, labor as a social factor, the organization of human beings as a productive process, and public opinion as to what is desirable in its most active form known as political conditions—have been relatively taken for granted, and usually not treated as critical factors. All of them have now radically and irrevocably changed."

That modern management is responsible to many interests. "In our company," says Walter C. Teagle, "management feels that it works for four bosses—the public, customers, employees and shareholders." Or as Clarence Francis puts it: "Stockholders would like larger dividends; workers want more pay; distributors desire greater profit; and consumers want lower prices. Each group wants a maximum share, and it is a major job of management to give each group the fairest deal without throwing the whole structure out of balance."

That our national concern with regard to an equitable distribution of wealth to be produced in the future should be far greater than our concern with the distribution of wealth produced in the past. Here it seems to me Walter P. Chrysler takes a position in complete harmony with that of Mr. Frank. "In proportion as management is allowed by the public to exercise its genius," he says, "it will be in a position not only to provide more jobs, but to create more wealth to be distributed."

That cooperative planning is indispensable to the future of American civilization. This belief is implicit in the statement of Alfred P. Sloan Jr.: "The popular conception of today, of industrial management, is that it involves the development, the production and the distribution of goods and services but this conception of industrial management will become far too limited in scope There must be superimposed upon, or correlated with same, a far broader responsibility—that of integrating industry's policies more intimately and more in harmony with the economic structure as a whole."

Conspicuous in these statements is the complete absence of carping criticism of labor or government. There is, however, the wholly reasonable suggestion that the acceptance of wider responsibilities by management can produce social and economic benefits only if it is permitted to operate, only if the public and the government credit, at face value, the sincerity with which the newer point of NEWSWEEK view is held by management. When responsibility is assumed, sufficient authority must be granted to implement that responsibility.

This applies to the proper adjustment of the spheres of jurisdiction of management, on the one hand, and of government and labor, on the other. Obviously, the adjustment of these spheres of jurisdiction is a difficult and delicate matter. It cannot be achieved by political methods, by sweeping legislation, by bitter controversy. It can come only at a conference table. And management can, it seems to me, be counted upon to approach such adjustments with a full realization that a new era has dawned in American economic life. It will come, as Mr. Brown says in his foreword to this symposium, with "the distilled essence of business experience gained over many years, tempered by great economic forces, challenged by political movements, humbled by a new social awareness."

This generation has seen three distinct types of business philosophy. A half century ago, the business leader was an owner and master: labor was hired as a commodity is bought; prices were as high as the traffic would bear; the public relations of business were a neglected factor in all calculations. Later on, perhaps 25 years ago, paternalism on the part of employers became fashionable: labor was treated as a father treats a child: there was only a nascent awareness of the possibilities of a high-wage, low-price, large-volume policy. But the conception of trusteeship, in which labor stands as one of the three sides of the economic triangle, with management as a mediator, is new. The New Deal did not originate this idea. It emerged from the evolution of human relationships in an increasingly complex industrial civilization, and its development was hastened by the vision of a few industrial leaders, economists and political scientists and by the chastening hand of the depression.

A poignant aspect of this symposium of business opinion is the infrequency with which businessmen refer to government as a thing in which there are partners and participants. Rather they conceive it to be something foreign, something which must be mollified, something with which they must negotiate. This nervous, strained relationship, is, I believe, only in small part, their creation. It is also the product of the shortsighted words and acts of politicians who have, for the time being, loosened the bonds of unity upon which a civilization must depend. That unity can be attained once more only when government assumes the good intentions of most businessmen as a working basis, rather than as a rhetorical device, and enlists their aid in real, not phony cooperative action.