Here's a text extraction of the provided image, avoiding the advertisement column and preserving the original formatting as much as possible:


PERSPECTIVE

MR. BYRNES' VIEWS

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A s a wise contribution to the mul-
tilogue now going on concerning
the future of conservatism in general
and the two-party system in particular, I have asked an old friend and
elder statesman how it looks to him
from the impartiality of his well-
earned retirement. The career of
James F. Byrnes—"Mr." Byrnes in his
state—has not been equaled in its
variety in American history. He was
a member of the House for fourteen
years, a senator for twelve years, a
Supreme Court Justice for more than
a year, director of economic stabilization and war mobilization for President Roosevelt in the war years,
Secretary of State in the Truman Administration, and, finally, governor of
South Carolina for four years.
No one—repeat, no one—in Congress did as much to secure the enactment of the early New Deal
legislation, and Byrnes was then a
junior senator. His immense school-
building program when he was governor of his state has saved South
Carolina from the racial disturbances
which have afflicted so much of the
South. His record is the antithesis of
reaction. And his wise counsel, uttered as it is without personal ambition or advantage, is most pertinent
at this time:
"The funeral dirge over the Republican Party is premature. The Republican Party was supposed to die
after 1912 and also after 1936. But
it recovered. After the Harding landslide in 1920 the Democratic Party
had only 88 members in the House.
This minority faithfully attended
committee meetings and sessions and
through its record of constructive opposition recovered in the election of
Roosevelt in 1932.

DEMOCRATIC DIFFERENCES

"I am an independent Democrat.
In 1952 I supported General Eisenhower. In 1956 I voted for electors
pledged to Sen. Harry F. Byrd. In
1960 I supported Richard Nixon and
in 1964 Senator Goldwater. As an
independent Democrat I believe that
constructive opposition is good both
for the incumbent Administration and
for the minority.
"Speaking as an American I hope
the Republican Party will unite and
carry on the fight for conservative
constitutional government. Republicans now can take heart from the
knowledge that there are varying
views in the ranks of their opponents.
And these differences will soon appear in the Democratic Party.
"President Johnson, after his inauguration, will become a candidate for
re-election in 1968. He will make an
effort to fulfill pledges of the Democratic platform which was adopted
only after his approval. Inevitably
there will appear serious differences
among his supporters.

NO ADVISORY COMMITTEE

"The Democratic platform pledges
its candidates to repeal Section 14-b
of the Taft-Hartley Act, under which
twenty states have enacted right-to-
work laws. Fulfilling this will arouse
little enthusiasm among the 50 big-
business men who ostentatiously
called upon the President with a
promise of support at the polls.
"With a big majority of Democrats
in both House and Senate the President should have no trouble in redeeming his promises. He has
hundreds of appointments to make
in offices of great importance. This
power of appointment gives the President great power and he does not
balk at the exercise of power.
"Moreover, should questions of
constitutionality arise, the Supreme
Court has a tendency to share
the President's social and economic
views. And four of the present Justices will be eligible for retirement
during the next four years.
"Proposals for the appointment of
a Republican advisory committee
have been made. This kind of arrangement was tried by the Democrats some years ago and it failed.
Congressional leaders are most competent to make policy. And they
should, of course, consult with Senator Goldwater as the titular leader
of his party, with members of the
national committee, and Republican
governors, if possible. But policy
should be announced in Congress.
"In the days ahead, the opposition
in Congress should earn the right to
be called the 'loyal opposition,' and
all who disagree with the ultra-liberal views of the President and
Vice President should support that
opposition."

Newsweek, December 14, 1964