Here's a text extraction from the provided image.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original layout and OCR limitations.


NEWSWEEK, SEPTEMBER 23, 1946

Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Can the Republicans Control the House?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

This jackpot political question factors in the campaign of 1944—advantages missing this year. There is
is not just a matter of speculative in- something in this idea, but not as
terest. It concerns the practical mat- much as is assumed by Republican
ter of whether Democratic Sam Ray- leaders. In 1942, the Republicans
burn or Republican Joe Martin will reached their highest number of seats
become Speaker and whether the vast since 1930. They won 209 seats. In
committee machinery of the House 1944 the presence of Roosevelt on the
will be directed by Republican or ticket and other factors whittled them
Democratic chairmen.
down 19 seats to 190. Therefore,
In seeking the answer, the average Roosevelt was theoretically
citizen must ignore the pub- worth fewer seats than
lic utterances of national they now need to win the
chairmen, who enjoy a rec- House. Looking more close-
ognized freedom from truth- ly at the comparison be-
telling. Their role is to in- tween 1942 and 1944, it ap-
spire, not to inform. Candi- pears that there were four
dates' public and private switches from Republican
patter should also be to Democratic in 1944
ignored. One might as well to every Democratic-to-Re-
ask the horses about the out- publican switch. The ab-
come of the next race, sence of Roosevelt and the
Dr. George Gallup makes war will, therefore, pro-
an analysis easier for me, vide a part of the number that Re-
because he has published an exceed- publicans must gain.
ingly valuable compilation of past Where are the narrowly held or 4
election figures in "The Gallup Po- per cent seats? On the Democratic
litical Almanac for 1946." Needless side, there are one each in Delaware,
to say, Dr. Gallup is not responsible Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Mich-
for my arrangements of his figures or igan and Wisconsin. There are two
for the conclusions drawn therefrom. each in Minnesota, New York, Pennsyl-
Mathematically, the control of the vania, Washington and West Virginia;
House will rest with the party that three in California, Connecticut, Mis-
provides 218 votes when the House souri and Ohio; and four in Illinois.
meets in January. Assuming that all On the Republican side, the 4 per
who are elected qualify, the Republi- cent seats are one each in California,
cans must gain 26 seats over the num- Idaho, Illinois, Massachusetts, Minne-
ber held at the close of Congress, sota, New Hampshire, Oklahoma,
which was 192. Practically, the num- Washington, West Virginia and Wis-
ber of seats which should be gained is consin; two in Connecticut and In-
more than 26. A good, easy-working diana; four in Missouri, New Jersey
majority would require, at a minimum, and Ohio; five in New York; and seven
225 seats, which means a gain of 33. in Pennsylvania.
Most Republican claims are based Adding together Republican and
on a one-sided assumption that they Democratic seats, the states with pay
need only to capture 26 seats now dirt for both parties are California and
held by a narrow margin of votes. New Jersey, with four each; Connect-
They dreamily ignore the fact that icut and Illinois, with five; Missouri,
more Republican than Democratic New York and Ohio, with seven; and
seats are shaky. In the 1944 election, Pennsylvania, with nine.

These are states with major in-
dustrial interests, bossed by Democrat-
ic city machines and powerful labor
groups. Republicans, therefore, must
literally enter heavily defended enemy
country. Since 1938 they have been
winning back rural America. The pros-
pects are that they will hold that. But
to win control of the House, they must
not only get out their own vote, but
compete with the Democratic-labor
alliance. The implications of this I shall
consider later.

American Institute of Public Opinion, Princeton, N J., $7.50.