Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've tried my best to maintain the original formatting, but some minor inconsistencies may remain due to the column layout and OCR limitations.

```text
Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

He Did and They Did
The King of France with twenty thousand
men
Went up the hill, and then came down
again.

Despite pap, patronage, pressure
and palaver, the purge is a flop. This ex-
traordinary political move, which origi-
nated with an arrogant speech a year ago
by the now politically discredited Senator
Guffey and reached its climax with a Pres-
idential invasion of the lowlands of Mary-
land, is no more. It ends with not a single
one of the courageous Democratic Sena-
tors who opposed the Supreme Court Bill
defeated. It ends with two of those who
leaped to the Presidential call on Febru-
ary 5, 1937, headed for private life.
Its failure could have been anticipated.
Almost exactly a year ago the readers of
this page were reminded that there has
never been a successful party bloodletting
in the history of this country. The Repub-
lican party tried it on seven Republican
Senators and nineteen Republican Con-
gressmen who voted "no" on the Payne-
Aldrich Tariff Act of 1919. That purge
wasn't carried on under the Presidential
coat of arms, but it was pursued with the
quiet efficiency that characterized the na-
tional Republican machine in those days.
It failed none the less.
In my article a year ago I expressed the
firm belief that Adams, Clark, George,
Lonergan, McCarran, Smith, Tydings and
Van Nuys had been strengthened, politi-
cally, rather than weakened by their stand
on the Court. I erred only in assuming
that President Roosevelt would see the
futility of any attempt to drive them out
of the Democratic party because of it. It
did not seem possible that a man of his
political experience could be talked into
such a course by a small group of political
amateurs and philosophical witch burners.
Well, Mr. Roosevelt preferred to reenact
the story of the little boy who was told not
to go up into the hills because the bears
would eat him. He did, and the bears did.

The outcome is significant because:
1-It demonstrates once more that in-
dividual prestige and popularity are politi-
cal assets that cannot be transferred to
other people. Little Davey Lewis in Mary-
land, standing by himself, was quite a fig-
ure. President Roosevelt, standing by him-
self, was one of the most popular Presi-

dents in history. Yet Davey Lewis, plus
the benediction of President Roosevelt,
was a flop. The political act of Presidential
blessing in a primary is not the equivalent
of the addition sign in simple arithmetic.
We may like both lobsters and ice cream
and still refuse a concoction of the two.
2-It is a reminder that human beings,
from the beginning of time, have been in
the habit of acquiring certain loyalties to
fundamental ideas. Call them principles,
if you will, or prejudices, if you prefer.
They are thought patterns that guide peo-
ple's decisions. Mr. Roosevelt discovered
one of them a year ago when the Senate
registered the people's belief in an inde-
pendent judiciary. This time the people
registered their adherence to two other
ideas the first, an independent Congress;
the second, the right of a state to choose
its own representatives. In the pale saffron
atmosphere that rises from the soothsay-
ers' urns in Washington, it is not respect-
able to have these obsolete ideas. But it
is going to take a long time for these va-
pors to change the political habits of this
country.
3-It suggests that there are limitations,
decided limitations, to the usefulness of
public money in swinging elections. Within
the intimate warmth of American cities,
powerful machines can work this sort of
thing. But the reaction against even the
implied use of relief and public-works
money on a national scale is enough of a
political liability to counterbalance any
advantage the actual use of this money
might bring. The offer of bridges to the
people of Maryland was just a little too
obvious. People, however receptive they
may be to political gifts, would rather not
have it done in public. There are many
who are not exactly moneyproof who, at
the same time, will not sell their votes in
the streets.
4-It makes it seem likely that Repub-
licans will win more seats than might have
been expected earlier. No one can deter-
mine how many seats Republicans will
regain in the House-and Republican
leaders should be slow in suggesting num-
bers-but good judges are now predicting
more than fifty, and the chances of run-
ning this higher were considerably en-
hanced by the purge campaign.
5-It presages a Congress more inde-
pendent than it has ever been since a Dem-
ocratic House in 1932 completely stymied
President Hoover. This being true, any
attempt to disinter the bones of Court

packing or reorganization will meet more
powerful opposition than that which sent
them to their graves.
6-It makes it necessary for the Presi-
dent to search hurriedly about for a way
to stoke the fires of his prestige. When even
so loyal a pro-Roosevelt newspaper as The
New York Daily News says that Mr.
Roosevelt's program is getting stale and
suggests that he needs what, in the theatre
world, is called a new vehicle, one can de-
pend upon it that he will arrive at the
same conclusion. In a sense, he has groped
for it already by implying that he is en-
gaged in a dramatic struggle to build a
farmer-labor party in this country. But I
gravely question the seriousness of Mr.
Roosevelt's intention to pursue this idea
further. He must know that it would be
about as easy to make a single political
party out of a confederation of C.I.O.
members, Townsendites, production-for-
use-ites, paper-money bugs, professional
utility-baiters, radical farm-organization
members and all the rest of the assorted
fellowship of American Leftism, as it
would be to make an Olympic track team
of the contestants in Mr. Charles C. Pyle's
late bunion derby. Such odds and ends as
socialized medicine may be put on the
President's program. But the list cannot
be long. Congress itself may carry the fight
to him by proposing amendments to the
Wagner Labor Act or the Social Security
Act. In that case, however, he would be
forced to resist and that would mean a
purely negative role-never very inspiring
and never one likely to gather new fol-
lowers. A war, of course, would throw all
these calculations askew.

And what of 1940? It begins to look
as though there would be enough inde-
pendents in the Democratic party to put
up an awful battle against the renomina-
tion of President Roosevelt if he should
seek it. A coalition of a half-dozen men
whose names might readily be mentioned
could force a compromise. The person up-
on whom such a choice would fall cannot
conceivably be predicted at this time. But
it will be someone of the stripe of Barkley
of Kentucky-someone of mediocre at-
tainments and flabby will. Blessed are the
weak, for they shall inherit the mantle of
the proud.
That, of course, is the major tragedy of
the path Mr. Roosevelt has chosen to fol-
low in the past two years. Step by step he
has impaired his strength. Step by step
he has, in the pursuit of illusions, dissipat-
ed the opportunity to achieve sound, rea-
sonable, necessary and permanent reforms.
Step by step he is making inevitable in
1941 an Administration which, at its
worst, will be flatly reactionary and, at its
best, utterly undistinguished.
```