PERSPECTIVE

Make It Short

by Raymond Moley

In 1960 Charles H. Percy, the extraordinarily capable business executive who is now a candidate for governor of Illinois, was scheduled to be chairman of the Committee on Resolutions of the Republican National Convention. I wrote a note to him, saying: "Make it short." But after a great hubbub in which Nixon, Rockefeller, and others tried to reconcile the irreconcilable, the usual big package of words appeared. Percy replied to my letter and said that he tried hard for brevity. About all that he could say for the platform was that it was shorter than the enormous Democratic product.

Now the argument begins again. Rockefeller wants it long. Goldwater wants it short. Goldwater's position on this is correct.

This article which you are reading is something between 600 and 650 words in length. The spot it occupies fixes that limit. It is hard to keep it within that length. A piece twice as long would take a third of the time in the writing. But more people will read a short one.

The beleaguered citizen faces a mass of stuff about public affairs. This need for brevity is what has made the newsmagazine successful. Brevity makes for good writing.

MEANINGLESS WORDS

It would be possible for a relatively few representative Republicans to prepare such a short platform in anticipation of the 1964 convention. Limited to somewhere between 1,200 and 1,500 words, it could clearly differentiate the Republican alternative to the party of the Kennedys. It could view the present regime with alarm and also state Republican principles. Then let the chosen candidate and his helpers elaborate in speeches and statements. Candidates do that anyhow. In 1916 both party platforms said woman suffrage should be left to the states. Wilson and Hughes both ignored it and came out for a constitutional amendment. In 1932 the Democratic convention wrote the shortest platform in history. It ran between 1,500 and 2,000 words. But even that document was ignored in the campaign which followed. Neither Roosevelt nor the people with him, so far as I knew, carried a copy of the party platform.

Consider the atmosphere in which these long, wordy platforms are written! There are generally struggles for the nomination among candidates and their supporters. Insane demonstrations pollute the air. The Committee on Resolutions has only a few hours for "deliberations." Innumerable special interests appear and utter long orations. Great and clumsy self-serving briefs are presented.

A HODGEPODGE

In all conventions in the past this has happened. After all the lobbyists and representatives of special interests have been heard, the chairman and some of the members of the committee scribble a mass of words. The resulting hodgepodge is submitted to a disorderly mob of delegates, spectators, curiosity seekers, and hundreds of representatives of the press. Bang! goes the gavel, and the monstrosity has been adopted. Few of those present have even heard it read. And few people ever think about it again.

Up to 1909 the standard work on party platforms was published in several editions. It was "The History of the Presidency," by Edward Stanwood. Then a new compilation was published in 1956 by two professors from Iowa. They said it had been exceedingly difficult even to collect the platforms, especially those of the minor parties. Anyone who chooses to leaf through that book will understand what I am driving at. It is not a history of our political life. It is a monumental example of insincerity, double-talk, irrelevance, and promises impossible of fulfillment. It is a grim reflection on the capacity of Americans to govern themselves; even to be honest with themselves.

The British parties have a better system. Their principles are worked out at annual party conferences, held at some resort town. Never in or near campaign time. Later, after 1964, we should emulate this British system. But in 1964 the best plan is to prepare a short statement before the convention. Get it adopted, and leave the rest to the candidates.

Newsweek, November 18, 1963