Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Fish and Politics
by Raymond Moley

Bend, Ore.—The Pelton Dam on the
Deschutes River in central Ore-
gon will not rival in size, cost, and
power capacity the monsters built or
planned on the Columbia and the
Snake. But an ingenious device in its
structure may have a bearing on the
next big rumpus in Congress over
public and partnership power. The
device is called a “skimmer,” and I
found a visit to the site most reveal-
ing in what it teaches of the ways of
fish and the wiles of man.

Perhaps those whose knowledge of
salmon is limited to what is seen and
tasted in the dining room should be
told that these fish go from the sea to
the upper reaches of rivers to perform
the miracle of procreation. Hence,
most dams in the Northwest have fish
ladders to accommodate the passage
of the adults. The youngsters, or fry,
then must find their way down the
ladder toward the river.

The Portland General Electric Co.,
which is building the Pelton Dam, is
required to provide means for the
passage of the big and little fish under
very difficult natural conditions which
prevail at the site in the Deschutes
Valley. A fish ladder is being built
which is nearly 3 miles long. That
permits easy passage on the swim up-
stream. It was a real problem, how-
ever, to get the little fish down
through the channels used by the
larger fish. These youngsters must also
be protected from being devoured by
surviving parents, mostly steelhead,
who are returning downstream.

THIS WAY OUT

Since fish are attracted by moving
water, a current is created near the
surface to lead to safe exit for the lit-
tle ones through a passage to the
fish ladder. This is the “skimmer.” The
cost of all the fish arrangements will
be $5 million which, considering the
fact that a count in the present year
shows that only about 1,000 fish are
going upstream, makes costly trans-
portation. Incidentally, don’t expect
me to tell you why the big fish don’t
wait for the little fish downstream. I
have about exhausted my knowledge
of piscatorial habits already.

Over on the Snake River, where the
Idaho Power Co. is building its dams
despite Senator Morse et al., a group


of four privately owned power com-
panies formed a new corporation
called the Pacific Northwest Power
Co. and made application for a li-
cense to build a dam at Pleasant
Valley some distance down from
Hells Canyon. This was bitterly op-
posed by public-power people who
favored a Federal dam at the site.
Early this year, a further complica-
tion arose because Secretary Seaton
proposed that the application be held
up while his engineers studied the
idea of a Federal dam. Gossip has
it that FPC Chairman Kuykendall
opposed this interference by Seaton
and materially won his point by an
appeal to the White House. Then
the staff of the Federal Power Com-
mission added a new phase by sug-
gesting that a site farther downstream
called Nez Perce be considered in-
stead of Pleasant Valley.

SALMON MUST RUN

Despite the claims that Hells Can-
yon was the last and best of Ameri-
can hydroelectric sites, Nez Perce
would accommodate an even more
massive structure. It would also have
a flood-control potential far greater
than a dam at Hells Canyon, be-
cause under flood conditions great
quantities of water come into the
Snake from the Salmon River a short
distance upstream. The Pacific North-
west Power Co. might, it is said, be
willing to consider building there in-
stead of Pleasant Valley. If Nez
Perce should seem practicable, the
public-power people would wage a
fight for a Federal dam there.

The big problem in building at
Nez Perce is that great runs of
salmon go upstream past the site to
enter the Salmon River, and under
conditions at the site it has seemed
an insuperable problem to provide
safe passage for them. The staff of the
FPC believes that the skimmer de-
vice would solve that problem. Other
engineers are very doubtful.

In any event, years might pass
before the problem could be solved.
Meanwhile, the Northwest is wait-
ing for additional power. All these
complications, plus the determination
of the public-power people to have
Federal dams or nothing, mean fur-
ther delay.

Newsweek, July 22, 1957