Will Stalin Communize Germany?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Since no one can tell now where, on the chessboard of Europe, the relative centers of power of the United States, Great Britain and Russia will be when Germany surrenders, the answer to this question must be speculative. Neither can we tell now what a victorious Russia may feel is in the interest of her security. Nor do we know what assurances have been given by Stalin or what practical meaning they will have.

The best we can do is to consider these questions in light of what we know of Germany and of Russia's revealed purposes. Certainly, we must avoid the danger of wishful thinking or silly dreaming. For Russia can and will do what is best for her, and we can like that or lump it.

It was pointed out in this column seven weeks ago that Russia's ethnological claims would probably dictate a Polish-Russian boundary similar to that fixed after Russia moved into Poland in 1939. So there was no surprise in this corner when Ambassador Oumansky recently said in Mexico that the Polish border was not 90, but 280, miles from the front. Whatever die-hard supporters of the pasteboard peace of 1919 may say, the Russians are going to insist upon including within Russia all areas populated by Russians. And the eastern third of Poland is just that.

Stalin has shown again and again that he understands German psychology better than his fellow allies. The language of his orders of the day, his timing of his turn on the invaders, his support of Balkan rebels—all these show it. His creation of a German republican government-in-exile, moreover, was a more potent weapon than the Churchill-Roosevelt challenge of unconditional surrender.

But does Stalin's interest require a Sovietized Germany? There is nothing in recent history to support a belief that Germany could be Communized. The German people, even in the hardest days of the ‘20s, showed no Communistic tendencies. Not more than a third of German labor-union members voted Communist. There is every reason to believe that the great majority of German workers will turn back to pre-Hitler labor leaders, most of whom are right-wing Socialists. Immediately after Versailles, “soldiers’ and peasants’ councils” were formed. The way was open to a Communist victory. But the people failed to respond, and these Germanic Soviets collapsed. Four years later, during the height of inflation, when Hitler began his bellowing in Munich, the Communists tried again and failed.

Not only Germany’s industrial workers, but her farmers and peasants resisted all tendencies toward collective farming. Those farmers and peasants were never entirely subdued by Hitler. They were policed by Nazi farm hands, but they never embraced Nazism themselves.

At least a third of Germany’s small farmers, retailers and craftsmen are Catholics who, it can be safely assumed, will have no part of Communism. An attempt to impose Communism upon Germany would create unending resistance.

But is there anything in Stalin’s policies over the years to indicate that he places world evangelism ahead of Russian development? True, the Third International did a neat job of world propaganda. But this was a sideshow promoted with Stalin’s consent while he gave a major part of his energy to the economic development of Russia. To believe this does not mean that we need to believe fairy stories about Russia’s turning capitalist. It means that Stalin is a realist who has found that the strength of his nation comes from the sentiment of nationalism. His prime objectives have been making Russia strong and keeping out of war.

After this war, Stalin will need reconstruction at home. Instead of sending manpower into Germany to impose by force of arms a form of government against which Germany will offer tremendous passive resistance, he wants to bring German manpower into Russia to rebuild what Germany has destroyed. Professor Varga, Stalin’s friend, has made that clear (see Perspective, Sept. 20). Stalin wants German labor, not German converts. He wants to channel human energy into Russian factories, housing, railroads. He is not disposed to spend Russian wealth and lives before revolutionary barricades in Germany and France.

His interest in policing Germany exactly parallels the interests of Great Britain and the United States. Like Churchill, Stalin believes that “brave new worlds” can wait.