Here's the extracted text from the provided image, preserving the column structure:

**Formula for Wartime Politics**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The President was not very clear
in his statement about a nonpartisan
election. Sure, congressmen should sup-
port the government. They are part of
the government. And they should be
free to debate and to vote on Execu-
tive acts and proposals. But by im-
plication at least, the President made
it plain that he will throw his influence
against the reelection of any senator
or representative whose record in emer-
gency matters does not satisfy him.
Which, by any other name, is still
partisanship of a kind.

Since Mr. Flynn has wound the horn
and Mr. Martin, the President and Mr.
Willkie have replied with notes of
varying stridence, we may assume that
the 1942 campaign is now on. Every
citizen is a king in this business of
politics, so I crave the privilege of set-
ting down a few observations directed
especially at the party of opposition,
to wit, the Republican party.

The country cares little about
what party participates in the great task
of winning this war. It does not think
much of votes of confidence. It con-
siders that sort of thing a British, not
an American custom. It likewise con-
siders pre-Pearl Harbor issues of isola-
tionism and interventionism as dead
as mackerels, for it took at face value
those fine statements about national
unity that came from every side last
December. Fever charts showing the
intensity of a politician's fervor about
foreign policy before December 7, 1941,
are now of interest only to other poli-
ticians. The voters don't give two hoots
about it. What they care about is
winning this war.

If the leaders of the Republican
party are bold enough to admit this,
not only publicly, but to themselves,
they will say precious little about party
success as such. They will urge the
party's state leaders to get the ablest
possible men to run for Congress every-
where. They will point out how greatly
Washington needs such men. This, they
will say, and say sincerely, is their way
of cooperating with the President in
helping to win the war. Above all, they
will pledge unqualified and unlimited
loyalty to America's interests, while
affirming the right and duty of con-
structive criticism.

As a matter of plain common sense,
Republican leaders ought to put a stop
to the habit of bitterly criticizing each
other in private talk, as two or three
of them are now doing. Specifically,
they ought to leave off their under-
ground growling at Chairman Martin.
He has decided to remain as chairman
until after the election. He has done
an excellent job as minority leader of
the House. And, after all, the election
coming up is an election of members
of Congress.

When the campaign gets under way,
emphasis should be laid upon the quali-
fications of the candidates and upon
the vital importance of maintaining
our political system, including the three
coordinate branches of government and
the two-party system. The public knows
that Mr. Roosevelt will be President
for two years more. It knows, too,
that this is not a recall election of the
President.

This isn't to say that sight should be
lost of the fumbling by the Adminis-
tration of war organization, of labor
problems, of price control and a dozen
other things. Nor does it mean that
Republicans should pledge all-out sup-
port of the President's every demand.
It simply means that the Republican
party, its leaders and candidates, are in
no position to force upon the country a
vote of no confidence in a President
who is not a candidate for office. The
country would be better off if Congress
were purged of those misfits, nobodies
and yes-men who got there on the
President's coattails. The Republicans
can perform that service in the coming
election.

This isn't an easy formula to fol-
low. The heat of the campaign will
bring forth a good many indiscreet out-
breaks on both sides. But the business
of political leaders is to lead wisely, to
restrain their followers, to stop bicker-
ing among themselves and to convey to
the people a clear picture of patriotism
and competency. The Republican party
needs as never before to conduct its
campaign as a model of propriety and
persuasiveness, to contribute to compe-
tence in office, to offer salutary criti-
cism, and to prepare itself for the re-
sponsibilities of power if, in 1944, it
should accede to power. The country,
too, needs as never before a party that
can demonstrate these qualities.