Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Quiescent Northwest
by Raymond Moley

LOS ANGELES, CALIF.—To say that in
this second year of Republican
government in Washington there is a
distinctly conservative trend in the
Northwest may arouse some dis-
agreement among left-wing zealots in
that region and no little skepticism
in the East. But a fairly close look at
that part of the United States leaves
me with that impression. I shall, however, withhold any predic-
tion of a Republican sweep.
For in Montana, Idaho,
Washington, and Oregon
there are many cross-
currents of interest and
opinion which may not parallel a national trend. It can
be said with certainty, despite the outcries of Senator
Morse and the letters from
the constituents with which
he litters the Congressional Record,
that the issue of public vs. private
power will excite the interests of very
few voters. If that issue fails to excite, certainly the cry of depression
will be vain. For things never looked
so good up there.

In Montana, Sen. James E. Murray
is running again, but it is getting difficult for him at the ripe age of 78 to
pose as the stormy petrel of progress.
His opponent is the serviceable and
respected Rep. Wesley A. D'Ewart
who represented the eastern, Republican end of the state for several
years. Murray is well supplied with
funds and is well entrenched with
Federal patronage, but his re-election
is in doubt.

In Idaho, the most conservative of
the Northwestern states, the Republican Gov. Len Jordan cannot succeed
himself. The primary vote astonished
local political observers by revealing
apathy among Democrats rather than
Republicans. The result was the
choice of left-wing Democrats such as
the jackpudding Glen Taylor, Henry
Wallace's running mate in 1948. Conservative Democrats, unhappy over
the ticket, may vote heavily for the
Republican candidates in November.

No governor or United States senator is to be elected this year in Washington, but the campaign will be
lively. Three Congressional seats are
going to be closely contested. One,
now held by Democratic Congressman-at-Large Don Magnuson, will be contested by the man whom he narrowly defeated two years ago. Another, in the far northwestern part of
the state, is traditionally Republican,
but will be challenged by Hugh
Mitchell, a former United States senator and a perennial candidate for
something or other. The prevailing
economic climate is one of prosperity.
The power issue is quiescent, largely,
it seems, because the President's idea of local participation in the great
multipurpose Priest Rapids
project seems to have satisfied the more reasonable
public-power advocates.

There is a rather warm
Communist issue raised by
hearings of the Velde Committee in Seattle. A radical
group succeeded in bringing about a resolution in the
convention condemning the Velde investigation. Enough Communism,
however, had been revealed to provide some resentment against this action and may mean a substantial
Republican advantage.

In Oregon the campaign will be
highlighted by a contest between
Sen. Guy Cordon and Richard L.
Neuberger. The latter is a state senator and a writer of some note. His
philosophy is sufficiently like that of
Senator Morse to give rise to the opposition charge that he is "another
Morse." This will be a load to carry,
since there is every evidence that
the bitterness within the Republican
Party toward the man who calls himself the Independent Party will bring
out a substantial vote for Cordon.
Cordon is not a showy statesman, but
his tremendous energy and fine intelligence are likely to win support
in a state which is traditionally conservative and Republican.

SINCE the Northwest is more interested in the problem of hydroelectric power and has more potential
in that field than any other section,
it is hoped by opponents of the
Eisenhower Administration to gain
votes by the cry of a "giveaway,"
which was so prominent in the great
filibuster over the AEC bill. But, as I
noted above, much of the force of
this argument has been extracted by
the President's partnership policy.

Newsweek, August 23, 1954

Page 751 of 1197