The New 'Moral Climate'

by RAYMOND MOLEY

THE plan put forward by Senators
Murray, Humphrey, Kefauver, Kil-
gore, McMahon, Pepper, Sparkman,
and Thomas, under the title "The Eco-
nomic Expansion Act of 1949," ought
very carefully to be considered against
the background of the various revela-
tions now filling the papers concerning
the questionable practices which grow
up around the contacts between busi-
ness and government. For
this Murray proposal would
greatly multiply these con-
tacts and expand the area in
which government and busi-
ness have interlocking inter-
ests of great importance.
Under the seductive guise
of "broad cooperative action
between private enterprise
and government," the plan
would permit government to
spend billions of public money direct-
ly, grant lavish government aid to
many businesses, and finally, at the
President's discretion, move directly
into the businesses of "synthetic liquid
fuels, steel, freight cars, or fertilizer."
Vast new construction of plants by
government would be in order, which
could be leased or sold to private en-
terprise.
Imagine, in the light of the tragic
lack of judgment demonstrated by gov-
ernment agencies in the Tucker auto-
mobile case, what a field this would
provide for the rapacity of private indi-
viduals and the weak or bungling
methods of government. For the
Tucker project on the surface filled
the needs described by the senators.

IT was going to provide investment
and spending of private money. It
did so in the case of tens of thousands
of unlucky people. It was going to
provide the "employment, production,
purchasing power, and confidence"
proposed in the Murray plan. It was
going to sharpen competition in the
automobile business.

The government was most lenient in
its lease of the great Chicago war
plant. The financing of that lease by
Tucker raised questions that would
have halted any private lessor in his
tracks, but the War Assets Adminis-
tration guilelessly concluded the deal.
The Securities Exchange Commis-
sion investigated and required Tucker
to disclose the facts. But investors
nevertheless proceeded to buy stock.

In other cases where government
loans have been given to business en-
terprise there has been revealed an
alarming tendency of the favored com-
panies to provide well-paid jobs to
former government officials in lending
agencies. Apparently, some companies
that borrow money are so impressed
by the officials they have dealt with
that they are later willing to
pay two or three times the
salary formerly paid by the
government for such people.

Senator Fulbright has
been digging into this prac-
tice and has unearthed a
good deal of evidence, not-
ably about former employees
of the RFC. There is as yet
nothing unlawful about this,
but it is bad practice and
should be made unlawful.

That is exactly what Senator Ful-
bright intends to do. He has intro-
duced a bill (S. 1871) to make as a
condition of any loan from the RFC
that the borrower shall not offer or
give a job to any employee who had
anything to do with the transaction.
The bill imposes this prohibition for
five years, but it may be compromised
at two. It should be passed.

AND now, in a valuable newspaper
series by Jack Steele of The New
York Herald Tribune, we have new
information about the wretched busi-
ness of the "5 per cent" men in Wash-
ington. Once more, we get a glimpse
of the slick contact man with ostenta-
tious friendships with high officials,
lovingly inscribed photographs of the
President and others, giddy entertain-
ment, and White House invitations.

In one case, the man who employed
such a "counselor" said: "You can't get
to first base in Washington without
someone representing you."

That, of course, is because the base
lines are crowded with bureaucrats,
politicians, and hangers-on. And when
a citizen tries to get what he is entitled
to, he must, in touching the bases,
pause for cocktail parties, golfing,
candy for secretaries, favors and prom-
ises for everybody concerned.

All this ought to suggest that before
government gets any deeper into busi-
ness, it should display better business
judgment and better ethical standards.

Newsweek, July 4, 194