Here's the extracted text from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the image quality and OCR limitations.


**Poland and the Big Three**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

If, as seems inevitable, the Potsdam conference reaffirms previous agreements, a new Polish nation will emerge from this war with a better chance of survival than any of the earlier Polands. Its resources and possibilities are likely to quiet much of the storm and controversy which have attended its deliverance.

It seems certain that the new Poland, bounded by the Curzon Line on the east, will cut through East Prussia to a point southwest of Königsberg on the Baltic and provide a seacoast stretching about 200 miles west to the mouth of the Oder. The western frontier will have to be determined by the Big Three, but it will probably include the agricultural territory east of the Oder in the north and the rich region of Upper Silesia, which includes coal and iron mines and large industrial properties, among which are vast electrical plants and a part of Germany's biggest cement works. The total area of Poland will be between 110,000 and 120,000 square miles. The area of prewar Poland was about 150,000 square miles. The new population will be between 25 and 30 millions, compared with a prewar 35 million. It will be more predominantly Polish than before. The new Poland will have not only Danzig and Gdynia, but two or three other good ports. The whole course of the Vistula will be Polish down from Czechoslovakia to the sea. The old network of canals developed by Frederick the Great and his successors will be Polish. As an economic unit, the new Poland will be richer and more manageable than the prewar nation.

If Poland is to enjoy the full benefit of these territorial acquisitions, it will be necessary to move, bag and baggage, three or four million Germans—mostly fanatical Nazis—into what remains of Germany.

This bold and unprecedented carving out of new frontiers, with a wholesale moving of population, will be difficult. But its doing is the essential price to be paid for security. It is better to face it and do it than to endure the threat of another war.

There will be lamentations over this operation in Germany for generations.

And there will be plenty of propaganda in England, the United States and Russia to the effect that in the dismemberment of Germany is the sure seed of another war. But the United Nations have no choice. Either these boundaries must be made and made now or the whole tragedy of the past will happen over again.

The new Poland will for some time have the discomfort of living between a beaten but resentful Germany and a colossal but distrusted Russia. That is the sentence, however, of a court of final jurisdiction — geography. The outcome will be determined by the degree to which the new United Nations charter can operate in a practical situation, by the forbearance of Russia and by the quality of government which Poland can develop over the years.

Certainly, the politics of prewar Poland will have to be improved upon. For centuries democracy has made little progress in Poland. The democracy which followed 1919 ended in the Pilsudski authoritarianism and the rule of the "clique of colonels." Minorities were subjected to severe restrictions, and, finally, in 1935, Beck and Smigly-Rydz headed a thoroughly illiberal nation. If the United Nations is to be anything but a name, any repetition of this might be prevented—by outside force, if necessary.

The present irreconcilability of the London Poles, the remains of the reactionary government of 1939, is due to the emotional shock of recent events. But the maintenance of such a shadow regime, which seeks to use its haven of refuge to suggest resistance to the new government, cannot be tolerated. There is a sinister tone in the recent proclamation of a Polish general to the Polish armies abroad that they will "return to Poland, but only with arms in hand." The Big Three should determine who will return where and who will bear arms and what arms will be used for.

The new Poland will have every available means to build a prosperous and peaceful nation, except, for the moment, unity. That will come with time, assisted by the firmness and patience of the three great powers.