Perspective

Facts and Formulas

What do the events of the past
three weeks in Europe mean to the people
of the United States? What lessons do
they teach us? What policy do they
recommend?

Perhaps the reactions of the collective-
security advocates in this country suggest
the most cogent answers to these ques-
tions. For these men and women in their
newspaper columns, in their conversation,
deplore the settlement that has been
reached. These men and women in the
days and weeks before Munich were
whooping it up for a "united stand against
Germany" by the democracies of the
world. These men and women were per-
fectly willing, if such a bluff failed, to
fertilize their indignation with the blood
of other people's sons, of English boys, of
French boys and even of American boys.
These men and women—supreme irony—
lament the fact that "there was no effort
made at Munich to save anything but
peace."

If ever there was a travesty of the fun-
damental Wilsonian objective—the achieve-
ment of world peace—it has been offered
by these self-constituted upholders of the
Wilsonian tradition. For clearly it is not
peace that they wish, but the guarantee
and maintenance of the so-called peace
treaties. It is not war from which they
shrink so much as the upsetting of the
status quo. It is not force which they de-
plore so much as the repudiation of what
force achieved twenty years ago.

In their passionate advocacy of a for-
mula, they have lost sight of the reali-
ties on which a peace must rest. That
tragic mistake brought Hitler into power.
Its persistence forced the Sudeten crisis.
Its repetition last week would have
plunged the world into war.

The conference in Munich marked the
victory of facts over formulas. And the
price paid for peace last week was twice
as great as it would have been if that
victory had taken place years ago.

Viewed in the light of these facts,
the futility of recent American foreign
policy becomes apparent. It has been, for
the past ten years, an inchoate compro-
mise between the meddlesomeness of such
internationalists as Norman Davis, on the
one side, and the isolationism of Borah,
on the other. It is predicated on the as-
sumption that the uttering of repeated
protests and scoldings directed against
any nation which attempts to revise estab-
lished treaties by force or the threat of
force will prevent the use of force. It has
never apparently occurred to those who
are responsible for American foreign policy
to raise the question of why treaties have
been broken throughout the world. Ameri-
can foreign policy is like a penology that
considers only the apprehension and pun-
ishment of criminals without a thought of
what makes people criminals.

The fact is that, by a continuous harp-
ing on the sanctity of the treaties which
have established existing world bounda-
ries, we have actually strengthened treaty
breakers like Hitler. We have enabled
them to tell their people that the United
States is allied with those who are de-
termined that there shall be no recon-
sideration of the mistaken policies of the
Treaty of Versailles. By evading facts and
talking about formulas, by neglecting the
consideration of substantial justice and
insisting upon a strict enforcement of
the letter of the law, we have, in a realistic
world, not only dissipated our energies
but our influence.

Even Great Britain never went as far
as we have gone in this respect in the
past decade. Chamberlain could approach
and deal with Hitler, seeking to temper
his vicious mood. We, as the avowed ene-
mies of those who would change the inter-
national status quo, carried no weight
with him whatever.

The Munich conference resulted
from no plea of ours—despite the claims
of Washington. It was Chamberlain's will-
ingness to forgo a wringing of hands over
the breaking of treaties and to inquire
why treaties were so brittle that made
the conference possible. President Roose-
velt's last message to Hitler went un-
answered: a German Foreign Office
spokesman bluntly dismissed it with the
comment that there would have to be an
"end to the messaging back and forth"
sometime. President Roosevelt's personal
message to Mussolini on September 28th
asking him to intercede with Hitler had
not even been received when Mussolini, in
response to Chamberlain's entreaties, tele-
phoned Hitler and persuaded him to call
the four-power parley.

Europe was not standing around await-
ing its doom when a pronouncement from
this side of the ocean averted it. On the
contrary, our pleas were not taken seri-
ously by any major power.

It is a curious fact that there has
been almost no articulate opposition in
this country during the past three or four
years to the foreign policy that has

brought us to this pass. Only a handful
of individuals have protested each time—
and the occasions have been frequent—
that an official of this Administration has
undertaken to chastise a foreign nation
verbally or to interject the United States
into a European quarrel. Yet the American
people, however much we execrate Hitler,
do not approve this course or its implica-
tions. Dr. Gallup's most recent polls show
that 95 per cent of us are determined to
keep out of war; that 70 per cent of us
believe it was a mistake to have entered
the last war; that 68 per cent of us favor
a referendum before Congress declares
war; and that 69 per cent of us oppose
greater Presidential discretion in foreign
affairs. Here is the clue to a genuine
American policy—a realistic policy that
would capture the allegiance of a large
part of the American people.

The United States, despite the fact
that it is partly responsible for the Treaty
of Versailles, can properly do nothing to
rectify its evils, which sprang from the
Allies’ fallacious belief—not our own—
that they could achieve peace only by
crippling their enemies. These evils, it is
to be hoped, will be eliminated by the
process of negotiation now under way.
We cannot quarrel with that process, since
we accept no responsibility for it. Nor
can we cavil if it appears to strengthen
Hitler to a degree. It must be recognized
that you do not necessarily strengthen a
bad man when you concede his legitimate
grievances.

On our private responsibility we have
every right to protest violently against
the inhuman barbarism of Hitler toward
minority religions. We have every right to
combat anything that suggests the de-
velopment of Nazism within this country.
These things are our legitimate concern.
Political rearrangements or ideologies in
Europe are not.

There is one other sphere in which we
have a rightful concern—the establish-
ment of a real community of interests
within the Western Hemisphere, the pre-
vention of entanglements which might
draw the nations of this hemisphere into
the wars of Europe or Asia and the main-
tenance of stability within the hemisphere.
In such efforts Secretary Hull has made
an excellent beginning. But this is a job
that calls for all our attention, energy,
intelligence and patience. And if we do
it well, we shall have our hands far too
full to get into mischief elsewhere.

These momentous days through
which we have passed were the prelude
to a transfiguration in the economic and
spiritual life of the world. People here and
in Europe want so desperately to have
peace and to be happy that their leaders
will be swept along on the tide. Don’t let
bloodthirsty commentators and long-faced
diplomats tell you anything else.