Here's the text from the provided image, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlaps:


NEWSWEEK, AUGUST 7, 1944

Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Political Consequences of Victory

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It is freely admitted by Democratic leaders that the end of the German war before Oct. 1 would materially lessen the chances of electing their ticket. That opinion, which has been generally accepted for a year or more, has never been completely analyzed. Is it sound or is it merely one of those views that gains acceptance by constant repetition? Let us see what can be said for it, in terms of the probable political and economic consequences of a victory over Germany.

On the political side, a victory over Germany would destroy the force of the keep-the-Commander-in-Chief argument. When half the war is over, a war leader is not so essential. True, the Japanese war would remain, but it would be hard to convince people that Mr. Roosevelt is essential to General MacArthur and the admirals. The end of the European war would bring home issues to the front of the news. It would make it easier for Republicans to hammer away at Mr. Roosevelt's domestic record, which is admitted to be the weakest side of his administration.

The end of the war will bring the sharp problem of Poland to the front. If Mr. Roosevelt cannot persuade Russia to change its Polish aims, a vast Polish-American vote may desert the Democratic party. This will be voting in an un-American way, but it will nevertheless be a stark fact. And these votes are in several cities essential to the election of the Roosevelt-Truman ticket.

Reliable observers say that we have a serious lack of civilian administrators competent to take over in liberated and conquered territory, especially in Germany. Confusion may result. Its repercussions in the United States would unquestionably be bad.

On the economic side, several probabilities cannot help but cost the Democrats votes.

Here and there, unemployment will almost immediately appear. Wages in casual and non-unionized trades will drop. Overtime will disappear. Pay envelopes will shrink. The owners of many small businesses, losing war contracts, will be desperate for something to do. Discharged soldiers will appear, looking for work. All this would create serious opposition to the Democrats.

The cutting down of war production will mean that hundreds of thousands of war workers will be on the move. Many will migrate to other states. Consequently, they will lose their right to vote next November, and a considerable proportion of the work of registration and propaganda, carried on by the Hillman-CIO political committees, will be wasted.

Among potential voters in the Army, there will be the natural letdown and desire to go home. Every day the soldiers are kept abroad will add to that desire. Their votes may show an element of protest, even though their discontent is unjust and groundless. Those who saw the psychological effect of the Armistice on the soldiers in France in 1918 expect the same thing to happen this time.

It is true that the Democrats will still have the argument that their candidate is indispensable to peace-making. But this appeal has much less vitality than the Commander-in-Chief argument. To the man in the street, peacemaking is remote and impersonal. It has no emotional impact on the friends and relatives of men in the services. It is easy to argue that someone other than the President can negotiate with foreign countries. The memory of the difficulties encountered by another war President, Wilson, is still fresh. Everybody is for prosecuting a war; but people are divided when it comes to making the peace.

These considerations are set down to explain in terms of practical politics why it is generally believed that the end of the German war some time before the election will take votes from Mr. Roosevelt. A final consideration, in opposition to this view, is the belief that voters, in gratitude for victory, reward the head of the nation which wins. The melancholy answer to that is found in what happened to Wilson, Lloyd George and Clemenceau. History makes it clear that, while military leaders like Grant and Hindenburg enjoy the gratitude of their fellow countrymen, civil leaders are not so fortunate. That may be sad, but it's true.

Page 1082 of 1201