Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Sweet Bondage of Freedom

The President's insistence that the
Hatch Bill restricts the freedom of govern-
ment employees is perhaps the best expres-
sion of his abundant humor that we have
heard in many a day.

It almost makes us forget that the lib-
erty the Hatch Bill takes away is the liber-
ty of some of those who are employed by
taxpayers to use their official authority to
interfere with the liberty of others. It al-
most blurs out the picture of government
employees promising citizens employment,
compensation, or benefits in return for
political support or activity; the picture of
WPA foremen threatening their subordi-
nates with dismissal if those subordinates
do not vote as desired; and the picture of
many young men playing politics all over
the city of Washington when they ought
to be working at the jobs for which they
are drawing their pay. It invites us, instead
—and this must be humor—to weep for
the thousands of government servants re-
duced to political impotence by this cruel
measure.

Of course, some of the employees of the
government are excepted. Some are still
free. Whenever, in meandering through
the streets of Washington, you see the
bright, shining face of a free man or wom-
an, you can be sure that it is one of the
following: the President or Vice President
of the United States; a person whose com-
pensation is paid from the appropriation
for the office of the President; the head or
an assistant head of one of the executive
departments; an officer appointed by the
President, by and with the advice of the
Senate, and who determines the policies to
be pursued by the United States in its re-
lations with foreign powers or in the nation-
wide administration of Federal laws. This
is the little devoted band of exceptions
Senator Hatch left huddled in the last
ditch of freedom.

The keening over the harshness, not
to say the subversiveness and inhumanity
of the Hatch Bill, comes with a certain in-
spired abandon from an Administration
that has not done so poorly itself at the
job of gagging people. Year after year it
has used a marvelously diversified assort-
ment of gags. There are:

1—The "loyalty" or "party leadership"
gag.
This is the figurative device which is
supposed to estop leaders of Congress and
other Democrats from critical comment
when the President decides to launch a


NEWSWEEK, AUGUST 7, 1939

new policy. When the court-packing scheme
was thrown before them, for instance, they
were expected to accept it with cheers—
which a goodly number did. The argument
that “the Skipper wants it” is supposed to
be crushing, conclusive. This type of re-
pression is to be carefully distinguished
from the European species of forcing obe-
dience. Party members here are led. There,
they are driven. Here, the party member
has the opportunity of seeing the man
whom he is serving walk ahead of him.

2—The “good-of-the-service” gag.
Attempts have been made to apply this
to officials whose outstanding service or
whose newsworthiness has got them more
publicity than their superiors liked. Their
freedom of expression has, in a number of
cases, been suddenly curtailed by summary
order. The argument goes that public
recognition for any one bureau head, say,
will somehow destroy the morale of the
men who work under him.

3—The “prerogative” gag.
This is applied to senators and congress-
men who discuss legislative matters indi-
vidually or en masse at the White House.
These so-called free men, elected by Amer-
ican citizens to represent them in Washing-
ton, are not allowed, under the rule, even
to make signs when they emerge from a
conference with the President. Quite prop-
erly, Senator Borah has recently protested
against this provision for silence after con-
ferences of great public import.

4—The “good taste” gag.
This can best be described in the words
of Jim Farley on the subject of free ex-
pression as exercised by Lewis Douglas and
James P. Warburg after they left the serv-
ice of the New Deal. Speaking of Douglas,
Farley said that “he was apt to overlook
the important fact that Roosevelt made
him a national figure and that he did not
make Roosevelt.” Speaking of Warburg,
Farley regretted the freedom of his “re-
marks about the President after the latter
had been kind enough to honor him with
a place of trust and responsibility.” In
brief, this gag is supposed to impose an
aesthetic limitation upon free expression.
And it often does, though not, apparently,
in the case of either Mr. Roosevelt or Mr.
Farley, whose writings enjoy a kind of ex-
traterritoriality in the domain of taste.

5—The unseen gag.
Hundreds of businessmen are, in prac-
tice, compelled to eschew political activity
and public expression on the subject of
Administration policy because they are
aware of the danger that their businesses
may encounter the displeasure of some of
the scores of regulatory agencies of the
government. Some businessmen feel their
businesses more vulnerable than others.
But it is safe to say that no small number
of them have come to recognize the un-
seen, but none the less potent, prohibition
upon them.

6—The “endorsement” gag.
This device was invented by Mr. Ickes
who, after denouncing columnists general-
ly, named a few exceptions. These excep-
tional columnists thus, by official ukase,
are presumably supposed to express senti-
ments pleasing to Mr. Ickes, as the spokes-
man for the Administration. Their product
bears the royal seal and might possibly be
labeled “by special appointment to the
Secretary of the Interior.” After receiving
this benefit, it is difficult for writers to
speak unpleasantly. They are silenced by
kindness or, as the romantic writer might
put it, they are smothered with a kiss.
Only two or three have gone their inde-
pendent way.

All these gags more or less effec-
tively limit free expression. For the most
part, they are recognized methods of en-
forcing discipline. They are, of course,
perfectly constitutional. The Hatch Bill
does not prevent their use. Nothing can
prevent that so long as the disposition of
the Administration remains what it is.
And what it is, is certainly no secret.
The President and many articulate mem-
bers of his Administration are displeased
with the press. So often have they charged
that the newspapers do not tell the truth,
that it is not inconceivable that the cam-
paign of 1940 will be in substance a fight
between the Administration’s publicity
machine and the newspapers. In fact, a
witty newspaper man has suggested that
if the President runs again, he will run for
editor. Surely there is no reason to believe
that the didactic and paternal methods
that have already appeared in White House
press conferences will not be accentuated.
Whenever the teacher talks about a dunce
cap, it may be assumed that red apples
will be forthcoming from the pupils. That
is a rule of life.

Recently an official high in the roster of
the Department of Justice spoke of em-
barking upon a governmental campaign to
“protect” civil liberties. Perhaps, as humor-
ists, the members of the Administration
would seek, in the enforcement of the anti-
trust laws, to “protect” competition. Per-
haps the next step will be the indictment
of those who threaten to damage the body
of civil liberty by taking too great a risk
with it. Perhaps we may yet find our-
selves being “protected” against “bad”
newspaper reporting and “unfair” criticism
by an Administration whose sensitiveness
to the impairments of free expression is so
acute that the Hatch Bill causes its hair to
stand on end.