Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, preserving the column structure as much as possible:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Keys to Atomic Power—V
FUTURE POWER NEEDS
by Raymond Moley

IN TWO earlier pieces I described
the problems and progress of the
manufacturers of atomic-power equip-
ment. In this and another I shall sum-
marize the problems and progress of
the private utilities who buy from the
manufacturers, operate the installa-
tions, and market the power.

The problems of the manufacturers
and of the utilities differ in some
respects but are alike in others.
The utilities to a large degree must
raise the capital from private inves-
tors. Unless the manufacturers miscal-
culate, their financial and operating
responsibility ends with the com-
pleted plant. They must, however,
finance a large part of the basic re-
search that goes into manufacturing
and also make preparations for the
long pull ahead when there will be
immense demands for equipment.
The utilities will be operating these
plants over the years ahead when it
may be possible to recoup the un-
profitable outlays that are necessary
in these experimental and relatively
primitive years. For no one yet knows
either the type of reactor which will
ultimately be the answer, the best
type of fuel, or the metallurgical an-
gles yet to be solved.

GROWING DEMANDS

They face, however, the inexorable
prospect of astronomical increases in
the demands for electricity in a mi-
raculously growing economy.
In terms of a huge unit of measure-
ment called the Energy Unit, the
world now uses two-tenths of an EU
a year. The total energy used in the
world from A.D. 1 to 1860 was six
and a half units. From 1860 to 1957,
five more were consumed. By A.D.
2000, ten to twenty more units will
have been used. But by that time one
unit a year will be needed, five times
the present consumption. We must
take a sharp look now at the energy
sources conventionally used, such as
coal, oil, gas, and falling water. And
we must plan to use some other form
of energy-producing resources.

The need is emphasized by the
estimates of power needs in the
United States. Between 1946 and
1956 the private investor-owned com-
panies increased their generation of
power 154 per cent.
In New England, where population
growth is only moderate, power con-
sumption increased 95 per cent. The
current growth in that region is shown
by the fact that the companies there
have scheduled for construction in the
next three years an increase of 20
per cent over the present. In the
upper Midwest from Ohio to the Da-
kotas generating capacity is being in-
creased over 11 per cent a year.

FURTHER PROGRESS

In the Pacific Northwest, the past
ten years have seen a 66 per cent in-
crease. In the mountain region com-
prising Utah, Wyoming, Colorado,
New Mexico, and Arizona the plant
capacities of the investor-owned com-
panies have increased in the past ten
years three and three-quarters times
and the present rate of increase is 9
per cent a year. In the region com-
prising Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas,
Louisiana, and Mississippi, the second
fastest growing region in the nation,
the growth of electrical-energy supply
has not only kept pace with general
economic progress and population
growth but has made expansion in
other fields possible. The Southeast-
ern region has increased generating
capacity by 63 per cent in five years.
For the ten-year period from 1946
to 1956 California had an increase of
170 per cent in power supply.

Of course, these regions differ
greatly in their energy resources.
New England is decidedly needy in
coal and oil. This adds to the cost of
producing power from conventional
sources. Utah and the region nearby
is indescribably rich. These differen-
tials count in the urgency with which
the companies are seeking the solu-
tion through atomic power.

Thus the progress of nuclear power
will be conditioned by costs. Taking a
close look at the new source, most
are deep in investing in atomic plants,
planning toward the time when that
inexhaustible source will be competi-
tive with what they have now. Their
progress and the factors conditioning
that development will be considered
in another article.

Newsweek, February 24, 1958