Here's the text from the provided image:

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

A Tax on a Tax

There's a certain persuasiveness in
the argument that a thing's good because
it's simple. That's why the claim that a 10
per cent tax on income taxes is simple—
and therefore good—may get support in
Congress. But all simple things aren't good,
and all good things aren't simple. In taxation,
the most cockeyed schemes, such as
Townsendism, are sometimes based upon
a simple idea. Justice in taxation involves
the weighing of so many factors that,
when it's finally approximated, the result-
ant is apt to be complicated in the extreme.
Taxes are supposed to be levied upon
something that a person owns or earns or
takes in or buys. But this is a tax on a tax.
It is levied upon something that an indi-
vidual is already paying out of his income.
It makes him compute his tax in the usual
way and then add 10 per cent to the total.
Theoretically, our taxes are levied in
accordance with ability to pay. This super-
tax would violate that principle. If we assume
something that is of course not
actually true—that the present tax system
is based upon ability to pay—then it can
easily be seen that slapping on an arbitrary
addition to the burden of part of the
taxpayers throws the whole adjustment
out of kilter. It adds to the load of some
and leaves others as they were. To that
extent, therefore, those who paid the new
taxes would be paying beyond their ability
to pay, if there were any justice in the
tax system to begin with.

But, of course, the constant reference of
public officials to the so-called principle of
ability to pay is one of the most hoary
hypocrisies in American political life. The
principle is what they talk about. It's not
what they act on. What they do is to levy
taxes not in accordance with the ability to
pay, but in accordance with the ability to
collect.

It has been pointed out again and again
that the income tax is essentially a class
tax. It falls upon a small proportion of the
population. Farmers are, in large part,
exempt because their compensation is not
often reachable by the income tax. But
outside the limits of the income tax are
also millions of other so-called free-riders.
The super-tax proposal promises to perpetuate
the present free-rider membership.
It promises to postpone again the oft-
postponed overhauling of our jerrybuilt
tax system.

The President is reported to believe that
a super-tax is desirable because it would
not affect consumption. Maybe. Increasing
the amount a man pays for taxes presumably
will take away from either what he
saves or what he spends. It may do some
of both, and it may do all of one or the
other. There is no way to tell. I know of
no expert who would undertake to predetermine
how much income will be spent
and how much saved in a given year. But
assume for the moment that such a tax
will not cut into consumption. Assume
that it will pry loose private savings and
route them into the Treasury. To the extent
that it does, it will prevent them from
flowing into the capital-investment market.
It will be of a piece with those very spend-
lend policies that have acted as business
deterrents. It will impede investment in
private enterprise and impede reemployment.
If, on the other hand, this tax is
not in large part paid out of savings, it
will be paid out of what would otherwise
be spent, consumed. It must therefore
directly affect consumption.

Such a tax on a tax may appear simple
to the President. But its effects will certainly
not be.

Mr. Hull's Trade Policies

In arguing for the extension of the
Executive's power to make trade agreements,
Secretary Hull stated: "I invite
any person to show a single instance of
general tariff readjustment either upward
or downward in the entire fiscal history of
the nation wherein there has been exercised
as much impartiality, care and accuracy
as to facts as has uniformly
characterized the negotiation of our
twenty-two trade agreements—or any more
solicitude for the welfare of agriculture,
labor, business and the population of the
country in its entirety."

With this statement no one who has
made a fair appraisal of the situation will
dissent. There has been science, sincerity
and infinite pains in the effort to increase
foreign trade through the reciprocal-trade
agreements. One might almost say that if
science and sincerity and infinite pains
could achieve the purpose through this
instrument it would be done.

But when Mr. Hull adds that "it is a
method under which the Congress reserves
its basic prerogatives, while putting into
operation temporarily the most effective
means that can be devised to meet a grave
emergency situation through cooperation
of the legislative and executive branches of
the government," there will be many who
will disagree. Among the many who will
disagree will be people who believe, with
Mr. Hull, that there ought to be more
foreign trade. They are not isolationists.
They do not want to go back to the tariff-
making methods of the past. It is simply
that they cannot concede that the final approval
of the reciprocal agreements should
be denied Congress under our constitutional
system.

To say that the Trade Agreements Act
was or is an emergency measure is to
stretch the meaning of the word "emergency"
far beyond any reasonable limits.
Look at it realistically. The Act was
passed because it seemed the best way to
compromise the differences in the Democratic
party between the low-tariff and the
high-tariff exponents, between those, such
as the cotton growers, who found a large
part of their markets abroad, and those,
such as cattle raisers, who insisted that
their livelihood depended upon tariff protection.
A time limitation was put on the
Act not because of any emergency, but
because Congress cannot constitutionally
delegate its treaty-making power indefinitely
to the Executive. There is little, moreover,
in the present war situation that
fundamentally affects the tariff policy.
Calling the pacts "peace insurance" is one
of those glittering political phrases that
has a minimum of actual substance.

If the argument for this measure continues
in terms of such impossible dialec-
tics as these emergency and peace claims, it
will win over no one who hasn't already
been won over.

The long debate over the advantages
and disadvantages of the agreements in
specific cases has already started a flow
of statistics that may well stifle the comprehension
of everyone concerned. In
amassing statistical arguments, both sides
have juggled the years selected to show
increases and decreases of imports or exports.
After wading through reams of this
stuff and trying to strike a balance, I
seem to make out that the net increase in
foreign trade that can be ascribed to the
agreements is, in an economy such as ours,
small. It is small in proportion to the
foreign trade that we once had. But it is
something.

It would seem that if the questions of
method that are involved can be compromised,
Congress should probably continue
the reciprocal-trade-agreement power.
Much of the opposition to a continuation
of the reciprocal-trade-agreement power
is based upon the fear of what will be done
in such agreements as that contemplated
with Argentina, rather than upon what
the agreements have already done. In
order to quiet this fear there will be a
tremendous effort to require Senatorial
confirmation of all future treaties. And,
considering all the issues involved, including
the basic right of the Senate to
approve treaties, I believe this is a wise
and legitimate safeguard.