Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Forefathers Revisited
by Raymond Moley

THERE were two notable homecomings last week—the one at Abilene; the other in the great marble mansion of the Supreme Court.

The six judges who made up the majority that decided the steel-seizure case were bred in an era when it was fashionable to sneer at the founding fathers of this republic. At least four of them—Black, Douglas, Frankfurter, and Jackson—belonged to a school of thought which taught in colleges and law schools that the limitations on government established by the makers and early interpreters of the Constitution were outmoded. The spirit of those days, which reached its most vigorous expression in the second Roosevelt term, stressed the Constitution as a means of change rather than of stability. The older judges and teachers were regarded, in the Freudian jargon, as father-worshippers.

But these four justices have reached the conclusion now that the forefathers were, as Justice Frankfurter says, “long-headed statesmen who had no illusion that our people enjoyed biological or psychological or sociological immunities from the hazards of concentrated power.” They learned that a President in the textbooks was entirely unlike a President in the flesh. These men were active reformers in the earlier Roosevelt days. They have been privileged observers ever since. They see how dangerous to liberty can be the extension, not to say perversion, of the seductive prewar reforms. Therefore, by this opinion the New Deal of Roosevelt repudiates and disavows the Fair Deal of Truman.

It is indeed an extraordinary case which elicits separate and distinct opinions, all converging, however, in agreement on the central points. The most voluminous and the best, in my judgment, are those of Justices Frankfurter and Jackson.

I especially liked the point made by Jackson, which seemed to me to encompass the entire issue. The Solicitor General tried to justify the seizure in these words of the Constitution: “He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.” Jackson proceeded to point out that these words must be matched with these words in the Fifth Amendment: “No person shall be…deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process of law.” Then Jackson pointed out that the first of these gives to the government authority that reaches as far as there is any law. The other is a private right that authority shall go no farther than the law. Putting these two significant parts of the Constitution end to end makes the case perfectly simple. “These,” says Jackson, “signify about all there is of the principle that ours is a government of laws, not of men.”

Jackson makes another very significant point. He says that the government claimed that since Truman had plunged us into the Korean war, he acquired from that act and the situation thus created power to carry on any activities necessary to support war. This, Jackson pointed out, would open the way to unlimited abuses of power. A President might under such a theory start a war without authority and then, from that illegal act, gain power that he could not otherwise exercise. This contention violates every law of reason or right.

One feature of the dissenting opinion of Chief Justice Vinson is frightening in its implications. The first several pages of this opinion say in effect that, since the United States has assumed international obligations, by treaty and otherwise, and has vested the President with the duty of carrying out those obligations, he must assume the powers necessary for that purpose. That is, these treaties and other international obligations supersede and take precedence over private rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Thus, that international cooperation abroad must destroy liberty at home.

So MANY things are happening this year that some of the significance of this case may be lost on us. As the years pass, however, we shall be reminded again and again that in this year the Supreme Court refreshed our minds and sharpened our love of liberty by a renewed assertion of a great American tradition.

Newsweek, June 16, 1952