Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:

Perspective
Give the Roads a Break!
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Railroads have probably had less
reason to be apprehensive of New Deal
measures than almost any other class of
business. Since the first days of the Ad-
ministration their problems have always
been looked upon sympathetically and
sometimes dealt with promptly. Back in
1933, the new Administration gave them
substantial loans, provided a sound method
for the reorganization of the weaker roads
and set up a coordinator to realign them
so that they might serve their territories
more economically and efficiently. And as
business generally improved in 1934 and
1935, the luster of health slowly returned
to all except a few mortally stricken roads.
What, then, lies behind the present ap-
plication of the railroads for an increase in
freight rates and in Eastern passenger
rates? It is not merely that the lower vol-
ume of traffic, which in recent months
dipped below 1936 levels, has lopped off a
sizable chunk of the freight revenues. Nor
is it because the announcement that the
RFC will make no further commitments
has been a blow. It is because increasing
costs of every variety have again made the
margin between the railroads' income and
their outgo so thin that the railroads are
almost as sick as they were in 1933.
The prices of the materials which the
railroads must buy have gone up 40 per
cent. The taxes they must pay have risen
25 per cent. The wages they pay have risen
18 per cent. All of this while the level of
average freight rates is 10 per cent less and
passenger fares about 18 per cent less!
Operating costs have been cut. The sav-
ings so made have been passed on in terms
of lower rates. But, though the increased
volume that resulted from such cuts has
produced increased gross revenue, increases
in gross revenue have been more than
nullified by the rise in the cost of materials,
supplies, taxes and wages.
And there are three reasons why the rail-
roads ought to receive favorable consid-
eration on the requests they make at the
hearings beginning November 29. The first
goes to the justice of the case and was
stated most cogently by the ICC itself last
month. "From the facts of the record no
other conclusion is possible than that the
net earnings of the railroads are now in-
consistent, in general, not only with the
constitutional standards as to the rights of
the private owners, but also with the con-
ditions necessary for the proper conduct
of railroad transportation by private
enterprise."

The second reason is that the continued
starvation of the railroads will hit tens of
millions of railroad employes, railroad in-
vestors, insurance-policy owners and sav-
ings-bank depositors. At the present time,
96 railroad companies are in the hands of
receivers or trustees. These companies rep-
resent the largest percentage of mileage
ever in the hands of the courts at any one
time. But unless substantial relief is of-
fered soon, the number of receiverships will
shoot up, for many railroads not yet in the
hands of receivers or trustees are not cur-
rently earning their fixed charges.
The third and perhaps the most moving
reason for favorable action by the ICC is
the fact that the railroads, given the relief
they request, will immediately become the
purchasers of precisely those kinds of goods
whose movement is vitally necessary to
check the present recession in business.
Under normal conditions the railroads buy
and consume 23 per cent of all the bitu-
minous coal produced in the United States,
19 per cent of all the fuel oil produced, 17
per cent of our iron and steel produced, and
25 per cent of our timber. They are also
purchasers of thousands of other kinds of
goods. Early this summer, because of their
desperate plight, they were obliged to dis-
continue all except indispensable purchases.
The Roosevelt recovery has, as predict-
ed, bogged down in the heavy industries.
There are three strong horses which, if
rightly utilized, would start the heavy in-
dustries rolling. The most stalwart, but
the most difficult to spur on, is housing.
Electrical utilities come next in point of
strength, but their fight for their own lives
absorbs their energies. The third is rail-
road purchasing power, which can more im-
mediately be put in motion than either of
the others and which does not need, as
does housing, a rising economic level for
effectiveness. It requires only the approval
of the ICC to start railroad money pour-
ing into the coal, steel, oil and other key
industries. The cumulative effect of such
expenditures upon employment can scarce-
ly be overlooked by an Administration
whose most immediate concern is jobs for
the submerged one-third of the population.

Congressional Background
NEWSWEEK
1—The Administration is both intent up-
on its four-point program and determined
to lose as little face as possible through the
repeal or modification of Administration
measures already passed.
2—The Administration has lost some of
the glamour it had six months ago. Its de-
feat on the court-packing measure and its
enforced admission that the pinch of de-
clining prosperity is beginning to hurt have
done incalculable damage to its prestige so
far as Congress is concerned.
3—Congress is in an ugly mood. Its chief
concern at the moment is its own political
fortunes. It will no longer accept the
President’s flat declaration that he knows
what the electorate wants. It will scruti-
nize meticulously all such claims and will
be considerate of his wishes only insofar as
it decides they are expressive of popular
sentiment.
4—For this reason the President will get
only part of the four things he wants. Farm
legislation will bear the imprint of Chair-
man Cotton Ed Smith, who is wholly un-
sympathetic to the President, and of Chair-
man Marvin Jones, who is in an independ-
ent and determined mood. Wages and
hours legislation will be a weak and ex-
perimental measure: one of its original
sponsors is dead; the other sits on the Su-
preme Court; and those who have taken
their place are not the stubborn, resource-
ful champions such legislation needs. Chair-
man Byrnes of the Senate Reorganization
Committee, an astute parliamentarian pop-
ular in both houses, will dictate the terms
of the administrative reorganization. And
Senator Norris, who is not well, will hardly
be able to press for the power aspects of
national planning with vigor sufficient to
overcome the opposition he must face.
5—Congress is fundamentally responsive
to the idea that excessive government har-
rying has prevented private enterprise from
creating new jobs. It pushes aside whis-
pered Administration assertions that this
idea is deliberate propaganda and points
to the steadily mounting tide of public
opinion which supports it in all sections of
the country.
6—In the inevitable battle over specific
ways to encourage the flow of private capi-
tal into industry, watch the figure of Pat
Harrison, chairman of the Finance Com-
mittee of the Senate. He has been a loyal
party member. But no amount of explain-
ing has dislodged his justifiable conviction
that the Administration was responsible for
the defeat of his aspirations for the Sen-
ate leadership. He has the play on tax
measures in his hands. If he has a mind to,
he can write his own ticket. He knows that
leadership at this juncture will make him a
first-class power in American politics and
condemn Barkley, the elected leader, to a
life in his shadow. The pull of conflicting
loyalties on him and the decision he makes
will typify, almost perfectly, the temper
and action of Congress as a whole.

As this session of Congress—extra-
ordinary in more ways than one—proceeds,
the average citizen will be overwhelmed
with news, rumor, surmise and opinion.
Here are a few fundamental facts to hold
to, when the underlying currents grow in-
distinguishable in the flood of detail.