Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Diplomatic Preparedness

No one who saw and pondered what went on at the London Economic Conference in 1933 could fail to realize that the economic life of the world was passing through revolutionary readjustments. The traditional means of international credit and exchange were crumbling. Economic life was refusing to follow the lines drawn by the mercantilistic economy of the past century. This did not mean the inevitability of world conquest by the political forms of Communism, Fascism or Nazism. But it did mean a radical change in methods of trade and matters of international finance—a change that was taking place, willy-nilly, regardless of governmental forms within the states.

Now it is clear that this process will be hastened everywhere. Whether or not Germany is victorious in battle, the “normal,” “orthodox” methods of international trade will not be restored. And no country, least of all our own, can afford to fail to prepare for what lies ahead.

The first step our business and political leaders must take is to realize fully the implications of those strange economic methods which, The London Economist pointed out two years ago, have “forced a whole series of European countries into varying degrees of economic servitude...” The second is to devise methods of our own to meet them. Not a minute is to be lost in taking these two steps. It is a job only a shade less important than that of preparing our military and naval defenses. It is, in fact, a vitally needed part of those defenses. For we have colossal commitments in the Western Hemisphere that we cannot even begin to fulfill otherwise.

Our duties as to Canada are relatively simple by comparison with the difficulties we face when we look to the south. We have, of course, cordial relations with Canada. Recently we affirmed our intention of defending her against aggression. But defense, obviously, will require the most precisely defined coordination to eliminate such confusion as hampered the Allies when Belgium was invaded.

Our pledge to defend the nations to the south involves this and vastly more. There, too, it is impossible to see how we can fulfill our responsibilities unless we have detailed military alliances providing for actual means of joining forces in case of an invasion. But this is only the beginning of our problem. How military ques-

tions shade into commercial and financial questions is amply illustrated by a dispatch of Frank L. Kluckhohn in The New York Times of May 31. Mr. Kluckhohn reports that no inconsiderable number of the commercial airplanes operating in Latin America are owned by German companies and operated by German-born pilots. Those in Ecuador cause immediate concern to us because they are so near the Panama Canal. We are told that they have been favorably regarded by the authorities because of “free rides” and the like.

Writing on this page in October 1938, I said that no trade policy oriented to the isolation, poverty and desperation of many of the Latin-American countries would yield permanent political or economic returns. “The United States cannot win security in Latin America by compounding the attempts of Germany, Japan and the others to play one country off against the other and to keep them all on a commodity-exporting, consumers’-goods-importing basis. Latin America wants the means for industrialization...[which] is the only effective way of protecting [her]...from wretched subservience to European and Asiatic countries. Certainly we will simply drive her further into the harness of Germany, Italy and Japan if we insist on competing with her grain, meat and cotton at the same moment that we try to ram more knickknacks down her throat...Something bold and new is in order.”

The price of failure to apply “something bold and new” is suggested by the explosive situation in Mexico. William R. Mathews, editor of The Arizona Daily Star, who has recently visited Mexico, reports on that situation as follows:

Mexico is literally eating her seed corn. Strikes and lockouts have discouraged desperately needed industrial expansion. Oil expropriations have transformed what used to be one-third of the government’s revenue into a deficit of a million pesos a month. The transportation system has begun to break down.

Intensifying this economic crisis, Mathews continues, is a most serious political crisis. A Presidential election is set for July 7. The strength of General Almazán, the candidate running in opposition to the government’s candidate, General Camacho, is growing daily. The rumor that Almazán will be counted out and that he will not accept defeat in a fraudulent election is freely circulating throughout Mex-

NEWSWEEK JUNE 10, 1940

ico. But even if Almazán accepts defeat, Camacho will have to reverse many of President Cárdenas’ policies to meet the economic crisis. At this point, certain labor leaders may start trouble. Workers and agrarians have been and are being armed. Resentment against this in the regular army threatens an uprising of some kind if Cárdenas should exercise his emergency powers to postpone the bitterly contested election. There is a good chance of trouble in any event.

Meantime, it is reported that Nazi activity in Mexico is being masked behind the screen of the Communist front. It is “common gossip” that “anti-Yankee” sentiment is being stirred up by foreign agents and deliberately exploited by various political leaders. “Fires have been started that cannot be put out by the garden hose of peaceful procedure,” Mathews concludes. “Without American help, conditions in Mexico will get worse...The extreme patience of Washington is misunderstood...as a sign of weakness...”

Our diplomatic representatives in Latin America are the men upon whom a large part of the burden of cementing the new relationships will fall. Many of them are wholly admirable human beings. But, in most cases, their habits of thought were shaped in a world that is gone. Sinister ideologies have been insinuated into Latin-American countries by techniques new to American life. At this critical moment, we need the most astute representation abroad that this country can find, and we need, in Washington, the energy and intelligence to direct it realistically. Certainly our good old practice of sending lush campaign contributors to foreign posts is as dangerous as the Civil War habit of turning Northern politicians into generals overnight. Our silly tradition about the unimportance of diplomatic jobs is a joke on no one but ourselves. It is about time we began to respect the able men in our career service—men like J. P. Moffatt, whom we have just sent to Canada—and insisted upon getting more of them to represent us.

But above all, we cannot continue to believe that moral preachments and expressions of good will, however sincere, will do the job. Remember that we have, by legislation, increased the costs of manufacturing some of the goods we have to sell Latin America; that some of our government leaders have been telling the world that our businessmen are short-sighted, rapacious and inimical to the democratic process; that fast German ships took away business from an American merchant marine starved because of parsimonious and halting government assistance. Only if government and business work and plan together can we offer Latin America the prospect of growing into a strong, balanced economic organism. And unless we do, there is no security against her falling under foreign influences.