Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Roosevelt and Dewey-V
by RAYMOND MOLEY

THAT "every boy and every gal that's
born into the world alive is either a
little Liberal or else a little Conservative" is all right for Gilbert and Sullivan, but is no explanation of the political ideas of Dewey and Roosevelt. Both men were shaped by the circumstances in which they attained eminence.
F.D.R. and Dewey — like Tilden, Cleveland, T.R., and Hughes — had found that pounding Tammany's hide in New York quickened the blood of all America as drums affect the natives of the Congo. Tammany was thus, in a negative manner, the real Warwick in American politics.
If there had been no depression and if F.D.R. had not succeeded Alfred E. Smith as governor, it is hard to believe Roosevelt would have been a notable critic of business. As Smith's successor, he inherited a feud with private public utilities and carried on Smith's crusade for greater government control of electrical power. He had taken from T.R.'s book a vital interest in conservation. His interest in agriculture arose from the fact that in order to win in Dutchess County he had to turn to the farm vote. And the financial evils revealed in the boom and bust era tossed a wonderful issue onto his lap.
Hoover's failure sold F.D.R. the farm program rejected by successive Republican administrations. Roosevelt's regulation of the issuance and sale of securities was a remedy for recently revealed scandals. His NRA was literally handed to him after others had thought it up. His ideas about a more flexible currency came from the pressure of agriculture, of populistic Western senators, of rubber-money theorists like Irving Fisher and George Warren, and of a deep distrust of bankers generally. The immense political advantage of spending intrigued him as soon as he saw it work.
Thus, the New Deal was not a plan but an accumulation.

DEWEY'S philosophy has measurably been created by the circumstances of his time. As a Republican he found himself opposed to F.D.R. and the New Deal. He could not have risen in his party unless he revealed sharp opposition. But in the past ten years it has been out of the question for a Republican who hopes to be elected to be too closely identified with the pre-1933 Republican Party. Ideologically, Dewey has resolved this dilemma by accepting the major changes in national policy in the past fifteen years as inherent in the times and not as purely party matters.
The clearest portrayal of Dewey's philosophy is found in his San Francisco speech of 1944, in his 1947 inaugural in Albany and in his recent acceptance speech in Philadelphia. In San Francisco he pointed out that inventive genius has changed not only our way of life but our attitude toward the broad role of government. The problem is how to attain personal security without losing freedom through government oppression. Labor should have freedom to bargain collectively, while management should be entitled to pursue legitimate profit. Taxes and regulations must be designed to encourage larger production. But we must reconcile ourselves to broad economic regulation.

SPECIFICALLY, Dewey named four fields in which government must hold a paramount interest. In finance, government must control interest rate. In industry, government must protect the worker by unemployment insurance, old-age pensions, and minimum-wage laws. And government must see that there should never again be mass unemployment and must, if necessary, provide work through government expenditures. Dewey pointed out that laissez-faire is impossible in agriculture; that government support must prevent extreme fluctuation of farm prices.
Above all, he stressed the essential nature of unity. In his 1947 inaugural and in his Philadelphia acceptance speech he returned to this theme. These indications of Dewey's principles are, of course, broad. But in practice he will be found to hold a fairly stiff attitude toward business as well as toward labor. He has been greatly irritated in the past six years by some business lobbies in Albany. He will probably break fewer heads and will speak more softly than did T.R., but he, too, will carry a big stick.

Newsweek, September 20, 1948
Page 461 of 1201