Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


TODAY IN AMERICA
By Raymond Moley

Vanishing Armada

THE President was on sound ground
last week when he called attention
to the deplorable condition of America's
merchant marine. Something must be
done about it, and done quickly, or it
will vanish as completely as the han-
som cab and interurban railway.

The history of the merchant marine
over the past twenty years stands un-
matched as a homily on the vice of a
partnership arrangement between gov-
ernment and private business. When
the war clouds broke in 1917, Ameri-
cans suddenly awoke to the fact that
only 9 per cent of their goods were be-
ing shipped in American bottoms. Then
there began, after years of neglect, one
of the most desperate efforts to build
ships quickly that the world had seen
since the Spanish Armada. A govern-
ment-owned merchant fleet was created
out of nothing, at a cost of $3,000,000,-
000. But after a short and expensive
attempt to operate it, the government
sold the ships, many of them obsolete,
jerry-built and impracticable, for pri-
vate use at bargain prices.

In 1928, the first step toward a re-
placement of this fleet by properly built
and manned ships under private owner-
ship was made. The Jones-White Act
of that year provided government loans
and subsidies to foster the building and
maintenance of ships in the face of
foreign competition. But the Act was
defective. The subsidies it granted were
hypocritically disguised as mail con-
tracts, a fact which ultimately en-
couraged abuses on the part of several
lines. The government aid provided was
too small for companies which might
profitably have built and too large for
other companies which built not at all,
but used their money to maintain lines
of bargain ships purchased from the
government. Besides, the Act arbitrari-
ly provided that the aid given must be
computed on an inflexible basis, mak-
ing no allowance for the fact that some
of the ships involved were competing
with European and others with Oriental
vessels.

TO A large extent, therefore, the
stimulus given by the Jones Act to
shipping was false and misleading. Still,
certain benefits did come of it. Thirty-
two fine American ships were built in
American yards. American lines, de-
spite the depression, stayed on the sea,
retained a large part of their personnel,
maintained regular service for Ameri-
can commerce and held some of the


patronage of shippers here and abroad.
Meanwhile, the job of maintaining
our merchant marine has been vastly
complicated by the activities of other
countries. Italy, Germany, France,
England, Japan and, more recently,
some of the smaller countries, have
pushed their own merchant marines
aggressively. Enormous subsidies have
been provided, and competition has ex-
tended not only to transatlantic and
transpacific transportation, but into
South American trade routes where
splendid, new German freight steamers
are competing effectively for business
formerly carried almost exclusively in
American bottoms. Great Britain in
particular has recently subsidized her
tramp fleet, much of which carries com-
merce wholly foreign to Great Britain
and her dominions.

BECAUSE he was thoroughly aware
of these facts, President Roosevelt,
in 1935, called upon Congress for a new
deal for the American merchant ma-
rine. After protracted discussions and
investigations, an Act was finally passed
in 1936 which terminates, as of June
30, 1937, all of the 43 mail contracts
made under the Act of 1928. Its pro-
fessed purpose is to make possible the
building of ships in the United States
and their operation by American com-
panies under the American flag. And
since American shipbuilding and oper-
ating costs are greater than abroad,
the Act provides for subsidy out of
public funds. In a sense, this subsidy is
a tariff for ships and their operation
which is basically the same as tariffs
created for the benefit of other indus-
tries. Subsidies will vary, of course, ac-
cording to differences in cost between
American and foreign-built vessels.

The intent embodied in this Act was
good. But the cold fact is that Senato-
rial critics of the merchant marine at-
tached so many restrictive amendments
to the Act that the job of enforcing it
borders on the impossible unless it is
substantially amended again. Some
provisions attached to it by Senatorial
critics can be understood only in terms
of a desire ultimately to drive private
enterprise out of shipping entirely and
to set up a huge government owned
and operated merchant fleet.

Most conspicuous of the defects of
the Act are the limitations it places
upon the new Maritime Commission
with regard to the development of a
labor policy for American shipping.
The Act gives the Commission only the
right to fix minimum wages. The Com-
mission has no authority to prevent

strikes or slowdown tactics or to en-
force discipline at sea.

IT GOES without saying that the tra-
ditions of the sea concerning storm,
fire and other emergencies require,
above all, thoroughly loyal and dis-
ciplined crews. None of the enlightened
shipping companies quarrels with the
principle of collective bargaining or of
adequate wages. But to leave compa-
nies at the mercy of such irresponsible
labor leaders as have appeared in some
shipping-labor controversies during the
past two years invites complete paraly-
sis of shipping.

The requirement in the Act that all
ships be built in American yards also
raises serious questions. Obviously, be-
cause of the character of the business,
there can be very few shipbuilding
companies in this country. This con-
dition encourages monopolistic tenden-
cies, and one of the toughest jobs of the
new Commission will be to bring the
cost of shipbuilding down to a point
where private capital can be attracted
into the operating business.

The Maritime Commission under the
leadership of Mr. Joseph P. Kennedy,
its Chairman, has made it clear to
shipping companies that it will be a
hard master. But in the long run it will
be best for our merchant marine if the
Commission distinguishes sharply be-
tween those companies that are sincere-
ly trying to operate in the public inter-
est and those whose past methods make
the legitimacy and desirability of gov-
ernment aid doubtful. Fortunately,
the preliminary moves of the Commis-
sion give no indication that, like certain
fire-eaters in the Senate, it intends to
drive shipping completely into govern-
ment ownership. And there is every
reason to suppose that it will frankly
recommend legitimate amendments to
Congress as the defects of the Act
grow apparent.

Finally, the Commission must sell
the American people on the importance
of a merchant marine. The vast ma-
jority of the population of this country
lives inland, and it is far from easy to
make a citizen of the Mississippi Valley
understand why some of his taxes
ought to be used to maintain a mer-
chant marine. The fact that a mer-
chant marine is essential to our na-
tional defense as well as to the mainte-
nance of our foreign trade must be
demonstrated effectively. Many "smart"
people nowadays seem to feel that it
is more chic to travel on one of the
great liners of Italy, France, Germany
or England than on our own ships. Our
own diplomatic officials, unfortunately,
are conspicuous offenders in this re-
spect. If we are to have an American
merchant marine, Americans must rec-
ognize it as an essential part of their
duty to their own country to believe in
it, to support it and to patronize it.

June 19, 1937