Here's a text version of the article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and layout:


**Reparations for Whom?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

One result of requiring Germany
to pay reparations "in kind" will be a
multiplication of the applicants for a
share. The nations will line up at the
door of the peace conference like
housewives at a butchershop with a
new supply of steak. There will be
need for much policing to prevent disorder in the queue.

Hollanders have proposed a "mile-by-mile" claim which would annex
from Germany land equal in area to
that flooded by the Germans in the
war. The Dutch say that the flooded
land will be useless for years
to come. German residents
of the ceded territory would
be transferred to Germany.
Yugoslavs and Greeks will
want not manpower or territory, but agricultural and
handicraft tools from Germany.

Denmark, Norway and
other sea-faring nations will
claim a share in what is
left of the German merchant
marine to replace losses to German
submarines.

Polish claims will present a problem almost as complicated as her
boundary question. Her claim is certainly founded on a vast amount of
destruction.

France will claim restitution of
looted and devastated property. If
France controls the Ruhr, a problem
similar to that in Silesia will emerge.
German goods for Russia and other
claimants will have to be turned out
under French supervision.

The reconciliation of British and
Russian claims on Germany will take
plenty of diplomacy. The British interest in what is done with Germany
differs in an essential respect from
that of Russia. Britain has suffered
cruelly from V-weapons—a form of
warfare still in its primitive form. The
capacity of Germany to perfect and
produce such weapons must be destroyed if England is to live. That
means that the British interest is not
so much in German products or German
manpower as it is in German impotence. England's critical need for
an expanded foreign trade means,
moreover, that she will require protection from German economic competition.

with Germany's military impotence,
but her interest is in a productive industrial Germany turning out the products needed in Russia. Russia made
great military sacrifices to capture the
Rumanian oil fields intact. Care has
been taken not injure the Silesian industrial competition in this generation,
at any rate. Her concern is the capacity of Germany to produce for Russia now.

Last, but certainly not least, what
is the interest of the United States in
all this? President Roosevelt, in his report to Congress, did not go beyond a
mere statement that reparations in kind would be exacted. He did not indicate
that we shall claim reparations for ourselves. He also
failed to mention the idea
of reparations in manpower.
But our influence in the
reparations commission
which will work in Moscow
will be important. It may even be
decisive, considering the conflicting
claims of all the other Allies.

Since our government has not yet
indicated what it has in mind as to
our claims, it seems probable that we
shall ask little in material reparations.
Our concern is mainly in a stable and
peaceful Europe and that includes a
thoroughly harmless Germany. We
shall have important trading relations
with Russia, but these will hardly be
impaired by the materials given to
Russia by Germany. The Russians will
get free machinery from Germany, but
that machinery will be less efficient
than what they can buy from us. And
Russia will have ample raw materials
to pay us back.

An expanding Russian industry will
hardly provide serious competition for
us for many years. So our chief interest in the whole problem of reparations will be to conciliate conflicts
among our Allies and in the distribution of what Germany is able to give
to compensate, however inadequate-
ly, those nations which have seen at
firsthand their industries, homes and
natural resources beaten into ruin. In
the long run we shall, if we do this
with patience and generosity, win a
material as well as a spiritual reward.
For our ultimate interest is in trade
with those Allies in a peaceful world.