'This Is Our Problem'

by RAYMOND MOLEY

In the current Harvard Business Review, Edward C. Bursk makes a point which should be noted by people who talk about "free enterprise." He suggests that, while the two glowing words "free" and "enterprise" excite justified pride in the bosom of a successful manager, they may, when used by him, elicit disconcerting questions among workers and consumers: "Whose freedom?" "Whose enterprise?"

This is because a slogan or definition is inevitably conceived in terms of the interest of the person who hears it. The worker and consumer are skeptical about freedom when that concept is exercised to raise prices or lower wages.

Two years ago, a joint committee of the Association of National Advertisers and the American Association of Advertising Agencies set out to make known, or "sell" if you will, the system which has produced the goods.

The committee describes its objective as the "improvement of public understanding of our economic system." Don Belding is full-time chairman.

Any thoughtful person realizes that a large part of what we preach about freedom and constitutional government and the like is wasted. People believe in the concrete. An American automobile elicits more interest among Russians than all our talk about our system. The usefulness of such a job as the joint committee faces is to make it clear that there is a relationship between our material products and the system which creates them. If that can be done, the committee will have made a lasting contribution.

In defining our economic system, the committee has avoided old shibboleths. It says: "No economic system is a natural law. Every system is man-made." Ours is "neither inevitable nor necessarily permanent." Beneath the evolutionary development of our system are five basic principles: private property, a free market, profit and wage incentives, competition and government regulation—not government control.

The committee then proceeds on the idea that the safety and stability of the system rest on elaborating and clarifying those principles and on making the public understand them. It seems that the American people want the things the system gives them. And it can be proved that no other system can provide them in like amount.

Ken Wells, director of the committee's operations, makes the point that management needs just as much education as labor. There are, he says, 1,200,000 people receiving good full-time pay for leadership in industry. But despite this, we are not as productive as we should be, and our operations are constantly frustrated by misunderstanding and strife. Somewhere along the line, communications between the boss and the bench have broken down. It is the job of the joint committee to provide the means—the creative and research facilities—of rebuilding mutual knowledge.

The committee, having devised its educational material, proposes to aim at individual plants—managers and workers alike—and at the general public. It plans to use advertisements, booklets, motion pictures and radio. A vital feature of the operation of the committee is a 30-minute color sound-slide film called "This Is Our Problem," which tells the essential educational story. It is directed at management and aims at prompting the people who run industry to take part in an exchange of information.

A follow-up program is a completely detailed "plan for action," which outlines from the ground up the method of conducting programs for economic education and for what the committee calls man-to-man management.

It seems to me that the most impressive feature of the methods and philosophy adopted by the committee is its effort to find and to make clear the greatest number of facts and opinions upon which all groups in our economy can agree. It is then possible to move into those areas where there is controversy. This is a shrewd appraisal of the democratic process. Democracy, according to John Dewey, is the enlargement of the area of "shared concerns."

Newsweek, May 17, 1948