Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to preserve the column structure:


**"Ramshackle Paradise"**

by Raymond Moley


IT IS not unusual in American families for Mother to pack a box of goodies with a bottle of vitamins for the son or daughter who is away at college. I would suggest to those mothers and fathers, too—that in the next consignment there be tucked a slim volume by Max Eastman entitled "Reflections on the Failure of Socialism." Thus with wholesome nourishment for the body there will be something good for the mind.

It is high time to challenge the old saw that, like measles or chicken pox, the infection of socialism is inevitable among the young. There could be no better antigen against that infection than this book. To read it reflectively would clear the way for the student to be done with illusions and to get on with the business of life.

This is no tract of disillusion and self-pity. Max Eastman was no sad young man in the '20s when his contemporaries were moping around asking whether there was any meaning in the world. He is no stuffy captive of reminiscence at 72. The book is in good humor, replete with common sense adorned with sparkling writing.

It is the story of a gifted American's long journey from illusion to the Holy Grail at home where there is liberty along with private property and individual striving.

People are drawn into Marxism for a variety of reasons. Aneurin Bevan was a young miner in South Wales, and he conceived a malignant hatred for the incompetence and poverty he saw around him. "My concern," he wrote many years later, "was with the one practical question, where does power lie and how can it be attained by the workers?" His bitterness toward the economic system extended later to all of the revered traditions of Britain, even the architecture and manner of speech of the House of Commons.

Max Eastman says: "I had no personal envies or resentments; I was happily circumstanced and wisely brought up; I thought of myself as free. I wanted to extend that freedom to all men…" He was without rancor in his revolt against tradition. There is no rancor in his revolt against revolt.


He was the son of Congregational ministers and was well educated. He had everything an American might want except great wealth.

As editor of "The Masses," he became the leading American delineator and supporter of the Bolshevik revolution: "The monumental practicality, the resolute factuality, of Lenin's mind…swept me off my feet…I still think [Lenin's "The Soviets at Work"] one of the noblest—and now saddest—of political documents."

Then in 1922 Eastman sailed for Russia "to find out whether what I have been saying is true." For a time even after that visit he thought it was true, but with the successors of Lenin he saw the dream turn to nightmare. His belief in Marxism crumbled away with his dawning realization that there was something utterly irrational in the doctrine that even partial democracy must be given up and supplanted by an interim of ruthless tyranny before perfect democracy could come. He could not believe that the road to brotherhood need be stained by fraternal blood.

Some years later even a frail belief in what some call benign socialism vanished because it became evident to Eastman that it was built upon the false concept that the human desire for possession, for private property, could be eradicated from the minds of men. His "ramshackle paradise" fell of its own weight. There survived his present healthy belief that "the institution of private property, the dispersion of power and importance that goes with it, has been a main factor in producing that limited amount of free-and-equalness which Marx hoped to render infinite by abolishing this institution."


EASTMAN concludes that Lenin's "honest, bold, loyal, and within its limits extremely highbrow attempt to produce through common ownership a society of the Free and Equal, produced a tyrant and a totalitarian state…I think any wise Socialist, viewing this sequence in the light of what we know and Lenin did not know about human nature…will be inclined to reconsider his assumptions."

Newsweek, April 25, 1955