Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns and omitting the advertisement:

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Far Eastern Policy

The shifting sands of our Far
Eastern policy seem to have shifted two
or three times again last week, judging by
the news about Guam. First came a pro-
posal from the Secretary of the Navy to
spend five million dollars dredging the
Guam Harbor, building a breakwater and
providing certain building improvements
for its aviation field. Then came the Presi-
dent's statement, through Secretary Early,
that he had not read the proposed authori-
zation but that his views were substan-
tially embodied in an article by Walter
Lippmann.

(Examination of Mr. Lippmann's article
indicated that it expressed the following
sentiments; that Japan has already estab-
lished naval bases at some of her man-
dated islands in the neighborhood of
Guam and that, consequently, since she
has thus violated her treaty obligations,
Congress might well sanction the Adminis-
tration's doing likewise by authorizing the
fortification of Guam; and that the Presi-
dent might use such a Congressional
authorization as a club in negotiating with
Japan for a mutual agreement about the
whole question.)

Shortly after this, according to press re-
ports, an authoritative explanation of the
President's position was given out else-
where. This held that he would approve
only improvements for commercial pur-
poses at Guam. And finally, in his press
conference Friday, the President endorsed
the Navy Department's suggestions but
pointed out that "authorization" of an
expenditure is not an appropriation and
that changes in the international situation
might make it unnecessary to go through
with the broad program of which the
Guam improvements are a part.

The significance of this mix-up is sug-
gested by an examination of the map.
Guam is 4,000 miles from Hawaii. It is
only 1,800 miles from Yokohama and only
1,200 miles from Japanese fortifications on
the Bonin Islands. If to fortify Guam
means to hold it in the face of a possible
Japanese attack, then not five million but
200 million dollars will be required, to-
gether with gigantic readjustments in all
of our naval plans. Such a step would
mean that we were permanently and ir-
revocably embarked upon a policy of
standing guard against Japanese advances
toward Southeastern Asia.

And so the Guam imbroglio opens up
the whole question of our Far Eastern
policy.

We now know enough about the diplo-
matic history of the past forty years to
see this policy in a new light. Its modern
phase began with the romantic adventure
in imperialism that resulted in our acquisi-
tion of the Philippine Islands. We seem
to have acquired them first and then to
have thought up reasons for holding them
after—reasons which the passage of time
did precious little to justify.

Shortly after the acquisition of the Phil-
ippines, John Hay developed the Open
Door policy, hailed at its inception as a
noble gesture in a naughty world. But
after ten years of the Open Door policy,
Theodore Roosevelt, then out of office,
admitted that, while it was excellent in
theory, it was preposterous in fact be-
cause we could not maintain it if a de-
termined nation decided to close the door.
We now know how right he was.

The Open Door, in realistic diplo-
macy, was useful to us as a concept only
so long as our economic interests in China
transcended the economic interests which
would be sacrificed through resistance to
Japan. In an intelligent study of the Far
Eastern policy of the United States re-
cently published, Professor A. Whitney
Griswold has shown how persistently our
economic interests in China have failed
to keep up with our sentimental sympa-
thies for her. Griswold's figures indicate
that from 1931 to 1935 an annual average
of 19 per cent of the total foreign trade
of the United States was with the Far
East. In round numbers, this 19 per cent
of the total foreign trade meant $724,-
500,000. And of this sum, 43 per cent
represented American trade with Japan,
18 per cent with the Philippines and 14
per cent with China and Hong Kong. Besides, from 1912 to 1935 our investments
in the Far East rose from 100 million dol-
lars to 750 million dollars and, of these in-
vestments, 387 million were in Japan, 151
million in the Philippines and 132 million
in China. Thus, financially as well as com-
mercially, Japan far exceeds China in im-
portance to us. Mr. Griswold's conclusion
is inescapable: these figures show that it
would be "a gratuitous calculation that
rated the Open Door in China an Ameri-
can interest of vital importance."

All of these facts are well known to the
American bankers and businessmen. But
this has not prevented successive Adminis-
trations—notably that of Hoover—from
pursuing a policy directly calculated to
destroy our commercial relations with Ja-
pan. In the process of rationalizing this
course, we have jumped from one shib-
boleth to another, the most recent of
which has to do with the "territorial in-
tegrity" of China.

To speak of territorial integrity in con-
nection with a region on the earth's sur-
face where orderly government has scarce-
ly existed for centuries is to substitute
mythology for statesmanship. And to as-
sume that the American people will rise
up in defense of China's integrity is plain
ignorance. No American can help but be
horrified at the barbarities Japan is com-
mitting in that region. But to recognize
this is not to imply that an Administra-
tion seeking to go beyond moral and
ideological attacks upon Japan would find
public support for its chivalry. In this, as
in many other respects, America merely
prefers to indulge in the luxury of talking
out loud. It has no intention of imple-
menting its talk with action.

So it would seem that in the pres-
ent situation, when we are quite properly
spending good American dollars to defend
our own substantial interests in a world
full of dangers, we should hesitate to
abandon a policy which regards Hawaii as
our extreme Western frontier.

Yet statesmanship apparently never
moves on any such clear-cut and logical
line of action. It permits itself to be com-
mitted to one thing after another by way
of exception to a fixed policy until it finds
itself faced with the necessity of defend-
ing a position which, in the beginning, it
never intended to take. This has most cer-
tainly been true of our foreign policy in
the past six years. Now we have come to
the pass where the Administration as a
whole and our diplomacy in particular are
sharply divided not only over our policy
in the Far East but over our policy in
South America and Europe as well. The
words of Mr. Roosevelt in his recent mes-
sage, while not very clear, certainly spelled
out a foreign policy with which a potent
number of his own subordinates are not
in sympathy.

Sin, international as individual,
will go on in this imperfect world and,
while we may regret it, there are limits
to what we can do about it unless we
want to go to war. Unfortunately, such
considerations have little effect in deter-
ring some of our citizens from active ef-
forts to push us beyond those limits. Take,
for instance, the organization, last week,
of an "American Committee for Non-
Participation in Japan's Aggression," headed by former Secretary of State Henry L.
Stimson, the purpose of which apparently
is to promote not only a private boycott
against Japan, but legislation prohibiting
the sale of various vital articles to her. To
me it suggests nothing so much as the
need of this country for a Committee for
the Promotion of Minding Our Own
Darned Business.