Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlapping text.  Note that some formatting is lost in the conversion.

**West Coast Republican Politics**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

SAN FRANCISCO—Current political
interest on the West Coast concerning
the Presidential prospects for 1944 is
largely confined to Republican candidates, since it is generally believed
here that Mr. Roosevelt will run again.
Specifically, interest centers in Wendell Willkie and Gov. Earl Warren.
The following observations and facts
are based upon many conversations
with informed people in Portland, Sacramento and San Francisco. These include Governor Warren himself and
Mr. Ralph H. Cake of Portland, who
has let it be known that he is to be
Mr. Willkie's pre-convention manager.

Mr. Willkie is well known on the
West Coast and has a great many
friends here. He is stronger in Oregon
than in California and will probably
have the delegation from that state.
He is also strong in the state of Washington, although in that state Dewey
is a great favorite. The chief concern
of Mr. Willkie's friends, however, is
whether he can get the big delegation
from California. Their anxiety about
it is pronounced for the simple reason
that, as things now look in the East,
Mr. Willkie will get none of the big
states except possibly Massachusetts,
Indiana and Wisconsin. He will get
votes from some of them, of course,
but in no case a majority. His first-
ballot strength must, therefore, be
based upon the small offerings of many
little states, which are hard to get and
hard to hold. Hence, the sharp concern about California's 50 votes.

Mr. Willkie's chances to get those
votes have never been good since Earl
Warren was elected governor in 1942
with a thumping majority. If ever a
state had a favorite son, California has
one in Earl Warren. His popularity as
governor parallels that of Dewey in
New York. But because he has repeatedly said that he is not seeking the
Presidency, several agents of Mr. Willkie and, later, Mr. Willkie himself
have been out here looking around.

At this point, the curious nature of
the California primary law complicates
the picture. When a candidate enters,
his name goes on the ballot, and a list
of delegates goes on file with the election authorities. Thus, if Mr. Willkie
should enter, his friends would have
to pick a list of Californians as Willkie
delegates. Governor Warren, as the
state's chief Republican, would either
have to go on as a Willkie delegate,
run as a candidate himself, or not be
a delegate at all. Needless to say, the
Willkie people would be glad to put
the Governor on their delegation. But
he could not accept that arrangement,
since he would have no real control
over what the delegation might do
with respect to the principles and policies for which his state would stand at
the national convention. This is important because, as Governor Warren
points out, there are many things for
the next convention to do other than
to select a candidate for President.
California properly wants a hand in
the formulation of national party policies in years when the great Pacific
war is of vital importance to the state.
The only way that Governor Warren
can head and direct the California delegation, get his state proper recognition in the national deliberations of
his party and still keep his independence in the choice of a candidate is to
permit his own name to be filed as a
Presidential candidate and to see that
a list of delegates satisfactory to him
is filed at the same time. And that, in
my opinion, is exactly what he is going
to do.

Mr. Willkie's chances of getting
the delegation have not been helped
by the strategy and methods of his
friends out here. The spreaders of the
Willkie gospel here are not particularly attractive to the friends of Warren.
To make matters worse, Mr. Willkie,
when he was here, failed, in the opinion of the governor's friends, to give
recognition to the fact that the party
of which Mr. Willkie is a member is
led here by Warren. Something very
close to the incident in the Hughes
campaign, in which Hiram Johnson
was slighted, has taken place. And
that cost Hughes the election.

If Mr. Willkie decides to enter
against Warren, there will be one of
the fiercest intra-party state scraps in
history. The press and, in the main,
county and city organizations will be
overwhelmingly on Warren's side.
Something else will be on Warren's
side: California is proud of her position as a sovereign state. If Mr. Willkie
should come out here and try to push
California's governor around, he might
find that he was pushing the state
around as well. Wise people don't
try that.