Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Destiny Becomes Manifest

Time was—just forty years ago—when the Democratic party thought anti-imperialism of sufficient importance to use it as the chief issue in a campaign. Now it hopes to win an election by a move more bold, more far-reaching and more imperialistic than the war against Spain. That is not entirely because it was Bryan then and Roosevelt now. The tide of empire seems to move westward despite all the contrivings of politicians. For several years the inevitability of an American Empire has been clear to those who would stop and think a moment. Now it is clear to everyone—even to those “intellectuals” who spent decades contemptuously laughing at the concept of “manifest destiny.” They are in the vanguard of our march today—these scoffers. And whether we will it or not, this child of liberty, this refuge of the oppressed has taken up the imperial ensign.

Perhaps when destiny beckons it is futile to discuss the egregious legalism by which an Attorney General can set aside the law in the case of the destroyers. Certainly the public makes no objection. Cicero described such acquiescence when another empire was born: “Laws are dumb in the midst of arms.” Newfoundland, England’s oldest colony in America, and most of the mother country’s strategic southern islands are ours to dominate if we wish. All western history rolls past at this poignant gesture of Great Britain. And yet this is only a beginning, for we have come to realize, at last, that the defense of a continent is an imperial role.

Whoever is elected this year, the future will be the same. Our triumphs push us toward imperialism because our triumphs in industry and conservation make us rich, and riches need powerful defense. But our blunders push us toward imperialism too, because our diplomacy has left us in a world of enemies. Will our good neighbors to the south refuse to defend themselves? We must gently compel them to do so. Will Mexico persist in chaos? We cannot permit it. Will Canada be the refuge of an imperial retreat of arms and ships? Canada, refuge or no refuge, we have promised to defend.

Whether we drift into imperial responsibilities, as Britain did, or rush into them, we shall make mistakes. So have all our predecessors in the history of world affairs. But the greatest mistake we can make may come from a refusal to acknowledge what we are doing. Our scepter is not “on order.” It has been delivered. We have signed the receipt for it. Let us not cloak it in hypocrisy.

Our next step involves a basic choice. Rome, as it grew into an empire, surrendered liberty at home. Democracy vanished. Autocracy took its place. In curious contrast, Britain, as its empire grew, granted more liberty at home. Rome began with a popular government and ended with the Caesars. Britain began with a powerful monarch and ended with a responsible cabinet. We can do as Rome did or as Britain did. We can fasten a yoke around the neck of our own people as we accept the burdens of imperialism or we can limit executive power and executive tenure of office. The choice is ours, and the choice is simple. But it is one of the most momentous that this nation will ever make.

Is Willkie Slipping?

Back in the East, after nearly a month in the Far West, I was amazed to find a pother of talk about how the Willkie candidacy has been slipping. Whether or not this kind of political dope is accurate, it may seriously hurt Willkie’s chances if it acts on the country at large as it’s been acting here. So it bears looking into.

Here is the criticism of the Willkie candidacy by informed Easterners, reported candidly and objectively for those who read this page. It is criticism out of the mouths of friendly supporters—not of New Deal opponents. Summed up, it comes to three charges:

1—Mr. Willkie’s organization, it is said, is inadequate to carry through the two months of a bitterly contested campaign for the Presidency. Seasoned politicians are being lightly tossed aside because, it is said, they belong to “The Old Guard.” The same disdain for practical experience that the New Deal has generally shown in making appointments characterizes the appointments of Willkie in his political organization. People essential to the winning of the election are being slighted. The Willkie research organization is slow on its feet and incapable of describing political and economic facts in the kind of vivid, dynamic, unforgettable language that fires the imagination of people on the street. Chairman Martin is engrossed with Congressional matters when a more than full-time job awaits him at headquarters.

2—Mr. Willkie himself has talked too much and has not always carefully considered the consequences of his daily nubbin of news. He cannot successfully answer everybody who chooses to attack him and should therefore restrict himself to answering the President. He is concerning himself too much with relatively minor issues as they crop up in the news. Consequently he is tiring himself out at a moment when he needs to husband the last ounce of his strength. His acceptance speech, for instance, was delivered when he was tired, and this was in no small part the reason why it was not as well delivered as it could have been.

3—All these things, plus the complaints they have caused, have produced the beginnings of defeatism among Willkie supporters. Many of the stout hearts beating under Willkie buttons are already beginning to miss an occasional beat. The zip and vim of popular Willkie support is slipping away in an atmosphere of tepid hope and gnawing fear.

This is the diagnosis of the East. What is it worth? Well, Phil Hanna, the brilliant Chicago journalist, has an answer to part of it. Willkie supporters, he says, are unwittingly parroting talk which emanated, in the first place, from New Deal sources. This is undoubtedly true. The New Deal strategy against Willkie has always been to talk about his candidacy as a flash in the pan. It is one of the most effective methods of political controversy. If you cannot ignore your opponent, you must try to pooh-pooh him through friendly columnists, through apparently artless press-club and dinner-table conversation and through party pronouncements. Thus you may produce the very sentiment you say already exists.

Beyond this there is the fact that the most astute politicians recommended that Willkie stand pat for approximately four weeks after his acceptance speech. Obviously the enthusiasm that swept him into the nomination could not be expected to grow unabated until the November election. There had to be a period of quiescence, and it was better to have that period come during August and early September than to risk a reaction later.

But when all this has been said, there remain criticisms which have not been answered. The public has been permitted to get only a blurry picture of generalized opposition to the New Deal from Willkie’s candidacy. It has not been given a clear idea of what the government will be like with Willkie at the head of it. The large issues have not been boldly drawn. The supremely important issue of the third term has not yet been stated in forcible terms to the man in the street. The accumulated wisdom of politicians who have been through campaigns over the years has been too much ignored.

This week will tell whether there are answers to these criticisms. At Coffeyville, Kan., on the 16th, Mr. Willkie will either electrify the country or electrocute his candidacy.