Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Americanism in Our Schools

A legislative subcommittee investigating subversive activities in the New York City schools is unearthing plenty of disturbing information. Brooklyn College, an institution of higher learning supported by the city at an annual cost of over $2,000,000, appears to have been infested with Communistic activity. A faculty member has admitted his own past membership in the Communist party and has named a number of his colleagues who were likewise members. This group of faculty members, he goes on to state, made up a little Communist "cell."

At these same hearings the president of the college testified that, when he took office a year ago, a minority group of students consisting of Communists, fellow travelers and "transmission belt" members had gained control of the so-called student government. As his efforts to minimize their influence progressed, he was subjected to systematic harassment. This organized student minority, which used the college as a sort of sounding board for Communist propaganda, was itself being used, according to his testimony, by persons and organizations outside the college for the exploitation of Communist ideas.

In short, a small, virulent group in this particular public institution has been able to carry on propaganda designed to destroy the form of government that makes public education possible. Thus democracy provides the funds and the battle-ground for its own destruction.

The facts so far uncovered by the New York City investigation have implications that are important to every community in the United States. This is not to say or even to suggest that Communists have gained a foothold in a majority of our school systems. But it is to say that the New York City investigation ought to bring into focus a number of the questions plaguing thoughtful parents throughout the country.

For example, it puts in wholly new perspective a controversy that began three years ago in the New York school system. An exceedingly responsible position—the job of Examiner for the Board of Education—was to be filled by competitive examination. A Mr. Joseph Jablonower was one of 61 candidates who took the written examination. Twenty-nine passed, Mr. Jablonower being twenty-eighth in rating. The twenty-nine candidates who survived the written examination were then called for an oral test. Mr. Jablonower was the only one of the 29 who passed it. He was appointed.

Several of those who had failed brought legal action, charging that in the oral test a studied effort was made to find a candidate with a particular point of view on certain political, social and economic questions. In an opinion which should be read by every person interested in the integrity of American education, the Appellate Division of the First Department of the Supreme Court of New York State canceled the Jablonower appointment and ordered that a new examination for the job be held. The court observed that the success of Jablonower followed statements of his position which "consisted largely of the assertion of ultra 'liberal' views including a firm stand against 'authoritarianism' in education." It found that "questions directed to searching the political ideologies of a candidate, for the purpose of rating him or her higher or lower because of holding one political view rather than another, are violative of our Constitution…" A new examination was held, and a new eligible list promulgated. Jablonower was third on the list of three. He was reappointed last August.

It was clear when this affair was at its height that an ultra-liberal government in New York City was bringing into positions of authority people who discouraged belief in all authority except their own. It was even clear to those of a philosophic turn that they ought not be surprised, since liberal governments have taken that tragic course time and again. What was not clear at the time and what did not become clear until the legislative subcommittee got under way was the extent to which sharp and purposeful radical tendencies can cut into the soft texture of a society dominated by such a government. What was not clear was how difficult it seems to be for believers in democracy to realize that democracy must be something more than toleration.

It should be obvious, now, that the expulsion of Communist party members from government-supported teaching jobs or even the destruction of the Communist party would not suffice to dispel the widespread uneasiness about American education. The things that have produced that uneasiness are too various and too subtle. An increasing amount of material is being peddled to students that creates a fertile soil for the positive political doctrines that threaten our institutions. This includes falsifications of American history intended to "prove" this or that view of politics. It includes a purely mechanistic approach to history, government, politics and social problems. And it includes a vermiculate cynicism about every principle and institution that is distinctive in the American scheme of things. The danger is less that we shall, through our indifference, turn American education over, as a sort of experimental farm, to the advocates of foreign ideologies than it is that we shall fail to provide our children with a basic understanding of the objectives the founders of our government were trying to achieve and of the means through which they, and those who came after them, tried to achieve them. For unless each generation of us, in turn, understands these things and respects them, representative democracy will not survive.

Any nation has the duty to preserve itself against enemies foreign and domestic. But if it has only the fuzziest ideas as to what are its basic principles of government and the institutions through which such principles operate, it lacks the primary means of resisting hostile principles and their active manifestations. To accept the idea, very widely held, that we have nothing as a national faith but the unlimited privilege of experimentation, that democracy is nothing but toleration, is to provide no protection against our own destruction. So, for instance, if the Communist contention that our system is decadent is a wide-open question, we do not deserve to survive, for we admit that we have no living faith of our own. People who have no faith must perish because they do not know what is important for them to protect. And a mere disposition to be tolerant, however commendable, is not a faith.

Those who support our educational system have a right to demand that American schools really be American in viewpoint and influence.

Such a statement as I am making here will, of course, set off familiar screams about Red-baiting and the suppression of academic freedom. I am not particularly concerned with them because I can put into the record the account of some thirty years' teaching of my own, in which I have been neither the victim nor the agent of intolerance. From that experience I have learned two things: that laws could and should exist to drive from all schools teachers who belong to or give aid and comfort to agencies and organizations which are committed to the destruction of constitutional government in America as it now exists; second, that there is such a thing as Americanism, which can be defined, which is being effectively taught by many books and teachers and which is most certainly not being taught by many other books and teachers. It is time, indeed, that we discover which is which.