Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE
The Battle Over Medicare
by Raymond Moley

THE President, exhilarated by the
outcome of the steel conflict, now
girds for a fight to force Congress to
reverse its action in passing the Kerr-
Mills bill in 1960. The skirmishing
stage has passed. Facts for and against
the President's medical-care plan
have been piled up mountain high.
The purpose is to get one set of these
facts accepted.
At the moment, in the second week
of the Easter recess the chambers
and committee rooms of Congress are
silent. Members are back home. And
there in the towns, districts, and states
this conflict will be won or lost. The
Administration will try to win in the
place where lawmakers are made or
unmade. Members will not see the
light, they will feel the heat.
The weapons will be quite unlike
the naked exercise of coercive power
used in the steel controversy. Now
there will be wheeled into action the
vast forces of the propaganda minis-
try. By the stimulation of fear of dis-
ease, the promise of something for
nothing, the arousing of prejudice
against opponents, and the mobiliza-
tion of pressure groups, the people
who can influence members of Con-
gress will be moved in a vast wave
of calculated excitement.
An immense aggregation of Fed-
eral employes, labor-union officers,
and elderly partisans of the Presi-
dent's plan will appear. In Massachu-
setts alone there will be 250 speakers
delivering 5,000 harangues. The ca-
pacity to effectuate pressure is shown
by the present distribution of the Fed-
eral bureaucracy. Of the 2,372,000
Federal employes in 1960, only
168,000 were in the District of Colum-
bia. There were 240,000 in California
alone, and another 180,000 in New
York. Of the 65,000 employes of the
Health, Education, and Welfare De-
partment, only 10,299 worked in the
District of Columbia. Three other de-
partments-Agriculture, Interior, and
the Post Office-had 24,297 in the
District. Their remaining 687,706 em-
ployes were scattered over the states
and territories and abroad. This is
the bureaucratic potential. This po-
tential will not be forgotten.
On May 20 there will be an im-
mense demonstration in Madison
Square Garden. There we shall have
the ocular demonstration of a sea of
gray heads. There will be exciting
speeches by the President and others.
This show will be televised on closed
circuit to twenty similar meetings else-
where. There has been vigorous effort
to build nationwide pressure groups
of oldsters. There is also an organized
group of retired union members. All
these will be energized in support
of the King-Anderson bill.
The vital point in the attack will
be the House Ways and Means Com-
mittee where the majority has been
against the new bill. But the margin
there is wavering. The respected
chairman of that committee, Wilbur
Mills, co-author of the present act,
will stand firm, but there may even
be a daring move to take the bill from
the committee and to the floor.

STEEL RETROSPECT

IN LOOKING back at the week's con-
flict over steel prices, I limit myself
to one facet of the issue; namely,
whether the matter at issue was prop-
erly a criminal matter. If it was, the
Federal Executive is armed with vast
power entrusted to him over the
years. Monopoly or a conspiracy in
restraint of trade can lawfully be pros-
ecuted as a crime. But in this case the
absence of monopoly or conspiracy is
plainly shown in the fact of compe-
tition with other companies which re-
fused to increase prices and also by
foreign imports.
But the tools of criminal procedure
were used: Actions launched by the
Department of Justice and the Fed-
eral Trade Commission; swarms of
Federal employes infesting the com-
panies' offices; investigations planned
by Congressional committee chairmen
close to the Administration; the use
of the FBI under orders to rout three
reporters out of bed to learn what a
man allegedly said on a purely eco-
nomic matter; the discriminatory ac-
tion of the Defense Department, and
the charge by the President himself
that steel's action imperiled the na-
tional welfare.
The use of these enormous powers
on a matter of economic judgment is
a grave portent of what may be ex-
pected from a government which has
grown too powerful to assure personal
liberty and a free market.

Newsweek, April 30, 1962