Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Ford of Michigan

by Raymond Moley

No! THIS piece is not about the automobile man you hear so much about. Nor is it about my favorite "pea pickin' minnesinger," Ernie. It is about Gerald R. Ford Jr., who represents the Fifth Michigan district in the U.S. House of Representatives. Watch this Ford. This may be a Ford year in a manner you are not expecting.

From time to time in this space I am inviting readers to consider certain members of the House who ordinarily are so buried in useful committee work that they are likely to be obscured by the less useful forensics of the Senate. These humble servants are the ones who have guarded the pockets of taxpayers. In the past few years the House has saved us billions of dollars and has killed many a cracked-brain bill passed in the more radical Senate. The House works while the Senate talks. The Senate is more eminent. The House is more practical. It is closer to the people, and the majority of Americans are conservative; they work, save, pay their debts, and keep things going.

How unlike the expectations of the men who made the Constitution in 1787, when people like Hamilton were talking about the "passions" of the House and the sedative influence of the Senate:

VANDENBERG'S PROTÉGÉ

At the core of the business of the House are a number of seasoned Democratic committee chairmen. Over the years they have mastered the vast affairs of our sprawling government. They are the patient conservators of our public affairs. Alongside them there has grown up in the past fifteen years a fine, vigorous group of young Republican minority members. They work together, Democrats and Republicans, in our interest, mingling the wisdom of age with the drive of youth. High among these representatives of a genuine Republicanism is Gerald Ford of Michigan.

Forty-seven years ago, as an infant, he was legally adopted by his stepfather, who was a highly respected leader in the civic and political affairs of Grand Rapids. He taught the boy the meaning of civic responsibility and in 1948 he and his friend and fellow townsman, Sen. Arthur Vandenberg, encouraged the young lawyer to run for Congress. He won in that Democratic year with a margin of 27,000. His majorities since have ranged from that figure to more than 50,000.

Gerald Ford has attained considerable seniority over the years. He is a member of the House Republican Policy Committee. He is also ranking member of the Appropriations subcommittee on defense. This suggests a handy man to have in this campaign on the defense issue.

THE VOTING RECORD

In the ADA record of voting by members of Congress, Ford agreed with them twice and disagreed seven times. He voted generally conservative in the first session of the 86th Congress—against "backdoor" spending, against the housing bill vetoed by the President, for the Smith bill to protect the right of states to legislate on Communism, for the Landrum-Griffin labor bill, for legislation to permit higher interest on long-term bonds, and against the public-works pork barrel. In almost all cases he has sustained the President. His diligence is shown by the fact that in twelve years he missed only 47 out of 1,872 roll calls.

As a candidate he has color and force. He served 47 war months in the Navy with distinction. He was a member of champion football teams at the University of Michigan, an all-America member on the 25-year team selected in 1959, played with the college All Stars against the Chicago Bears in 1935, and while at the Yale Law School was assistant football coach and boxing coach for freshmen.

Ford and Vice President Nixon, born in the same year, have been warm friends since they served in the House together. Nixon is not inclined to place much emphasis upon traditional rules in selecting Vice Presidential candidates—geographical, religious, or ideological "balance." The new concept of the office calls for a young man, sympathetic with the President's policies, capable of representing the President at home and abroad, and young enough to learn the duties and responsibilities of a President. In conjectures about the Republican ticket, it will be well to keep Ford in mind.

Newsweek, February 15, 1960