Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The First Skirmishes

To date, the campaign looks like
a contest between artful informality and
feigned indifference. But it's highly doubtful
that the pretense on either side will continue
very long. For the artful informality isn't
altogether artful, and the feigned indifference
is too obviously feigned.

In the nature of things, Mr. Willkie and
his managers couldn't have had campaign
organization plans of a detailed nature. The
Willkie candidacy, which rose rocket-like from
practically nothing in March to triumphal
nomination in June, was centered in the
personality and activities of one man. What he
was and what he said, projected into the
situation of this spring, produced an instant and
powerful reaction. But it is clear now, after a
month, that it was not like the flash of powder
set off by a match. There is a continuing
reaction—the kind some chemical affinities
produce. If, as seems likely, Willkie's qualities
have a special relevance to the nation's current
needs and demands, the campaign itself may be a
repetition, on a larger scale, of the popular surge
that swept over an incredulous convention.

The "if" in this picture needs underlining. In
politics nothing can be taken for granted. And it
must be recorded that there's some grumbling
among those friendly to Mr. Willkie about various
small things that are happening. It's being said
that too much of the Willkie drive is going on
outside of the control of the party organization;
that too much encouragement is being given to
unpopular groups which are jumping on the
bandwagon; that Mr. Willkie is a bit too early with
comments on the issues; that well-rounded
preparations in the newly created organization
for discussion of the issues are too slow in the
making; and that adequate provision for routine
campaign business—the handling of visitors, mail
and the like—is still lacking. Not all these criticisms
are justified, and some are quite irrelevant. But
some, if not met, may injure the Willkie cause.

Of course it's wise to convey to the public the
sense of the genuine freshness and virility of the
Willkie drive. And of course, in order to do that,
it's necessary to break away somewhat from
traditional methods of running a campaign. Besides,
it's inevitable that any real public movement will
draw to it many overenthusiastic and not altogether
welcome adherents. That can't be avoided. In a
democracy leaders can pick their associates but
they can't, with precision, select their supporters.
Only under the iron rule of totalitarianism are party
members subject to censorship.

What emerges is simply this: a good executive
doesn't have to talk about planning. He plans. And
Mr. Willkie is a proved executive. He has, moreover,
a National Chairman who plans more intelligently
and talks less about it than any party strategist
we've had in a long time. Together, these men
should and undoubtedly can insist upon a distinction
between the inadvertence that costs votes and the
exuberant spontaneity that wins votes. Beyond this
looms the unvarnished fact that if there is a rising
tide in this country against the Roosevelt leadership,
the opposition can make plenty of mistakes and still
win; but if there is no such tide, the Republicans'
political conduct can be as correct as a diplomat's
table manners and end disastrously.


The immediate strategy on the Roosevelt side has
been announced by the President, in his speech to the
convention, and by Mrs. Roosevelt, in her remarks at
the same place. It is a plan to ignore the issues and
to hang out a big "Business as Usual" sign, calculated
to suggest that this is no ordinary campaign. But the
"Business as Usual" sign is not very descriptive of
what is going on in the store, nor does it sufficiently
cover the front of the store to hide the proprietor's
making eyes at friendly passers-by and sticking out his
tongue at the skeptical.

This is a method of campaigning that's been used
before with occasional success. In the war days of
1918, for instance, various governors up for reelection
refused to recognize that they were candidates for
office. They piously said that they were not making
political speeches. Yet they lost no opportunities to
declaim on every convenient platform about European
minorities, the Fourteen Points, the Freedom of the
Seas—in fact, about everything except the conduct of
the state government for which they had been selected
two years before. Applied to the present campaign,
this technique will make Mr. Roosevelt's sole appeal
for votes come from what publicity experts call the
gentle art of suggestion. He will presumably go
steadfastly ahead with the tasks of the Presidency,
meanwhile holding plenty of press conferences and
making many public appearances—particularly
inspections of public works, arsenals, navy yards, army
maneuvers and the like.

But it remains to be seen whether the attitude of
indifference to the outcome of the campaign, once
struck, can be maintained. The strategy necessarily
requires the infusion of campaign argument into
official statements and proposals. It will mean that the
colossal spending of public money must go on apace
with frequent reminders to the beneficiaries of the
bountiful source of the golden stream. In short, it will
so plainly involve the full employment of that greatest
of platforms for getting public attention, the Presidency,
that it will invite persistent attack from the opposition—
attack irritating enough to cause lapses into the rough
and tumble of old-fashioned campaigning. Such lapses
have already occurred.

The handicaps of the Roosevelt candidacy are well
known. The greatest, so far as holding the normal
Democratic vote in line, is the strange leadership which
has risen since the third-term movement began. True,
the selection of Edward J. Flynn to succeed Jim Farley
helps somewhat to dissipate the unhappy feeling among
old supporters that the Democratic party no longer
exists. Flynn is recognized as a gifted and not too
unorthodox political leader, a man of education and
fine tastes, who has a deft touch with political
relationships. His ability, plus the fact that he's likely
to do as much as any man could to minimize
interference by ultra-New Dealers, is vaguely
comforting. Still, Mr. Hopkins' role in Chicago, the
Wallace selection and the prominence of big-city machine
bosses make the Democratic party look not quite
Democratic to old adherents. It is, at any rate,
sufficiently different from the party that elected
Cleveland, Wilson and the Roosevelt of 1932 to enable
thousands of members to vote for Willkie without
accusation of party disloyalty.

But the dropping of ripe fruit from the Democratic
tree into the Willkie basket will be a small part of the
harvest. More important are the millions of unheralded
and unsung who, until recently, have been willing to
forgive Mr. Roosevelt his most egregious blunders
because they've believed that he was trying to do a job.
If Mr. Willkie, however unusual or informal his
methods, can persuade them that good intentions are not
the exclusive possession of one man or one party and
that a public official must be judged by deeds rather
than intentions, his battle will be all but won.

For the rest, there's no evidence that either he or Mr.
Roosevelt is likely to overlook the possibility that the
election may really be decided upon the snarling waters
of the English Channel, on the beaches and in the clouds
over England. The war makes all hard-and-fast
decisions as to campaign strategy premature.