Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Praise for Ike's Budget
by Raymond Moley

MANY sincere conservatives have
joined the spenders in denouncing
the President’s budget. But they
might change their minds if they
would read what greedy special-
interest groups are saying and if they
would carefully analyze the budget
itself. For the President has presented
more constructive measures for ultimate
economy and efficiency in this
budget than ever before.

It is true that there are rich layers
of fat in the civilian estimates and
probably in some military lines. These
can and should be eliminated.

The essential improvement is that a
year ago the President and other
members of the Administration defended
excessive estimates by saying
that existing programs fixed in the
law required them. This year the
President proposes that those programs
be overhauled. Also he has
courageously applied the ax to proposals
dear to the heart of voracious
interests who would give pork priority
over security.

His recommendation that there be
no new starts on immense water resources
projects is attacked by Democrats
and some Republicans. But the
two major projects of that sort, the
Trinity in California and the John Day
on the Columbia partnership plans,
were throttled by Democrats in the
last session. Meanwhile, big projects
proceed and the 1959 request for
land and water projects exceeds the
1958 request and the 1957 expenditure
by many millions.

CHALLENGES CONGRESS

He has omitted school construction
with Federal funds. The case for this
was always indefensible.

He has challenged Congress to
make an agonizing reappraisal of
several sprawling wasteful programs
and activities.

Notable is Federal lending. The interest
charged varies from agency to
agency according to the political appeal
that each has to politicians in
Congress. In the budget message, the
President cites many rates, at which
something like $9 billion would be
loaned in 1959, running all the way
from 2 to 6 per cent. But the government
must pay from 3½ to 4 per cent
for its money and also maintain the
administrative expenses of its huge
lending operation. The Rural Electrification
Administration is the beneficiary
of a 2 per cent rate and its
immense propaganda sponsor, the National
Rural Electric Cooperative Association,
screams that its pet is being
killed. Incidentally, the word “rural”
hardly applies any more because
these cooperatives, having finished
the farm job, are now aspiring to big
business in the nonfarm areas, the
suburbs, and with industry.

The President strongly urges Congress
to stop killing the states with
Federal aid, this time getting down
to specifics. He calls for legislation
looking to permanent reductions in
crop supports and fringe farm benefits.
Housing should be pushed back upon
private and local financing. He
also points out that Federal money
for helping to house college students
be for essentials and no longer for
expensive student unions and other
fringe facilities.

TAXPAYER GROUPS ALERTED

Most important, he says, is the need
to overhaul our present social-security
programs. The Old-Age Security Insurance
trust fund will be in the red
in 1958 and 1959. It is doubtful
whether the increase in employment
tax in 1960 will be adequate to stop
the drain on the Treasury. The whole
business should be rationalized. It is
a pity that the President failed to note
that the entire phony “self-supporting”
system be junked and that we “pay
as we owe” for the really needy out
of general taxation.

Unless Congress heeds these demands,
we may well be overwhelmed
by increases in the years immediately
ahead when the highway program
and other matters will bear down
heavily. At the moment, “there’s not
enough for this and that.”

This year’s budget recommendations
have long been advocated by
the many valuable state taxpayers’ associations
and they will vigorously
support the President’s constructive
demands upon Congress. With their
aid the President may well start a
prairie fire, the heat of which will fall
upon the Capitol where are housed
many members of Congress anxiously
looking toward November.

Newsweek, February 10, 1958