While Time Remains

by Raymond Moley

IT MAY be of passing interest to a
reader of this piece that since the
issue of April 2 I have made only a
passing reference or two in these
essays to Adlai Stevenson or his col-
laborator, Estes Kefauver. At that
time, under the title "Fragile States-
man," it seemed that I had written
all that need be said. Among other
things, there was this sentence: "It
was probably destined, when nature
wove together the strands that be-
came the personality of Adlai
Stevenson, that 'at some disputed bar-
ricade' his rendezvous would be not
with glory but with bitter frustration."
Perhaps that is where, on the eve
of the election, we should leave
the subject.

My neglect of the Democratic can-
didate was not merely because of a
feeling that he lacked what it took,
but also because there have been
two parties of opposition in this cam-
paign-the Stevenson-Kefauver front
and the vastly more concentrated and
portentous drive of an organized effort
by the AFL-CIO Committee on Po-
litical Education and its egghead
shadow, the ADA, to elect members
of Congress. The nominal party affili-
ation of such members would be
Democratic, but their obligation
would be to COPE. As it seems now,
the name Stevenson will fade back
among those shadows in which there
lives his grandfather together with
James Middleton Cox and Alton
Brooks Parker. If by chance he es-
capes their fate, his obligation will
be due to strength borrowed from
local candidates with strong organiza-
tions and coattails broad enough to
sustain the burden of his inadequacy.

DEMOCRATIC FUTURE

There is more of Walter Reuther
in the future of the Democratic Party
than of any of the characters now re-
garded as its official ornaments. For
Reuther and his associates have what
none of them have-neither senators
nor governors nor local statesmen of
importance: A powerful organization
limited by no state lines, with ten-
tacles over the nation, and flush with
money and captive workers.

In eight articles in this space I have
attempted to describe the potential
of COPE, its methods and objectives,
and the extent to which it has in-
fused itself into the soft, pervious
organism that is the Democratic Party
in the states. I have shown how in
the 37 states outside the South Demo-
cratic senators have toed the COPE
line to the extent of 73 per cent,
while members of the House have
made an 80 per cent score. Even
such allegedly independent figures as
Kennedy of Massachusetts and Pastore
of Rhode Island deviated only to vote
against 90 per cent parity, a matter
of no importance to their constituents.
The circumstance that impends, who-
ever wins the Presidency, is the
ultimate transformation of the Demo-
cratic Party into a British-model So-
cialist-labor party. In short, what
happened to the Liberal Party in
Britain 30 years ago is the fate that
almost certainly lies in the future
of the party of Jefferson and Wilson.

DISFRANCHISED

There will be plenty of time after
the election to discuss the necessity
of reconstructing the Republican
Party to provide a genuine alterna-
tive to this new party. My concern
here, with only a few days before
election, is to underline the extreme
importance, despite the deadly opiate
of confidence, of getting out the vote
for conservative candidates for the
House and Senate and for the State
Legislatures. For every vote cast for
them is not only another vote for the
national ticket but an assist for candi-
dates who are fighting an uneven
contest with little organized support
on their side.

It is true that millions of potential
voters are not registered and cannot
vote at the election. But the figures
for 1952 show that 14,680,000 regis-
tered voters failed to cast a ballot on
Election Day. In some states the ab-
senteeism was appalling. In California
there were 856,000; in Illinois,
822,000; in Missouri, 607,000; in New
York, 695,000; in Ohio, 1,299,000; in
Texas, 261,000; in Wisconsin, 592,000.

This year these numbers will be
larger. They can easily spell the dif-
ference between victory and defeat
for dozens of candidates. There is still
time to see that these millions of
Americans do not deliberately dis-
franchise themselves.

Newsweek, November 5, 1956