Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Radio Dangers

The story of how Orson Welles
scared the living daylights out of some peo-
ple by dramatizing a forty-year-old H. G.
Wells fantasy is now entering the Val-
halla of dead news. Looked at after ten
days, it is clearly less world-shaking than
a few hysterical people thought it would
be.

Millions heard the "Martian invasion"
tersely described. But, so far as is ascer-
tainable, only a few hundred were badly
frightened by it. Probably more people
are scared every night, during bleak, dark,
sleepless hours, by imagining that they
are getting cancer, or that their hearts are
about to stop beating, or that their chil-
dren, who have gone to a college dance,
are being kidnaped or smashed up on a
telegraph pole, or that dear friends are
not loving them any more.

Human beings cannot very well be pro-
tected against their own folly, even by
such a wise and munificent shepherd as
Mr. McNinch of the Federal Communica-
tions Commission. They just go on getting
scared about imaginary dangers and get-
ting over being scared when they awaken
to the facts. We cannot be too greatly
disturbed about this sort of thing, although
there need be no repetition of the Welles
incident.

Neither can we seriously contend that
it demonstrated the inherent inability of
man to overcome his primitive instincts.
One very intelligent woman who writes
for the papers drew this conclusion. But
a calm appraisal of the facts makes her
fears look almost as unbridled as those of
the poor people who packed their young-
sters into the rumble seat and made off to
the Ramapos. True, emotions are some-
thing we have not been able to do very
much about in the short time since we
have emerged from caves and jungles.
But to point to Orson Welles as the un-
witting Euclid of this proposition is some-
how stretching things. The incident was
neither a major catastrophe nor a major
revelation.

As a listener, I felt that Mr. Welles
simply put on a stunning show—a rather
too stunning show for radio purposes.
Mr. Welles simply demonstrated that
those who manage the radio companies
have a lot to learn about prudence, as
opposed to art.

Radio is young, and its prudential ma-
chinery is still, inevitably, crude. Just
as the movies have had to learn their les-
sons from experience, so must the radio.


The movies have developed and codified,
through the efforts of the Motion Picture
Producers and Distributors of America,
scores of prudential rules for the protec-
tion of the public. If, to use a wholly fic-
titious example, Myrna Loy should say to
Clark Gable, in a screen play: "My heart
is on fire," Clark could not shout out the
interrogation "Fire?" in reply, because
the use of the word "fire" in such a fash-
ion might frighten one latecomer or one
dozer in the audience. And one hysterical
person can start a panic in a darkened
theatre. There are many other prohibi-
tions on movie makers, and there must be
a comparable development in radio, as
time goes on, to safeguard its listeners.

But this does not mean that an in-
tensification of government meddling in
radio is justified. That, unfortunately, is
the usual aftermath of a slip of the "Mar-
tian"—broadcast variety. And the danger
that government will insert its inquisitorial
proboscis even further into the radio busi-
ness than it already has is as fearsome to
intelligent people as the thought of a real
invasion from Mars could possibly be.

Radio is potentially the most extensive
means of disseminating thought that the
world has produced. It is subject to
hastily contrived regulation by a gov-
ernment which, among other things, re-
quires each radio company to ask for a
renewal of its license twice a year. The
radio companies are thus, unlike practical-
ly any other business or profession, com-
pelled to live under threat of death con-
stantly. The net effect of this is to pro-
duce a marked solicitude on the part of
the companies lest they incur the ill will
of the politicians who happen to be in
power. The gravity of this circumstance is
clearly heightened by the second- or third-
rateness of the personnel of the Federal
Communications Commission.

Recently the major broadcasting com-
panies have frowned upon the presentation
of controversial material in any spon-
sored program, and one company has ac-
tually made a rule prohibiting it. This
applies, of course, to commentators who
express opinions, who editorialize. Political
parties, however, after their candidates
are nominated, must pay for the time
they use.

The position of the major companies on
this point is that they prefer to limit spon-
sored time to entertainment, straight news
broadcasts and certain types of education,
and to reserve part of their very consider-
able unused time on the air for discussions
of controversial questions. But, say those
who are willing to purchase time to pre-
sent their side of a controverted question,
does this not prevent us from exercising
that great American prerogative—the
right to "hire a hall"?

As I understand it, the companies' an-
swer is that there are many halls and that
newspaper and magazine space is unlimit-
ed. But radio wave lengths are limited in
number, time is expensive and only the
well-to-do can hire time. Therefore, they
say, the interests of free discussion are
best served when there is no premium put
on the ability to pay for radio time.

This decision by the companies throws
all controversial material into what is
called "free" time, where all "sides" of a
question may be presented by qualified
spokesmen. In determining how many and
what "sides" of a question are to be repre-
sented the companies use the pragmatic
test of whether these "sides" represent the
views of any great number of people.

It is easy to see that the making of
such decisions calls for the exercise of
fallible human judgments. It is also clear
that the administration of "free" time
rests in the companies' enormous discre-
tion and vast responsibilities. But it seems
to me that they are to be trusted vastly
more than any political agency for the
simple reason that, as commercial agencies,
they must maintain a broad good will
among all classes and interests, public and
private alike. A politician is in and out
of office, but a commercial product must
hold public confidence over the years.

The companies, however, if they are to
exercise this power fairly, should be freed
of the obligation to ask for frequent re-
newals of their licenses. The present situ-
ation merely gives a radio company with
large sums invested in its business the
same precarious tenure that a newsboy
standing on a street corner enjoys at the
sufferance of the policeman on the beat.
That the results of such a situation are
something short of perfection is hardly
surprising.

Yet the companies themselves could
forestall much criticism from minority
groups who have been denied free time,
and from politicians anxious to extend
government control over them, by taking
some united action to make uniform rules
for the granting of free time for the dis-
cussion of controversial questions. They
might well join in the creation of an over-
head advisory body to devise sound poli-
cies for the presentation of controversial
questions. Perhaps such a body might be
a committee of three or five or more na-
tionally known individuals in whose inde-
pendence the public would have implicit
confidence.

Meanwhile, let us hope that Mr. Orson
Welles' play has directed attention to real
and fundamental dangers.