Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Uncle Sam vs. Small Business—I
by Raymond Moley

DURING the final days of the recent
session of Congress, the President
sharply drew the line for what
may well be a great constitutional
issue. When all the background is
considered, the President is magnificently
right. The issue concerns the
power of the executive department
to rid itself of a large number of business
activities, mainly in the Defense
Department, despite a requirement of
Congress that its appropriation committees
retain a veto on all such administrative
actions.

For several years there have been
bitter complaints by small businesses
that the Federal government in countless
instances had set up competitive, subsidized
business operations. And for more than
twenty years there have been efforts in
Congress to provide relief. In 1933 a
special House committee made a comprehensive
investigation of government competition
with private businesses and published
its findings and recommendations in 37
volumes. Much of that investigation concerned
the military establishments. Nothing
came of this effort, and in 1951 and 1952
a subcommittee of the House Committee
on Government Operations took exhaustive
testimony. This was continued by a subcommittee
in the 83rd Congress in 1953 and
1954. Nothing came of the findings and
recommendations of these subcommittees
except that they focused attention upon the
problem.

When the Eisenhower Administration
came into office, dedicated as it was to
the cutting down of the great government
bureaucracy, the Secretaries of Commerce
and Defense took a lively interest in eliminating
such as they could of the activities of
their establishments which were in competition
with private businesses.

Meanwhile, the Hoover commission
took up the subject. Among other things
Congress directed it to make recommendations
toward "eliminating nonessential
services, functions, and activities which
are competitive with private enterprise."
The importance with which the commission
regarded this directive is indicated by the
fact that five distinct task forces made reports
on the subject. The most comprehensive
of these was prepared through the Committee
on Business Organization of the Department
of Defense, which was headed by Charles
R. Hook, chairman of the board of Armco
Steel Corp. Under the Hook committee
there was a subcommittee on the business
enterprises in the Department of Defense,
which was headed by Joseph B. Hall. This
subcommittee not only reviewed the immense
material gathered by the Congressional
committees on the subject but made an extensive
investigation of its own. The results
were presented to Congress through Chairman
Hoover in June.

But the members of Congress who
were determined to keep the government-supported
businesses in their districts alive,
and the military bureaucracies jealous of
their power and perquisites mobilized their
forces in opposition. The result was a rider
to the great appropriation bill for the Department
of Defense (Section 638). The purpose
of this, in the terse phraseology of Rep. Carl
Vinson, was "to keep the government in
business." Despite the pleading of Vinson
and other influential members of the House
such as Tabor and Cannon, the House voted
to keep the section in the bill. Later, after
a debate in the Senate, the section was
retained. It requires the Secretary of Defense
to report the department's plans to eliminate
any business activity to the Appropriation
Committees of Congress, and if either refused
to approve, the activity should be retained.

MR. EISENHOWER signed the bill because
to veto it would have affected the defense
effort. But he said he would refuse to be
bound by Section 638 and regarded it as
invalid "unless otherwise determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction." There is
thus prepared a test of power with Congress.
The extent and nature of the government's
activities in business, the recommendations
of the Hoover commission, and the efforts
of the Administration to rid itself of these
activities I shall outline in a number of succeeding
pieces.

Newsweek, October 10, 1955