Here's a text extraction of the provided image, aiming to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE
THOSE ALLEGED POSTAL SUBSIDIES
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A House bill to raise postal rates and
increase the pay of postal em-
ployees (H.R. 7977) has been passed
by the Post Office Committee and
cleared for floor action by the Rules
Committee. This bill is a hybrid. Orig-
inally there were two bills—one to
comply with the President's demand
for higher postal rates and the other
to raise the pay of postal employees.
The latter, however, gave employees
a raise higher than the President's
guidelines for Federal employees.
And so, to avoid a veto of the pay bill,
the House committee combined the
two into one piece of legislation.
Thus, the present bill is a product of a
political maneuver, a practice which
from time immemorial has character-
ized almost everything related to the
postal service.
Moreover, this bill is being rushed
through despite the fact that a com-
mission of distinguished people was
appointed by the President to study
the postal service and will not report
until next year. The chairman of that
commission is Frederick R. Kappel,
former chairman of AT&T. The com-
mission was no doubt appointed at
the instance of Postmaster General
O’Brien, who declared that the “ar-
chaic” postal service is “ponderous,
creaking, erratic, costly.”

THE BURDEN UPON USERS

Instead of waiting for the Kappel
commission’s report, which may well
show how the Post Office can be re-
formed to the extent that most of the
postal deficit can be eliminated, the
House Post Office Committee chose to
increase the present scale of rates and
thus throw the burden upon the users
of the mail service.
My argument here deals with what
is called a “subsidy” for users of sec-
ond- and third-class mail. According
to the figures in the House committee
report, first-class mail in 1966 showed
a surplus of $67.7 million. But second-
and third-class mail provided deficits
of $416.2 million and $401.2 million
respectively. For a long time figures
like these have been used to claim
that users of second- and third-class
mail have enjoyed a huge Federal
subsidy.
I have had reason to feel the effect
of this claim, for whenever over the
past twenty years I have in my pieces
in this magazine commented upon
subsidies in government agencies and

programs, I have received letters
taunting me about the “subsidy” en-
joyed by periodicals. Until now, I
have not replied to those charges in
print. But since responsible journalists
have now accepted the Post Office
figures and have joined the chorus, I
choose to show how deceptive those
figures are. For I have always be-
lieved that these claimed subsidies
have been based upon a wholly un-
sound system of allocating costs in
the postal system.

BAD ACCOUNTING

The report of the House committee
itself in its labored explanation of
what are called “cost ascertainment”
figures comes close to admitting their
unreliability. The cost system does
not, it admits, take account of the im-
portance of the priority given to first-
class mail as compared with the defer-
ment imposed upon other classes of
mail. Delivery of first-class mail is in-
tended to be prompt and almost im-
mediate. Second class should take two
or three days, and third class about
eight days. Calculations based on the
sale of stamps or use of meters cannot
be segregated by classes. They are
used for all kinds of mail. And the
whole basis of assigning costs to the
three classes is based upon random
samples. The minority report on the
bill said: “The full committee had no
opportunity whatever to study the
cost ascertainment figures on which
the rate increases are based … all
rate adjustments are suspect because
they are based on questionable and
dubious statistics.”
I have become so accustomed to
government accounting in other fields
that I have grown even more suspi-
cious of the Post Office figures. In the
benefit-cost ratio in some big water
projects such as dams and water sup-
ply, the assumptions are ludicrous. In
the Department of HEW there are
twelve accounting systems, and none
of these has been approved by the
Comptroller General’s office.
Common sense should tell anyone
that since the same men and women,
the same buildings, mail trucks, trains,
boats and even in some cases horses
and mules are used for all classes of
mail in varying volume, an allocation
of respective class costs is substantial-
ly impossible.
In the postal service, 80 per cent of
the costs are for labor, and labor is
largely used in handling, carrying and
sorting mail. Under the ZIP Code sys-

tem, magazines must do much of this
handling at their own expense. A first-
class item is handled on the average
fifteen times by postal employees.
Magazines do nine of those handlings
at their own expense.
Despite this continual pushing of
rising labor costs upon the users of
second- and third-class mail, the rate
increases on second-class (122 per
cent) and third-class (188 per cent)
over fifteen years have been far more
than for first-class mail (67 per cent).
Finally, it should be noted that the
rate increases in the present bill fall
relatively most heavily upon periodi-
cals of small circulation. To the bigs,
the increases are an unjustified bur-
den, but to the smalls the proposed
rates are a tragic blow. And these
smalls include hundreds of special pe-
riodicals—cultural, religious, scientific,
professional and fraternal.
Here is the example of The Atlan-
tic. Its publisher, Frank M. Herbert
Jr., told the Post Office Committee
that the present bill would add to
his costs $8,800 for first-class mail,
$26,250 for second-class mail and
$52,800 for third-class mail. In all, this
is $87,850. His average profits over
five years have been $22,795. Thus,
at one blow The Atlantic would either
be destroyed or go deeply into debt.
And this situation might well apply to
hundreds of lesser-known periodicals.

THE BILL SHOULD WAIT

The reason why The Atlantic as well
as many other magazines of small cir-
culation use third-class mail is that
their prospects are in limited cate-
gories and they cannot afford to solicit
subscriptions in media with mass cov-
erage. Mr. Herbert said that a one-
page ad in the Reader’s Digest, with
a general circulation of millions, would
cost $50,000, but if he used that
$50,000 he could appeal through
third-class mail to 800,000 selected in-
dividuals who would be suitable pros-
pects for The Atlantic.
For these reasons, Congress should
defer this bill until the Kappel com-
mission reports on postal operations
generally and recommends reforms
such as are suggested by the Postmas-
ter General. The billion-dollar postal
deficit may be due to inefficiency and
waste in the Post Office system itself.
Certainly if the system is modernized
and if it is possible to have an accurate
accounting system, the stigma of “sub-
sidies” should be removed from users
of second- and third-class mail.

Newsweek, October 16, 1967
112