Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Politics Is in the Picture

by RAYMOND MOLEY

“THEY’VE taken of his buttons off
an’ cut his stripes away.”
The trustees of the American Medi-
cal Association were not hanging
Danny Deever in Atlantic City last
week; they were providing for what
they may have conceived, in the ob-
scure processes of their minds, as an
honorable retirement for a man who
had served the AMA for 37 years. But
had Morris Fishbein “shot a
comrade sleepin’,” the privy
council of the American
medical profession could
hardly have acted more
ruthlessly.

I say “acted,” because
there is a vast discrepancy
between the punishment and
humiliation inflicted upon
Fishbein and the reasons
given for the action. A thor-
oughly sophisticated autocrat would
have veiled his action in more comely
terms. These men are distinguished
physicians but quacks in the art of
public relations.

The action taken was to prohibit
the editor of the Journal of the
AMA from speaking on “all” contro-
versial subjects, both by platform and
by radio. This means that Fishbein
could not without losing his job even
lecture on the Shakespeare-Bacon is-
sue. It is a flat denial of a sacred
constitutional right. The prohibitions
continued: Eliminate all interviews,
etc., except on scientific subjects. Write
editorials on controversial matters only
subject to censorship of executive com-
mittee. Eliminate Fishbein’s column in
journal. Train new editor. That is what
they did.

Now let us see the stated reasons
for these acts. Acknowledging that
Fishbein “for 37 years has served the
AMA well and faithfully” and that the
journal “is an enduring monument to
his genius and devotion,” the trustees
are aware of “criticism of the editor”
and that “the public has come to be-
lieve that the editor is spokesman for
the association.”

Well, if this be an example of the
way the AMA speaks for itself, it cer-
tainly has needed to hire somebody to
speak for it.

The retiring president of the AMA,
explaining the action, said that it was
not intended as “a punishment of the
man” but merely “reflected the routine
measures” which are taken “to prepare
for Fishbein’s retirement.” Apparently,
Fishbein has emerged from this “rou-
tine” checkup bereft of his vocal
cords and his right hand.

Of course, these clumsy explanations
are not the reasons for this action. The
fact is that there has been intense poli-
tics in the association for years. There
has been a struggle for
power and office. And a fac-
tion has emerged which had
as its cardinal aim to take
over power and prestige
which former governing au-
thorities had permitted Fish-
bein to share.

Nor is there any matter
of policy involved. This
board and its officers are
professedly carrying on the
policies already formulated and which
Fishbein not only helped to make but
very ably and aggressively presented.
But as an observer, I am not pri-
marily concerned in the fate of Fish-
bein, who is still well able to care for
himself. As a taxpayer and a citizen,
I am opposed to the Federal govern-
ment’s effort to governmentalize medi-
cine. I believe in “socializing” public
health and much of the medical prac-
tice, but not in “governmentalizing”
it. The medical profession, the hos-
pitals, and other private agencies are
making great progress in cooperative
medical service. These efforts would
be crushed by the heavy hand of gov-
ernment and party politics.

Because these are my beliefs, I can-
not but regret that this exhibition,
which reveals such a stupid sense of
public relations, has given the advo-
cates of government medicine such an
advantage. It has broken the united
opposition of the medical profession.
And it has created the impression that
all that Fishbein has argued for is now
repudiated by his superiors. The pub-
lic can never distinguish between the
man and his works. Washington can
now move forward with less opposition
and more assurance of victory. No
wonder President Truman expressed
delight at the AMA action.

Elsewhere in this magazine is a pic-
ture with the slogan of the AMA:
“Keep Politics Out of This Picture.”
Politics is already in the picture.

Newsweek. June 20, 1949