Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Hit-and-Run

The reassurances of Senator O’Mahoney, Congressman Hatton Sumners and
Securities Exchange Commissioner Douglas about the insurance investigation of
the so-called “Monopoly” Committee are
unquestionably so sincere that it may seem
gratuitous to say that the insurance investigation isn’t coming off in a way calculated
to help the public interest involved.
Yet that’s unfortunately the case. Despite their preliminary assurances that insurance
policies are in no danger whatever and that the equities of insurance companies are
more than adequate, there has been no lack of alarming headlines. And though headline
writers may be charged with general inaccuracy, the fact remains that in this instance
their handiwork seems to reflect the course of the investigation itself.
Apparently the investigators have set out to prove three things: first, that insurance
business is a big business; second, that the directors of the insurance companies are
sometimes also the directors of other kinds of companies or have “influence” in the
affairs of other companies; and, third, that the officers and boards of directors are
self-perpetuating.

Now let’s take a look at the way the investigators proceeded to handle these three
aspects of the subject.
During the first day of the investigation, charts and tabulations and lecturers with
pointers were introduced to “prove” that insurance companies are very large and that, in
the aggregate, the life-insurance business is an immense factor in the economic life of the
country. But obviously neither the Committee members nor the country at large required
any such “proof.” The facts are common knowledge. The insurance companies have been
proudly shouting them from the housetops for years. The policyholders have been comforting
themselves with that knowledge for decades.

Why, then, set forth the facts as though they were a revelation unless—unless the
investigators want the Committee and the country to infer that the insurance companies
should not be big? Whether or not that was the intention of the investigators is shrouded in
mystery. But that, at any rate, is how they left the question hanging. It is significant,
certainly, that no effort was made to feature the conclusions of the most competent
investigation of insurance ever made—the Armstrong investigation—which complained of
the cost of selling insurance 35 years ago, a cost which was largely the product of competition
among companies. Certainly no one called particular attention to the fact that, if we should
increase the number of companies and diminish the size, the cost of insurance would increase
rather than decrease. No one suggested loudly that the size of insurance companies is probably
attributable to the great popularity of life insurance—a popularity based upon the magnificent
record of all of the important companies in recent years. The presentation of the facts was such
that the news stories, in turn, were definitely disquieting.


The second subject to which the investigators turned their attention was the question of
“influence.” There were dark hints that the participation of insurance-company directors in
the affairs of other kinds of companies is pretty sinister on its face. The fact is, of course, that,
in the last analysis, the directors of great fiduciary institutions must, of necessity, be men of
competence and business judgment. In this mundane world, there are few better ways of
finding such competence than by looking in the ranks of men who have been successful in their
own businesses. There is even biblical assurance on this subject. Success with “little things” is
laid down as the prerequisite for mastery over “big things.” But competent, experienced and
respected businessmen unquestionably have “influence” inside and outside of insurance companies.
And it makes no sense to discuss that “influence” except in terms of whether it is properly or
improperly employed.

Which brings us to the third aspect of the investigation—the attempt to “prove” that the
officers and boards of directors of insurance companies are self-perpetuating. And it was at this
point that every vestige of fairness was thrown to the winds by the investigators. They charged,
first, that insurance agents forged ballots in non-contested elections. About twenty agents were
present to give evidence on this point. About half of them were heard. Of these, a few testified
that the forgery of ballots was common—an assertion that can be completely controverted. No
attempt was made to check this assertion. The response of the investigators to protests was refusal
to describe the method by which this small group of witnesses was selected and refusal to hear
insurance agents who wished to testify on the other side on the ground that “further evidence of
this character” would be a “burden on the record” of the Committee. In short, the Committee
was refusing to accept further evidence to clear the honor and reputations of a quarter of a
million agents who, it must be assumed, are as honest, in the main, as any other business or
professional men.

But there was more than this. The investigators then went on to infer that an obligation
rests upon all insurance companies to hold intra-company popular elections of their boards of
directors. At no point was it made clear to the public that the law of New York State, under
which most of the great companies are governed, contemplates no such method of control. This
law was designed by Charles Evans Hughes in 1906. It provides alternative methods of
“selecting” life-insurance directors. The first follows the custom of savings banks and provides
for the selection of new directors by the existing board of directors. The other provides that when,
and only when, the policyholders contest the “selections” of the existing board of directors are
they to nominate, under the supervision of the Insurance Department, candidates of their choice;
the choice of directors, then, is by election. In other words, where there is no contest, no election
is intended, and general balloting by policyholders is unnecessary. It should be noted that under
the New York law all of this process of “selection” is actually carried out under “rules and
regulations” prescribed by the State Insurance Department. This method was specifically intended
by Mr. Hughes to prevent the possible capture of the control of insurance companies by self-seeking
individuals outside of the board of directors. It was devised with the knowledge that annual
elections, such as those which seem to be suggested by the character of the evidence presented in
Washington, would cost the policyholders millions of dollars. The theory behind it is that the
interest of the policyholders will usually be best served by a group of honest, competent and
self-perpetuating directors under the constant supervision of the state authorities.

And there has been no scintilla of evidence produced by the “Monopoly” Committee’s
investigators to indicate that the theory has not stood up through the years.

There are a good many million people in this country who are not being very well served by
this hit-and-run kind of investigation of the institutions to which they have entrusted their
savings. And the most profuse assurances of good faith on the part of the investigators have been
made meaningless by the presentation of material which permits wholly erroneous conclusions
to be drawn by the public about a system under which the insurance companies have successfully
weathered the most tragic economic storm in a century.