Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to separate the columns and avoid overlapping text:


**The New Governor of Indiana**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

INDIANAPOLIS—Ralph F. Gates, the soft-spoken and worldly-wise Governor of Indiana, had special reasons for satisfaction as he stood among his many friends and took the oath of office. His political obligations were not heavy, since he himself was head of the organization that elected him. And his election as Governor was accompanied by an over-all party triumph which proclaimed his efficiency as a state chairman. It is highly appropriate that the Republican National Committee should make Indianapolis its Mecca this week. For if anyone can, the Hoosier state can tell them what they ought to do. Whatever may be the clouds elsewhere, the Republican moon is bright along the Wabash.

In 30-some years of living in the Middle West, I never had any reason to believe that the people of Ohio, Michigan, Illinois and Indiana were not much alike in political sympathies, outlook or schooling. And yet, in November, Indiana stood out robustly for Dewey, while Michigan and Illinois were swept by the New Deal onslaught and Ohio produced a meager 12,000 Dewey majority. Indiana gave Dewey 95,000; Gates, more than 60,000 and even Senator Capehart enough for comfort. Why, if the people of these states are so similar, did this happen? The answer is organization. The votes were there, and they got 'em out. There is no nonsense in Indiana politics. Either you get out the vote or you get out. Governor Gates has spent a lifetime at the job.

He rose in Columbia City politics. Then in Whitley County politics. Then in district politics and, finally, he was state chairman. That is the way Will Hays came up in politics long ago. That is the Indiana way, and it has the seal of pragmatic authenticity.

There seems to be growing up in our Northern States a fatalistic belief that Republicans cannot carry big cities and that Democrats are lost in rural counties. Indiana doesn't go for that stuff. City people and country people are people and they all vote, don't they? If they don't, somebody gets hell for it in Indiana.

Chairman Gates had a sizable industrial city in his district. Long before there was a CIO, the Republicans there got out the labor vote. Maybe Hillman learned from them. The organization worked 52 weeks every year. There were clubs, forums, coffee, doughnuts and beer. Fort Wayne, as usual, delivered a Republican majority. So did Marion County (Indianapolis).

Governor Gates wastes no time shouting names at Hillman and the PAC. He says that it did a good job, especially in Lake County (Gary). His advice is not to damn the PAC, but imitate it.

Prominence in the American Legion has been a major reason for the success of major leaders in both parties in Indiana. Governor Gates was very prominent in the Legion, as was former Gov. Paul McNutt. So is Frank McHale, the rotund Richelieu of Indiana Democracy.

Despite the leadership of the astute and resourceful McHale, the Democratic organization is in eclipse now, after ten years of success. The lush days of state patronage are gone. There was pretty slim picking for Democrats, even under the able Democratic Governor Schricker, who had his own notions of running the state. Paul McNutt, our national manpower martyr, is out of touch, and there are serious factional troubles.

Governor Gates, according to independent observers, has made good appointments to state offices so far. He will have little trouble with the General Assembly, which is comfortably Republican. As with other governors, his major problem will be the conservation of the state surplus, which is about $50,000,000. He is formulating plans for the postwar use of this surplus in projects advantageous to returned servicemen.

The Gates administration will be distinguished for caution and common sense. There will be no grandiose schemes for social reconstruction. There will be a minimum of oratory. Indiana politicians don't believe in speeches. The organization was pretty nervous about Mr. Capehart on that score and it hopes he will not say too much in the Senate. It is only those Indiana boys who have left the homeland for leadership in journalism and the more classical forms of writing who indulge in word production. The reticence of former Vice President Tom Marshall is the true tradition of the Hoosier. And Ralph Gates is aged in the wood.