Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlapping text:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Six-Year Plan

by Raymond Moley

THERE appeared in June a manifesto of The Conference on Economic Progress titled “The Recession—Cause and Cure.” Its principal author is apparently Leon Keyserling, President Truman’s Council of Economic Advisers chairman, who is now president of the “conference.” A group of sponsors includes three union officials, including Walter Reuther, five farm leaders committed to inflationary policies, three ex-members of the Roosevelt-Truman regime, and five not-well-known businessmen.

Ordinarily, such an expression of views would be run-of-the-mill stuff. But the identity of its plans and philosophy with those of the prevailing “liberal” group in Congress is significant.

SPECIFICATIONS

The recession, according to this Six-Year Plan, is a mere incident in a long process of national “shriveling” because of the “neglect” by government of somebody’s “needs.” And so we must stop that “shriveling” by spending money we haven’t got. Or perhaps more correctly, we must, through headlong inflation, steal the values of those who have saved. The specifications are: (1) Unemployment compensation and social-security benefits must be boosted; the latter by 100 per cent by 1964. (2) Congress must spend more—an increase of $4.5 billion over the President’s January budget estimate of $72.8 billion, and on and on until, in fiscal 1964, we reach a “goal” of $96.2 billion. Of this, 55 per cent would be for nonmilitary “needs.” This enormous figure is in 1957 dollars and, considering certain inflation meanwhile, would be vastly more in 1964 dollars. (3) The Federal Reserve Board should reverse its “tight-money policy,” especially to stimulate housing. (4) Farm income should be increased by $1.9 billion this year and by $10.2 billion by 1964. (5) There should be an “immediate” tax cut of $6 billion to $7 billion, mainly for low and middle incomes. (6) There should be “private economic adjustment” to cut prices and raise wages—the bite to come from profits.

This program is directly in line with what Congress is doing in this session. At the end of June, appropriations were running far beyond the Eisenhower requests of January. More important were authorizations for agencies to borrow from the Treasury, either reported out of committee or passed in one House, amounting to $5 billion beyond January requests. There were contract authorizations exceeding requests, amounting to $1.5 billion. There were also spending authorizations (moral commitments to appropriate) amounting to $5 billion. Authorizations for agencies to borrow from the Treasury mean increases in the deficit but they bypass appropriation committees and Congress.

The prospect now is a $78 billion to $80 billion budget for fiscal 1959 and, counting the drop in revenue, an $11.1 billion deficit for the year. Considering the long-term authorizations to borrow from the Treasury and the probable mood of the next Congress, there will be much more than $80 billion in expenditures for 1960 and 1961. This will not only equal but will probably run beyond the Keyserling “goals.” So the Six-Year Plan is here.

UNPROVED HYPOTHESIS

The hypothesis of Keyserling is that government spending will automatically increase the gross national product so much that we shall actually feel the burden less rather than more. This hypothesis has never been proved, but we are asked to spend now on the chance that it will be proved in the Six-Year Plan.

Evidence that it is not true can be found in figures that Keyserling omits. For each of the four quarters of the calendar year 1957, total government expenditures—Federal, state, and local—were the only element in the gross national product that increased. If the Keyserling hypothesis were true, we would be in a boom this year instead of a recession. Moreover, the fear of inflation in people who do not believe in a spending philosophy may well cause the gross national product to fall rather than rise, if the spending goes on.

The only hope left is that the President will halt the present mad rush with a powerful series of vetoes. If not, the prospect is grim indeed.

Newsweek, July 28, 1958