Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The President's Moral Leadership
by RAYMOND MOLEY

NICCOLÒ MACHIAVELLI acquired his
N bad name in history not because
of anything he did, but because he
wrote with naked sincerity of the
morals of princes. The observations of
the shrewd Florentine on that score
are recognized as so authentic that
he can be accepted as something of
an authority on official morality.
Long after he had moved beyond
hope of official position or
gain, he set down a number
of observations that are so
true and sound that they
bear restating. One was his
belief that a republic offers
great moral advantages over
a princedom and that the
people are more depend-
able than are princes. A fur-
ther sound observation of
Machiavelli has relevance to
what we are now witnessing in our
Federal establishment. He said:
"Let not princes complain of the
faults committed by the people sub-
ject to their authority, for they result
entirely from their own negligence or
bad example." He sustained his con-
clusion by pointing out that the great
Roman, Livy, said that the people
"always imitate their rulers" and by
the confirmation of the Florentine
boss, Lorenzo de' Medici: "The ex-
ample of the prince is followed by the
masses, who keep their eyes always
turned upon the prince."
It is well to bear this in mind when
we hear many people saying these
days that the unmistakable disintegra-
tion of public morality that now seems
to prevail is due to the selfishness and
weakness of the people of the nation
generally. Weak-kneed officials in
high places are constantly saying that
they cannot move faster than public
opinion and that public opinion will
not permit them to do better.


real prosecutor could make an excel-
lent case in court out of some of these
allegedly "improper" shenanigans. But
the improprieties of a government-
improprieties that admittedly have
White House aspects-encourage, nay
induce, widespread improprieties in
all walks of life. Such a condition is
intolerable, since every individual is
not equipped with a lawyer and a
criminal code when he is
tempted to cut corners and
chisel in his day-to-day life.
Great Presidents such as
Grover Cleveland, Teddy
Roosevelt, and Woodrow
Wilson were acutely aware
that their paramount duty
was not merely to enforce
the law and run the
machinery of government.
The President, said Wilson,
should be "a man who will be and
will seem to the country to be an
embodiment of the character and pur-
pose it wishes its government to be...
A President whom it trusts can not
only lead it, but form it to his own
views." Wilson said also that if the
President "lead the nation, his party
can hardly resist him." President
Truman apparently feels that if he
leads his party the nation cannot re-
sist him, no matter what happens.

THERE can be no doubt about his
T leadership of his party. It is
Truman himself who actually selects
the party's national chairman, and that
chairman, according to sworn testi-
mony, operated as a patronage chan-
nel in RFC matters. According to two
reputable Mississippi senators, the
party command created a rump party
in that state which sold Federal jobs
for cash. When, under the law, the
President was compelled to appoint a
Republican director of the RFC, that
man was told to work with the Demo-
cratic Party command, and he obeyed.
These are only a few immediate
instances. And the President asserts
that all is well if no law is violated.
The murky color of this high official
concept of duty is spreading down-
ward to all ranges of the nation. Don't
blame the conscience of the nation if
there now ensues another period like
that which followed Harding. For the
example has been set in high place by
the President himself.

Newsweek, March 19, 1951