Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

What Are Regional Associations?
by RAYMOND MOLEY

When men disagree about a pub-
lic or private policy, the more reason-
able among them seek unity through
what they call a formula. This means
a restatement or clarification of the
issues in such a way as to offer to both
sides the widest possible area of agree-
ment.

Let's try to apply a formula to one
aspect of the current hubbub over
foreign affairs and let's ap-
ply it before the limited
scope of the San Francisco
conference dampens the en-
thusiasm of an overexpect-
ant public opinion in this
country.

Those who are suspicious
of our Allies and of any
world setup are calling at-
tention to the alleged incon-
sistency between the gener-
alities of world agreements
and special security meas-
ures taken by big powers in accord-
ance with their national interests. Out
of this discussion arise such expres-
sions as "balance of power," "power
politics," "spheres of influence," "co-
ercion of little nations" and the like.
How, to suggest an example, can we
reconcile the Atlantic Charter with
Russian influence in Rumania or Brit-
ish influence in Greece?

The answer is a formula which is
touched upon in the Dumbarton Oaks
plan and is now presented by the
French Government to the American,
British, Russian and Chinese Govern-
ments. The formula comes as an
amendment to the various peace plans
already drafted. The best name for
this amendment is "regionalism,"
which can be made consistent both
with internationalism and with na-
tionalism.

Regionalism is defined in the Dum-
barton Oaks plan in the following sec-
tion: "Nothing in the Charter should
preclude the existence of regional ar-
rangements or agencies dealing with
such matters relating to the mainte-
nance of international peace and se-
curity as are appropriate for regional
action, provided such arrangements or
agencies and their activities are con-
sistent with the purposes and princi-
ples of the Organization."

We shall have to let time and the
outcome of the war determine and
make clear the exact limits of the re-
gions into which the world will ulti-
mately divide. That is especially true
in Eastern Asia and the Western Pa-
cific. The great unknown there is
whether Russia will help us smash
Japan. But other regional areas of spe-
cial interest are beginning to appear.
The United States successfully drama-
tized the most obvious of these in the
Pan American Conference in Mexico
City. The Act of Chapultepec created
a "regional arrangement." All Amer-
ican nations expressed their
community of interest, ex-
cept for Argentina and Can-
ada, whose part will later be
made clear by the course
of events.

It is also plain that the
British Empire is to recover
her lost members and such
additional bits as are neces-
sary to her lines of commu-
nication. Likewise, it is clear
that Eastern European na-
tions will be bound together
with varying degrees of influence by
their big neighbor, Russia. The osten-
tatious absence of any move by Britain
and Russia to participate in or to influ-
ence our family party in Mexico City
should be a sufficient hint to those who
decry Russian influence in Rumania.
We can't claim something in our neigh-
borhood that we are not willing to
grant to Russia and Britain in theirs.
We cannot claim we are the only big
nation which can be a Good Neighbor
to smaller nations. We cannot claim
our sphere of influence is good and
all other spheres of influence are bad.

The purpose of a world organiza-
tion such as that which San Francisco
is to provide is to be a means by
which the whole community of nations
may find interests common to all re-
gions and to prevent regional groups
from conflicting with each other.

Regional associations are not incon-
sistent with a general world organiza-
tion. The two are, in fact, dependent
on each other. Herbert Hoover this
week points out the great benefits of
regional organizations in a peace struc-
ture. They would, he says, give smaller
nations a greater voice, take much of
the burden from the world council,
modify the appearance of a mere al-
liance of great powers, relieve the anx-
iety of Americans about the interfer-
ence of non-American powers in Amer-
ican affairs and the fear that the
United States will be involved in all
the minor disputes of the wide world.