Here's a text extraction of the provided magazine article, attempting to preserve the column structure and avoid overlaps:


**The Indestructible Burke**

by Raymond Moley

There could be no time more appropriate to consider the impact of tradition in our life than this Christmas season. For 2,000 years of history are speaking when we hear the story of the Nativity. In the shadow of such tradition we cannot imagine ourselves vaingloriously the singlehanded masters of our destiny.

In the field of public policy there is a word still more pregnantly descriptive of this thought than “tradition.” It is “prescription,” around which Edmund Burke built the fabric of an immortal philosophy of liberty under law. American schoolboys for generations have known Burke as the incomparable defender of American rights in the British Parliament during the period before our revolution. But conservative statesmen and philosophers everywhere, whether they have realized it or not, have been profoundly influenced by the final distillation of Burke’s thought in his “Reflections on the Revolution in France.”

The “Reflections” will live with a mere handful of classics as long as men strive for a workable formula for the fusion of liberty and order. It was written in 1790, a moment like this in history. For Burke, like ourselves in these grim years, was witnessing bloody tyranny masquerading in the garment of liberty. Burke was warning his countrymen of the fearful danger in either complacency or compromise with what he called a liberty that is not liberal, a science of presumptuous ignorance, and a humanity that is savage and brutal.

This work is far more than an indictment of the perils and fallacies that lay in a barbarous philosophy. It is a massive exposition of the principles that govern the happy alternative built in the Anglo-Saxon tradition—an alternative of constitutional order and of the prescriptive right above all law that wins and commands our willing obedience.

In a notable current book, “The Conservative Mind,” Russell Kirk points out that in both Britain and America scarcely a single conservative thinker, from John Adams to George Santayana, has failed to profit from the “Reflections.”

Burke may well be recalled now when, despite the fact that in both Britain and America a conservative majority has spoken, it would seem that the governments in power are still seeking to appease if not to imitate those whose vain designs are offered in the fair name of liberalism. They might be reminded of Burke’s stricture that statesmen have a state to preserve as well as to reform.

In the generation after Burke, the false premises of utilitarianism momentarily prevailed. Then, under the influence of philosophers like Mill and politicians like Gladstone, there began the fatal compromise between liberalism and statism. In the end, the Liberal Party was engulfed in the pit of socialism. Over here we have had plenty of our own compromisers—the pragmatists, the statists, the instrumentalists, the behaviorists, and the futilitarians.

Again and again in “Reflections” Burke refers to our liberties as a heritage not to be compromised, sold, or given away—“an entailed inheritance derived to us by our forefathers, and to be transmitted to our posterity.” This he called “a Constitutional policy working after the pattern of nature.” Consequently, since civil society is “the offspring of convention,” then “convention must be its law.”

“There is an order that keeps things fast in their place, it is made to us and we are made to it.” This law of nature, Burke declared, is a moral order and it has its origin and strength in religion.

The excesses of the French Revolution were a blow not only at established civil order but at the spirit of religion itself. Europe has never recovered from that period when, as Burke said, atheists were preachers and madmen were lawgivers. The event proved Burke to be right.

We face the same rejection of civil order, justice, morality, and religion in the polluted Marxian wake of the revolution in Russia. Like Burke, we cannot compromise with this “offspring of cold hearts and muddy understanding.” We must have the courage of our conservatism.

Newsweek, December 28, 1953