Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

**The Courage of Its Conservatism**

by Raymond Moley

ON APRIL 30 the Eisenhower Administration will have attained the first hundred days of its life. Many people will note a certain significance in that number, lent it in part by the final act of Napoleon on the European stage and in part by the length of the Roosevelt special session of Congress in 1933.

To compare the first hundred days of this Administration with that of Roosevelt requires a number of qualifications. The most important is that the economic status of the country and the problems arising therefrom are entirely different. Another is the fact that the election of a Republican regime represented a conservative turn in public opinion.

The role of the Eisenhower Administration must of necessity be less than sensational. For a large part of its job is restraint. Its conservative nature suggests caution.

The best way to judge a regime is to note how truly it lives up to its convictions. Eisenhower has generally met that test. He promised that he would give private enterprise another chance. Consequently, he raided the business and professional community for its best available brains and staked his Administration’s success upon their performance. He asserted his belief in government through political parties, and he has not only sought to make appointments in line with party affiliation but he has refuted the pessimists by getting on with the Republican Party in Congress. He promised to turn away from centralized government, and he has started the long task of restoring tax sources to the states and has backed a quit-claim of the submerged lands to the states.

In foreign affairs he has, through Secretary Dulles, made a good beginning toward substituting a policy of liberation for a hopeless effort toward containment. He has given the concerns of Asia an equal footing with those of Europe. He has offered world leadership in the cause of peace.

In the tangled field of finance, however, an anxious country still awaits reassurance. There was brave talk in the campaign by Eisenhower and by other representative Republicans about a new deal in spending and taxes. Once in office, the President and the Republican leaders of Congress found themselves confronted with what can only technically be called a budget. It is a Truman budget. Perhaps it was too much to expect the new Administration to sack that budget completely and to prepare another. At any rate, it was not done. It was found that in the last analysis any budget for the fiscal year 1954 would be meaningless, because a colossal volume of appropriations and overhanging commitments from previous years makes impossible anything like a guess of what this or next year will cost. In short, Federal finances were left by the Truman Administration in a hopelessly confused state. The hesitation of the President and his financial chiefs and such true friends of economy as Senators Taft and Byrd to make predictions is understandable. But the attack upon spending has been gingerly, tentative, and spotty. It is wholly unrealistic to say that they must first balance the budget and then reduce taxes. These two operations are not separate and distinct. They are, in this situation, two faces of the same coin. Our tax rates have long since passed the point of diminishing returns. We would probably get more revenue with lower rates.

BRITAIN’S Chancellor Butler said in his budget speech this month: “A budget must hold out a prospect… We must get out of slack water, lighten the ship and give her way.” While Britain’s budget was balanced last year, a comparison with our situation is not wholly pertinent. Nevertheless, the tax reductions offered by Churchill’s government were great risks. But they were based upon a great faith, backed by great courage, that with what Butler called a “new hope” there would be a burst of confident investment that would bring its reward in rising revenues. Those conservatives have had the courage of their convictions.

Can the Eisenhower Administration have the courage of its conservatism?

Newsweek, May 4, 1953