Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement in the left column:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The End of the Freeway
by Raymond Moley

MONEY bills before Congress are
passing briskly along the legislative
freeway. Each driver has his own
objective in mind, a limited interest to
be served or a benefit bestowed.

Let us take a position beside the
highway. Then with a wide-angle lens
let us try to comprehend not only the
volume and speed of what is passing
by, but what is beyond the big red
light at the end. Never mind, for the
moment, the items in the traffic—
housing, labor, school aid, TVA,
monopoly, etc.

The traffic is heavy. The following
appraisals are from Harry F. Byrd,
Senate Finance chairman:

In six months, Congress has moved
from a virtually balanced budget to
an estimate of a $15 billion deficit.
The Federal costs will be more than
$400 billion over five years to come.
Counting Federal, state, and local
spending this year, the tally will be
$150 billion, of which only $130 billion
can be wrung from taxpayers—a
deficit of $20 billion.

The latter will bring, within the
year, a total government debt of $350
billion. Private debts will be $500 billion.
Thus, the incomprehensible trillion
mark is in sight.

Looking closely at Federal spending
over the six years 1954 to 1959,
we see very little rise in defense and
foreign aid. The big jump has been
for domestic civil outlays. These have
increased from $19.1 billion to $33.9
billion—in years of great prosperity
excepting for two small slips.

FACING UP

The biggest of these amounts which
we have spent on ourselves, here at
home, are for agriculture, interest on
the Federal debt, and commerce
and housing. The latter has gone from
$817 million to $6.4 billion, a rise of
nearly 700 per cent. There are two
ways of meeting this increase in
civil expenditures:

Taxes? Byrd says we have about
reached the point of diminishing returns
in tax rates. Britain learned that
some time ago.

Inflation would come through deficits
covered by more government
debt. But, as Byrd says, long-term issues
of bonds meet selling resistance.
More dependence is on short-term issues. This is ominous. For it means
that the credit of the United States
faces a grim threat. That credit is the
foundation of all order, security, personal
liberty, and world stability.

Nobody likes the prospect of inflation,
and so even the economic wizards
among the liberal spenders have
“remedies.” One school says that if
we continue with more spending we
shall create more production. This is
sheer nonsense. It has never been
proved. It cannot be proved.

The other school’s major prophet,
Prof. John K. Galbraith, advisory
chairman of the Democratic National
Committee, favors less production
through fewer hours and days of
work, and less energy on the job, after
which “we must face up to” controls
by government.

BEYOND CONTROLS

And so we have many bills for such
controls before Congress, sponsored
by Senators O’Mahoney, Neuberger,
Wiley, Congressman Reuss, and others.
Senator O’Mahoney, who has a
neat way with semantics, says his bill
is not a control measure. It would
require 30 days’ notification to various
government agencies and Federal
Trade Commission hearings before
certain companies could put proposed
price increases into effect. But the
result would be such a threat of control
that manufacturers would simply avoid
such an inquisition by cutting quality
without a price increase.

But since any investigation would
reveal the large element in labor costs
in prices, members of Congress are
already talking about an over-all freeze
of prices, wages, and rents. This would
mean in practice a government
economy administered by bureaucrats—a
planned economy and the end of freedom
of choice.

That is the meaning of the big red
light at the end of the freeway. There
is no precipice there, nor a smashup—
just another road with reduced
speed, many intersections, many police,
bumpy pavements, and, after a
while, lower living standards and the
green pastures and still waters of the
welfare state. The bureaucrat our
shepherd. But we shall want—what
we could have spared while we were
on the freeway.

Newsweek, May 25, 1959