Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns. Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and column layout:


**The Chickens Come Home**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Not many months ago, union lead-
ers who were demanding large wage in-
creases had a flat answer to those who
mentioned inflation. "We must," said
these union leaders, "first meet the
workers' wage demands and then con-
trol their expenditures through rationing
and price control." And so it was done.
Now the chickens begin to come home
to roost. The same labor leaders, if they
look around, cannot help but see the
ultimate danger to labor in even the
beginnings of a managed economy.
Regimentation of any part of the econ-
omy, however favorable it may seem to
labor at first, finally ends in the regi-
mentation of labor.

Let us see now this principle works
in absenteeism, which is now Gremlin
No. 1 in our war effort. Some amazing
facts about absenteeism in war indus-
tries have already been made public.
Mr. Andrew T. Court of General Mo-
tors and other experts here, in Canada
and in England, have revealed these
facts in extraordinarily detailed studies
whose significance, unfortunately, seems
to be lost on labor leadership.

Workers absent themselves from war
work for all manner of reasons. They
take time off because of inclement
weather, because of illness, because
they want to indulge in the pleasures of
hunting, fishing and making general
whoopee. This is easy to understand.
But absenteeism is also caused by gov-
ernment policies. Scarcity of gas, get-
ting tire inspections and ration cards,
shopping around for scarce articles, re-
pairing domestic appliances for which
replacements are unavailable-these
things take time, and that the time
they take is time away from work is
often unavoidable.

But there are other reasons for absen-
teeism which intelligent management
knows and which government and labor
ought to discover if, indeed, they have
not begun to do so already.

Certain kinds of taxes can very con-
siderably increase absenteeism. Progres-
sive income taxation is one. A with-
holding tax on a graduated basis is an-
other. Both encourage absence because
the individual is reimbursed for a good
portion of his lost wages by the corre-
sponding reduction in the amount of his
taxes. This would not be true of a sales
or luxury tax. Such taxes would be an
incentive to more hours of work and
more in the pay envelope to meet rising
desires for goods.

Rationing, with its accompanying
destruction of merchandise-incentives
to regular work, encourages absenteeism.
So, for that matter, do price-fixing of
retail commodities, which prevents a
rising cost of living, limitations on in-
stallment selling, which eliminate peri-
odic financial obligations, and OPA
rulings on the purchase of used houses
for occupancy.

But these things do not begin to ex-
haust the list of government policies
which encourage absence from work.
Ever since the depression of 1932 our
"forward thinkers" have harped on the
beauties of leisure and the dangers of
work. Recently some of the top Admin-
istration figures, in order to save their
"social gains," have actually spread the
alarm that a work week of more than
48 hours is harmful to health and
morale. People have begun to believe
them. Though there is a war going on,
the attitude of our government does not
change. It remains in sharp contrast
with that of the British, whose Essen-
tial Work Orders provide for a reassign-
ment of the workers of any plant which
does not average a sufficiently large
number of hours per week.

Beyond the cult of the short work
week is the cult of "cradle-to-the-grave"
security. That, too, has scarcely con-
tributed to the old work-for-the-night-
is-coming spirit. Of course it is heresy
to question governmental concern with
personal security. But maybe it will not
be amiss to suggest that we pipe down
on these cradle-to-grave-security tunes
until the job of winning the war is done.
Still other ways in which government
actually encourages lax standards of
attendance include such episodes as
WLB's order to the Ford Motor Com-
pany to pay an extra vacation bonus to
five-year men with not more than 45
days a year of time lost for personal
reasons. That order established 85 per
cent as good average attendance.

Having sapored for years to tear
down the normal compulsions that make
free men work, a kindly government is
forced to consider others, like freezing
men to their jobs. These cannot be
pleasant to contemplate.

All this should be a forcible reminder,
both to those in the unions and those
in government who are responsible for
labor policy, that once regimentation
and paternalism go far enough, inexo-
rable causes push the hand of authority
further. For a nation's work must be
done, and, when all else fails, compul-
sion is in order. In war or peace we can-
not have leisure unless we have work.