Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Japan's Future and Ours

by Raymond Moley

TOKYO—Driving out to an industrial
plant here, I could almost imagine
myself on Second Avenue, New York,
on a busy morning. There was the
same rush of trucks and cars; there
were the same scurrying pedestrians.
In a crowded theater witnessing a
twelfth-century play, one could believe
what an American audience might
while seeing "Richard III": Are these
indeed our ancestors? A source of innocent
wonder far, far from our life and
civilization.

This is a new Japan—vital, energetic,
skillful, industrial—again a great
productive power in the world, with
interests closely interwoven with the
United States.

To understand this new Japan, we
must first dispose of the commonly
believed myth of three obstacles to its
future. These are a 92 million, rapidly
burgeoning population, a small area
of land, and scanty natural resources.
These are not insuperable barriers to
a great future. Japan's best economists
say that the rapid population increase
will gradually slow and decline and
in 30 years come to a stop. Japan's
working force will level off much
sooner. This is the pattern of what
has happened in other highly industrialized
civilizations. The small arable
land space by a miracle supplies 80
per cent of the nation's food and,
with technical progress, will supply
more. There is also the advantage of
the highly efficient fishing industry.
Japan's limited resources make it necessary
to import most of its needed
iron ore, oil, soy beans, and salt.
But getting these requires harbors
and shipping. Japan has the first, some
of the busiest in the world, and is
rapidly building the second.

INTERDEPENDENCE

None of these obstacles are barriers
to greatness, but to overcome
them requires a foreign policy suited
to the country's essential interests.
That is true—as it has always been
true—of the foreign policy of every
nation. A concept of national interests
must be in line with the facts. Germany
in the 1930s believed it needed
to expand its sovereignty, and because
of that error suffered disaster.
The United States must correctly understand
its vital interests now or
it, too, may suffer.

Here is where we may find our own
essential interest in interdependence
with Japan. There are four main reasons
for this.

Fortunately, our economic interests
articulate with those of Japan.
We have in abundance what it needs,
and there is enough that we need
from Japan to build up a balance of
trade. The gap is already narrowing.
In 1957 we exported to Japan $1.6
billion. We took in return $580 million.
In 1958, however, we exported
$1 billion, and took $680 million. The
gap will continue to close if the
United States is willing.

A second tie in our mutual interests
is the capacity of Japan to help our
military defense with supplies and
other services to our Navy and Air
Force. In the face of Communist danger,
it is obvious that this is essential
to us.

THE VITAL ORBIT

The strategic position of Japan is exactly
where the danger of a Communist
thrust is greatest. It takes only
a glance at the map to see the importance
of the islands of Japan
stretching in an arc for about 2,000
miles off the Communist-dominated
mainland. Although Japan has armed
forces of her own, it is not her military
help that we need. Her friendship
and stability are essential.

A fourth factor in our mutual interests
is that Japan is an Asian nation, a
vastly useful influence toward keeping
the great orbit of Southeast Asia
economically secure from a swing to
Communism. And that orbit is the
enormous prize sought by Communism.
The region has immense natural
resources which Japan and the United
States both need. Japan can more effectively
bring about its development
than we can. And it is reported that
Japan is growing in popularity and
influence in that region. It can supply
the needs of Southeast Asia with
manufactured products, know-how,
and some capital.

These are the simple elements of
some of the mutual interests between
Japan and the United States. In later
articles in this space I shall supply
more details.

Newsweek, April 6, 1959