Here's a text version of the provided article, separating the columns to avoid overlap:


Lagoona Controversy

by Raymond Moley

THE visit to the United States of
Aneurin Bevan, the loudest voice
but certainly not the wisest voice in
the British Commonwealth, is likely to
stir up the old question of the danger
to human health and life from atomic
fission. All that Bevan wants is to have
the United States embrace Red China
and quit testing bombs. This would
create "peace in our time" on the Soviet's terms.

It is a coincidence that, while this
discussion is going on, a critical stage
has been reached in the progress of
the construction of a $43 million
atomic reactor plant designed to produce
electric power in the vicinity of
Detroit-at Lagoona Beach, Mich.
The Detroit Edison Co. initiated this
project and with several other utilities
and manufacturing concerns created
an agency called the Power Reactor
Development Co. (PRDC) as the
constructing agency.

OBJECTIONS DELAYED

It was in 1954 that Congress
cleared the way to private development
of the peacetime uses of the
atom. In 1955 the PRDC was formed
and its plans were submitted to the
Atomic Energy Commission. As a routine
matter, the designs were reviewed
by the AEC's Advisory
Committee on Reactor Safeguards.
The AEC kept the committee's findings,
which were mildly critical of
some of the aspects of the PRDC
plans, from the Joint Congressional
Committee on Atomic Energy, although
the company engineers knew
of the criticisms and set about making
the necessary changes. On Aug. 4,
1956, the AEC issued the permissive
order for the company to proceed,
and the ground-breaking ceremonies
were immediately held, with AEC
chairman Strauss as speaker. The report
of the committee on reactor safeguards
was made public later.

There is nothing more infuriating to
members of Congress than a poorly
kept secret, and this report set up a
big hullabaloo from chairman
Anderson and member Holifield of
the Congressional joint committee,
and from Walter Reuther of the
UAW. Governor Williams' own state
commission approved the project.
The outcries about the great peril
to the city of Detroit and its environs
were utterly uncalled for because the
company was determined and compelled
to make the project safe. In
any event, there is assurance of safety
before the completed reactor goes
into operation. Reuther and others
could hardly have been more vociferous
if the Detroit Edison had planted
a deadly engine of destruction under
the city with malicious intent.

And so a long, long series of hearings
were held over a period from
January to August 1957.
Briefs filed last week with the AEC
sum up the two sides of the argument
between PRDC and the UAW.
It is not difficult to see what objective
Reuther has in mind in his bitter
opposition. It is to be taken for
granted, of course, that his union is
not a real labor organization but a
political instrument thrusting itself
into every national and international
concern. And it is equally clear that
he is for socialized power. But in this
instance every measure will be taken
to assure safety, and there is no legitimate
broad issue of public against
private power involved.

REUTHER'S PURPOSE

This is a project in which Detroit
Edison has taken an imaginative step
toward a new era in the production
of electric power. It has been most
willing in all the controversy to cooperate
in making the project perfectly
safe and efficient. And its past history
has shown a capacity to get on with
the people of Detroit and their government.
Even Governor Williams,
closely allied in politics with Reuther,
has not questioned the integrity or
capacity of the AEC or the PRDC.
He said in an interview that "I got
snagged into it after a telephone
call from Senator Anderson saying
that 'there was a question about the
safety factor.'"

Moreover, the decision which
PRDC asks the AEC to make is merely
to continue its permit to build the
plant and not at this time to license
its operation. The plant will not be
built until 1960.
Apparently Reuther's purpose is to
show that government and only government
is capable of serving the public
with safety for all concerned.

Newsweek, November 11, 1957