Here's a text version of the provided article, aiming to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered: U.S. Patent Office

The Right of Petition
by Raymond Moley

NO ONE can deny that some forms of
lobbying are injurious to the hon-
est and efficient operation of repre-
sentative government. But the line
between such evils and the legitimate
right of petition and of criticism is
hard to draw. A three-judge U.S. Dis-
trict Court has now shown, after a
lengthy court proceeding, that Con-
gress itself, which ought to know best,
has been wholly unable to
define lobbying without giv-
ing the Executive the means
of ruthlessly suppressing
criticism of itself.

The difficulty of defining
or regulating lobbying is
made clearer because every
would-be dictator and dem-
agogue in public office is
quick to smear his critics as
lobbyists for "special" inter-
ests. If some people in the bureauc-
racy had their way, every criticism
would be suppressed as unlawful lob-
bying; the press, private citizens, and
groups would be muzzled; and no
voice would be heard in the land but
that of government propaganda.

There have been plenty of such
efforts to stifle the voice of criticism
by the regime now in power. Under
the specious guise of investigating lob-
bying, the late Frank Buchanan and
his committee in 1950 engaged in a
reckless adventure in witch hunting
and smearing. Organizations were
haled before the committee and asked
to disclose their private affairs, despite
the fact that their activities had no
more directly to do with influencing
legislation than has this magazine or
any newspaper with an editorial page.

The irrelevance of the Buchanan
campaign was clear to anyone who
realized that Congress itself in the
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946
had attempted to define and regulate
lobbying and that this law was in 1950
before the courts for adjudication. On
March 17 last, the court mentioned
above unanimously held that the anti-
lobbying provisions of the 1946 act
are unconstitutional and in violation of
both the First and Fifth Amendments
to the Constitution.

Shortly after the act was passed in
1946, two things became apparent to
organizations that carried on activities
in Washington in behalf of their mem-
bers: First, that the act itself was so
ambiguous that almost any activity de-
signed to influence public opinion
might fall under its shadow; second,
that the Department of Justice was de-
termined to stretch the meaning of lob-
bying so far that freedom of speech, of
the press, of assembly, and of petition
might be classed as criminal. This
challenge to constitutional rights was
met by the National Association of
Manufacturers, which insti-
tuted this suit in 1948.

Such an organization, like
the AFL, the CIO, and hun-
dreds of others which carry
on many activities only one
of which is to keep repre-
sentatives in Washington in
touch with Congress, had a
vital interest in this question.
The NAM willingly complied
with the requirements of
the law to the extent of registering
five of its employes who were in con-
stant touch with Congress. It also filed
with the government factual informa-
tion about its activities. But ultimately
it faced the grave possibility that be-
cause of the vagueness of the law and
the broad interpretation of the law by
the Department of Justice, it was cer-
tainly risking criminal prosecution.

In fact, under the interpretation
placed upon the law, "indirect" lob-
bying would cover and the law would
prohibit the discussion of broad pub-
lic questions in speeches, booklets,
and motion pictures on such general
subjects as a balanced budget or
corruption in government.

THE decision of the court holds that
the major provisions of the Reor-
ganization Act which relate to lobby-
ing are unconstitutional. Its opinion
states that "the clause that 'to influ-
ence directly or indirectly the passage
or defeat of any legislation by the
Congress' is manifestly too indefinite
and vague to constitute an ascertain-
able standard of guilt. What is meant
by influencing the passage or defeat
of legislation indirectly? ... It may
cover any one of a multitude of un-
defined activities."

The case may be appealed to the
Supreme Court. However, this opinion
ought to move Congress immediately
to halt this litigation by the repeal or
drastic revision of this absurd and
dangerous legislation.

Newsweek, April 7, 1952