Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Know-How for Export

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Three weeks ago important representatives of Chungking, including T. V. Soong, visited New Orleans and conferred at length with Andrew Jackson Higgins and a number of his managerial heads. Mr. Higgins subsequently announced that he was prepared to send technicians to China to advise and assist in the development of China. While no specifications have been forthcoming as to the products which China will produce under the Higgins guidance, it is probable that they will include a wide variety of transportation facilities and industrial products made of wood, fibers and plastics. In short, China is turning to skilled American industrial management to lead the country toward a wider industrialization based upon China's own rich natural resources. Apparently the whole project is still tentative. Little official confirmation is available. But this news underscores one of the types of worldwide influence that the United States may expect to exercise in the postwar era.

Washington, of course, is teeming with ideas for exporting capital, machinery, food and manufactured products after the war. But the Higgins plans seem to be centered upon the less complicated and, to the American taxpayer, less costly idea of free and direct employment of American managers and engineers in and by foreign nations. Capital is created when natural resources, labor and managerial brains meet. Capital thus created calls neither for added debt here nor for complicated negotiations abroad. It adds to the world's wealth, and especially to the wealth of our current brothers-in-arms. Needless to say, the industrial capacity of the United States, as the result of its contribution to the war, will be the most highly regarded civilizing agency in the material world in the postwar era. The prestige of Germany in the field of mass production will be shattered. German industry has largely been copied from us in any event. Russia took machines and methods from us and paid good gold for what she got. Japan filched and imitated. But American managers and engineers will be looked upon as the real McCoys, respected wherever they go.

Here is a form of internationalism which will engender little controversy. Our technicians have always been in demand abroad. In China, Europe and Africa, to say nothing of South America, our engineers have directed vast enterprises. How great were the contributions of our hydroelectric engineers to the Soviet is well known. American engineering firms have built roads, railroads, dams, refineries and steel plants and directed mining operations in every portion of the world.

After the war, we shall be able to spare plenty of technical ability for jobs abroad. In the war effort we have been compelled to recruit a great army of industrial managers and to reemploy, retrain and expedite the training of thousands of engineers, architects and chemists. Enterprises that open up throughout the world will catch the imagination of ambitious young Americans. It is worth emphasizing not only that our war industries have expanded the managerial group, but that modern military training, dealing as it does with mechanized forces, is creating a huge reservoir of men with knowledge of machines, with a sense of discipline and with real executive ability. Thousands of these men will have had experience in foreign countries. All their immense energy, imagination and capacity will ultimately be available for employment here or abroad.

The war has accelerated the use of new materials and substitutes so greatly that it is already clear that the old classifications of "have" and "have-not" nations will have to be overhauled. Plainly, the enormous strides in our knowledge of chemistry will make it possible for some countries, hitherto regarded as poor and worn-out, to develop a new life in the postwar world. Chemistry will teach them how to create wealth out of the resources they have. If they do not have petroleum, they may have coal or salt or cellulose-certainly air and water. The brains of men are finding wealth in more and more simple things. Someone has said that out of coal alone, we could reproduce the world.

Bureaucratic planning is not essential to the spread of American influence in the world. It will come as the result of personal enterprise-the flow of technical know-how toward the materials for creating wealth. We need little governmental machinery for the export of brains. With freedom assured, capable men will naturally gravitate toward openings for productive enterprise, wherever they may be. And the wealth thus produced may well lessen our financial worries at home.