Here's the text extracted from the provided image, respecting the column structure:

**Post-Hitler Germany**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

After the inevitable defeat, what
elements of social and political stability
will be left in Germany? Strange as it
may seem, there will be more than were
found in Italy. There will be no king,
no Badoglio; but there will be more authentic groups and reliable persons. This
is in part the result of the fact that the
corrosion of Fascism was at work twice
as many years as the corrosion of
Nazism. More important, however, is
the fact that before the rise of Hitler,
Germany's social, economic, political
and religious groups were more potent
and healthy than those of Italy.

As soon as the mask of Nazism falls,
five or six groups will reappear to be
used as the wisdom of the conquerors
dictates. The largest of these will be the
Catholic Church, which has had the adherence of some 30 per cent of the German
people for centuries. Some of its
leaders, like the incredibly heroic Cardinal von Faulhaber and Bishop Galen of
Münster, were never completely suppressed. This Catholic group provided
the leaders and the voting strength of a
mighty political party. The best-known
recent leader of this party is Heinrich
Brüning, now at Harvard. The Protestant Church will also emerge, with its
fighting leader, Niemoeller. Hitler's puppet church, the "German Christians,"
will disappear.

The next best organized group is the
German farm bloc. For many years,
this group included both the big Junker
landowners and the mass of small and
medium farm owners. Its leaders were
of high intelligence. One of the best-
known in pre-Hitler days was Count
Keyserling, a brother of the famous
philosopher. The loyalty of this group
to Hitler has always been doubtful. He
controlled them only by enlisting many
farm laborers in his party and, then,
by using these employees to police their
employers.

While about two-thirds of the members of pre-Hitler German labor unions
were Socialists and many of the rest
were Communists, the unions, as such,
were not political. But they were loosely
united in their economic objectives. Hitler superimposed upon them his so-called Labor Front. The old unions,
however, have a strong underground
organization and when Hitler falls, they
will reappear with many of their former
leaders. Some of those leaders are
abroad, but available. Tarnow, the vice
chairman of the Union of German
Trade Unions, for example, is in Stockholm. His speeches have frequently
been mentioned in the American press.
He is apparently honest and able.

Industry, trade and labor were, after
1919, organized in the "Economic Council of the Reich." Most likely the industrialists will present as their leader
some present head of an industry group
who is well known as a non-Fascist. It
will certainly not be Fritz Thyssen, the
dumb son of an honest father, who paid
for his support of Hitler with his freedom.

Presumably, the first post-Hitler
government will be of the Badoglio
type. But who will be the equivalent of
the old Marshal? This may well depend
upon the decisions of the general staff
during the forthcoming crackup. Certainly, no outspoken Nazi will emerge.
In 1918, it was a general of South German origin, Wilhelm Groener, who told
the Kaiser to get out. It may be that
the general staff will name Keitel to
perform the short-lived and thankless
job of heading the new interim government.

No doubt, the Uriah Heep of Germany, Dr. Hjalmar Schacht, has his
own ideas of a comeback. But he is too
shrewd to seek a place in the first post-
Hitler regime. He will bide his time and
try to cultivate the friendship of those
business people outside Germany who
used to admire him for his financial
mesmerism and his crisp, un-German
manner of speech and action. But it
will always be remembered that Schacht
double-crossed many people in following
Hitler and that he invented the cruel
fiscal swindles that enabled Hitler to
arm without money. He has been kicked
out of the Nazi party, but Hitler has
kept him alive, no doubt because he has
hoped to use him as an intermediary.
This was a silly bit of prudence, for no
nation will deal with Schacht except,
perhaps, to punish him for his cosmic
humbuggery.

The heavy hand of the victorious nations will be needed in any government
in Germany for a long time. But in the
end, the job of governing will be returned, piecemeal, to the German people. It is encouraging to know that
there are groups and people there who
can ultimately be trusted with qualified
authority.