PERSPECTIVE

FAT CATS' TWILIGHT

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

One great loss to the Republican
Party this year—and it has lost a
lot—will be an incomparable advantage to it in the future. It need no
longer bear the label "rich men's
party." That characterization, however deserved in the past, has been
a deadly weapon of the Democrats.
At the same time, the GOP's opponents, backed by the vast potential
of the U.S. Treasury and by plenty
exacted directly or indirectly from
government contractors and from big
labor unions, have had the gall to call
their party the poor man's friend.
After past elections, Congressional
committees dominated by Democrats
have singled out as GOP contributors
"ten rich families" and also the owners and managers of big corporations.
Perceptive Republicans repeatedly
have pointed out that the "rich men's"
label must be removed. Now the
broader base of support has been
achieved. I shall show this by official
figures which will be filed in due
course with the appropriate government agencies. These show that, although the election was lost, a
number of financial miracles were
achieved by the Finance Committee
headed by Ralph J. Cordiner:

1—For the first time in the twentieth century the GOP has finished
a national campaign in the black. It is
not true, as has been said, that there
will be a deficit "between $2 million
and $5 million." There will be no
deficit, and the National Committee
has enough to finish this year with
some left over. The National Committee has also paid off a debt which
was on the books before August.

2—It was a very expensive campaign. But more money was raised at
the national level than in any previous Republican Presidential campaign—between $12 million and
$14 million. It was raised between
Aug. 1 and Nov. 15. This compares
with $7.3 million raised in 1960 and
$2.8 million in 1956.

3—Vastly more individual Americans have contributed than ever before in GOP history. Almost 1,000,000
individuals contributed through the
various national committees. If we
add in the amounts collected by
various women's groups which did
not pass through the National Committee, the number of contributors
rises to 2,000,000. In 1960 there
were 37,000.
The average contributions ran between $9 and $10.
A very significant fact this year
was that countless thousands paid to
hear Goldwater not only at party
dinners but in big places such as the
Los Angeles stadium.
There was little help from states
where the traditional "fat cats" resided. The official New York party
chipped in $8,000, and the official
parties in Massachusetts and Michigan nothing. New Jersey not only
contributed nothing but asked the
National Committee for help.

A REALITY TO FACE

These facts must be weighed
when we hear talk, as we shall, about
returning party control to the old
centers in the East and Northeast.
As the leaders there withheld their
support of the national ticket, people
from the rest of the country moved
in with money and organized effort.
The GOP, though in a minority, has
become a people's party with solid
middle-class support.
At the same time, the Democratic
Party has come to be dominated by
big interests, an uneasy coalition of
big labor, big business, and big government. It was notable that former
exponents of free enterprise as well
as collectivistic labor leaders like
Walter Reuther rallied to Mr. Johnson and Hubert Humphrey.
The old coalitions are passing
away. And a constellation of "forgotten" Americans—worried salary
earners, retired folks, young people,
anxious parents, small-business men,
housewives, and professional people
—gave their contributions to the Republican cause.
This is further proof of the revolution which I mentioned before San
Francisco—a revolution which may
take time to mature, but which is a
reality which we must all face.
This campaign was based upon
frankly conservative lines. It will take
months, maybe years, to construct
this theme upon lines with more appeal to the great middle interests,
the essentially conservative people of
the country. But these many contributions of money prove that the basis
is already there.

Newsweek, November 23, 1964