Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


The New Political Scene

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The most obvious political effect of our change of Presidents will be on the Democratic party. Even if President Truman were a New Dealer—which he is not—there would be an immense change in his party. The great personal influence and public appeal of Mr. Roosevelt restrained and eclipsed his party. But it never changed its basic form and character. The Democratic party is based upon geography and upon the historical fact of the Civil War. No person could alter that.

Mr. Roosevelt gave the party a new set of by-laws, but it retained its old constitution. He gave it a streamlined body, but it still had the same motive power. He brought new people into office, but they were never assimilated by the Democratic party.

The Democratic party will now resume the character which it laid aside in 1933. In Congress, in the Administration, in the National Committee, in state and city organizations, orthodox party rules and procedures will be resumed. Congress will more closely control Executive departments. Executive appointments will be more generally made on the basis of party service.

The Democratic National Committee will exercise more influence through its chairman, Robert E. Hannegan.

There will be no sudden exodus of many New Dealers from Washington. President Truman is a shrewd and cautious man. Every effort will be made to assure continuity of major Roosevelt policies and personnel. But as time passes, appointments will tend to bring regular Democrats in and to allow the politically unorthodox to drop out. The atmosphere will be unfavorable to extremists. There will be little amendment of New Deal laws for a considerable time. But the administration of those laws will finally be more favorable to business.

As to business opinion and policy, a grave and emphatic warning is in order. This is no moment to assume that Coolidge days are here again. If, as early signs indicate, reactionary business interests are preparing for a field day, there will be trouble. Truman is not Coolidge. He has none of the Vermonter’s reverence for big business. He is a professed friend of small, not big, business. His reputation as a Senator was based on criticism of business. And he inherits an Administration filled, in hundreds of safe pillboxes, by thousands of zealous New Dealers. A bureaucracy has a tough, enduring texture.

If a boom psychology develops, as in the 1920s, induced by false hopes of lax government controls, we shall be headed for economic chaos followed by depression and, after that, by more extreme radicalism than ever. Sane business leadership should stand firmly against reactionary trends. Now is a favorable time for more, rather than less, cooperation between management and labor and for restraints upon monopolistic tendencies. Large profits and drastic tax reductions are not in immediate prospect. We can have an era of good feeling only if we keep our heads.

Strange as it may seem, there will be a trend to the left in the Republican party. Governor Dewey has been saying little since the election, but a close view of the Albany picture reveals a trend in the Governor’s thinking toward “progressivism.” There are elements in his party which will resent this. But Mr. Dewey is convinced that the country should hold fast to the so-called “social” gains of the past twelve years and he will be a powerful, though not a predominant, influence in party affairs.

An interesting paradox emerges in the thinking of a good many people, as a result of the change in Presidents. These people will be more, rather than less, “progressive.” Long before Mr. Roosevelt they believed in more governmental regulation of business. In 1932 they supported Mr. Roosevelt because they believed that his leadership promised a necessary measure of reform. But as time went on, they became convinced that his progressivism involved too much personal power and too pronounced a shift toward class government. The danger of excessive Executive power is now past. Progressive policies can now be judged on an impersonal basis, and an enormous clarification of thinking should result.