Here's a text version of the provided article, respecting column breaks.  I've tried to maintain the original formatting as much as possible.


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

A Political Revolution
by Raymond Moley

COLUMBIA, S.C.—After three days in
this friendly and lovable state, I
find myself rubbing my eyes at what
I have seen and doubting my ears at
what I have heard. A political revolu-
tion is undoubtedly taking place.
Where it will lead, no one can foretell.
Here is a state which has been re-
garded as the most solid of the erst-
while solid Democratic South. In the
election last month, how-
ever, the Democratic candi-
date won by only a narrow
margin, and that major-
ity was provided by the
Negro vote. Approximately
173,000 votes were cast
for Stevenson; 165,000 for
Eisenhower. But Governor
James F. Byrnes esti-
mates that 59,000 of those
Stevenson votes were cast
by Negroes. Therefore, the white
Democratic vote was only 114,000,
while only a small proportion of the
Eisenhower vote was cast by Negroes.
This revolution was headed by a
man who has held the most distin-
guished offices under a Democratic
administration. Little was heard from
the two U.S. senators from South Car-
olina, who remained throughout the
campaign somewhat unhappily on the
side of Stevenson. There are dire
threats about what will happen to
these senators when they run again.
I attended what was aptly called
an "Eisenhower Celebration Dinner"
and heard speaker after speaker, in-
cluding Governor Byrnes, denounce
the Truman Administration and the
national Democratic Party amid wild
applause and rebel yells. Those who
attended were substantial leaders in
the community who have been life-
long Democrats. A big delegation of
those Democrats will attend the in-
auguration of a Republican President.
To make the occasion still more amaz-
ing, not one member, so far as I know,
of the regular Republican organization
of the state was present. With that
small but not very popular group of
traditional Republicans, these rebel-
lious leaders will have nothing to do.
At this dinner a resolution was
unanimously adopted which declared
that the Democrats for Eisenhower
would remain an independent politi-
cal group. This attitude was probably
taken on the advice of Governor

Byrnes and of their own campaign
manager, George Warren. They want
to stay clear of affiliation with the na-
tional party, for a while at any rate,
and await developments.
I asked Congressman L. Mendel
Rivers of Charleston, who was the
only Democratic House member who
supported Eisenhower, what would
determine the future of the party
system in South Carolina.
He answered that it would
depend on the attitude of
the Eisenhower Adminis-
tration and the national
Republican Party. If the
Administration and the Re-
publican Party chiefs re-
ward and build up the
old Republican organization
here with patronage and
otherwise, the Democratic
Party in South Carolina will remain
independent of both national parties.
The implication of this is that the way
to build a Republican Party here is to
build it anew from the bottom.
My own conviction concerning the
future of the party system in the
South is that no general pattern will
be followed. Some states will develop
strong Republican parties. In others,
the majority of Democrats will break
away from the national Democratic
Party but maintain themselves as in-
dependent Democratic units.
As Congressman Rivers says, the
future will depend upon the skill man-
ifested by Eisenhower, Summerfield,
Adams, and others. They can, if they
will, select young, ambitious men and
women for offices and other forms of
patronage and lay the foundations of
a new Republican organization. If the
Republican Party at long last gets rid
of the civil rights issue, this process
of party building will be accelerated.

IN MY judgment, the older conserva-
tive Democrats throughout the
South will not regain control of the
national Democratic Party. Those
leaders are growing older and in a
few years will pass on. Young con-
servative people in the South will drift
toward the Republican Party. Perhaps
out of it all will emerge a genuine
conservative party with an active or-
ganization throughout the nation. But
we shall have to be patient. Parties
are not built in a day.

Newsweek, December 15, 1952