Democratic Dissension

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Sooner or later all postwar plans
and speculations on the domestic front
must reckon with the political currents
that will determine which party will
control the national administration
after 1944. If Mr. Roosevelt is elected
for a fourth term, business manage-
ment, agriculture, labor and the average
man, as well, will have to figure on a
good many certainties—some pleasant,
some unpleasant. If any one of a dozen
possible Republican candidates win, an
altogether different set of circumstances
will confront us. It’s wise, therefore, to
test the political drift occasionally.

Currents in the stream of public
opinion are complex and deep. But the
logs on the surface are visible and
tangible. The results of the election
of 1944, even if Mr. Roosevelt runs
again, can be anticipated only as we
can anticipate the behavior of party
leaders.

When state leaders, national com-
mitteemen, senators and congressmen
bolt the party line, grow loud in
criticism or keep an ominous silence,
watch out for a change. To look back
one hundred years is to see the evidence.
In 1844 the Whigs nominated the most
popular man in the United States,
Henry Clay. The Democrats, in the
interest of unity, cast aside their heroes
and nominated the “dark horse,” Polk,
who, on the first seven ballots in the
convention, received no votes at all.
Unity won over popularity in the election.
In 1848 a Democratic split in New
York, not unlike the fight that is now
under way between the President and
Mr. Farley, threw the election to the
Whigs. Since then, there have been 23
Presidential elections. In only four has
a party in power for three terms or
more been turned out. In every one of
those four instances—1860, 1884, 1912
and 1932—the decisive element was a
party split in which national leaders
bolted the party completely.

In the election last November, according
to Dr. Gallup’s recent poll, enough states
shifted to have thrown a Presidential
election to the Republicans. But an even
more ominous signpost for the Democrats
is the poor health of the party now.

No one ever called to the party chairmanship
realized more clearly what fighting lay
ahead, and no one ever hated to fight
more than Frank Walker. No doubt Mr.
Roosevelt selected Mr. Walker for the same
reasons that impelled Darius to pick Daniel:
“Forasmuch as he was faithful,” as the Good
Book says. Like Darius, Mr. Roosevelt
has deposited his man in a den of lions.
But the Postmaster General is no
Daniel. Nor is an angel likely to “shut
the lions’ mouths”—not the mouths of
these lions.

Perhaps the lions of the left will subside
after their current complaints about our
North African policy have been silenced
by new war developments. But the lions
of the right—the party leaders who for
years have complained bitterly about “the
bureaucrats” who get the jobs although
they never carried a precinct, the senators
and congressmen who resent the influence
of labor in the Administration, the Southern
leaders who are deeply disturbed about Mrs.
Roosevelt’s and Mr. Wallace’s utterances,
the nine Democratic leaders of the Middle
West who had an indignation meeting of
their own in Omaha after the election—these
will be hard to placate. When enough
Democratic senators refused to approve the
Flynn nomination to defeat it, this party
conflict was revealed with brutal clarity.
A certain aftermath of the Flynn affair
will be a resumption of open party warfare
in New York. Meantime, it is no exaggeration
to say that the Democratic South is in revolt
against the New Deal. This writer saw and
heard enough in a recent trip to the South to
be convinced of that. Ex-Governor Dixon
of Alabama and Governor Jones of Louisiana
have been outspoken. Dixon went so far as
to suggest that the Southern States might
retain their Democratic character legally, but
elect electors unpledged to the candidate of
the party convention in 1944.

Two possibilities are ahead in 1944. The
convention may be dominated by the New
Deal, and Mr. Roosevelt or someone named
by him will be nominated. In that case, the
Republican party may nominate a Democrat
for Vice President and bid for the many
Democrats who are, even now, so far off the
reservation that they would prefer Republican
victory to a continuance of their present
intraparty status. Or, the Democratic
organization may control the convention and
nominate a conservative. In that case, a third
party, headed by Mr. Roosevelt himself, may
emerge. Then 1912 would be repeated.
Predictions for 1944 are difficult, but there
need be no doubt about present conditions
within the Democratic party. It is torn with
revolt from East to West and North to South.