Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and layout:


Reuther's Long Arm
by Raymond Moley

POLITICAL demagogues, noisy pressure groups, and "liberal" commentators will now have us believe a story that the political upset in the Northwestern states of Oregon, Washington, and Idaho was a revolt of a population which has been writhing under the heel of a private-power monopoly. Those people were told in the recent campaign that the Eisenhower Administration, chock full of millionaires, intended in the name of partnership to toss the great natural resources of that region into the maw of the monopoly. Throughout the narrative in the past four or five years there has been popping up, like the grisly head of King Charles, something called Hells Canyon.

Readers will be relieved to know that the center of attack by the demagogues will no longer be Hells Canyon, but something called Pleasant Valley. For there are now before the Federal Power Commission applications from a number of utilities operating in the region for a license to build two dams on the Snake River below the Hells Canyon site.

"Representing" the people of the Northwest in opposing the companies is a pressure group called the National Hells Canyon Association, hereinafter called NHCA. This NHCA fought unsuccessfully through the long hearings on the Idaho Power Co.'s application to build three dams at the Hells Canyon site.

WHO'S WHO

On paper, the constituent elements of NHCA are a number of local groups, including "associations" which "represent" public-utility districts and REA's. But the president of the NHCA has been J.T. Marr, executive secretary treasurer of the Oregon State Federation of Labor.

It has been represented before the Federal Power Commission and the courts by law firms of which prominent members are C. Girard Davidson, formerly Assistant Secretary of the Interior under the Truman regime and now Democratic National Committeeman from Oregon, and Mrs. Evelyn N. Cooper, formerly law secretary of the Truman Interior Secretary. I have a copy of a letter written by Marr to "All Unions and Councils in Oregon" appealing for money for the NHCA. Enclosed were lists of contributors to the NHCA. These indicate that the major money came from labor organizations—at the time the letter was written, $57,053.30 of a total of $111,195.71.

The long list of contributors includes Walter Reuther's UAW for $4,000, his CIO for $5,000, and also the Oregon and Washington CIO's for smaller amounts. The Steelworkers chipped in $4,000, and the Union of Operating Engineers, $5,000. Most strange are contributions in sizable amounts from the International Ladies Garment Workers and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers.

REMOTE CONTROL

It should be a matter of keen interest to the thousands of members of such unions that their funds are thus given to a cause which is not only far removed from their homes and interests but which, if successful, means more Federal spending out of their pockets as taxpayers. They should be interested, too, in the fact that their contributions, which should be devoted to matters related to their interests as workers, are thus diverted to the ideological and political concerns of their officers.

It is of great general interest to note that powerful unions are using methods of this sort to penetrate state after state far removed from the industrial centers in which most of their members work and live. It might well indicate how Reuther, et al., are now aiming at the control of the Democratic Party and, with it, the government of smaller states. They are not only easier to capture, but are greatly overrepresented, populationwise, in the Senate. Yesterday it was Michigan. Today it is Oregon, Colorado, and Washington. Tomorrow it may be the Dakotas, New Mexico, Arizona, and Wyoming. A state need not be industrial to be union-controlled. What better investment could Walter Reuther make than to support a cause dear to the hearts of Senators Morse, Magnuson, Jackson, Murray, and others? Strong as the COPE will be in the next House, its influence in the Senate will be greater and will grow more rapidly.

Newsweek, December 17, 1956