PERSPECTIVE

'NOT BY BREAD ALONE'

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Two short sentences in Senator
Goldwater's acceptance address
in San Francisco which mentioned
"extremism" and "moderation" seem
to have diverted most comment from
the essential theme of the speech.
The key to the speech's meaning and
to Goldwater's domestic philosophy is
found in the repetition of the expression "the whole man."
The first sentence after the preliminaries was a dedication to "the
ultimate and undeniable greatness of
the whole man." A bit later he argued that government should be the
"durable ally of the whole man." And
still later he declared that "the whole
man" was the reason for "instituting
orderly government in the first place."
One of the very few among many
commentators who perceived the
real meaning in the speech, James
Reston, said that the Republican candidate had "raised some basic questions which have troubled men since
the days of Aristotle."
That mention of the ancient philosopher who has been the tutor of
great statesmen for centuries was
most appropriate. For in phrasing
Goldwater's ideological position in
this campaign two or three of his assistants were as conscious of Aristotle's political and ethical views as was
Jefferson when in the Declaration he
substituted Aristotle's word "happiness" for "property" in his trilogy
of unalienable rights.

'THE COMPLETE LIFE'

Aristotle's comments on statecraft,
which are as pertinent today as they
were when they were written, held
ethics to be indivisible from politics.
The real purpose of government is to
help the citizen find "the good for
man." That "good" he calls "happiness," a supreme value which is a
composite of many lesser values in
which material means is only one.
Happiness is what makes "the complete life."
The concept of liberty is implied
because the individual is left free to
establish his own priority among the
various components of his happiness.
That is why Jefferson added "in pursuit of." The "whole man," therefore,
must be considered in shaping political policies.
There is nothing abstruse about this thesis. Any individual can understand it by a bit of self-examination.
He may be well housed, well fed,
and well clad but still feel incomplete. Material means is only one
factor in the good life. "Man liveth
not by bread alone."
Thus Goldwater has challenged a
refrain which has been the obsession
of liberal Democrats for 30 years. In
the great Depression it was essential
to stress the material means for survival. But because political appeals
based upon material benefits from
government won successive elections
and because politicians are the creatures of habit, their "dialogue" centered on material benefits long after
the Depression had faded away. Finally, their speeches and platforms
have become mere catalogues of government handouts-first bread, then
bread and butter, then jam on the
side, and finally cheese with the pie.

A CYNICAL APPRAISAL

These people have not realized
how far they have drifted toward
Marxian materialism. In 1952, when
the Democratic slogan was "You
never had it so good," I wrote that
this meant "not the good life but the
goods of life." President Johnson's
campaign slogans will probably be a
reiteration of what the Democrats
have been saying for decades. He
will be the prisoner of a ritual.
Instead of stressing the complete
life for the whole man, this ritual inherited by the President will suggest
a sterile, disciplined, vitamined life
on a bleak plateau of uniformity over
which ride the inspectors, regulators,
and police of a mechanized bureaucracy. The individual's status is that of
a statistic-a card in a computer.
These appeals limited to the issues
of the stomach and purse reveal a
cynical appraisal of man. They neglect his loyalty to and pride in his
home ties, community relations, ancestry, traditions, religion, and patriotism. He lives for these, too, and
for them on occasions invites privation, suffering, and even death.
Goldwater's thesis is not that the
material needs of the individual
should be neglected. He is saying,
rather, that the moral and spiritual
values inherent in liberty also have
their place in political discourse.

Newsweek, August 17, 1964