Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Disclosing the Communists

by RAYMOND MOLEY

THE brief flurry of controversy between
Stassen on the one side and Taft and Dewey
on the other about outlawing Communism in
the United States will probably have little
effect on the result of their contest for the
Presidency. It is reported, however, that
Stassen has received enthusiastic applause
when he makes his plea for outlawing the
Communist party. This confirms the evidence
of polls that a large majority of people favor
outlawing Communism. The difficulty is in
method, and that problem is too technical to
be decided in a political debate.

Meanwhile, the Thomas committee has
reported the Mundt bill to the House of
Representatives. The bill apparently goes as
far toward outlawing Communism as the
committee feels is legally possible. It must be
remembered that, under our system, the
states determine who shall vote and under
what circumstances a party gets on the
ballot. The Federal government is primarily
concerned with Communism as a foreign
agency or influence. In that field, Federal
power is very broad.

PROBABLY for that reason the Mundt bill
aims in the main at disclosure in order to
make reasonably certain that treasonable,
subversive and foreign organizations will be
identified and rendered harmless. It is good,
as far as it goes. Real blotting out of
Communist political parties and activities
depends upon the states and upon what
unpredictable courts may ultimately sustain.
A large part of the bill is a preliminary
statement of facts which the committee has
deduced from hearings before the Thomas
committee. It points out that the
establishment of totalitarian government
destroys free government; that there is a
worldwide Communist movement which seeks
totalitarianism by force, violence and secrecy;
that it is foreign-directed and-controlled; and
that Communist political organizations in the
United States are thus a menace, properly
subject to legal action. Since the present
Communist party can easily change its name,
the bill is not directed at any named group.
It seeks to provide legal means of regulating
any group or person who fits its definitions.
Having defined with great precision the ideas
and activities which are deemed objectionable,
the bill declares them to be unlawful. It
directs its prohibition upon activities that
seek to establish a totalitarian government
under the direction or control of any foreign
agency or person. This part of the bill is
directed not at members but at officers and
managers of organizations. The bill then
requires full disclosure of members,
supporters, contributors and all financial
accounts of "front" organizations.

No one can predict with certainty the
attitude of the Supreme Court toward such a
piece of legislation. After the fantastic
majority opinion of Mr. Justice Murphy in the
Schneiderman Case in 1942, almost anything
could happen. But it seems clear that Congress
can prohibit or punish (a) any secret action on
behalf of a foreign government, (b) any
active conspiracy to overthrow our government
by force. If the Murphy opinion is followed,
there might be some doubt about prohibiting a
movement to establish a totalitarian
government. And it is clear that a person's
membership in a "front" organization cannot
be made by legislative act a presumption that
he shares the criminal responsibility that
attaches to the organization. The court may
well require that in a prosecution the
government produce evidence directly
involving the individual concerned. However,
the court might now follow Chief Justice
Stone's dictum that it is a sensible inference
that a man can be known by the company he
keeps.

However, as Mister Dooley said, the
Supreme Court follows the election returns. It
may also be following the news from Europe.
And the personnel of the court has changed
since 1942.

IN any event, the Mundt bill is an excellent
attempt to deal with a grave problem within
constitutional limits. The brazen threat of
William Z. Foster, chairman of the Communist
party, to ignore the law if the bill is enacted
should be the strongest argument for its
passage. If his outfit chooses, as he says, "to
go underground," it can then be unearthed.
All crime is underground now, and it is the
purpose of police to dig it out.

Newsweek, May 10, 1948