Here's a text version of the provided image, respecting the column structure.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality and OCR limitations.


**Political Notes**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Dewey's preeminence in Republican lican leaders there he can hold the organization either neutral or pro-Republican. The members are another matter. They owe a lot of specific benefits to the New Deal, and, in general, they will not forget that.

The 1943 elections will be immensely significant in showing trends. One of Kentucky's Democratic senators says that the Democrats could not carry it at this time. Sen. Bennett Clark, despite his detachment from Administration policies, would, his friends believe, lose in Missouri now, but would run ahead of a national Democratic ticket there. The New Jersey Democracy, hopelessly divided, will probably lose to former Ambassador Edge, the choice of a united Republican party for governor. Hague feels that he cannot produce the big majorities he used to find in Jersey City. The votes aren't there, he says.

The Bricker campaign for the nomination is not yet organized but will be soon. Meanwhile, the governor is on excellent terms with neighboring governors in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Illinois, and his friends believe he can get the delegates from those states without trouble.

Warren in California will have the delegation from that state. While he is not an active candidate for President, California Republicans cannot afford to have a Willkie-Bricker primary fight there. President Sproul of the University of California is eyeing the senatorial seat now held by Sheridan Downey. Sproul, a popular figure in California, could have had the nomination for governor before Earl Warren entered, but he hesitated to give up his university post.

Andrew Jackson Higgins, New Orleans shipbuilder, has come out for the fourth term.

If the war ends before the spring of 1944, Mr. Roosevelt's chances of reelection, most good judges believe, are dubious. But all agree that if the war in Europe is still on, his chances will be about even. Few doubt that he can get the nomination if he wants it.

1944 thinking was a fact heavily stressed by publishers and editors when they were here from all parts of the country some weeks ago. Dr. Gallup has since confirmed it with a poll showing Dewey not only far ahead of other governors but outstripping Willkie and MacArthur. Most opinion is cynical about Dewey's statement that he will not accept the nomination. But those close to Dewey insist he means it.

The fourth-term drive at this stage consists of asking leading Democrats in many states two questions: Could F.D.R. win? Would you support him? Chairman Walker is not a part of this quizzing campaign. It is almost certain that Wallace will not be on the ticket if F.D.R. runs.

As Stassen bows out Navyward, people in Minnesota friendly to him admit he lost local popularity during his last months as governor. He made too many speeches, neglected the state, they say. Elsewhere in the country people attracted by his international leanings criticize him for making his postwar plan too specific. He does not talk like a protégé of Willkie, although they remain friendly.

Ruml plan support by the Republicans in Congress was sincere and wholehearted. But politically they will gain from its defeat. The reason is that the party writing the tax bill will not be popular with taxpayers next year, and all Ruml-believers will thank Republicans for supporting the plan anyhow.

Look for the Republican Committee to find a place for a man like Hutcheson of the Carpenters or some other AFL stalwart friendly to John L. Lewis to organize labor next year for the GOP. But remember that leaders have never successfully controlled the votes of labor, and remember also T.R.'s principle that whatever the Republican party could get over 35 percent of the labor vote was gravy.

John L. Lewis's petition to return to the AFL is important political news. With a number of traditionally Republican