Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Toward a Better Plan
by Raymond Moley

AFTER the bruises, concussions, lacerations, excisions, and ingraftings
which the Constitution suffered during the twenty years of Democratic
control it is strange to look to that party for a method of achieving the
President's purpose in the Middle East without further damage to the
supreme law of the land. But at the moment the Democrats in Congress
seem to be fumbling toward such a blessed alternative.

It seems to me that what is needed is a plan which would salvage something
of the constitutional powers of Congress and at the same time warn the
Soviet Union and its satellites and sympathizers that the full power of
the United States will be used to prevent Communist domination of the
Middle Eastern nations. There are two ways to do this with some constitutional
justification.

Congress might well declare by a simple resolution that the vital interests
of the United States require the independence and integrity of the nations
of that region and that when necessary, and under the authority of Congress,
American force will be used to prevent aggression. It should be assumed
that during the present session of Congress the President might get authority
to use force within hours. Then at the end of this session, presumably in
August, Congress could vest power in the President to act at his discretion
until Congress reassembles in January.

TEMPORARY

Obviously this would be a temporary policy. But in the present situation
of unrest and change in the Middle East and of trouble within the Iron
Curtain nothing but month-to-month remedies and preventives are in order.

It can be said with some truth that the power of Congress to declare war
is academic. Wars are no longer started with declarations and there are
many forms short of a legally declared war in which military force can be
used. But since Congress must still provide the sinews of military power and
since it should function to protect the people of the United States against
the arbitrary power of any Chief Executive, it should not delegate that
power to the President except under strict limitations or to the U.N. under
any conditions.

Another way by which the desired notice might be given to the Soviet Union
and to any other Communist nation would be to join the Baghdad pact, of
which Turkey, Iran, Iraq, and Pakistan are members, and to invite the
remaining nations of the Middle East to join also.

It is strange to find a well-trained lawyer like Secretary Dulles so vague
about the manner in which the President's power under the plan should be
exercised. The proposed joint resolution says:

"The President is authorized to employ armed force... provided that such
employment shall be consonant with the treaty obligations of the United
States and with the charter of the United Nations and actions and recommendations
of the U.N."

VAGUE

In explaining this Dulles said:
"Coordination with the United Nations would be further assured by a
provision that any United States use of force shall be consonant with the
actions and recommendations of the United Nations."

This sentence might well have been omitted because it either means something
very bad or nothing at all. If, as it seems, it means that the hands of the
United States acting constitutionally through the Congress and the President
are to be tied by the United Nations, it is very bad indeed.

It is totally unnecessary to tie into this authority to the President the use
of funds for economic aid. His authority in that respect is very great already
and Congress has not been niggardly in granting him funds.

The simple Democratic resolution which Speaker Rayburn looks upon with
favor would seem to meet the problem. The opportunity lies before the
Democrats to rescue the interests of Congress in this situation. Indeed it
may well be that the defense of the Constitution must always be the role of
the party which is not in executive power. For we have had 24 years to
learn that any President is likely to seek more power than is contemplated
in the Constitution.

Newsweek, January 21, 1957