Here's the text extracted from the provided image, respecting the column structure and omitting the advertisement:

**Manifest Destiny?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Empires are like hash. They are
not made. They accumulate. The spread
of a nation's influence is due as much
to external pull as to internal push.
We are being drawn into situations
because we are the only nation capable
of filling economic vacuums. The
beckoning of destiny—in this instance
from Greece and Turkey—is not a new
American experience. It has been
going on from the moment
we were a free nation. We
moved and moved. Louisiana,
Florida, Texas, Oregon,
the Southwest and California,
Alaska, Hawaii, the
West Indies and the Philippines
were milestones. Each
advance created the need
for the next. In our present
position in Europe and Asia,
the rapid weakening of the
British Empire has created
a new series of pulls and pushes.
They have come at a moment when
we cannot rely on our new means of
international action. The UN, the International Bank and Fund are born of
a great hope. But they are infant
agencies, still endowed with only
feeble power. The President now
makes clear that he believes that the
United States must hold the line.
The Greco-Turkish proposal of the
President is obviously not a plan, but
part of a plan. The Administration,
under the leadership of the State, War
and Navy Departments, has decided
that the Soviet power must be contained and that the only check on one
sphere of influence is to build another
sphere of influence.

But success in the pursuit of that
policy will depend on frankness, intelligence and forbearance. Since our
decision is to create a sphere of influence, we must not use it as spheres of
influence have been used in the past—
for exploitation. Our proposal follows
the pattern of imperialism. It need not
necessarily result in empire.

Some of the conditions which
should accompany the policy proposed
by the President are:

First, we must make clear to the
Soviets and to the world exactly what
our sphere of influence will be.

Next, we must, within that sphere,
prevent civil war. Hidden purposes
and indirect aid might precipitate a
dozen repetitions of the Spanish civil
war.

We ought to distinguish between the
frontiers of economic aid and the frontiers of military power. The proposal
that we lend military personnel to
Greece and Turkey will be hard for
Americans to accept. It will be suggested that the Greek Islands and the
Mediterranean would be a better military frontier than the far reaches of
the two countries.

We must avoid cant and hypocrisy.
We say that we are working
for free and representative
governments everywhere.
But we cannot justify our
protection of totalitarian
governments, simply because
those governments are anti-Communist. Turkey is
not a democracy, and Greece
has only a partially representative government.

If we are to mark out a
sphere of influence, we
should make it clear that we will not
interfere with those parts of the world
which are under the Soviet sphere of
influence.

And above all, we must support,
use and strengthen the United Nations.
If we are extending our power for the
ultimate purpose of building not an
empire but international security, the
expansion of the UN will be the proof
of our sincerity.

The policy upon which the President
is now embarked is based on a
belief that the Soviets do not want
war. That is probably a wise assumption. But every diplomatic effort
should be made to make the Soviets
believe that we do not want war. That
means efforts to restore the stability of
Europe through cooperation with the
Soviets to settle the reparations puzzle
and to create a sound and harmless
Germany. It means a Chinese government truly representative of all factions. It means, further, a real effort
to promote economic relations with
Russia and the nations within her
sphere of influence which will aid
them in recovery from the devastation
of a war in which they bore the brunt
of suffering.

Finally, we should try to end the
conception, altogether too generally
held, that two ideologies cannot live
in the same world. If the Russians believe that Communism is best for them,
we should respect that belief. All we
want is to check its spread. The best
means to that end is economic stability
everywhere.