Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  I've made my best effort, but some minor adjustments may still be needed for perfect accuracy.


Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Preparing to Prepare

If the nation has learned anything
at all in the past two weeks, it is that our
belated defense program is going to involve
not only coordination among many
sources of supply, an abnormal expansion
of certain kinds of plant and an emergency
demand for certain types of labor, but a
major shift in our resources and activities.
The immensity of this shift is suggested
by the fact that 25 to 40 per cent of Germany’s
energies and resources have been
diverted to armaments in the last six years.

Yet there is every evidence of a dangerous
tendency on the part of government to
minimize the immediate hardships and
sacrifices the unprecedented job of readjustment
entails. There is also evidence of
a tendency to blame industry for difficulties
which, apparently, those in government
do not understand.

In the President’s fireside speech he said
that first consideration would be given to
the protection of the consumer, to the
maintenance of all “the great social gains”
of recent years, to the prevention of war
fortunes and to the safeguarding of all
labor’s present standards of hours and
wages. On this, he was very clear. On actual
methods of facilitating the industrial
production necessary to defense, he was
not so clear. “The details of this,” he said,
“are now being worked out in Washington,
day and night.”

But these are mighty “details”—
“details” of life or death. What working
them out comes down to, in a practical
sense, is suggested by the experience of the
airplane industry to date. After the President
called for 50,000 airplanes, Mr. Morgenthau
summoned the airplane manufacturers
to Washington. They came posthaste—some
of them from California. We
must have cooperation, the Secretary announced.
Of course; that’s what we’re here
for, the aircraft people said. We must
stand shoulder to shoulder, they were told.
Yes, yes, what do you want? they replied.
If you will cooperate with government,
government will cooperate with you, they
were told. And so they went away. “It was
like putting your finger in a bowl of cold
soup,” one of them said expressively.

Three days went by. Then the Secretary
announced that there must be standardized
engine models for mass production. Ford
had that idea some forty years ago. But
skip that. However elementary a step in
our defense program, it is still an improvement over talk of cooperation. Yet, really,
it is only short of nothing.

Take another practical situation—a
transcendently important one, since it vitally
affects plant expansion in general and
the production of engines, guns and the
like in particular. This concerns the machine-
tool makers, with whom the government
did not even begin to “confer” until
this week. The perplexities of the machine-
tool builders have been these:

1—The machine-tool companies are being
importuned to deliver tools to the Allies,
to the Army, to the Navy and to
American manufacturers. A company making
carburetors may have a grinder on order,
for example, but if the supplier ships
it to the Allies he may be depriving them
of earlier delivery on a plane order even
more important. The companies need some
direction on priorities, and they don’t see
any agency in Washington even beginning
to arrange for it.

2—Machine-tool companies have been
having great trouble with their requests
for more favorable depreciation allowances
on plant expansion. Manufacturers
think that new plants built especially for
war production should be written off at
25 per cent a year. They have correctly
insisted that they are being asked to accept
inordinate risks that almost no other
industry has to take. Up to this writing,
there has been no indication that the
Treasury will give them the special treatment
they must have.

3—Supplies of skilled labor are scarcest
in the machine-tool centers of importance.
Semiskilled men are also scarce in some
places—planer hands, operators of horizontal
boring mills, grinder hands, hobbing
and gear-cutter hands. Builders of boring
mills themselves have all the men they
need; ditto, in some places, builders of
milling machines. Though lathe hands are
available, builders of lathes are the most
rushed people in America. No one in Washington
seems to recognize these differences.
Secretary Perkins in Washington said only
last week that “thousands of skilled workers”
are available. “We know where these
people are and can get them when we
need them,” she said. If so, why are Pacific
Coast plants advertising in Eastern newspapers—as they have been doing for weeks—and offering to pay moving expenses to competent men?

We are told of the vast numbers of the
unemployed, and then asked, irrelevantly,
how there can be labor shortages. The hard
fact is that skilled men have been at a
premium for a long time. The training or retraining of the unemployed, while socially
appealing, is hardly a practical answer to our
emergency problem. All-round machinists are
not, under normal circumstances, trained in
less than three or four years. Superintendents,
assistants and foremen require more than four
years of training and experience. Specialist
machine operators (semiskilled) need at least
three to six months’ training. Unpleasant as it
is, we must face the reality that men who
have been on relief for a considerable period
are generally unfitted for such training because,
with relatively few exceptions, they have become
slow, easygoing.

There is a suggestion abroad in Washington
that we can turn the entire automobile
industry to the making of airplane engines.
It is true that one of the large companies
thinks that it could retool for airplane engines
in six months, if necessary, while diminishing the
supply of cars. But “freezing” present models
cannot meet the problem. Not so long ago, a
builder of airplane engines showed a big automobile
company a string of 837 parts of an engine
and asked which ones the automobile company
could undertake to produce with its present
equipment. The company took two of these
parts. To do any consequential amount of
airplane work, the automobile companies
would have to buy new machines. True, they
have a wealth of executives and of skilled workers.
True, with informed cooperation from Washington
they can do much. But they cannot, alone,
“solve” the airplane engine problem between
now and next Tuesday.


What we face now is not a question
of conspiracies to “scrap” social gains or
put “pincers” on the New Deal; there are
no such conspiracies in the minds of responsible
people. It is a matter of getting
things done, of shifting energies, of relieving
pressures, of producing goods and
of producing them fast. That isn’t a job for
the Army, the Navy, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce or
for an unwieldy semipolitical council or
committee. It isn’t a job to be done by
consulting businessmen or by giving them
nominal advisory duties. It’s a job for a
man who knows industry, has proved himself
as an executive—a job for an industrial
coordinator. Such a man cannot be subject
to the control of political Cabinet officers
because the allocation of vital materials to
the departments must be left in his hands, if
we are to have coordination in more than name.
He cannot be a yes-man for the President,
although all the power he possesses will be the
President’s power temporarily delegated to him
to be used effectively in this emergency. He will
need informed assistants of his own choosing—not a debating council.

The enlistment of such a man will require
a change of heart and method in Washington.
But these must be days of sacrifice for everyone.