Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Odyssey of the TNEC

After three years, Skipper O’Mahoney has brought the TNEC back to
port. It’s been quite a voyage, and before any contemptuous hoots rend the air, let’s
take account of some of the difficulties that he’s had in his voyage. In short, as
Carlyle advised, ask the skipper whether he’s been on a voyage around the world
or only to Ramsgate and the Isle of Dogs before you sneer at his battered ship. The
log of the O’Mahoney odyssey will show that the ship has touched almost every
port on the sea of economics. It’s true that it didn’t pick up all the cargo of evidence
that lay on the docks—evidence that might have discomforted the crew. But it
has brought home a gigantic collection of facts. Perhaps it would be unkind to add
that these facts will be used less as guides in the day-to-day life of business and government than as museum pieces.

In view of the character of his sailing orders and the vicissitudes encountered on
his voyage, Skipper O’Mahoney deserves commendation for bringing the ship home
at all. The crew presents an almost entirely new set of faces. Two colleagues, Senator
Borah and Herman Oliphant, died at sea; another, Senator King, was left on
the isle of retirement; another, William Douglas, found a haven on the Supreme
Court; Leon Henderson joined Mr. Knudsen; and some of the others were more
distinguished by peaceful slumbers in their hammocks than by their active work on
the Committee.

Had the world remained as it was on that soft June day in 1938 when the
TNEC was launched, the TNEC hearings and monographs might have furnished
the blueprints for a new New Deal. But that can scarcely be true when the world
returns to peace: even now “planners” seeking totalitarian objectives are pursuing
them by a different route than the one which they so industriously tried to lay
out in the record of the TNEC. It isn’t easy to prophesy in such matters, but I,
for one, have laid away the 79 volumes of TNEC hearings and monographs; they
sleep on my shelves beside the reports of Mr. Hoover’s Prohibition Commission and
his Committee on Social Trends.

But the war is not solely responsible for the TNEC’s futility, and if Senator
O’Mahoney is disappointed he must, in apportioning blame, ascribe some to himself.
For he accepted the twofold compromise which proved to be the fatal defect


NEWSWEEK APRIL 14, 1941

in the whole enterprise. Made up of representatives of both Congress and the Administration, as a compromise between an Administration-conducted inquiry or a
Congressional inquiry, the Committee reflected its hybrid character in its objectives from the start. The compromise on methods, under which the Committee farmed out the job of specific investigations to Administration agencies, proved to be equally unwise. It simply meant that the Congressional members of the Committee would either weigh only such evidence as the Administration members and their assistants chose to present or would reach their conclusions on the basis of facts not presented at all to the Committee.

The report, judicial as it seems in tone, reveals this flaw. The conclusions and recommendations reported therein arise largely from the philosophy entertained by members of the Committee before there was any investigation. Of nothing is this so true as Senator O’Mahoney’s recommendation for a species of Federal incorporation. This is the Senator’s favorite remedy for economic ills and it occupies a conspicuous place in the report despite the fact that little in the testimony gathered bore specifically on it.

The TNEC’s concern with “idle men and idle money,” and with insurance, repeats the pattern in reverse. Examined together, the investigations of these subjects seem like nothing so much as an attempt to justify a point of view held by a group of the more radical New Dealers—the view that our industrial system was mature, washed up, incapable of further expansion, and that the remedy was government taxing-spending-lending. During the hearings strenuous efforts were made to give this theory wide public circulation. There is amazingly little in the TNEC record that rebuts or challenges it. Yet the final report of the TNEC not only gives it a minimum of attention but repudiates it in no uncertain terms. “We reject as un-American and unrealistic the belief that the limits of economic achievement have been reached in the United States,” it says by way of obituary for the theory. Both the efforts of outside critics and the events of the past year are responsible for this paradoxical behavior, of course.

Pretty much the same thing might be said of the TNEC and life insurance. The hearings in this field and the study of investigators Gesell and Howe, made public last month, stand in strange contrast with the report itself. The report, in passing, makes a few mild recommendations designed to strengthen state regulation rather than to offer any sort of Federal control. None of the extreme proposals that the long, elaborate and much-publicized inquiry seemed designed to support won any converts among the Congressional members of the Committee.

The primary purpose of the Committee was to study monopoly and the concentration of power. The report says much about the concentration of power, but unfortunately it says it in generalities that have been the bywords of political discussion for a generation. It scarcely recognizes that there are two well-defined points of view on the subject of bigness in industry; it does not adequately define what it means when it talks of economic power; and so it fails to come to grips with the fundamentals of the problem. To argue, as the report does, that a large percentage of war contracts have been placed in a few states and that this indicates an unwholesome concentration of power is to beg the essential question. This and similar observations throw very little light indeed on the complicated issues involved. It ignores, for instance, the widely dispersed ownership of many companies, the geographical reasons why certain industries have grown up in certain states, the advantages bigness may have, the distinction between size and power and so on and on. It overlooks the limitations and dangers of governmental action in this connection almost completely. It apparently does not realize that geographic decentralization of industry will take place whenever the ultimate interests of the consumer justify it under a free system and that it can be encouraged but not forced by government.

Nor is a case successfully made by exhaustive compilations of directorships in the great corporations of the country. The power that certain individuals exercise cannot be described or evaluated by charts showing interlocking directorates. Anyone who has seen business in practical operation knows that. Industry is a process governed by a thousand interests and pressures. Customers, labor, managers are all concerned in determining the balance through which successful operation can take place. Psychological factors influence it. Taste, habit, invention play unpredictable parts. What the TNEC failed to understand is that in dealing with the economic process it is dealing with a manifestation of human life, and human life has a stubborn way of resisting neat solutions and facile formulas.

But these are facts not unknown when the TNEC was created. The pity is that the TNEC has not taught us more about them, for sooner or later we shall need desperately to know more.