Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've attempted to preserve the column structure as much as possible, but some minor adjustments might be needed for perfect alignment:


NEWSWEEK DECEMBER 9, 1940

Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

An Idea for Crusaders

Whatever good resolutions may
have been made within the loyal opposi-
tion of 22,000,000 who supported Willkie,
one devastating fact must be clear to every
realist. The fine enthusiasm of the cam-
paign will ooze away in pessimism and in-
difference unless the responsible leaders of
the opposition find practical things that
their followers can do.

The form that the opposition may take
is still an indeterminate question. It must
be part of a rejuvenated Republican party.
The independents and Democrats must be
provided for in some way. And it is im-
portant that it give no justification to the
charge that it is a movement shaped on
un-American lines, that it is "Fascist" or
what not. But primarily it must have con-
structive things to do. It cannot and
should not live solely on criticism of the
Roosevelt Administration. Nor can it live
on resolutions and public meetings.

Some of its objectives must be achieva-
ble in a reasonably short time. They must
be close at hand. They must be capable of
enlisting the continuing zeal of the thou-
sands who centered their attack upon real
or supposed waste, incompetence and cor-
ruption during the last campaign. The
fight must be a fight not only for demo-
cratic, constitutional government but for
efficient, economical government.

That is why a vital concern with
local government and its problems should
be high upon the list of the opposition's
practical objectives. Here is a field ap-
pallingly neglected by the New Deal.
Workers will find that there is an incredi-
ble amount to be done, for the decline of
the fiber and quality of local government
throughout the United States is pro-
foundly serious. This is true not merely
of boss-controlled big cities, but of most
cities, villages, townships and counties.
It is, in large part, the result of the un-
precedented centralization of government
that has been nibbling away at the very
heart of our political democracy for the
past decade.

Of course, local government fell down
badly in 1932 and 1933. The depression
caught cities, towns and counties flat-foot-
ed. In most cases they had been inordinate-
ly extravagant. They had borrowed and
borrowed against a dubious future. Sud-
denly they discovered that the value of lo-
cal properties was shrinking overnight, that
their law enforcement was ineffective and
in many cases corrupt, and that their pub-
lic works were badly conceived and in-
competently built. In short, they were
totally unprepared to meet the demands
that the depression placed upon govern-
ment. So they became mendicants at
their state capitals and in Washington.
Mayors of cities spent more time lobbying
for national and state aid than they spent
at their desks. And an increasingly pow-
erful Federal machine began to drive polit-
ical bargains with city after city.

To say that this retreat of local gov-
ernment should be stopped is not a reac-
tionary cry. It is simply the quiet state-
ment of immensely practical considera-
tions. Common sense tells us that certain
functions of government can never be ef-
fectively performed by state and national
government. Common sense tells us, too,
that the exigencies of the defense program
make acute and dangerous the atrophy of
local government.

Consider, for instance, the prob-
lems of a city like San Luis Obispo, Calif.
San Luis Obispo has a population of 8,276.
Three miles from it, and more than 25
miles from any city as large, there will
presently be assembled 150,000 soldiers in
an Army camp. The problems of housing,
policing and the like that confront the city
are almost staggering in their complexity.

Last week, the Municipal Finance Of-
ficers Association held a conference at
Cleveland. The talk of these officials sug-
gested that the job ahead for San Luis
Obispo is, in greater or less degree, the
job of hundreds of other localities. Army
cantonments, the expansion and build-
ing of plants, the expansion of the work-
ing population are already creating de-
mands for more sewers, more fire stations,
more traffic facilities, more water and
power, more police, more airport facil-
ities. While this goes on, the costs of
most materials that cities buy threaten
to rise because of accelerated Federal pur-
chasing, and a drift from city jobs to bet-
ter paid private jobs is already in process.

What could all this mean in terms of a
job for organized political idealism? Well,
among other things, it means that alert
citizens in hundreds of cities should see
that the municipal exchequer is benefited
by the potentially improved tax revenues
that will attend greater business activity.
It means that appropriations for relief
in the cities should decline. People are
going back to work. Whether they take
up the support of their unemployable rel-
atives will depend in some measure on the
watchfulness of relief agencies in cities
that have the care of those who cannot
get on the WPA. And the watchfulness of
those relief agencies will, in turn, depend
upon the alertness of voters within the
cities.

Apart from these and like financial ques-
tions are health, housing and traffic prob-
lems. In each field the intelligent, in-
formed and zealous citizen can be of serv-
ice. Or he can, if he will, contribute to the
better enforcement of laws against or-
ganized crime, especially racketeering, re-
alizing that despite the occasional con-
viction of a racket king by Federal au-
thority working through the indirect and
unsatisfactory means of the income-tax
law, the maintenance of order is a proper
local function.

So much for volunteers with rela-
tively limited amounts of time to give.
The opportunities for greater service are
almost limitless. In the end, sound gov-
ernment depends upon sound politics.
Since that is so, the first step in the revi-
talization of local government must be to
drive corrupt or negligent machines and
leaders from power. Thousands of men
and women can do something useful if
they actively seek office in the local elec-
tions next year and the year after. Mem-
bers of the loyal opposition can not only
keep up their fighting spirit by such local
service but can help the cause of democ-
racy in the nation. Democracy must begin
close to home, if it is to be democracy in
more than name.

The history of local government in this
country has not been a particularly happy
one. Some thirty years ago there was a
renaissance of local government in this
country. The good effects of that move-
ment for better local government con-
tinued on through the Coolidge era. Then
the tide slackened. It has grown feebler
ever since. True, there have been ocса-
sional instances of striking progress. One
is the rehabilitation of city government in
Kansas City after long misrule by Pender-
gast. Another has been the excellent ad-
ministration of Cleveland by Mayor (now
Senator-elect) Burton. Conspicuous, too,
is the La Guardia-Moses regime in New
York City. But equally difficult jobs re-
main to be done in scores upon scores of
cities, towns and counties. They will not
be done unless public-spirited people, pow-
erfully sustained by local newspapers, do
them.

Here is a field for crusaders. Building
good government close at home may not
seem as exciting as trying to elect a Pres-
ident. But it's an indescribably instructive
and useful process. That it is also a first-
rate test of the crusaders' sincerity and de-
termination should be obvious.

Page 434 of 1087