Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Roosevelt and Dewey—III
by RAYMOND MOLEY

DESPITE vast differences among significant men in achievement, fame,
and public acclaim, the margin of difference in mental capacity is not large.
Luck, or a dash of imagination and daring—these may be the decisive elements.
Beyond that much depends upon how a man organizes and uses the faculties
that he has.

Dewey and Roosevelt had about the same formal education.
Roosevelt enjoyed a greater opportunity for foreign travel and for early
contacts with the great and distinguished.
Dewey enjoyed the discipline of self-help induced by real, though not dire,
necessity.

The most characteristic difference between the two appears in the manner in
which they performed the routine but important activities of administering large
governmental affairs.
Roosevelt in no reckoning in history will be called a great administrator. He
sometimes privately admitted this shortcoming. Once when asked why he did not
take a spell to stop innovations and improve the quality of the administration,
men, and machinery of government, he replied that the time had not come for
that. The war forced him to turn to administration in the military field. He
delegated then, and his selections were in the main good. But in civil administration
he left a setup the wretchedness of which was admitted by his successor in wholesale
Cabinet changes.

Among Roosevelt’s shortcomings as a civil administrator was a tendency to
choose subordinates because he felt a personal affinity for them. Also his habit
of giving vague assignments of authority brought about violent conflicts in his
official family, which he then made worse by seeking superficial compromises.
Recent memoirs by Hull, Ickes, Morgenthau, Farley, and others reveal these
conflicts and compromises.

THEN there was the tendency to select ideological wizards without administrative
capacity like Wallace because he liked to hear them dream aloud, or because he
liked the “cut of their jib,” as in the case of Ickes.
When several Democratic senators complained that Hull would be a poor administrator,
Roosevelt answered that he wanted Hull’s idealism. He then assured the new
Secretary that he would not have to bother about administration.

As a result of this policy of appointments, vast numbers of misfits drifted into
the smaller niches of the executive department. We are now witnessing some of
the harvest of this casual policy.
New agencies burgeoned so fast that there was unlimited overlapping. Three or
four roving administrators were constantly getting in the way of department heads
and of each other. It will take years to bring order back into the executive department.

Even Dewey’s enemies admit his administrative capacity. His personal habit of
precision and definiteness reaches into every part of his administration. His
department heads were selected after meticulous search for properly qualified
people. Half of them Dewey did not know before he began to consider them for
appointment. After they were selected he gave them discretion and freedom. They
have had no public disagreements. When there is an issue he compels them to thresh
it out privately and bring him the verdict. In six years there has been no resignation
because of disagreement in policy. Not a single department head has been fired. He
never tells them what to do in detail. They occasionally ask him. When political
obligations must be met he insists that political leaders produce efficient appointees.
Efficiency can be properly enforced even with political organizations.

THAT Dewey is a generous person is illustrated not only by the personnel that
has been near him a long time but by the loyalty he elicits from them. My contact
with Dewey eight years ago brought me into association with the group of a dozen
or more who are closest to him and upon whom he leans for advice. At the present
moment this group, with hardly an exception, is still with him. Some of his most trusted
lieutenants joined him in his first public service sixteen years ago. They are an able,
loyal group, happy with him and with each other. Little more need be said for the
character, the capacity, or the human qualities of the man.

Newsweek, September 6, 1948