Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid merging text from different columns:


**A Square Deal for Congressmen**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Unless President Truman or some other force outside Congress presses for action, the problem of improving Congress, both in membership and in working efficiency, will end in a chaos of irrelevancies. It is not a question of salaries alone, but of Congressional organization, equipment and procedure. But salaries are important, and if the House and Senate could put aside the fear of ridicule and reprisal, a start, effective with the House members and Senators elected in 1946, could be made. Until now, the question has been most awkwardly handled.

It is easy to demonstrate, in the first place, that, considering the nature of the job, a salary of $10,000 a year is wholly inadequate. Taxes amount to about $2,000 on that income. A member must maintain two residences—one at home, the other in the most expensive city on earth. A congressman recently pointed out that the residential rentals of his Congressional friends in Washington had increased, on average, about 300 per cent since 1936. Unless a member is to obligate himself to a political machine or to private interests of other kinds, he ought to pay his own indispensable campaign expenses. His obligation to contribute to all sorts of charitable and civic causes in his district is inescapable. And a minimum of social and civic obligations imposes other incidental expenses. What he has left is scarcely enough for a scanty subsistence.

Such obligations are what make the application of the Little Steel formula to his case absurd. His situation is a very special one, which cannot be compared with that of the usual salary- or wage-earner in private life.

With the justice of some increase established, the next question is how much of an increase. A thoughtful report, issued last winter by the National Planning Association and sponsored by a number of responsible people, suggests $25,000. This figure is based on the condition that Congressional membership should be a full-time job. It is based on the further fact that in any job—in labor organizations or private business, where comparable judgment, labor and education are required—the standard compensation is higher than what a congressman would retain from such a salary after his special congressman’s expenses are deducted.

Pensions are another essential condition of adequate compensation. The NPA report recommends that congressmen should receive, if they retire at 55 years or over, $1,000 a year for each year of Congressional service, up to a maximum of $10,000 per year. Certain safeguards are suggested, such as a provision to prevent the receipt of something more than this maximum because of other government salary or pension. The justice of thus providing a pension rests on the propositions that a congressman usually gives up vital middle years of his life and that his private business or profession is seriously interrupted by Congressional service. In short, if he has been in Congress six or eight years, a congressman has little on which he can fall back. A congressman—a distinguished one—told me a few years ago that if he could be sure of $100 a month at home, he would retire. He said that his law practice was gone, and that he had no savings to start a new means of livelihood. The very great advantage of a pension would be the inducement it would give to elderly congressmen to call it a day and give younger blood a chance. The fact that most important House and Senate chairmen are past three score and ten is indicative of the tendency to stay on long after the normal age of retirement in other walks of life.

Pensions were voted a few years ago, and the action was then rescinded. The reason for the retreat was a silly wave of attacks. Political fear overcame a sound move for Congressional reform. Political fears are also the reason for recent backing and filling on this whole subject of compensation. The method of indirect action was taken in the measure recently passed to give House members $2,500 additional expense money. Mr. Truman tried to straighten things out by suggesting a straight pay raise to $20,000. Then there was talk about a 15 per cent raise in conformity with the Little Steel formula. And so the matter stands.