PERSPECTIVE
JEFFERSON DAVIS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Among the many observances and
notices of these past four months
marking the termination of the War
Between the States, there has, so far
as I have noted, been little or no
mention of the capture, imprisonment
and torture of Jefferson Davis, Presi-
dent of the Confederate States of
America. Some of us whose ancestors
were on the side of the North and
who know the facts may want to have
that episode forgotten. For it nakedly
revealed the lengths to which pas-
sions may go beyond the common
decencies and practices of war and
the peace which follows. After the
first world war the German Kaiser
was permitted, despite the screaming
of Lloyd George, to find haven at
Doorn, where he lived out his life un-
molested. Davis was entitled to more
consideration, for he headed a strug-
gle not of aggression but for what he
conceived to be the constitutional
right of secession.

Davis fled from Richmond after
Lee's surrender and tried to reach
Texas. For there was still plenty of
resistance left in parts of the South.
He was captured in Georgia and im-
prisoned for two years in Fort Mon-
roe. There, under the orders of the
ruthless and cruel Stanton, Secretary
of War, he was subjected to unneces-
sarily bitter punishment. He was
locked in an iron cell, with guards
clanking up and down outside by day
and night. For a while his legs were
encased in chains. In the hysteria
which followed Lincoln's assassination
even President Andrew Johnson, who
himself was later attacked for leni-
ency, branded Davis a "traitor" and
charged that he was involved in the
plot to kill Lincoln.

FOR HALL OF FAME

And so the imprisonment of Davis
was justified by the government not
only as a measure of war but as de-
tention pending trial. After two years,
because of the vigorous activity of
Horace Greeley in his behalf, Davis
was permitted to have bail fixed at
$100,000. Greeley and others, includ-
ing representatives of Cornelius Van-
derbilt, submitted bond and Davis
was released. When the time of trial
came, Chief Justice Chase on con-
stitutional grounds quashed the
charge, and he was freed.

Davis lived until 1889, a life
marked mostly by frustrating misfor-
tune-personal and family troubles
and business failure. Peace came only
in the last years, at the home friends
provided for him at Beauvoir, near
Biloxi. Here he wrote his "Short His-
tory of the Confederate States."
Luckless in life, he has had the
fortune to have a richly talented bi-
ographer, Hudson Strode of the
University of Alabama. The three-
volume "Jefferson Davis" occupied
Strode in thirteen years of research.
(Published by Harcourt, Brace &
World. The first volume appeared in
1955 and the final volume in 1964.)
It is a fascinating American story.
There is now an effort to have
Davis admitted to the Hall of Fame.
Among the many Americans, North
and South, who have urged this rec-
ognition have been Generals Eisen-
hower, Bradley and Wedemeyer, and
Adm. Lewis L. Strauss.

SERVICES TO NATION

By any measure of achievement,
even if we limit consideration to the
period before 1860, Davis deserves
this recognition. He won great re-
spect in the House and Senate by
the fervor of his eloquence and his
deep understanding of constitutional
principles. During his four years as
Secretary of War in the 1850s, he
created great administrative reforms.
He sought to the end to prevent a
rupture of the Union but, like Lee,
he joined his native section in creat-
ing a new nation's struggle for in-
dependence. "Treason" is a word
loosely applied. It depends upon
which side defines it. In our War for
Independence, Washington and Jef-
ferson were traitors in the idiom of
the British Government. But they
won and are richly rewarded in world
history. Davis failed, and the victors
imposed a Carthaginian peace.

A century is a long time-long
enough to quiet passions in reunion.
Lee has long been accepted as an
American hero. Davis deserves just as
much. Although it is 76 years since
his death, it is time to offer amends
to this man who served his country
so well in peace and who fought and
suffered so much for what he so
sincerely believed to be constitution-
ally right.

Newsweek, September 6, 1965