Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

TWO GREAT FLORENTINES—I

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Florence—The 700th anniversary of
the birth of Dante Alighieri will
be suitably recognized this year in
Rome and in his native Florence. He
was born, he tells us—and never was
there a more self-revealing poet—
under the sign of Gemini, the month
following May 21, in 1265.
This will be recalled by visitors
here who see the pretentious monument in the basilica of the Franciscan
Church of Santa Croce. His neighbors
there, lesser in monumental ostentation, are Galileo, Michelangelo, and
Niccolò Machiavelli. Galileo was born
in Pisa, but of a Florentine family.
While Dante’s fame is that of one
of the half dozen supreme poets of
history, my concern here is with similarities and contrasts between his political life and beliefs and those of
Machiavelli, who was born 204 years
later.

Dante, until his banishment, lived
among the active young men of his
community and concerned himself
with the politics and government of
Florence. He even held office in the
dangerous business of government. A
recent biographer, Thomas G. Bergin,
says that if Dante’s political life had
not been terminated, posterity, no
doubt, would never have had the
“Divine Comedy.”

DE MONARCHIA

His political associations were with
the Ghibellines, who sustained the
cause of the emperor and who opposed the Guelph proponents of the
papacy.
During the first 30 years of his life,
Florence was a Ghibelline city, and
Dante held various offices of some
distinction, notably as a member of
the various councils which were always prominent in Florentine government. He was sent on a few official
missions beyond the city and participated in at least one battle and a
siege of another city.
His most famous political work,
“De Monarchia,” was written during
this period. It was appropriately written in Latin, unlike in this respect his
greater, poetical compositions. “De
Monarchia” is a plea for universal
dominance over the squabbling sovereignties of the time. Only through
imperial rule in the Roman tradition
could there be peace. To the Roman people, he contended, rightfully belonged the imperial office. Finally, he
said—by an argument which seems to
me fantastically contrived—God had
given temporal power to the emperor. One bit of proof which he presented was that Christ submitted to
judgment by Pilate, the imperial representative. But Christ, we are told,
had little choice.

CENTURIES OF CHANGE

Henry Osborn Taylor in his “Medieval Mind” calls Dante’s “Divine
Comedy” the apotheosis of medieval
thought. “He is not merely medieval:
he is the end of medieval development and the proper issue of medieval
genius.” The theme of Dante is
eternal salvation and the means by
which association with God is won or
lost by what is done here among
men. Only the eternal matters.
Into the “Divine Comedy” Dante
poured a veritable summation of medieval knowledge: Greco-Roman astronomy, Scholastic theology, the
Latin classics, and the scientific discussions of his century.
But even as he wrote his masterpiece, the sands of medievalism
were running out. The imperial
crown was passed from one national
sovereign to another as in a vast game
of musical chairs. Scholars began to
reappraise the heritage of Greece
and Rome. And mysticism faded in
the dawning light of new knowledge.
There was more change in the two
centuries between Dante and Machiavelli than in all the years since
Augustus. The quarrels among Italian
states which continued were occasionally interrupted by interventions
from France, Spain, and Germany.
There were only a few similarities
between the civilization of the age of
Dante and that of Machiavelli. But
these were overshadowed by vast
alterations.
To read Dante or even about
Dante is to feel blessed escape from
the world in which we live. With Machiavelli as a companion, we are
among friends or enemies—whichever
you will—in a world like ours, with
great deeds and puny people, enlightenment and dissipation, vast
knowledge and feeble wisdom, order
and confusion. For he holds up the
mirror, for us to know what we are.

Newsweek, May 24, 1965