Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Importance of Wisconsin
by RAYMOND MOLEY

W
HEREVER I have been in the Midwest recently, the wisest political
observers have told me that the outcome in the Wisconsin primary on
April 6 will have a profound influence on Dewey's chances for the nomination.
And, it may be added, Dewey's supporters are convinced that he should go
out there and stump the state.  The statistics will be exceedingly important
in judging the result. Wisconsin is entitled to 27 delegates in the Republican
convention. Of these, seven are elected at large, and the rest are elected in the
ten Congressional districts. In 1944, the state's delegate quota was 24, and
Dewey won 17. This was a smashing victory, and, as everyone will remember,
Wendell Willkie was eliminated as a contender by his bad showing.

This year, it is likely that MacArthur will win more than half the delegates. His
candidates are well known, especially three of them who are running at large—Fred
Zimmerman, Philip La Follette and the widow of the late Governor Goodland. In the
southeastern part of the state, the powerful support of *The Chicago Tribune*
will help MacArthur. Also, the Wisconsin primary law permits Democrats to vote for
Republican candidates; hence, great numbers of Democrats will cross the line for the
general. If the primary were limited to Republicans, Dewey would undoubtedly win
most of the delegates. It looks as if Stassen would run third, winning most of his
delegates in the northwestern part of the state.

The Dewey people will regard winning twelve delegates as a real victory. If he were
to get a majority, it would mean his almost certain nomination. He could fall to eight
or nine and still be a strong contender. But a fall below that would be a blow.

T
HAT is why it seems to be of critical importance to Dewey to make an
active personal campaign in the state. He would have distinct advantages in
such a fight. MacArthur is, after all, an absentee candidate. His dispatches to his
followers are eloquent, but devoid of specific meat on the issues.  The people of
Wisconsin have a high degree of political education, started back at the turn of the
century by "Old Bob" La Follette. He could harangue an audience not only literally
until the cows came home, but long after the hungry animals were bellowing for
their absent owners. Two or three hours were not unusual for a La Follette
performance. He discussed statistics, law, philosophy and fine arts, for behind him
were the prodigious resources of the state university.

The university itself, at Madison, was the fulfillment of Jefferson's dream of popular
higher education. It was dedicated to freedom of thought, active public service and
almost universal education. Its faculty 40 years ago was brilliant and distinguished.
The close association of the university and the state government resulted in dozens of
innovations that spread throughout the nation. This high degree of practicality in the
university, coupled with the progressive trend in the state government, was called the
Wisconsin Idea. Theodore Roosevelt's industrial program in 1912 was almost entirely
lifted from "Concentration and Control," a brilliant book by Charles Van Hise, president
of the University of Wisconsin.

I
T is this richly educated background that makes Wisconsin campaigning so
essential and so difficult. It is a challenge—especially to Dewey and Stassen,
because of their well-known and positive stands on international affairs and military
training. It may well be that military training will be a live issue in the Wisconsin
campaign, because the MacArthur supporters have been led to believe that the general
does not favor it. Nevertheless, it is not fair to assume, as many Easterners do assume,
that Wisconsin deserves the isolationist indictment. It is fairer to say that Wisconsin
is, in its political views, independent and experimental. It demands proof and is not easily
swayed by hysteria. And its population comes from a variety of racial stocks, all of which
in the present situation are likely to be bitterly anti-Communist. History may be made
on primary day in Wisconsin.

Newsweek, March 29, 1948