Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The War Against Efficiency

When business was being given
the bum's rush two or three years ago, the
future looked pretty black for the chain
stores. Punitive legislation of all sorts not
only threatened, but descended upon them.
There was the Robinson-Patman Act, of
course. But there were also scores of lil-
liputian Patmans at work in all of the
states, trying to tie them down to the
ground with legislative cables. By the end
of 1935, twelve states had taxes levied
specifically upon chain stores, and by the
end of 1937 the number of states with such
taxes had risen to twenty-two.

It may be that the force of the drive
was checked by the defeat of the Cali-
fornia chain-store tax in a referendum in
1936. Be that as it may, this year the tide
is clearly turning. In the spring of 1937
the legislatures of the country considered
100 chain-store bills, but adopted only
five. Maine repealed its law. The Wiscon-
sin law lapsed. The Montana law was
found unconstitutional. This year no
chain-store taxes have been enacted in the
few legislatures in session, and no tax is
up for a public vote this fall, except in
Colorado, where the present tax is the sub-
ject of a referendum which may put it out
of existence. Indicative of the same ebb
was the failure, last spring, of Patman's
bill putting an excise tax on chain stores
and requiring them to take out licenses.

This drift away from anti-chain-
store legislation has been due in large part
to the action of groups of consumers which
have organized in a number of states to
defend the chain stores and themselves
against measures that threatened to in-
crease retail prices. But it is also the re-
sult of an altered feeling toward chains on
the part of farmers who have begun to
realize that the big chain-store organiza-
tions and the local stores operated by the
mail-order companies have performed a
highly useful function in taking surpluses
of agricultural products off the market.
Chains are always on the alert to find a
surplus offering and, when a large supply
of some specific farm commodity appears,
the chains seize upon it and feature it
from a price standpoint. Their great organ-
ization enables them to work off such a
surplus through their far-flung distribu-
tion machinery. There have already been
national campaigns this year for the pur-
pose of moving surpluses in all of the fol-
lowing lines: eggs, lettuce, cotton, apples,
oranges, canned cranberries, milk and


dairy products, canned peaches, canned
grapefruit, canned grapefruit juice.
Labor, too, has become active in the
fight against legislation that raises retail
prices. Eight state federations of labor
have passed resolutions favorable to chain
stores and have appointed committees to
study the subject. And real-estate inter-
ests which have profited from the spread
of chain stores have added their strength
to the protest.

All of this is pointed out in a notable
survey published by Standard Statistics
in July. It is the conclusion of this im-
partial organization that the peak of leg-
islation adverse to the chains has passed,
that the war against efficiency and econ-
omy is rapidly losing out.

But there is no reason to suppose
that Mr. Patman will not reintroduce his
bill next January. Nor would it be wholly
surprising, in the light of the mercurial
changes and uncertain economic policies
of the present Administration, if his bill
got support from New Deal sources. This
Administration has already approved the
separatism of the Robinson-Patman Act
and the collectivism of the TVA. The same
President signed a bill raising prices to the
consumer of groceries and a bill indirectly
reducing the price of electricity that op-
erated the refrigerators into which these
groceries were put.

Mr. Patman's bill would have the effect
of putting to an end all chain stores, ex-
cept the small voluntary groups of inde-
pendents, by imposing a Federal tax rang-
ing from $50 annually per store on chains
with not more than fifteen units, up to a
maximum of $1,000 a store for chains own-
ing more than 500. It would go further
than this, moreover, by multiplying the
tax by the number of states in which the
chain has stores.

Patman has won support by claiming
that the cost of food in chain-controlled
towns is higher; that rent schedules are
broken down; that labor is worked at
starvation wages; that capital is drained
away from local communities to large cen-
ters like New York; that prices of farm
products are beaten down; and that the
chains do not actively support local char-
ities or take part in local movements.
These arguments the chains are meeting
by an exceedingly effective presentation of
the facts. And they wholly refute the Pat-
man charges. For example, recent surveys
show an amazing degree of attention to
local affairs-as measured by contribu-
tions to local charities and local causes.
Also, the large merchandising units have

NEWSWEEK
forcibly demonstrated the steadily de-
creasing cost of their products to the con-
sumer. Sears, Roebuck & Co., for instance,
recently compiled a remarkable study of
the prices of their goods over a period of
years, showing that the price of every item
that goes into the home has been reduced
over a period of fifteen years by substan-
tial percentages.

There has been some loose talk by ad-
vocates of punitive legislation against the
chain stores of the fact that cooperatives,
if widely developed in this country, would
serve a broader social purpose than the
chain stores. But before we assume that
cooperatives could develop in this coun-
try to the point where they could serve
the public as effectively as the present
mail-order, chain-store systems, a great
many factors must be considered. In
places like Sweden, where cooperatives
have had the greatest development, there
are many social and economic factors not
present in the United States. These coun-
tries cover a comparatively small area.
Their population is homogeneous, non-
mobile, with a fixed habit of cash buying.
Moreover, foreign cooperatives have been
unable, except in unusual instances, to at-
tract first-class ability in positions of
management because of low salaries and
slow promotion.

For the most part, the state taxes on
chain stores exempt the cooperatives.
Legislative politicians are not willing to
face the organized resentment of the "co-
ops." This fact raises an important ques-
tion as to the future of chain-store legis-
lation. The foreign cooperatives have been
studied with great care by large merchan-
disers in this country. These studies have
revealed the fact-little known in this
country—that foreign cooperatives prob-
ably have more to learn from merchan-
dising methods developed by our chain
stores and mail-order houses than we can
possibly learn from them. The science of
getting more goods to the consumer at
lower prices has been developed further in
this country than it has anywhere else.

But a continuation of the punitive
activities of demagogues in Congress and
in state legislatures may force some of the
large merchandising organizations to re-
organize, in an attempt to combine the dis-
tributing efficiency of chain stores and
mail-order houses with the seeming power
of resistance against political attacks that
characterizes cooperatives.

It would be well for our lawmakers to
ponder the implications of such moves be-
fore they compel them. For the whole
problem is tied inextricably with the de-
velopment of a larger consumption of food
products by the people of this country.
And that, in turn, will make measures of
crop reduction and national subsidies for
farmers less and less necessary. Increasing
efficiency in distribution is a process which
men impede only at their ultimate peril.