Organizing for Freedom

by RAYMOND MOLEY

If all those who do not favor the Truman program which will be placed
on the line in 1950 could be mobilized
in opposition, there is every reason to
believe the program would be decisively
rejected. The North-South coalition
in Congress has so far held it back. In
various elections earlier this month it
was shown that there is no prevailing
disposition to move farther down the
road to socialism. Even in
New York a clear-cut decision
between the ideas of
Senator Dulles and those of
ex-Governor Lehman would
have supported the former.
Many other factors gave
Lehman the edge.

The questions that concern
people who oppose the
Truman all-out supergovernment
program are how to
define another objective and how to
organize opposition on a national
scale. I have already discussed and will
return later to the question of defining
objectives. This week I wish to consider
the question of organization.

The Republican Party cannot unaided
do the job. It will continue to
be one of the two major parties, but it
cannot prevail on a national scale over
the coalition of Democrats, labor leaders,
and nationwide political alliances
that are determined upon further ill-
considered adventures in welfare statism.
There is essential need for a
coalition of opposition.

To begin with, there must be some
means of drawing conservative elements
in the North and South into
united action, at least in electing members
of Congress. A great multitude of
Northern Democrats who oppose the
Truman program but who will not join
forces with the Republican Party must
find a means of united action. Millions
of young people who cannot remember
a Republican administration and other
millions of political independents
should have places in the ranks.

The Republican Party at this moment
cannot capture these forces. It
has no specific program of opposition;
it is divided; it cannot get money for
its legitimate needs; and its leadership
is lacking in capacity and experience.
The national Republican Party
should not be reconstituted or renamed.
But outside the party there


should be developed a nationally organized
group which can not only create and
propagate a clear political program and
gather into a compact body the millions
mentioned above, but help suitable
Republican and Democratic candidates to
win elections.

The idea of such a league has been
seriously considered recently in certain
quarters, and a great deal of thought is
being given to the ways and means of
organizing it.

It would not be precisely a right-wing
version of the left-wing Americans for
Democratic Action and the Political Action
Committee of the CIO, but a great deal
can be learned from those groups. In some
places those groups have virtually supplanted
the regular Democratic Party. In others
they hold the balance of power.

Such a body would have to be organized
and directed with great care. It would
have to disclaim any intention of becoming
another party. It would have to deny any
purpose of nominating its own candidates.
It would have to exercise great care in
excluding from its leadership crackpots and
extremists of the right. It should not be
representative of any specific economic
group because, to succeed, it should
include wage earners, farmers, lawyers,
doctors, and other professional men and
women, small and large businessmen, and
all others interested in preserving American
freedom.

Its program could be developed without
the handicaps that always confront the
makers of a party platform. For example,
it might well, since it should represent
the South as well as the North, propose
that so-called civil-rights legislation be
left to the states. The Republican Party,
hampered by its traditions, cannot do that
and hence cannot win Southern states. A
new organization should, in fact, override
a score of political taboos and proclaim a
program truly in line with American
constitutionalism, defining once more the
limits of Federal power, supporting the
proper functions of states in our system,
and, above all, proclaiming the essential
individual freedoms now endangered so
gravely by the Federal government.

Newsweek, November 28, 1949