Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Health of Small Business

by Raymond Moley

IT UNDOUBTEDLY contributes to American freedom to have a government whose agencies violently contradict each other. Certainly, it contributes to the joy of life of everyone who is not connected with that government. The joke, while wearing with age, is still present with us.

A recent example, cited in a notable address by Dr. Robert E. Wilson, chairman of the Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, is a release issued by the Federal Trade Commission which deplores "another great wave of mergers" which "may very well lead to even greater concentration of economic and monopoly power over the nation's industry and commerce."

This direful review reaches the usual goal of Administration propaganda: the threat of "Communism." The writers of this unsupported series of charges conclude that "as the point of monopoly control is approached, alien or communistic systems find fertile soil for their propagation."

The Secretary of Commerce does not share this apprehension. He noted in a speech last year that "the development of big business has been accompanied by growth in the size of the market and by increased competition." And the Secretary's point of view is completely supported by the published statistics of his own department.

Dr. Wilson points out that when the Supreme Court ordered the dissolution of the Standard Oil trust in 1911 his company, Standard of Indiana, did 80 per cent of the business in the Middle West. Now it does only 20 per cent of that business.

The Department of Commerce reports that in the year following the beginning of the Korean war the number of manufacturing businesses alone increased from 303,500 to 306,700, a rise of 3,200. When the second world war began in 1941, there were 235,300. At the end of the war in 1945 there were 262,800. Thus, from 1941 to 1951 the number of manufacturing industries increased more than 21 per cent.

The only decrease in business establishments since the Korean war began has been a relatively small drop in the number of retail establishments. All other lines of business increased-construction, wholesale, and service, as well as manufacturing. The total number of business firms in operation on July 1, 1950, was 3,986,100. A year later, it was 4,007,400.

The oratory of the Administration in this election year will nevertheless try to argue by contradiction. Speakers will point with pride at the growth of business under their benign auspices and at the same time view with horror the growth of monopoly and promise to suppress it.

Moreover, in order to curry favor with the leaders of small businesses there will be more and more promises to help small businesses with government loans and privileges. Congress will compete with the Administration in these promises. The justification for such aid will be what the House Committee on Small Business calls "ever-increasing concentration of economic power." And Justice Douglas will probably repeat his false claim that "there is less and less place for the independent."

On such spurious claims of need, politics will perpetuate the RFC and add to the number of government agencies that lend money with little discrimination to small businesses.

GOVERNMENT is well suited to the task of keeping open the avenues of competition. That has been its traditional role. But when it usurps the right to make business judgments, by loans and benefits, we shall continue to have, in the future as in the past, waste, errors, political preferences, and corruption.

The very nature of a political establishment makes it unsuitable for the conduct of business enterprises. Politics speaks another language, obeys another code of conduct, and, as the foregoing shows, responds to another set of statistics.

It is probably unwise to suggest that among other Washington coordinators there be created an office to standardize the public assertions of departments. For as long as our government is a house divided against itself, the citizen can enjoy a limited amount of liberty.

Newsweek, February 25, 1952