PERSPECTIVE

AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY-I

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

While I have never known of any
statistics, I offer a few figures as an
introduction to a serial consideration
of automotive safety. These will serve
for the record and to remind my readers
that safety on the roads, streets
and highways is more important than
any other national problem that the
President will discuss this month except
the war in Asia.

Since no signs of improvement have
appeared in recent years, it may be
assumed that 50,000 Americans living
today will die of traffic accidents in
1966. Thus, if the averages hold,
some people who read this piece will
be in their graves before next Christmas
or will be horribly maimed or
shocked. In 1959 there were 38,000
killed and well more than 1 million injured.
The number killed rose by a
steady rate until in 1964, the last
year for which statistics are available,
the fatal figure was 47,700. The average
rise has been more than 1,900
a year. The number of injuries has increased
by more than half a million
since 1959. Every year about 8,000
pedestrians are killed by cars.

INEXORABLE INCREASE

Don't shrug this off laconically and
attribute it to that inscrutable matter
called fate or, as is the habit of our
political leaders, compare it with such
irrelevancies as the rise in the gross
national product. Yes, there have
been more drivers, more vehicles and
more mileage. But traffic deaths have
risen at a faster rate than the licensing
of drivers, the number of vehicles
and the number of miles traveled.

The figures point ominously to the
young. Three million young people
reach driving age each year. Six and
a half million under 20 years are now
licensed to drive. Teen-agers, when
the last statistics were compiled, made
up 8.6 per cent of the drivers but they
were involved in 14.5 per cent of the
accidents. People under 25 were 19.6
per cent of all drivers, but the
percentage of accidents in which
they were involved was much higher
than in any other age group of
equal size.

Automobile deaths were nearly half
of all accident fatalities. Five times as
many died by automobile as were
murdered, almost as many as died
of pneumonia, and, quite significantly
in this context, two and a half times
the number who died of cirrhosis of
the liver.

The rise in traffic deaths cannot be
wholly attributed to the rise in population,
for the increase in fatalities has
been relatively higher than the increase
in the number of people.

NO LACK OF STUDY

In what I shall have to say about
this question I have had the help of a
great deal of information supplied by
the Automotive Safety Foundation,
an institution supported by many industries
directly interested, especially
the automotive industry. But I shall
also draw a good many of my conclusions
from personal experience and
observation. I have been seriously
addicted to automobile touring for
twenty years. In that time I have averaged
in touring, wholly outside the
city where I live, more than 12,000
miles a year. These trips have taken
me through a large majority of the
states north, west and south of New
York. In those years I have seen the
vast development of highways, interstate
and intrastate; the incredible
improvement of cars and tires, the
multiplication of police, and the great
changes in highway directives and
other helps to the traveler. But I have
also seen the evidence of steadily increasing
tragedy along the routes.

There are hosts of experts in highway
safety, and I have examined a
great deal of their published material.
But perhaps my amateur reflections
may be of some value.

Obviously, there are three components
in any traffic accident: the
people who are driving and pedestrians
(the latter are not so important
on the new highways); the roads,
streets, highways and the police who
enforce the law, and the vehicles
themselves. I place these in their order
of importance so far as the problem
is concerned.

There are also the lawmakers and
administrators-state, local and national-whose
knowledge and intelligence
bear upon the rules and the
environmental conditions. There has
been no lack of scientific and practical
study nor lack of warnings in the
interest of safety. But as we have
seen, the slaughter goes on.

Newsweek, January 24, 1966