Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
As the Year Ends
by RAYMOND MOLEY

There was once a minister who
prefaced his eulogy over an errant brother
with the remark that everyone hoped that
the soul of the deceased was where they
knew it wasn't.

It is no exaggeration to say that this
comment describes accurately the status
of the truce between the President and
business as the old year fades into the
new. Grave doubts about the good faith
of the Administration becloud the minds
of businessmen even when they utter
conciliatory words. The President voiced
his doubts about the good faith of busi-
ness freely last week in press conference.
Some of his aides are still unrestrained in
their lambasting of businessmen.

Those who hope to see this deep and
bitter animus transformed face a dis-
couraging prospect. There is little reason
to feel that it can be changed in time to
check the current economic reaction.
Business has been deeply hurt by indis-
criminate blasts of criticism. The Presi-
dent, on the other hand, feels that busi-
ness has been pretty rough on him.

But such is the nature of human af-
fairs that cooperation can be effective
even when mutual admiration and esteem
are wholly absent. Of course, complete
confidence is desirable. But forbearance,
moderation and concert are possible with-
out it. Let us hope that mutual interest
will induce that indispensable minimum
of cooperation in every field where gov-
ernment and business meet. Confidence,
if possible; cooperation, by all means; and
a truce on harsh words, in any case.

Newton D. Baker

Thirty-five years ago two young-
sters emerged from a crowded political
tent meeting and walked thoughtfully
down the street of a college town in Ohio.
I was one of them. The other said: "What
a marvelous speech! Say, that fellow Baker
is a scholar."

During the years since that night, I
have heard Newton Baker speak literally
scores of times. The scholar in him never
ceased to grow, nor did that magnanimity
of the spirit that distinguished him from
everyone else in the public life of his time.
He spent no soft days making speeches at
merely pleasant occasions, either. His
voice was heard in the most bitter con-
troversies of his generation. There were
a dozen years in the heat of municipal re-


form, followed by the execution and de-
fense of a colossal role in the World War
and, after that, new usefulness in public
debate on labor, on law enforcement, on
party policies, on public-utility regulation
and on public education.

And always he fought with the fine
blade of reason, never with the bludgeon
of abuse. Assailed as few men have been,
he never failed in graciousness.

There are probably many reasons why
Mr. Baker chose to follow this course.
One of them was the fact that he could
not conceive it to be within the proprieties
of the select aristocracy of fine thinking
to which he belonged to bandy epithets
with political opponents. The other and
more important reason was that he was
sufficiently wise to know that it is worse
than futile to reach eagerly into the mech-
anism by which a political record is made,
either to stay the hand of abuse or guide
the pen of subservient support.

In all controversy he followed the rule
by which he guided himself during the
war. There was the army—a great, a vic-
torious army: knowing that its sheer ex-
istence would speak to posterity, he raised
his own voice only to clarify and illumine
the living fact.

In the Lodge Tradition

The youthful Senator Lodge's per-
formance last week is in the true Lodge
tradition—partisanship über alles. Since
Mr. Lodge voted against the entire Hous-
ing Bill on final passage, there can be no
other explanation for his insistence upon
attaching a destructive amendment to it.
He obviously believed that it was more
important to embarrass the Democratic
party—which he did with brilliant suc-
cess—than to stimulate recovery and im-
prove living conditions in the United
States.

The Administration's amendments to
the Federal Housing Act, as they passed
the House and came before the Senate,
were a moderately useful means of im-
plementing the government's desire to
promote private home building. They con-
stituted about all that Congress could do
to help things along. Recognizing, as the
President did in his message, that monop-
olistic labor tactics which have raised
costs to absurd levels are one of the three
major reasons why home building has
been so lethargic in this country, the Sen-


NEWSWEEK
ate committee refused to aggravate the
situation by adding a provision requiring
prevailing wages in all building financed
with Federally guaranteed mortgages. It
is well known that the building trades in
many cities of the country are dominated
by labor overlords who are only partially
responsible to the American Federation of
Labor and over whom President William
Green has little real control. These men
have ruthlessly, selfishly and shortsight-
edly established wage scales so high that
construction everywhere is almost at a
standstill.

The Lodge amendment freezes the
shackles of these trade unions upon all
building covered by a Federally insured
mortgage. That means that it stymies a
very considerable part of the total
amount of actual and potential home
building. Unless the amendment is re-
moved in conference, we may as well
recognize that, instead of helping to de-
velop more housing in this country, Con-
gress probably sabotaged what little hous-
ing is already under way.

Brazen partisanship and unabashed cow-
ardice joined forces to create one of the
most unfortunate incidents in the history
of Congress.

Landon's Christmas Gift

Mr. Landon's telegram to Mr.
Roosevelt does more than lend authority
to the dangerous doctrine that in foreign
affairs a President should have dictatorial
and unquestioned powers. It gravely em-
barrasses the new Glenn Frank commit-
tee which is entrusted with the difficult
job of reestablishing party government in
the United States.

When a country is either engaged in a
war or on the brink of war, it is proper to
forget politics. But such a situation does
not confront us now. The President is fol-
lowing a policy in the Far East with
which millions of people do not sympa-
thize. Such immense stakes are involved
that it is the right of political leaders to
express the disagreement of these mil-
lions, to criticize the President's course
and to attempt to influence his course by
marshaling public opinion against it.
These are legitimate functions of the
minority party. In proposing to disclaim
them, Mr. Landon seriously compro-
mises the position of the minority whose
nominal head he is.

With Senator Lodge injecting politics
where politics should be forsworn and
with Governor Landon forsaking politics
when political discussion is legitimate and
proper, Republican rehabilitation is cer-
tainly making slow progress. Republican
leaders persist in leaving undone those
things which they ought to do and in do-
ing those things which they ought not to
do, and there is no health in their party.