Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective

An Invasion at Home

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Feebly competing for attention
with the tremendous news of the in-
vasion was the account of a Supreme
Court decision which, in peacetime,
would claim first place. This decision,
handed down June 5, involved an
invasion of the right of the states to
regulate insurance. It affects every
American who is protected by any
kind of insurance.

In 1869, in the famous case of Paul
vs. Virginia, the Supreme Court de-
clared that the insurance business was
not interstate commerce. Hence, it
was subject to regulation by state law,
not by Congress. A long train of deci-
sions since has reinforced that posi-
tion. Meanwhile, the states have
slowly and effectively built up an
enormous number of laws and regula-
tions to protect holders of insurance
policies. All this state machinery is
endangered by the new Supreme
Court decision.

The facts of the particular case are
of small importance compared with
the Constitutional issue involved. They
concern the Federal indictment in At-
lanta, two years ago, of some 200 fire-
insurance companies and individuals
for a violation of the Sherman Act.
The violation charged was an agree-
ment on rates which, the defendants
claimed, was directed by the insurance
officials of the state governments.
Such agreements under state direc-
tion are common and essential to the
orderly conduct of the business.

The nature of the arguments as well
as the circumstances in the case make
it clear that certain New Deal law-
yers, who tried futilely five years ago
to make a case for Federal regulation
in the TNEC investigation and who
had no chance to get such regulation
through Congress, decided to accom-
plish their purpose through the De-
partment of Justice and the Supreme
Court.

The majority decision was written
by Justice Black, the dissent, by Jus-
tice Stone. Justices Douglas, Murphy
and Rutledge agreed with Black. Jus-
tices Frankfurter and Jackson agreed
with Stone. Justices Roberts and Reed
took no part in the case. It might be
remarked that the justices with the
most extensive legal experience in pri-
vate practice are Roberts, Reed, Stone
and Jackson-all of whom either dis-
sented or declined to participate in
the case.

The precedents of 75 years were
thus overturned by a minority of the
court-by judges whose experience in
the practice of law before their ap-
pointment to the nation's highest court
was exceedingly brief.

This case strongly illustrates how
the court can step, outside the law,
into matters of public policy. In
Black's opinion, he indicates that the
states are not "fully capable of gov-
erning" insurance. In what way can
a judge of the court, on the basis
of a single case, thus pass judgment
on the effectiveness of the insurance
laws and departments of 48 states?

In the TNEC investigation, New
Dealers tried, and utterly failed, for
more than a year to prove that life
insurance was not adequately regu-
lated. The vast preponderance of evi-
dence is that the states have fully
protected policyholders. Millions of
policyholders know that. Justice
Black's statement is not an expres-
sion of law; it is an attempt to im-
pose his own private and unsupported
view of fact. This is not the exercise
of judicial power; it is legislation by
the judicial branch.

This decision breaks not only the
75-year insurance precedent, but a
vastly more important one, which
goes back 155 years to the foundation
of the republic. In all that time, no de-
cision prior to this one has ever been
made by a minority of the court on a
Constitutional issue involving the
overruling of a previous decision.
During his tenure Chief Justice Mar-
shall repeatedly refused to take up
Constitutional cases in the absence of
a full court.

The remedy for the new Supreme
Court decision lies with Congress. A
bill sponsored by Senator Bailey is be-
fore it which declares that insurance
is a matter for state regulation, that
there is no need for the "displacement
or encumbrance" of the state laws by
a Federal bureau or otherwise, that
insurance is not interstate commerce
and, so, as a result, is not subject to
the Federal antitrust laws. This bill
would reverse the decision. It should
be passed.

In the old days, the court protected
the states from Congress. Now, ap-
parently, Congress must protect the
states against the court.