Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:

**Incodel—The Right Way II**

by Raymond Moley

IN THE Letters column of this issue (page 2) there appears a communication from the secretary of the Pennsylvania Water Resources Committee. It concerns the Incodel plan for a four-state compact to conserve and use the water of the Delaware River. It refers to my piece on the subject which appeared in this space four weeks ago, and while it agrees with most of my statements, it questions two of them. In view of the vast and immediate importance of the Incodel plan to the States of Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, and Delaware, this letter and the questions it raises deserve something more than a formal reply.

The first point raised by the committee’s letter is about my statement that “the Legislature of New York will probably act in January.” This is a matter of opinion, and this is a column of signed opinion. My guess in this instance was based upon information, perhaps overoptimistic, from official sources, which I sought before making the statement.

The second complaint concerns my statement that Governor Fine’s committee, mentioned above, “has no funds and has done nothing.” At the time when my column was written, the committee had no funds, but late in December it was granted some by the Pennsylvania Legislature. My statement that the committee had done nothing was also based on information from Incodel and on statements which were openly made at the meetings of Incodel at Pocono Manor, which I attended in October. One responsible person who made that statement was the Attorney General of the State of New York. It now appears from the letter that the committee and a subcommittee had some meetings, and I am happy to have this statement made. But since the letter goes on to say that its findings are available only to Governor Fine, a mere outsider cannot be expected to know what the nature and the importance of those meetings have been.

HOWEVER, this great project is of such vital importance that it should not be confused by arguments or by a conflict of interests among the states concerned. The concept of a development of the Delaware River by interstate action originated more than twenty years ago. At that time, New York and New Jersey were engaged in a controversy over the water of the river. Pennsylvania proposed as a means of amicable settlement for the benefit of all concerned what was known as the “Pennsylvania plan” for the building of impounding dams in the upper basin of the river for the triple purpose of providing water for domestic use, for the prevention of floods, and to increase the flow in the lower basin in dry seasons.

In 1936, there was created Incodel, which is an official Interstate Commission on the Delaware River Basin. There are five members from each state on this commission, and the present chairman is also director of the Pennsylvania State Planning Board. In 1949 the legislatures of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New York authorized Incodel to make the necessary engineering plans for a comprehensive development of the river. This was done and the plans were submitted a year ago. The States of New Jersey and Delaware have already passed legislation authorizing the creation of an interstate compact for the development of those plans. New York is ready and anxious to act.

FORMER Governor Duff of Pennsylvania was very sympathetic with Incodel but when the final plans were ready he was about to vacate his office. Governor Fine, as noted above, apparently decided to stop, look, and listen again, and we shall not know much more for a year. This prospective long delay is especially unfortunate because acceptance of the Incodel plan would still permit orderly adjustment of differences among the states. The danger in this delay is that it may result in the disintegration of one of the finest plans for cooperate interstate action ever devised, and all sorts of special, selfish interests may rear their heads. The end may be interminable litigation before the Supreme Court. The key figure in this impasse is Governor Fine.

Newsweek, January 14, 1952