Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Kansas in the War
by RAYMOND MOLEY

WICHITA—The midland city of
Wichita had already made its place in
the history of aviation in America long
before the fall of France awakened us
from a tragic indifference to air power.
And in the story of how we recovered
from that indifference, Wichita’s place
will be just as sure. For here on the
great, flat plains of Kansas, pioneers in
aircraft-flying and manufacturing have
been at work for more than thirty
years.

This vital city is almost too busy to
look back at that history. When a
moment offers itself, it chooses to look
ahead. In the reconstruction of the
aviation industry after the war, Wichita
manufacturers are going to have some
compelling claims for survival. Way
back when people were buying private
planes, Wichita was selling good ones.
And it’s a good guess that it will be
selling them again before the ink is
dry on the peace treaty.

Wichita is no mushroom town, but
its present rate of growth is notable
even in these days. Forty-five years
ago, when Bill White wrote “What’s
the Matter With Kansas?” he com-
plained that his state was not getting
its share of the nation’s population
growth. But the airplane industry is
bringing in people faster than the
Populists chased them out. Wichita has
grown from 111,000 three years ago to
180,000 now. The housing situation, of
course, is serious. Service trades are
undermanned and, with great distances
between home and work, everyone is
dreading the onset of gas rationing.

When people here tell you how
Wichita got into the aircraft business,
they all mention Jake Moellendick, in
whose early companies Walter Beech,
Clyde Cessna and Lloyd Stearman all
worked for a while. All three of these
men went on and founded companies
bearing their names. These companies
are the basis of Wichita’s aviation in-
dustry now.

Walter Beech, now head of the Beech
Aircraft Corp., was a World War flier
and, following that, a test pilot for a
Moellendick company in Wichita. He
founded the present company ten years
ago. Up to 1939 it made aircraft for
private owner use. The war has boosted
its production fortyfold. Its chief prod-
ucts are trainers and transports of
various kinds. An important distinction
of the plant is its second-in-command—
Olive Ann Beech, youthful wife of the
president, who is not a nominal but a
genuine topflight executive. The country
is going to hear a lot about this extraor-
dinary woman before many years.

The story of Clyde Cessna is already
legendary in Wichita. A farm boy with
a mechanical turn, but not a school-
trained engineer, he saw a group of
primitive bird-men perform in Okla-
homa City one day in 1911. Apparently
from that moment Cessna lived, worked
and dreamed of airplanes. Thirty years
ago he came to New York, worked a
while for the Queens Airplane Co., and
then toted back to Wichita a motorless
Bleriot monoplane. The first plane ever
built in Wichita was Cessna’s. Then
followed years of building, flying and
barnstorming in and around Wichita.
In 1927 a plane made by him took the
edge off the Dole flight by flying to
Hawaii. It was the first commercial
plane to make that hop. (Art Goebel,
who won the Dole flight, was in a
Wichita-made plane.)

Clyde Cessna has retired to the old
farm, but the Cessna Aircraft Co. he
founded in 1928 is still booming. It is
making several types of planes, but it
is most proud of its twin-engined train-
er, used both here and in Canada.

The Boeing Aircraft Co. has suc-
ceeded the Stearman Aircraft Co. and,
like Beech and Cessna, is headed in
Wichita by an experienced Wichita air-
plane manufacturer, J. Earl Schaefer.
The new Boeing plant is an immense
achievement. At this time a part of its
capacity is devoted to making parts
for the famous Flying Fortress. The size
and future plans of this Boeing plant
are not matters for comment now. But
it will give a tremendous account of
itself.

A lot of the zing and energy of
pioneer days is here, turned now to the
job of winning the war. Pessimism is all
that is blacked out. They have met
obstacles there from the beginning—
droughts, grasshoppers, Indians and
vast marketing problems. The war be-
tween the states began there before Fort
Sumter fell. They have no doubts about
the outcome of this present trial of
strength and endurance.