Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  I've done my best, but some minor inaccuracies might remain due to the image quality and column layout.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

'O, Call Back Yesterday
Bid Time Return'

A friend of mine in the Middle
West has written me a letter of which the
following is the key paragraph:
"Things are freezing over now so fast it
will take dynamite to get them open again.
A blowtorch would be too slow. Put it
down on your desk calendar that the
middle of June will be pretty tough."
This altogether too pessimistic appraisal
of the situation is unfortunately not un-
representative of the thinking of many
people at the moment. It pervades the
financial community in New York; it is
appearing in still deeper hues in the in-
dustrial centers of the Middle West.
Only in degree does it differ from the
general psychology that characterized the
winter months of 1932-33.
It is not strange that, in the face of
present conditions, the official family in
Washington reacts in much the same way
that a baseball team does when three of
its leading pitchers have been knocked out
of the box and the fourth has just given
three successive bases on balls. There are
planners in Washington—many of them—
but their plans do not jibe, and their en-
thusiasm for their own pet ideas has been
blanketed by dismay and bewilderment.
Meanwhile, the manager of the team
seems to be letting things take their "nat-
ural" course. It is well known, of course,
that he has no new plans or policies to
offer. And it may well be that his instinct
in the present emergency will be to follow
the patterns of action that characterized
his greatest previous achievement—the
first three months of his Administration.
Psychologists have told us over and over
again that human beings tend to fall into
those patterns of behavior that have
proved to be successful and, therefore,
pleasant. The President's course of action
in the Morgan incident suggests nostalgia.
It was to be the Mayor Walker case of
1932 redivivus.
Once before Mr. Roosevelt emerged
triumphantly from a long-continued eco-
nomic decline. That, perhaps, is why it is
possible for him to contemplate the pres-
ent recession calmly until, in such a mo-
ment as my correspondent describes, bold
and decisive action will be effective. Mr.
Roosevelt is a man capable of great dar-
ing because he depends so largely upon
his instincts—which he familiarly calls his
"hunches." Seldom does the pale cast of
thought sickly o'er his native hue of reso-
lution.


As a matter of fact the political situa-
tion now does not differ in essence from
the situation in 1933. Mr. Roosevelt's
whipping boy then was Mr. Hoover and
Hooverism. His chief indignations now,
aside from his chronic grouch at the press,
are Congress and the business community.
He believes at the moment that Congress
is an obstructive nuisance and that busi-
ness is selfishly ignorant. His Gainesville
speech indicates a belief that he can side-
step the creeping doom that eventually
overtakes a President caught in a de-
pression by turning the fury of public
opinion loose upon others.

It is therefore wholly within the
realm of possibility that in the absence of
a major war, around June 1, a reincarna-
tion of the Roosevelt of 1933 will appear
on the national scene and say:

That the tide of our economic life has
been ebbing for many months. That his
critics said that the legislation he had
sponsored was the cause of our ills.
That he wanted to be fair to these peo-
ple. [Soft music.] That he called them into
consultation and asked them what they
would do to remedy the situation. That
they told him many things—chiefly that
if he would let them alone they would
work things out. That, in the face of their
insistence, he made it clear in his message
to Congress in January that their ideas
were having a trial. That he pointed to
the open road ahead of business. That
nothing happened. That, in the face of the
complaint that he had made of Congress
a "rubber stamp," he told Congress that
thereafter he would merely state ob-
jectives and ask Congress to work out
specific measures. That nothing happened
—nothing but dissension and obstruction.
That, now that his critical friends in and
out of public office have had their chance,
the country is suffering as it has not suf-
fered in five years. That again men walk
the streets in fruitless search for work.
That again the productive machinery of
the country stands idle, etc., etc.

That the emergency of the moment does
not permit of finespun distinctions and
long arguments. That, if the blood of pri-
vate investment cannot or will not cir-
culate in the veins of the nation, restora-
tives must be applied—and applied at once.
That five years ago he voiced the heart-
ache of the nation when he said: "The
country wants action and action now."
That he says it again. That the Federal
government must do what private enter-
prise failed to do. That he is therefore ask-
ing the Congress for blank million dollars

NEWSWEEK
to care for our needy, to stimulate employ-
ment and to set the wheels of industry
turning by loans and subsidies. That,
since prices must be maintained in this
emergency, he will also take measures to
protect the general price structure from
disastrous deflation.

That, when the country has been revived
by these restorative measures, we shall
consider anew those long-time measures
which he has repeatedly advocated and
which have been repeatedly denied him.
That an overwhelmingly majority of the
people of this country have become con-
vinced of the incapacity of those who, in
the past few months, have attempted to
prescribe methods of relief. That the coun-
try has been patient with them, but that
its patience is exhausted. That [oratorical
flourish] we should march forward to that
recovery which experience tells us is pos-
sible when the average men and women of
the nation substitute for the cries of a
small minority of businessmen their own
assertion of confidence in the nation and
in themselves.

If this should come to pass, its effect
might be immediate. It might stimulate
business temporarily. It might create the
illusion of recovery for many months. But
it would have the same relation to sound-
ly conceived recovery methods that blood-
letting has to modern surgery.

And yet, paradoxically enough, if the
business community believed that the
events projected here would take place and
acted in the light of that belief, its action
would constitute the surest guarantee that
these events would not take place. That is,
if those who have money to spend and in-
vest were to act on the assumption that
the President will resort to inflationary
spending and price raising early this sum-
mer, purchases would be made, money
would flow into private industry and the
makings of a genuine recovery would ap-
pear. This is possible because only one
element is now missing—business confi-
dence. World economic conditions are
better than they were in 1933; credit is
not frozen as it was in 1933; agriculture
is not prostrate; the banks are safe; and
there is a huge deferred demand for both
consumer and heavy goods.

If, what is more, leaders of business and
leaders of labor met without participation
by government officials and planned co-
operative action in the interest of re-
covery, the delusion that our economic
life is wholly at the mercy of government
would be exploded.

It is time for business to shake off its
sense of helplessness and to go about its
affairs unintimidated by the scoldings of
the Administration. It may be that the
way for business to avoid the fulfillment
of its darkest fears is to be conscious of
the political capital that can be made of
those fears.