Here's a text version of the provided article, preserving the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the original document's layout:


**Able and Diligent**

by Raymond Moley

LOS ANGELES, CALIF. Back in the
1850s, when California was young
and the gold fever raged around San
Francisco Bay, a group of Germans up
there were wise enough to see for-
tune in a more enduring enterprise.
They organized the Los Angeles Vine-
yard Society and founded a colony in
the south, the economic base of which
was the magic created by the irriga-
tion of arid land. In a nostal-
gic mood they called their
town Anaheim. Its first
mayor was Conrad Kuchel,
a competent and trusted
public official. Conrad's son,
Henry, mingled his public
service with printer's ink,
and founded the first news-
paper in the community.
That paper is still owned by
the Kuchel family, and
Thomas, the son of Henry, was ap-
pointed by Governor Warren to fill
the seat in the United States Senate
vacated by the current Vice President
of the United States. Kuchel is now
running for election as California's
junior senator.

It is heartening to find a sincere
and effective but undemonstrative
member of a legislative body whose
distinction has been lately marred so
much by the sounding brass and tin-
kling cymbals of selfish interest and
demagoguery, where the fine art of
oratory has been dragged to the level
of a six-day bicycle race or a marathon
dance and where the pork barrel has
supplanted the American eagle as an
emblem. Tommy Kuchel has offered
refreshing contrast to the trend of the
time, and since his sort should be pre-
served, he deserves special note and
strong support.

Kuchel's public service began when
he was 26, in the state legislature.
Then, after military service, he was
appointed and later elected state
comptroller. Unlike many Californi-
ans, he firmly believes in party gov-
ernment. At the age of 30 he became
state Republican chairman. Earlier,
as a law student, his political interests
and principles were quickened and
informed by service in the office of
Frank Doherty, formerly the law part-
ner of Hiram Johnson.

The junior senator's service in Wash-
ington has been conditioned by two
very special circumstances. His mod-
est light has been shadowed by the
eminence of his fellow Californians,
the Vice President, the Chief Justice,
and the Majority Leader in the Sen-
ate. Moreover, because his colleague,
Senator Knowland, has been bur-
dened by the leadership, Kuchel has
had to carry most of the responsibility
for the multitudinous interests of an
immense and growing state.

Despite his newness in
the Senate and the fact that
he is chairman of no com-
mittee, Kuchel has made
an impressive legislative
score. No less than 26 legis-
lative measures bear his
name either as author or
co-author. Some are of local
concern, but there are
included important cotton
legislation and the authori-
zation for a new San Francisco-
Oakland Bay Bridge. It is also to his
credit that he settled the famous Fall-
brook controversy between the people
of that community and the Navy.

In general, Kuchel has followed the
President's program, but he indicated
his independence by supporting the
Bricker amendment. He stood alone
among the Republicans on the Inte-
rior Committee against the multibil-
lion Upper Colorado plan, and his
powerful argument against it was in
part responsible for its failure.

Kuchel's opponent, Samuel W.
Yorty, has been a familiar figure in
left-wing Democratic politics for a
long time. He first went to the legis-
lature when Upton Sinclair's fantastic
EPIC movement dominated the Dem-
ocratic Party. He ran against Hiram
Johnson in 1940 and was inundated.
In 1950 he was elected to the seat in
the House vacated by Helen
Gahagan Douglas and which will
probably be filled in January by
James Roosevelt. Yorty is a tireless
and noisy candidate, but the statistics
seem to favor Kuchel.

IN THE June primaries Kuchel's vote
on both tickets exceeded Yorty's,
1,600,000 to 930,000. All the big guns
of the party will be here to speak for
Kuchel, including the President,
the Vice President, and Senator
Knowland. But Kuchel, as a provident
man, is taking no chances and in-
dulging in no overconfidence.

Newsweek. October 1, 1954