Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Who Owns the States?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

THE vital subject before the Governors’ Conference at White Sulphur
Springs last week seemed to this observer to be the question how far the
Federal government should be permitted to go toward ownership of, as
well as sovereignty over, the vast resources of the American states. This
issue arises very sharply because of two developments—one, the enormous
Federal expenditures on water and land resources; the other, the decisions of
the Supreme Court in California, Louisiana, and Texas controversies over the land
under the marginal sea.

In the latter case, discussion at the conference was limited to a spirited defense
of the states by Governor Shivers of Texas. The former subject was generally
considered at one of the major sessions. The result of that discussion was a
decision to undertake an exhaustive study of water conservation and development
by the Council of State Governments, to be submitted to the 1951 conference.

The big issue of the invasion of the property rights of states has been precipitated
by the drive of the Federal Administration to impose on several of our great river
valleys authorities on the model of the TVA. Columbia Valley Administration is an
immediate question in the Northwest. A Missouri Valley Authority has been before
Congress for some years. A proposal to make studies to that end in the area covering
New England and a part of New York was embodied in a bill introduced in the
Senate this month. President Truman in his “non-political” Western trip provided some
tub-thumping for the proposals.

IT IS clear that a great majority of the governors of both the Columbia and the
Missouri valleys are opposed to these proposals.

To hear some of the Federal advocates of valley authorities talk is to get the
impression that they are proposing to move in on benighted areas in which there
are no local plans and in which Federal and state activities are a chaos of confused
competition. That is not true. In both the Columbia and Missouri valleys there
are interagency committees, including present Federal and state official representatives.

In the Columbia Valley, there is the great Bonneville Power Administration, a suitable
means of cooperative distribution of pooled power. There are also comprehensive plans
worked out cooperatively by various Federal agencies and states. Governor Langlie of
Washington announced a plan initiated by him to bring together the five Columbia
Valley states in a compact, with participation by the Federal government, to provide
means of planning, developing, and administering the waters of the Columbia River.

The interstate compact is a well-tried means of interstate development and administration
of great public works. One of the most brilliantly successful is the Port of New York
Authority, based on a New York-New Jersey compact. There is no good reason why
this sort of solution, with the Federal government acting as a partner, should not be
applied to the comprehensive development of valley resources everywhere.

A CRITICAL issue is the ultimate ownership of these great multiple-purpose projects.
If it is to be recognized that the Federal government assumes permanent ownership, the
states will in effect lose possession of their own natural resources.

Interstate commissions created by interstate compacts, with the Federal government as a
partner, could well resolve this question of ultimate ownership. What the states need is the
technical aid of the Federal agencies in building projects and the money to finance them.
The first is now available. The finances could be supplied in part by the Federal government
for that part of the cost properly allocable to navigation, flood control, and national
defense. The rest, mainly for electric power and irrigation, could be raised by bond
issues. That is how big local and state projects have been traditionally financed. If, as
is claimed, these projects are self-liquidating, the selling of bonds is feasible. If, on the
other hand, this claim of reimbursement is false, such projects are pure paternalism. Let
the bond market provide the test.

Newsweek, July 3, 1950