Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective

The Press, the Radio and Mr. La Guardia

by RAYMOND MOLEY

New Year's Day saw New York City quietly change governments. Out went the three-term reform Administration, and in went the Democrats, including Tammany.

The ex-Mayor, Fiorello H. La Guardia, becomes a publicist, with two sponsored radio discourses weekly, a weekly column in a non-advertising New York paper and another weekly piece commercially sponsored and inserted for pay in New York newspapers. That will give the volatile ex-Mayor plenty of outlet. He will find hard work in his new profession. He will find, most certainly, that while amateur journalists with big names find it easy to start high up in public appeal and income, they must, after the first few weeks, make a go of it the hard way. Mere personal opinions won't do very long. There must be meat in the pie. The big shot, like everybody else, has to go to the meat market and pay the price in hard digging and thinking. Ex-President Coolidge, Al Smith and others tried journalism and gave up, despite big advance billing.

Mr. La Guardia will find something else in his new work. You can't substitute paprika for meat. Indignation, however sustained, won't do. The English language has only a limited number of printable words to convey emotion. And Mr. La Guardia usually leads with superlatives, instead of saving them for select and unusual occasions. Writers who had lived a long time have been masters of understatement.

A man like Mr. La Guardia, whose pattern is shaped by a lifetime in politics, must have one or more whipping boys. In the drama of politics, there must be protagonists and antagonists. Apparently in the new life as a publicist, the La Guardia antagonist is to be the press. Mr. La Guardia's keynote for the battle ahead was uttered last week at a meeting of radio people. He is thus quoted in the accurate and reliable Variety:

"The press, you know, is made up of a lot of slobs, hiding behind their mastheads. I don't mean the working newspaper men, the guys who hand it the stories which I'm convinced are O.K. I mean the big guys, the personalities.

"I'll tell Bill O'Dwyer," continued Mr. La Guardia, "how to get along with the press. All he's got to do is to reduce the assessed valuation on four properties in the city. That's simple, isn't it?"

Well, that's so simple that it has been used for years in every city in the land by politicians in their attacks on the press. It's simple but corny and, in New York, unbelievable. Mr. La Guardia's crusade, however, will raise again and again the distinction between the press and the radio as a purveyor of news. Mr. La Guardia will find, in exploring this question, a number of things. On spot news radio is fast and reaches an immense audience. But in the interpretation of public affairs—Mr. La Guardia's job—it is young. The press has been at that job for centuries. The freedom of the press has been won in a war which began even before John Milton wrote about it, three centuries ago. The radio must travel a part of that long road.

Mr. La Guardia will also learn something about the relation between news comment and advertising. Even if we assume winds are tempered to the advertiser, there are safeguards with the press. There are many advertisers, and the writer or publisher cannot set out to please one without injuring others.

In radio, the commentator is sponsored by one or a relatively few advertisers. He is subject to a contract limited to a relatively short time. He is in competition with the vast appeal of entertainment. And he lives with the specter of the rating experts hovering over his shoulder. Freedom for a commentator, under such circumstances, is possible, but certainly not as probable as that enjoyed by those who write for print.

Mr. La Guardia meets this problem by another comment, also quoted by Variety:

"If they announce that the sponsor is not responsible for their commentator's sentiments, I'll announce that the sponsor's product is not necessarily endorsed by the commentator."

So take it away, Fiorello.