Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Political Balance Sheet
by Raymond Moley

HEREINAFTER find some year-end
thoughts on politics. Predictions?
No. A careful inventory of assets and
liabilities is the best mirror of
the future.

►Democratic Assets. Good morale due
to (a) Mr. Eisenhower's illness, (b)
local successes in 1953, 1954, and
1955 elections, (c) wishful hopes that
the cracks in the Solid South are clos-
ing. Assurance of support of
industrial communities by
powerful machine and big
money of labor bosses. Dis-
content of passel of farmers
in Republican states. Frus-
tration of foreign policy be-
cause of ornery Soviet and
hotheads in Middle East.
Minor assets are Talbott,
the Administration's embar-
rassing man of letters, and
some confusion in Dixon-Yates matter.

►Democratic Liabilities. Poor candi-
date material. Poorest since Winfield
Scott Hancock (1880). Stevenson? A
phrase coined by a very wise man to
fit Thomas E. Dewey fits here: "Dy-
namic obsolescence." Shopworn, plus
livid scar due to injury on Nov. 4,
1952. Harriman? No popular appeal.
No umph in ideological routine bor-
rowed from F.D.R. and put in rather
colorless imitation of Trumanese. He
bears a heavy Tammany cross made
heavier because of Tammany's many
Krosses. (Pun means that N.Y.C.
Commissioner Anna Kross got into a
mess because of her relatives on the
city payroll.) Kefauver? Slightly
above the average senator or gover-
nor. His TV appeal shows four years'
wear. Candidacy has nuisance value-
to whom, I don't know. Lausche?
Good. But could not escape Reuther
veto on Democratic security council.
Johnson of Texas? A natural in a medi-
ocre field until heart attack in June.
Williams and Clement? Are they jok-
ing? The posing of such puny possibili-
ties proves paucity of party personnel.
Issues? Mostly frozen assets like Hell's
Canyon and Dixon-Yates. Successful
businessmen in Administration scare
no one. Rift between South and North
still open. Biggest handicap conserva-
tive trend in country.

Since Democratic assets are Repub-
lican liabilities and Democratic liabili-
ties are Republican assets, read the
foregoing appraisal in reverse.

More Republican Assets. President
Eisenhower. Good asset for years, re-
gardless of candidacy, since he has
become a good party man. Has done
wonders in healing East-Midwest fis-
sure in party, ending effectiveness of
two-headed elephant jokes. Prosperity
with less inflation. Budget balance,
maybe. Peace in Korea. Balance of
public judgment will be favorable to
Administration because Ike
tried at summit.

In baseball terms, a good
bench. Nixon? Grown a lot.
Hard and effective cam-
paigner. This is proved by
opposition smears. Politi-
cians don't waste smears on
nobodies. Has inside track.
Knowland? Massive con-
science and great integrity
and courage. Warren? Too
cautious to leave warm berth for hot
seat. Strength, like that of Hughes in
1916 whose views on current issues
were unknown. Joseph H. Rauh Jr.,
chairman, says his ADA likes Warren.
This bad in conservative Republican
minds. Herter? Good man. Conserva-
tive on spending. Internationally
minded, which helps where he lives
and hurts in Midwest. Not well known
countrywise. Dewey? Term used
above, "dynamic obsolescence," was
coined for him. Would open old
party wounds and assure light Re-
publican turnout at polls. Bricker?
Ohio's favorite son. Solid man loved
in Midwest despite farmer gripes. Bet-
ter than New York or Washington
thinks he is.

Republican Liabilities. Partly listed
under Democratic assets. Add (a)
Benson, a pity, since he is an able,
honest friend of the very farmers who
dislike him, but it's true, (b) Mr.
Eisenhower's heart.

The heart handicap is inescapable.
If Ike runs it would lose him many
votes. If someone else runs with Ike's
warm endorsement and active support
by speeches and statements, that
somebody would do almost as well as
an impaired Ike.

The foregoing three sentences represent a lot of thought. So I will repeat the point in another form:

If Ike runs, the heart issue will lose
the ticket almost as many votes as
would a substitute strongly supported
by a retired Ike.

Newsweek, January 2, 1956