Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

PERSPECTIVE

Law in This Crisis

by Raymond Moley

IT IS well to bear in mind these days
the fragile nature of what is called
international law. Even the word "in-
ternational" has been in use less than
a century and a half. Moreover, the
word "law" applied to the relations
of nations is not analogous to its mean-
ing within a nation. For there is no
legislature to make such law, no ex-
ecutive to enforce it, and a judicial
body with only limited power and
jurisdiction. The "consent of the gov-
erned" is limited by nations' concepts
of their own interests.

What more correctly should be
called "the law of nations" originated
in the writings of individuals who had
no official status. Like the slowly
evolving common law of England, the
rules for the conduct of nations to-
ward one another have evolved
slowly and from a much later date
of origin.

Hugo Grotius, whose book "The
Law of War and Peace" appeared in
1625, has been called the father of
international law. He and Pufendorf,
his successor, based their case on
ethical principles inherent in "right
reason," directed and supplemented
by commands of God instilled in hu-
man beings to guide their conduct.
The power of Grotius' writings gave
his precepts limited acceptance
among statesmen and rulers.

HOMAGE TO VIRTUE

But the nations always qualified
their acceptance of ethical principles
with the age-old concept of national
interest and security. Out of conflict
between self-interest and concern for
others there arose the idealistic prin-
ciple of a community of nations to as-
sert order and right as it conceived of
right. Groups of nations created cer-
tain balances of power. Later there
came the League of Nations and the
United Nations, ostensibly to supply a
legislative, executive, and judicial sys-
tem for all. The first failed and the
second lives a precarious life. Nations
still depend upon group arrangements
in regions. Their nature essentially is
to maintain a balance of power which
will insure peace, however unquiet.

A hopeful sign is the habit of na-
tions to clothe their self-interest with
affirmations of legal right. These usu-
ally reek with hypocrisy. But, as has
been said, it is the sort of hypocrisy
which is "the homage which vice pays
to virtue."

A good example of this effort to
wrap self-interest in the cloak of law
was the claim by the Soviet Union
and of Castro's representatives that
the quarantine of Cuba by the United
States was "piracy."

A 'PACIFIC' BLOCKADE

Piracy is a concept which, over the
centuries, has been fairly definitely
described. A pirate is guilty on the
high seas of conduct which on land
and under the internal laws of specific
nations is robbery. It is the forceful
seizure or destruction of lives and
property. The pirate operates law-
lessly. Nations under long established
custom may capture and kill pirates
without a declaration of war. Jefferson
followed this principle in punishing
the Barbary pirates. There was an
effort after the sinking of the Lusitania
to make a court case against Ger-
many, but the trial of war intervened.

While lay usage in the United
States has designated the action of
the United States in stopping the ship-
ment of war material to Cuba as a
"blockade," it is important to note that
the word "quarantine" was officially
used. This is a new word to describe
an old practice. For example, after
the Napoleonic wars, and in a period
of peace, the British outlawed the
slave trade. Their government then
exercised the right to halt ships of
other nations carrying slaves from Af-
rica on the high seas adjacent to the
West Indies and Puerto Rico and to
take the Africans off. This was not a
declared war.

Ordinarily a blockade is a part of
and incident to a declaration of a
state of war. But there have been
limited actions which have in the past
two centuries been called "pacific"
blockades, imposed without a decla-
ration of war. This kind of limited ac-
tion is essentially what is now officially
called a quarantine.

Either a quarantine in peace or a
blockade in war must have sufficient
force behind it. Men of goodwill may
yearn for a world of law. Men with
soft heads may believe that meekness
breeds meekness. But there must be
power until law is ready.

Newsweek, November 12, 1962