What this country needs most is a better Republican party. Even good Democrats recognize that without effective opposition their own party will go the way of all political, economic and social monopolies—the way of incompetence, arrogance and intellectual sterility. A single-party nation must, of necessity, become a dictatorship. As the party’s power increases, concentration of power at the top becomes the inevitable result. This is as certain in the realm of human affairs as is Newton’s law in the realm of physics.

What does the Republican party need? Ideas and organization—but chiefly ideas. It is an old rule of politics that a party in power can live through its organization alone. Its supply of ideas diminishes with the years, leaving it with nothing but organization. It becomes an aggregate of political appetites plus the means to fill those appetites. It may sound startling to say it, but it is my settled opinion that this process of disintegration has been going on in Washington for some time. The trouble with the present New Deal is that it is running out of ideas and is dishing up a rehash of what brought it into power. Its policy has become little more than old-fashioned business-baiting, coupled with a confusion of economic suggestions, most of which are obsolete. Meanwhile the show is kept going by old political methods which, collectively, amount to one of the most colossal pork barrels in history.

A party out of power, however, has little organization and must win its way back through the force of ideas. Republicans who are trudging along the road back to the confidence of the voters might well observe a number of political facts that, by this time, ought to be self-evident. Certainly they can never shake the popularity of Mr. Roosevelt:

1—By quoting Mr. Roosevelt against Mr. Roosevelt. This is a type of argument that is somewhat effective with thinking people, but it has been worn threadbare by constant use in the past few years. It ought to be remembered that, although Bob Ingersoll spent his life making speeches about how the Bible contradicts itself, the Bible is still widely used, while Ingersoll’s matchless eloquence is now only a Victorian memory. This is not to say that Mr. Roosevelt’s utterances have any marked kinship with the Holy Scriptures!

2—By denouncing the New Deal generally. People simply will not believe Mr. Knox, for example, when he says in his little book, “We Planned It That Way,” that the Roosevelt policies have weakened the banking system. And they will not follow him when he tries to destroy the Roosevelt agricultural policies with a bit of poetry from Emerson.

3—By talking about “individualism.” Individualism is a political concept, useful in broad discussions, but it is not a political objective.

4—By saying that Mr. Roosevelt’s young idea-men are Communists. Some of them are confused, others are half-baked, still others are plain reactionary (although anti-business), but they are not Communistic.

An effective program must be twofold—negative and positive. On the negative side the following are the most effective criticisms:

1—That appeals to class, the baiting of business and conflicting economic policies of the Roosevelt Administration are, in effect, destroying the wealth of the country by restricting legitimate business activity, and that through this process the real wealth out of which future reforms must be paid is not being created.

2—That the two objectives set forth in Mr. Roosevelt’s acceptance speech of 1932, namely work and security, have not been even partially achieved. (It should be noted that he was then speaking not of made work but of productive jobs.) While a good deal has been done, and intelligently done, in the direction of security, the promise of new jobs remains almost completely unfulfilled six years after.

3—That many of the Roosevelt proposals have not been suggestions for a sound readjustment of social and economic relationships, but requests for broad and vague grants of personal power. The fact that this is an effective argument is shown by the vehemence with which Mr. Roosevelt himself denies it. On this point Knox’s book is good.

4—That immense sums have been spent without the achievement of the professed objectives.

5—That many of the economic policies of the New Deal are directly contradictory to a number of others. Mr. Berle’s memorandum to the Monopoly Committee shows this very clearly. This memorandum came very close to letting out of the Administration closet a terrifying skeleton known to many of us for a long time.

On the positive or constructive side Republicans should bear in mind:

1—That business must be permitted to operate more freely in order that the wealth of the country may be increased, not for the sake of profits, which are incidental, but to raise living standards and also to pay for the many new responsibilities that government can never escape. As Garner says, you must fatten your cattle.

2—That security for the people is a legitimate concern of government—security of savings, security against the vicissitudes occasioned by illness and old age, security in every concern in which it can be assured. It was one of the major blunders of Republican leaders that they permitted Mr. Roosevelt to beat them to this golden word. Emergency relief should be returned to the states, aided, when necessary, by Federal grants, made by a scrupulously nonpartisan Federal board.

3—That the Bill of Rights is the fruit that grows on the constitutional tree. American freedom is protected by ten amendments to the Constitution, but the amendments will die if the integrity of the Constitution is impaired, and that is the division of public power among an independent judiciary, an independent legislature and an independent executive.

4—That the Republican party must seek to recapture the Theodore Roosevelt concern for conservation of our resources, both animate and inanimate—human beings and the land, water and mineral resources upon which human beings must depend.

5—That it should insist upon a reconstruction of the Federal government’s labor policy, not by taking away the rights that have been won by the hard efforts of labor, but by establishing the kind of tribunal for the preservation of these rights that will win the confidence of the public. The people should be reminded that when an Administration such as this creates the idea that a labor board is a militant adjunct to the labor movement, someday a genuinely reactionary government will turn the tables. What labor ought to want, and what it can be persuaded that it does want, is a clear demonstration of the supreme impartiality of government in all labor disputes.

6—That it should manifest a deep and active concern in reestablishing local and state government, not on the negative side by crying down federalism, but on the positive side by encouraging states and local communities, through their party organizations, to modernize state constitutions, humanize state governments, and purge city governments of gutter politics.

7—And that the Republican party ought not to strive for a coalition of leaders, because it will never get any considerable number of insurgent Democrats to join it. It ought to seek, however, a coalition of voters, a combination of its 17,000,000 stalwarts with what must amount to some millions of rank-and-file disillusioned Democrats.