Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the original column structure:


**The Chaosophists**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

There are some current writing people, whom we shall call the chaos-ophists, who tell us excitedly that Hitler can reduce Germany to chaos before the Allies take over. They say that the Nazi infection lies so deep that no one in Germany can surrender or carry on civil life after fighting stops and that the Reich will dissolve in civil war. A variation on this theme presents Hitler as another Tito, fighting a long war of resistance in the Bavarian Mountains. These speculations are off the beam of common sense.

In the first place, Germany is not Yugoslavia. Its mountains would offer poor protection against the great armies of the Allies.

Second, it is hardly to be expected that the armed forces of the Allies, moving in simultaneously from several directions, will be less efficient in Germany than were the Germans in France.

Another consideration is the shrewd military tactics of the Allies, aiming first at the economic strangulation of their prey and then at military occupation. First, Russia obliterates Hitler's source of oil in Rumania. Then American armies strike at the coal fields, first in the Saar, then at Aachen, then at the Ruhr. Oil moves the army, but coal is essential to all domestic life. This promotes not chaos, but paralysis.

Germany is a highly organized and interdependent nation. Without coal, it cannot work or travel or keep from freezing. Without the grain, potatoes and sugar beets that are usually carried at this season over the railroads of the Ruhr, it will starve. And those railroads are now within a few minutes' flying time from Allied territory.

But the best answer to the chaosophists is in the nature of the German people. They fight as a people, and when they fight, they fight. But when they are licked, they are licked collectively. They have never been revolutionists. Great as has been the infiltration of the Nazi party and its subsidiary organizations into every phase of German life, it is still a minor and malignant growth in a vast population whose processes of life can expel the intrusive tissue and function as before.

After defeat in 1918, voices in places of some remaining authority in the Reich solemnly announced the coming of civil war. Then ensued an almost comic imitation of revolution. Two branches of the Socialists methodically adopted the stigmata of revolution and civil war. They wore distinctive badges and did a little inaccurate shooting. The contending parties were so orderly in Berlin that they solemnly erected signs in various spots, such as before the Reichstag and in the Tiergarten, indicating the exact places where shooting would take place! Some of these signs read: "Do not walk here. Shooting goes on here." Yokels who trespassed were not injured; they were arrested. Then, since shooting seemed to be stock routine, a few feeble volleys were exchanged between the Brandenburger Tor and the Adlon Hotel. It was more like a waltz quadrille than a civil war.

What happened was that a vast, orderly bureaucracy kept on operating as before after it tore off the insignia of empire and substituted the red ribbon of social democracy. The populace plodded on as usual. People who had bought fourth-class railway tickets, before the revolution, quietly accepted fourth-class accommodations, after the revolution. When soldiers wandered out of their barracks, they were told by the bureaucrats that if they went back and were calmly demobilized, they would get new shoes. They went back.

It is now reported that all over Germany people are quietly preparing statements that they are not in the Nazi party or the SS and getting these attested by non-Nazi officials, priests, ministers and town patriarchs. These, they believe, will be their certificates of safety when the occupation begins. A political revolt, as Robert Hunter points out in his remarkable book "Revolution," comes suddenly and is soon over. But an economic and social revolution is the culmination of generations of disintegration. Such disintegration has not been present in Germany. There will be a political revolution when Hitler goes, but with the Allied armies on hand and with the vast inertia of the German and his eternal instinct for maintaining order, there will not be chaos or anything approaching it.