Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Meaning of Aspen
by RAYMOND MOLEY

ASPEN, COLORADO—If you were to
ask Walter Paepcke to give in a
sentence the basic principle of his
work in and for Aspen, he would prob-
ably tell you that it is the indivisibility
of a man's interests in life. The physi-
cal detachment of the place, sur-
rounded by the vast Rockies, at first
suggests escape from the world out-
side. But history, written here in the
works of man, brings very
close the tremendous forces
of that world. And now
there are community con-
cerns that integrate those
divergent forces and give
them a central meaning.

The landmarks of Aspen
tell of the birth of a great
hope and then of the impact
of profound disaster. Aspen
was born just before 1880
because of two economic factors—the
discovery of great deposits of silver,
and the passage, shortly before, of
the Sherman Silver Purchase Act. For
more than a dozen years the town
grew into a city of 15,000. It had
substantial brick and stone business
blocks, three banks, brokerage houses,
three daily newspapers, ten churches,
sixteen hotels, three theaters, an opera
house, and a sizable hospital. Then, in
1893, depression crept over the land,
Congress repealed the Silver Purchase
Act, and the Aspen boom collapsed.
Men learned then, as they always
have learned, the folly of dependence
on the caprice of government.

THE city lived 40 years in the
shadow of decaying grandeur and
bitter personal tragedies. In the 1930s
Americans discovered the sport of
skiing, and the Aspen incomparable advan-
tages of the Aspen region commended
it for a winter resort. Finally, in 1945,
there came the present renaissance.
Walter Paepcke and his wife came
over the Continental Divide from their
summer ranch and immediately saw
the potentialities of Aspen. Paepcke
has achieved business success and is
known in Chicago as one of the city’s
most public-spirited and culture-
loving citizens. He saw at once that
Aspen had economic value only as an
ideal spot for the development of the
finest in leisure-time and cultural con-
cerns. Skiing would assure the winter
life of the city, but summer might also
be filled with attractive and funda-
mentally worth-while activities. Not
only money but sound business judg-
ment went into the creation of two
corporations—one to develop and pro-
mote skiing, the other to lease the
Jerome Hotel and other properties and
to promote a wide range of cultural
and recreational activities in the
seasons when snow was absent.
The skiing company has
built the longest ski lift in
the world, which is a rec-
creational utility not only
in the wintertime but in the
summertime as well.

Of the utmost importance
in Paepcke’s vision of the
future is the creation of con-
structive educational and
artistic values to be mingled
with the lighter leisure-time
life of the city. First-rate music has
been brought to Aspen, and a music
school has been developed. Then,
too, there are dramatic performances
and lectures on the arts.
Nothing could have signalized the
new Aspen idea more accurately than
the notable Goethe Bicentennial Fes-
tival in 1949. For Goethe himself was
not only the most versatile of geniuses
but an exponent of the indivisibility
of human culture. For that occasion
the Goethe Bicentennial Foundation
brought Albert Schweitzer, José
Ortega y Gasset, and other exponents
of the cultural ideals for which
Goethe contended. Last year there
was developed the Institute for Hu-
manistic Studies, with lectures and
panel discussions on subjects ranging
through philosophy, politics, econom-
ics, history, and world affairs. This
year the institute has added emphasis
on the fundamentals underlying eco-
nomic relations, in addresses and
discussions by representatives of man-
agement, labor, and education.

THIS variety of interests makes
Aspen almost unique. Its detach-
ment, lofty altitude, and natural
beauty assure the absence of the
hurry and distractions of any such
enterprise in or near a large city. It
provides an unusual species of adult
education combined with real recrea-
tion. It is sincerely following the
Goethe tradition of a calm and happy
examination of the realities of life.

Newsweek, August 13, 1951