Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Ike's Fateful Choice
by Raymond Moley

SHORTLY after the election, the AP quoted some anonymous bureaucrat to the effect that at "The Vice Presidential and Cabinet" level there would now be "a long, hard look" at the Administration's power policies. This has been interpreted to mean that because of the defeat of Republican candidates for the Senate in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho the Administration may scuttle its partnership policy and favor heavy spending for Federal projects in those states. Interior Secretary Seaton has since asserted that there is no reason "to inflict the whole burden of financing those projects on the Federal government whenever and wherever non-Federal interests are willing to assume a share."

This will be a major test for a President whose popular majority should provide an unparalleled opportunity to protect the Treasury and the taxpayers of all states from minority pressures. The ultimate decision of the President will be a measure of the depth of his convictions, the strength of his will to resist pressures from even his close associates, and his interest in relieving the pressure of taxation on all Americans—East, South, West, and North.

Two questions arise:
Did the voters in the three states concerned really oppose the partnership policy? Whether they did or did not, is it fair and just to compel all taxpayers to meet the demands of three states for expenditures which private investors are willing to assume?

EVIDENCE
There is plenty of evidence that the people of the Northwest are not opposed to private investors sharing the burden of developing hydroelectric power in the Columbia Basin. While Senator Neuberger was being elected in Oregon in 1954, the voters of three Oregon counties voted against the establishment of public-utility districts. Not a single referendum in any county in Oregon since 1940 has voted for public power. During the recent campaign a poll taken in Washington indicated a 3-to-1 preference for partnership. In another survey, in the state of Oregon, voters listed public power only fifth among six issues.

What has really happened has been the penetration and invigoration of the Democratic Party in both Oregon and Washington by the political machines of labor unions. There was also the introduction into the Idaho campaign of Eastern money to defeat Senator Welker. In Oregon there were large sums of labor-union money plus workers from outside the state to re-elect Morse. In Washington the thousands of workers in and around Hanford and in Seattle and Tacoma were thoroughly organized, politically indoctrinated, and mobilized on Election Day. In Montana, however, a most vociferous public-power advocate was defeated for governor.

OF NATIONAL INTEREST
But the case for local and private participation in further hydroelectric projects in the Northwest should not rest merely upon the preferences of the states immediately concerned. There is no valid reason in morals or national policy why the 40-odd other states of the union should be taxed for the Northwest when there is available plenty of private investors' capital to bear a share. Industry will be drawn from the East and Midwest by the lure of subsidized Federal power. Vast sums have already been spent by the Federal government in the Columbia Basin. Approximately 40 percent of the money spent by Congress for hydroelectric projects in the past ten years has gone to the Northwest. It has averaged $150 million a year. Twice that amount annually will be needed to provide an adequate supply of power in that region. It is simply not possible to expect Congress to grant any such sums to a few states, because Oregon, Washington, and Idaho combined pay less than 3 percent of Federal income taxes. The complaint of the generality of the nation's taxpayers gains additional strength when it is noted that, unlike the impoverished 1930s when Bonneville and Grand Coulee were built, there is adequate money now available from private investors.

If there is to be "a long, hard look" at the Eisenhower partnership policy, the interests of all states, as well as the Northwest, should be brought within the range of vision.

Newsweek, December 10, 1956