Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Japan's Economic Necessities

by RAYMOND MOLEY

In two recent pieces in this space I
have tried to state the vital need
that Japan be permitted to rearm and
be helped to build industrial strength
and the reasons why such a restoration
is not only safe but beneficial to the
Western world. There are, however,
important economic and social con-
ditions that should be understood as
a preliminary to helpful cooperation.
The actual making of
peace with Japan need not
await a treaty. Many coun-
tries want a finger in that
pie, two of which, Red China
and Soviet Russia, should
certainly be excluded. And
the pace of diplomacy is too
slow for the needs of a coun-
try which must in the mean-
time rapidly be helped to
attain a sound economy.
Congress should without delay offi-
cially end our technical state of war by
a joint resolution similar to the one
which ended the first war with Ger-
many in 1921. That would restore
diplomatic relations and permit the
setting up of economic contacts that
are necessary to full political and
economic relations.
We are entering upon a process of
economic mobilization which is going
to tax our resources in manpower and
manufacturing capacity to the utmost.
Japan has manpower, manufacturing
know-how, and in many lines great
potential manufacturing resources. If
we avail ourselves of this asset, we
shall not only relieve ourselves of some
of the danger of shortages, but we
shall be giving Japan the means of
reestablishing her own self-support.

Packed into the four islands that
comprise Japan are more than
82,000,000 people. That is 10,000,000
more than in 1945. Only 13 per cent
of the land is tillable, but it is the most
intensively farmed area of the world.
The majority of the people still live by
agriculture and fishing, which supply
80 per cent of their food needs. Therefore, Japan must expand its industry
merely in order to live, for the absolute limit of agricultural production
has been reached.

Among the many products that
Japan can make for us, for herself,
and for other nations are ships. She
has had and could soon have again

one of the most efficient shipbuilding
industries. She has the largest dry-
dock in the world. Under President
Truman's program we shall need more
and more ships of all kinds. Japan is
rapidly rebuilding her steel industry.
It reached a capacity of 7,500,000
tons before the war. It is now back
to 3,500,000 tons and will reach
4,000,000 within the year. This pace
could be accelerated. The
Japanese textile industry has
always been one of the most
highly developed and now
accounts for the country's
main export. Japanese elec-
trical-equipment manufac-
turing facilities are very
promising. There are or
could be on short notice
many other important indus-
tries working in high gear.
But the dire need of Japan is raw
materials to provide the basis for this
industrial potential. The most serious
shortage is cheap coking coal for the
steel industry. Besides, Japan must
import 100 per cent of her require-
ments of raw cotton, wool, crude rub-
ber, nickel, bauxite, phosphate rock,
potash, as well as a great proportion
of her requirements in sugar, iron ore,
petroleum, and many other materials.

A Recovering industry, moreover,
needs machinery. Japanese indus-
try must obtain at once various kinds
of mechanical equipment, particularly
mining machinery. The chances of
getting it on any terms are darkened
by our own domestic needs.
And pending the revival of her ship-
building industry, Japan must have
ships to bring what she needs of raw
materials and to deliver her finished
products. She lost during the war
nearly 9,000,000 tons of shipping.
Her present gross tonnage is only
1,500,000. This shortage could be
greatly alleviated if sunken Japanese
ships all over the Far East could be
raised and salvaged. If permitted, the
Japanese could do this themselves.
Hence, to realize the unquestioned
military and economic value of Japan,
means must be found to meet her
immediate needs and to provide a
restoration of close economic and political intercourse with us. Next week
I shall outline some of those means
of cooperation.

Newsweek, January 29, 1951

Page 104 of 1201