Perspective

The Communist Fanatic

by Raymond Moley

IF THE new President and those associated with him in conducting
foreign affairs fail to check the spread
of Communism, it will not be because
of any sympathy for that ideology.
We may be assured of their antipathy
for Communist doctrine. But such a
failure could come from a misunder-
standing of the mentality and spirit of
the dedicated Communist fanatic. Too
often our bureaucrats, as in the cases
of Red China and Cuba, have
equated the mentality of Communists
with what they know of the aspirations
of normal people for greater
freedom and more of the goods of
life. Such a misunderstanding prevailed with Presidents Roosevelt and
Truman in their dealings with Stalin.
In all such cases the basic mistake
took a dreadful toll.

Generals have been known to keep
before them a portrait of the commander they oppose, as a constant
reminder of the man and mind they
face. Such a portrait of the dedicated
Communist has been presented by
Frank S. Meyer in a remarkable book,
"The Moulding of Communists" (214
pages. Harcourt, Brace. $5). It should
be read by every American engaged
in the Foreign Service, from the new
President down. Meyer, versed in all
facets of Communism, served in its
operations for fourteen years in the
United States, Britain, and Europe.
He was a member of the "cadre,"
which he defines as composed of
"members who are recognizable by
no title; who may or may not be
formal card-carrying members of the
party." These are not the ordinary
conscripts to Communism. They are
its generals and shock troops.

TRAINING THE CADRE

The cadreman is selected after
careful screening. He is vigorously
trained, from the unit bureau to the
national level and beyond that, in
international relations. Those selected
are hardened to withstand all earlier
traditions-religious and political-family loyalties, and personal concepts of
integrity. Moral questions are ended
in a single inevitable conclusion for
the Communist: Whatever is done is
"right," if it promotes the party
and the world revolution. Freedom
is not known in the sense in which we

in the Western world understand it.
Once the "scientific" system of
Marx and Lenin replaces the "false"
values of the bourgeois world, emotions are dealt with. The personality
is transformed. The intellect, thus
conditioned, directs will; emotions are
reduced to utter servility. Eventually the accepted few adopt "self-
development" and "self-criticism"
through endless effort and discipline.
The seasoned member of the cadre
identifies every act of the organization with the necessity of history.
Corruption and brutality are instruments of power. But the party is the
instrument of history; there is no appeal from its directives. "That is
why," Meyer says, "the known realities of the Soviet Union-oppression, slave-labor camps, purge after
purge, murder in the millions, brutal
and unprovoked aggression, even
Khrushchev's exposure of Stalin and
the Hungarian Revolution of 1956-
slide off the cadre Communist's conscience like water off a duck's back
...Intellectually he explains them as
necessary casualties of the historic
process, unfortunate but unavoidable."

MENACE IN ASIA

The reader of Meyer's book should
bear in mind that the author draws
his knowledge from the world of Russian Communists before the Chinese
revolution. Since Mao and his crew
came to power there has been created in Asia a still more ruthless and
doctrinaire system, which had even
fewer of the refinements of Western
civilization to eradicate. Thus, the
dedicated Chinese Communists have
built an even harder and more ruthless power. The slight adjustments
allowed by Khrushchev in Russia-
adjustments which have not changed
the determination to dominate-are
unknown in China. Isolation has crystallized the doctrine of conquest
there. That is why those who believe
that sweetness and light will melt the
threat from the Orient are so fatuous
and so dangerous to America.
We shall know more about those
appeasers as time goes on. And we
shall also know, bitterly significant to
us, of the penetration of the Red Chinese into the Western Hemisphere
and Southeast Asia.

Newsweek, February 6, 1961