Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, avoiding overlap between columns:


How About a Real Moderate?

by Raymond Moley

IF THE talk of "moderation" in and
around the recent Democratic ju-
bilee in Chicago had not been reek-
ing with hypocrisy, there would have
been a search for a real moderate.
Any such adventure into the realities
would have brought to those party
leaders the sharp logic of nominating
Gov. Frank Lausche of Ohio.
As a getter of votes Lausche has
won more elections than all
of the other Democratic
prospects combined—twice
as a judge, twice as mayor
of industrial Cleveland,
and five times as governor.
Never a demagogue,
Lausche has consistently
held the public interest high
above all the little interests
in our political and eco-
nomic life. Labor, agricul-
ture, and business management have
always had Lausche's devoted atten-
tion, but he refuses to believe that
any of those interests have given over
their destiny to bosses of any sort. As
a man who has lived in government
most of his adult life, he knows how
dangerous a supergovernment can be.
Unlike the leading figures in Chicago,
Lausche was born to modest circum-
stances and has something beyond a
mere vicarious interest in taxpayers.
He is not a profound thinker, but
his thoughts are his very own.
To nominate Lausche would do
more to unite genuine Democrats,
North and South, East and West, than
anything that has happened since
1932. The muttering of bosses that
he could not be elected because he
is a Catholic shows how fraudulent
is their protestation about equality
and religious freedom.
My mention of Lausche is no exer-
cise in kingmaking. I have no desire
to shoulder my way into the congre-
gation that has forgotten its obligation
to journalism because it wants to make
a President. The National Press Club
is swarming with such tub thumpers.
I know quite well that the Lausche
sort of man is as alien to the creatures
who dominate the Democratic Party
in the North as a reincarnated Grover
Cleveland would be.
The very words of Stevenson belie
his appeal to moderation. If there is
any difference between his Chi-
cago speech and that of Governor

Harriman, it is in phraseology, not
content. Both think they can ride to
the White House with a thin wallet
of issues—Dixon-Yates, Talbott, Hell's
Canyon, farm parity, and, in for-
eign policy, why-did-you-warm-me-
in-July-and-chill-me-in-November.
Neither is telling the whole truth
about Hell's Canyon. I doubt whether
either could point out the place on the
map. Harriman talks of the
absentee ownership of the
Idaho Power Co. Yes, peo-
ple everywhere invest in
Idaho Power, just as they
invest in the Harriman Un-
ion Pacific. Of course, some-
body just told him that
Hell's Canyon were fighting
words in the Northwest.
Both aspirants complain
about big businessmen in
the Administration. Stevenson is dis-
tressed because eight of the members
of the Eisenhower Cabinet are from
"big business." Without disputing his
count, it might occur to him that it
requires people accustomed to big
things to run the enormous businesses
which two Democratic Administra-
tions have built into the government
departments in Washington.
Stevenson has invented a new and
quaint phrase which in senseless am-
biguity seems to hang on nothing else
in his speech. It is "nothing fails like
success." Perhaps it would be better
if Mr. Eisenhower had sought Admin-
istrators who had failed rather than
succeeded in business. Perhaps the
President would more adequately fill
the Stevenson prescription if he had
failed in the battle of Europe. Perhaps
as Stevenson looks back he sees busi-
ness failure a sure key to the White
House. Perhaps he feels that his own
meager attainments in the law and
private enterprises are his most valu-
able assets. In 1952 he cribbed the
phrase "time for greatness." Perhaps
in 1956 the Stevenson battle cry will
be "time for littleness."

A MAN who had no stable of writers
to coin his quips once offered this
choice bit: "Moderation is a fatal
thing. Nothing succeeds like excess."
This is Oscar Wilde speaking to Adlai
Stevenson. In quite different lan-
guage, Harry S. Truman has prob-
ably offered him the same advice.

Newsweek, December 5, 1955