Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Japan's Brighter Side

by Raymond Moley

A Japan, Communist-inspired mob violence, with its hate-America tone, may well pass. But the economic ties between us are a durable reality.  There is no better example of Japan's fine capacity in industry, engineering, and trade than in her shipbuilding. Three weeks ago, while Tokyo was rocked by political troubles, a quite different drama was enacted at Nagasaki where the Naess Sovereign, 87,500 d.w. tons, the largest tanker ever to slip down the ways, was launched at Mitsubishi Shipbuilding & Engineering Co. She is owned by the Anglo-American Shipping Co., a joint enterprise of British and American interests and a member of the Naess group of shipping companies. The climactic moment in the creation of a ship is her launching. Sliding such a ship into the water is itself a prodigious engineering task. In this case, technicians spent a year on that problem alone.  The launching is not only a technical marvel. It is pregnant with mystic symbolism. H.M. Tomlinson once wrote that the successful launching of a ship "is the visible completion of a human achievement in a dramatic instant. In a moment the ship comes to life. The thoughts and devices of a multitude of men slowly converge and associate materially...Above them, the projection of many thoughts, is now their single desire in being, the colossus on the ways, the proof in steel...They willed her, and she is there..."

SYMBOLS IN STEEL

This symbolism was expressed by Hisashi Sato, the naval architect who is president of the Mitsubishi Shipbuilding & Engineering Co., in an interview with my assistant who, with two other NEWSWEEK people, was a guest at the ceremony. He said: "Delivering a ship is like giving a daughter in marriage. The father regards her with pride and pleasure for a long time. When she pulls out, you can't help but have tears in your eyes. She has a heart and a soul."

THE FREE WORLD'S TIES

The Naess Sovereign will be the largest cargo vessel under the British flag and will be manned by a Scottish crew. She will be in the service of the British associate of Standard Vacuum Oil. A large financial investment was shared among Japanese, American, and British private companies, with Japanese banks sustaining 70 per cent of the money needed. A sister ship, the Naess Champion, will be launched at Nagasaki next year.  The Naess people have constructed, or have under construction and on order in Japan, more than 900,000 d.w. tons and an equal amount in other countries. In Japan that amount of construction means an expenditure of $160 million. Nagasaki is the oldest open port in Japan. When, after two centuries of isolation, Commodore Perry secured the opening of Japan to maritime trade, the Governor of Nagasaki established a foundry with the aid of Dutch engineers. That is now the Mitsubishi Nagasaki Works, covering 230 acres and stretching for 2 miles along the shore—a most modern plant with thousands of workers.  The economic ties among the world's free nations which are shown in this specific instance—call it international capitalism if you wish—have a strength and flexibility built over many generations. The Communist world in its struggle for trade is awkwardly emulating the system while its propaganda denounces it as "capitalist imperialism" and predicts its demise. Here the free world's advantage is incalculable. And Japan is a strong link in the chain.

Newsweek, July 18, 1960