Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column structure:


PERSPECTIVE

WHAT IT MEANS

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

San Francisco—Observers from overseas, as they have witnessed our noisy and seemingly disorderly national conventions, have wondered why, with this method of selecting candidates for the Presidency, we have had, with the exception of Britain, the most stable government on earth. More than 50 years ago a Russian, Moisei Ostrogorski, wrote a memorable description of a national convention. He said that when you leave the convention and inhale the clear air outside, “when you carry your thoughts back from the scene which you have just witnessed and review the line of Presidents, you find that if they have not all been great men—far from it—they were all honorable men.” And, he said, you cannot help repeating an old American saying that God takes care of little children and the United States. (Ostrogorski’s long-neglected classic “Democracy and the Organization of Political Parties” has been brought out this month in an Anchor Books paperback edition.)

At any convention, and especially in this one, there is a deep meaning beneath all the insincerities and diversions, for the destiny of a party and even the future of the nation’s course may lie with the beleaguered and badgered delegates. Here in San Francisco there was clearly registered a nationwide Republican conviction which has been in the making since Governor Dewey wrested the nomination from Senator Taft in 1948 and later, in 1952, when Dewey, Lodge, et al. once more blasted the Ohio senator’s ambitions.

LONG BEGINNING

A protest against this domination of the Republican Party by liberal Republicans of the East and Northeast has grown greater and greater during the Eisenhower years and since. As I made clear in this space two weeks ago, it has been most notable in those areas where there has been the most marked growth in population, in industrial development, and in real wealth—in the Southeast, the Mountain States, and on the Pacific Coast. It is no mere coincidence that it was the delegates from those areas who dominated the convention and preferred Goldwater as the candidate.

But this protest, which has grown into a veritable party revolution, had its beginnings well before Goldwater entered the Senate and years before he became a candidate for the Presidential nomination. His part in this change has been in innumerable speeches over the country and in his articulation of the principles in which these dissidents believe.

Since it is always easier to attack a fallible individual than powerful natural changes, former caretakers of Republicanism have centered their attack upon Goldwater personally. I have not in my time witnessed such billingsgate, misrepresentations, and irrational fury except in the early 1930s when FDR challenged the custodians of the Democratic Party.

TIME FOR REASSESSMENT

In 1932, as now, the supporters of the successful candidate were called, by supposedly responsible people, cranks, know-nothings, and extremists. The word “crackpot” came into currency then because of its use by a Roosevelt rival.

The wholesale vilification of Goldwater supporters is much more serious than the attacks upon the man himself. For Goldwater can afford to ignore personal attacks. But to charge that these delegates and the people back home who selected them are unfit to exercise their choice of a Presidential candidate is an unforgivable affront.

There is time now for those people who have been shaping opinion to reassess the fundamental changes which brought Goldwater to the top. There is time, too, for thoughtful reconsideration by the major television and radio networks of the sort of thing which they have chosen to designate as news. They are privileged under the laws of the United States to reach a nationwide audience. Countless Americans already consider them to be spokesmen for a fractional and prejudiced sector of American opinion. Freedom of the press is to be used, not abused.

To those who have been engaged in the anti-Goldwater tirade, I commend what Emerson said to a woman reformer a century ago. She sighed: “I accept the universe.” Emerson answered: “You’d better.”

Newsweek, July 27, 1964