Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

'Documenting' a Smear

by Raymond Moley

IT WOULD be sound public policy to
limit by law the over-all amount an
individual can contribute to a political
campaign. It is sound to prohibit contributions by corporations, associations,
and labor unions—a policy now under
adjudication by the Supreme Court.
But the smearing of all of business
by selective figures and sly insinuations is demagoguery.

That is exactly what is contained
in the bulky report of the Senate subcommittee on Privileges and Elections
on the campaign of 1956. Responsible
for this distortion of the facts are Sens.
Albert Gore and Mike Mansfield, majority members of the subcommittee.
Sen. Carl Curtis vigorously dissented.

The report is really an attempt
to document the major contention of
the 1956 Democratic campaign which
was in essence that American businessmen, especially successful businessmen, are the untouchables in
public life—benighted, predatory, and
unfit for public office or trust.

This week, I offer a small sample
of its misrepresentation of American
business; next week, its effort to obscure the part taken in the campaign
by some labor unions.

'CONSPIRACY'

The report arranges the contributions which it uncovered, mainly to
the Republican Party and almost entirely by business men and women,
in categories suitable to serve the implication that business management
and great wealth are engaged in a
conspiracy to ravish the republic.

There are several such categories
which include groups of corporations
such as "100 largest industrial firms,"
"25 largest utilities," "88 corporations
participating in the atomic-energy program," "100 largest military prime contractors," etc. Then there are trade
associations and groups such as the
American Petroleum Institute and
Chamber of Commerce of the United
States. There is also a group of members of twelve "selected" families.
These are not claimed to be the richest families. They just happen to be
mostly Republican.

It is admitted that business groups
and corporations do not contribute as
such. The report lists gifts from their
officers, directors, and members.

The joker in the report is not only
the insinuation that these groups and
corporations contribute as such, but
the reiteration of literally scores of
single contributions by including the
same people in many groups. For example, one man is a member of the
twelve families, a director of one of
the largest corporations, a director of
a corporation participating in military
contracts, and a member of two trade
associations. Thus his money is mentioned five times.

DUPLICATION

The report views with alarm the
total contributions of $751,914 by "selected groups," including trade associations. Without attempting to show
how many times the same contributions are counted in that total, I note
that the contribution of an ambassador (there is a category of "heads of diplomatic missions") is counted as such,
and it is again counted in a list of the
Business Advisory Council of the Department of Commerce. Another man's
contribution is counted twice in the
total since he is a member of the
Business Advisory Council and a director of the Iron and Steel Institute.
There are other such duplications
which, if taken into account, would
greatly change the total.

There is a category of the "37 leading advertising agencies." The selection shows that officers of these
contributed $51,600 to the Republicans and nothing to the Democrats.
This is hard to believe, unless the
selection was deliberately made to
show Republican unanimity. But the
widow of a man who made his fortune
in one of the largest agencies gave
$64,400 to the Democrats.

The largest contributor to either
party was Landsdell K. Christie, who
gave more than $70,000 to the Democrats. He is president of the Liberia
Mining Co. There is the Greek,
Aristotle Socrates Onassis of Monaco,
bearing gifts to both parties—$1,500
to the Republicans and $3,000 to the
Democrats. Retrospect over prospect
is true generosity. Or maybe his information service missed the boat.

I find no mention of Perle Mesta.
Perhaps the levelers' revel provided
for the party of the poor at the Chicago convention sufficed.

Newsweek, March 4, 1957