Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Eight Economists on Unions

by Raymond Moley

In 1950 there was held at the American University in Washington a most interesting and important round-table discussion of labor problems. The authorities of the university called together eight distinguished economists who are not specialists on labor or labor consultants for employees or employers. The purpose behind this selection was to get a real perspective on labor issues—a long-range point of view not possible to secure from people who are dealing with emergent, specific issues that arise from day to day.

The eight economists were Gottfried Haberler and Edward H. Chamberlin of Harvard, John Maurice Clark of Columbia University, Frank H. Knight and Milton Friedman of the University of Chicago, Kenneth E. Boulding of the University of Michigan, Paul A. Samuelson of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and David McCord Wright of the University of Virginia. Those familiar with the literature of economics will recognize that the attitudes of these men range over all shades of economic theory and ideology, from left to the extreme right. Each prepared a formal paper on a phase of labor economics and all were furnished with copies in advance in order to facilitate discussion. Each paper was read and followed by general discussion. Then, after the conference, the authors were permitted to revise their papers in the light of the discussion.

The papers and discussions were edited by Professor Wright and, with a concluding summary, were published by Harcourt, Brace and Co. in 1951 under the title, “The Impact of the Union.”

This book as a whole is a notable contribution to public understanding of the tremendous questions raised by the recent activities of labor unions, but, as in the case of many other books supporting the conservative side of current economic problems, it has been little noted by the reviewers. The American Economic Review, an impartial, authoritative commentator on economic thought, neglected it for two years and then published a review which, however favorable, did not include what seems to me to be the kernel of the entire discussion of the economists. That section, which covers only one page, is a series of six propositions which, with one slight dissent, constitute the area of agreement of these notable economists representing, as I have noted above, such widely varied schools of thought. These six propositions are:

“1—All participants, except possibly Dr. Friedman, agree that there are important sociological and noneconomic reasons for having unions.

“2—But we all further agree that labor power like corporate power must be subject to restraints for the public welfare.

“3—We all further agree that the welfare of individual labor groups is not necessarily identical with the welfare of the country as a whole, or of labor as a whole.

“4—The participants all feel that the present expectations of many labor groups as to what should be considered a ‘normal’ pattern of wage increases (for example the 10 per cent per annum pattern) are far in excess of any reasonable expectations that can be formed as to the future rate of growth of the economy’s productive capacity.

“5—We all agree that many of the fringe-end benefits and pension plans now being demanded could, if pushed much further, prove far more harmful to the growth of the economy than simple wage increases.

“6—It was generally conceded that many unions, by ‘featherbedding’ and other practices, create an atmosphere of slackness and sabotage, thus seriously retarding the efficiency of the fields concerned.”

The fact that eight scholars have agreed upon these propositions is in itself significant. The tenor of their criticism of union policies is still more significant. And finally, the strange neglect of such a book and such opinions by reviewers and others is in itself not without importance. Can it perhaps be that these propositions are bitter fruit not only to union economists, but to some members of the reviewing community?

Newsweek, November 2, 1953