Perspective
For a Better Republic
by Raymond Moley

A lengthy subcommittee has held
hearings on the long-
needed reform in our method of
electing Presidents and Vice Presi-
dents. Thirteen proposed constitu-
tional amendments are pending in the
Senate. Former Presidents Hoover,
Truman, and Eisenhower have called
for reform.

To meet the need for public edu-
cation and understanding of the prob-
lem, the American Good Government
Society (810 Dupont Circle Building,
Washington 6, D.C.) is organizing a
committee representing every state
and is issuing a fine statement of the
problem and proposed remedies.

Since all efforts in earlier years
have failed, the danger is that in frus-
tration a method might be adopted
which would be worse than the pres-
ent system: Straight, popular election.
In fact, two of the proposed amend-
ments would provide just that.

One of these, sponsored by Senators
Smith, Morse, Beall, Chavez, and
Aiken, would nominate candidates in
a nationwide primary, with a run-off
in case no candidate secured a ma-
jority in his party. Then there would
be the election, with another run-off
if no candidate received a majority.
All these primaries and run-offs would
be between July and December. An-
other popular-election proposal, by
Senators Keating and Mansfield, is
only slightly less objectionable.

IRREPARABLE DAMAGE

Popular elections would irreparably
damage the very nature of the re-
public. The states would lose control
of their own elections. The President
and Vice President would be responsi-
ble only to a vague "general will"
identical with Rousseau's plan for
democratic despotism, the concept
behind the French Revolution. Con-
gress would continue to be a repre-
sentative body. Thus there would
remain only half a republic.

State laws would substantially be
wiped out so far as Presidential elec-
tions were concerned. Political-party
organization, now based on a repre-
sentative principle, would have to
be reconstructed.

Most serious would be the practical
impact upon those who might aspire
to be candidates. Under the Smith-
Morse plan, an aspirant would have to
campaign over the nation two and pos-
sibly four times in less than four
months. Nobody but a Kennedy, a
Rockefeller, a Ford, a du Pont, or a
Getty could afford the expense, un-
less he became obligated to vast spe-
cial-interest groups. Nobody but a
super Paul Bunyan could survive the
physical strain.

The only one of the proposed plans
which would retain the Federal, rep-
resentative character of the republic
is that offered by Senators Mundt,
McClellan, Hruska, Thurmond, and
Morton. (This was formerly called
the Mundt-Coudert plan.)

TRUMAN'S PLAN

It would presumably retain the
present system of party nominations
and elect electors in newly created
districts equal in number to the mem-
bers of the House from each state,
with two elected at large. If no candi-
date should receive a majority of elec-
tors, the President and Vice President
would be selected by a joint session
of Congress from among the three can-
didates having the highest number of
votes. To prevent a deadlock, the
choice on the fifth ballot would be be-
tween two candidates for President
and Vice President respectively.

Former President Truman's state-
ment on the subject shows a most in-
teresting maturity of judgment. He
said that the present system of giving
all electoral votes to the candidates
with the popular majority in each state
encourages "the emergence of the
big cities into political overbalance,
with the threat of imposing their
choices on the rest of the country."
He would follow the Mundt principle
of election by districts with two elec-
tors elected at large in each state.
But Truman would use the existing
Congressional districts rather than
creating new ones. Also, in case there
is no majority he would retain the old
method of election by the House of
Representatives, with one vote per
state. In my judgment, his idea of us-
ing existing districts is better than
Mundt's, but Mundt's plan of election
by a joint session of Congress is prefer-
able. Either the Mundt or Truman
plan, however, is in the true principle
of representative government.

Newsweek, August 14, 1961