Here's a text extraction from the provided image.  I've tried my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns, but perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and column layout. Some minor inaccuracies might remain.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Who Is Baiting Whom?

What an American humorist said
of Napoleon might be remarked of the
Securities and Exchange Commission:
that it set out to do too much and it has
done it. The SEC was created in 1934 to
administer the laws of 1933 and 1934
which aimed at a limited Federal regu-
lation of the issuance and sale of securi-
ties. With respect to these laws alone the
SEC faced a task that, in England, re-
quired a century of adjustment and re-
vision. But apparently this was not enough
to absorb the energies of the SEC, for in
the tumultuous summer of 1935 Congress
provided new duties under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act.

To determine the meaning of such laws
against the vast and complex background
of modern business practice is in itself a
stupendous job. A great many lawyers,
experts and clerks must be mobilized.
Complicated studies must be made and
hearings held. Law suits must be carried
into the courts. Countless rules must be
written and promulgated. The current talk
of U-12F-2, for example, is not about a
rural telephone number or a Connecticut
license number. U-12F-2 is an SEC rule
with five sections and five subsections.

All this creates uncertainty, makes in-
vestors hesitate and delays plans for busi-
ness expansion. It is expensive to business
and to government. And yet rumors of
new tasks to be taken over by the SEC
emerge from Washington. Many reason-
able people thought plans for further reg-
ulatory laws would be on the way after the
SEC undertook, for the Monopoly Com-
mittee, an investigation into life insurance,
investment banking and the reasons why
money is not flowing into industry fast
enough. More recently, a new bill appeared
in Congress providing for regulation of
investment trusts by the SEC.

People have a right to wonder how
far SEC activity will expand. Of course
regulation is needed in many places, and
the SEC may be very wise. But what's
the hurry? Why not straighten out the
old laws first?

The current controversy between the
SEC and the investment bankers in-
volves a difference of long standing. It
cropped up again in the December hear-
ings of the TNEC. In those hearings sev-
eral representatives of large investment
houses were questioned on certain aspects
of their business. The subject matter of
these hearings was strictly limited by the
SEC, which conducted the investment-
banking study for the TNEC. The invest-
ment bankers maintained that almost no
material relating to how the Acts of 1933,
1934 and 1935 were operating to hamper
the functioning of the investment markets
was accepted for the record. The very im-
portant subject of competitive bidding was
also excluded. In fact, the restriction on
this subject was so stern that when Mr.
Harold Stanley asked permission to send a
memorandum privately to the members of
the TNEC, Leon Henderson objected.

At about that time in December, Mr.
Emmett F. Connely, president of the In-
vestment Bankers Association of America,
appeared before the TNEC. In the few
minutes allotted him he courteously asked
that his organization be given permission
to present certain facts relating to the in-
vestment business. Two and a half months
later such an opportunity had not been
granted. The Association did receive, how-
ever, under date of February 29th, a letter
from Mr. Joseph L. Weiner of the SEC
asking for suggestions concerning the ad-
ministration of SEC duties under the Hold-
ing Company Act.

In reply, the Association, through
Mr. Connely, addressed to the SEC a long
letter of great public importance. A con-
siderable part of it was devoted to a dis-
cussion of the powers granted the SEC, un-
der the Holding Company Act, to regulate
the manner in which securities of those
companies subject to the Act should be
marketed.

NEWSWEEK, APRIL 8, 1940

ment, the selling agreement, are available
to all. The offering price, the terms and the
'spread' are fixed in the light of the com-
petition of the market for comparable se-
curities. This competition is ever-present.
It represents the combined judgment of
every buyer and every seller of securities in
the country, dealing at arm's length. The
success or failure of every issue is imme-
diately known to the public, to every un-
derwriter and dealer in securities, to the ex-
ecutives of issuers of comparable securities,
to the Commission itself, and to the market.
Nothing is hidden. The underwriter's repu-
tation stands or falls by the result."

Compared with this form of compe-
tition, competitive bidding, which is, in
substance, the method of an auction, offers
many disadvantages which the IBA de-
scribed. One of the chief of these, it ap-
pears, is the hardship it would inflict upon
the smaller dealers. Experience has shown
that an estimated thousand dealers get a
considerable part of their business from
participation in corporate selling groups.
The strict enforcement of competitive bid-
ding would almost automatically exclude
many smaller dealers from participating in
the larger issues. Thus, enforced competi-
tive bidding, like many other ill-considered
reforms, would actually have the opposite
effect from that desired by its sponsors. It
would help the big fellow and hurt the lit-
tle fellow.

The IBA also gently reminded the SEC
that the Federal government does not place
its long-term securities on the auction
block, nor does the RFC sell larger issues
by competitive bidding.

The fact that competitive bidding is
practiced in the sale of municipal issues of-
fers no real argument for its use generally
in private issues. In municipal issues, the
records are public and the statistics are
simple. The bidder considers the debt rec-
ord and the tax delinquency and fixes his
bid accordingly. Beyond the specific per-
formance of the purchase, the municipality
does not need the continuing services of tl.
bidder. The problems of the corporate is-
suer are different, however. The borrower
frequently leans upon the banker for ad-
vice which is often highly confidential.

The broader issue revealed in the letter,
however, is that which the investment
bankers quite properly attempted to in-
clude in their December hearings before the
TNEC. It is the issue of competitive bid-
ding as compared with present methods of
marketing securities. The IBA pointed out
that at the present time competition is the
"life blood" of their business.

"Each underwriter lives in hope of in-
creasing his underwritings and participa-
tions," the letter stated. "Investment bank-
ers compete actively with each other for
positions in underwriting and selling syn-
dicates...The most pitiless publicity ac-
companies every step in the underwriting
of securities. The public offering price, the
coupon or dividend rate, the proceeds to
the issuer, the expenses, the 'spread' to the
underwriters, the concessions made avail-
able to dealers, are publicized far and wide
so that he who runs may read. Every docu-
ment that is used, the underwriting agree-

The SEC's reply to this long and rea-
soned letter was a single-page statement.
It charged the IBA with "government-
baiting." This, apparently, is a new name
for criticism of a government agency by
citizens of the USA. Possibly the tone of
this reply was responsive to the quiet sug-
gestion of the IBA that the whole question
is so complicated and depends so largely
upon the attitude of Congress, that "the
Commission...would be well advised to
conform to the traditional practice of true
democracy and invite Congress to review
the operation of the laws administered by
the Commission in the light of the expe-
rience gained over the past five years or
more."