Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

A Study of Foundations
by Raymond Moley

DURING the final days of the 1953
session of Congress, the House
passed a resolution authorizing an "in-
vestigation and study of educational
and philanthropic foundations and
other comparable organizations which
are exempt from Federal income taxa-
tion to determine if any foundations
and organizations are using their re-
sources for purposes other than the
purposes for which they
were established." B. Carroll
Reece of Tennessee is
chairman of the committee
thus created.

René Wormser, chief
counsel of the Reece Com-
mittee, a New York attor-
ney, has had long experi-
ence in the problems in-
volved in estates and trusts.
He and his staff are now
engaged in laying a good basis of re-
search before holding hearings later
in the winter or early in the spring.

Philanthropic foundations are an old
institution dating back to ancient
Greece and Rome. Their prominence
in the United States has largely been
brought out by the pioneer work of
the Rockefeller Foundation, estab-
lished in 1913. Under the guidance
of an extraordinary man, Frederick T.
Gates, the Rockefeller Foundation
spent its early years almost exclusively
in the fields of public health, medical
education and research, and biology.

In the 1920s there swept across the
field of education a fervent belief in
the shaping of human conduct by the
magic of what was called "social-
science research." This, it was be-
lieved, would neatly solve the
problems of life by the application of
the methods and experience of the
natural sciences to such general sub-
jects as sociology, economics, politics,
and psychology. Freudianism, which
enjoyed its most sensational vogue in
those years, was hailed as a great
factor in the New Learning.

The results of the great invasion of
social conduct by "science" have been
spotty. In certain carefully controlled
and limited studies there have been
useful results. But while I once had
high hopes that there could be com-
plete objectivity in research in the
social sciences, my observation of
the course of the "renaissance" of
the 1920s has not been encouraging.

Projects financed by the foundations
in sociology, politics, economics, and
even history have been well seasoned
with more or less subtle leftist
propaganda. Perhaps the foundations
should sharply limit their concern in
such controversial fields. And what
is most unfortunate and intolerable,
foundations have been penetrated
by actual subversion.

The long-term value of
foundations has been abun-
dantly proved. They can
carry on long and expensive
research and experimenta-
tion not possible either by
government or by educa-
tional institutions. They can
make sound contributions to
education itself through es-
tablished colleges, univer-
sities, and hospitals. They
can project and prove certain types
of educational and recreational ac-
tivities through settlement houses and
other institutions. And they can, by
carefully considered grants and schol-
arships, encourage and develop
talented people.

Foundations, because of their tax
exemption, are vested with a vital
public interest. This should be recog-
nized by strict accountability to the
public and, when called upon, to the
Congress. They are dreadfully suscep-
tible to dry rot among their paid staff,
since they must neither toil for new
support nor spin for a profit. I speak
with feeling on this, for some years
ago, after four years of service in a
foundation, I felt that paralysis creep-
ing over me and I left to take a less
remunerative but more exacting job.

FOUNDATIONS should avoid rigidity
in the purposes of their giving.
They should limit themselves to the
survey of a need, a grant, and a
checkup. They should not operate
the job themselves. Boards should be
working agencies, not mere groups of
decorative but inactive directors.
Whatever they undertake should
have terminal facilities. They should
finish the job or turn it over to some
other agency. Finally, they should be
their own relentless critics.

There are already evidences of this
self-evaluation. The Reece Committee
can perform no more useful service
than to stimulate self-examination.

Newsweek, January 4, 1954