Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

After Twenty-Four Years

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The new party convention in Philadelphia has invited many comparisons with the La Follette convention in Cleveland 24 years ago. I attended that convention as an observer, and I am struck by a good many similarities to the Wallace gathering. The similarities are superficial, however; the differences very deep and important.

The La Follette following, like that of Wallace, was a revolt against the major parties. In both instances the convention drew a large number of old-time rebels and radicals dedicated to this or that special remedy for the world’s ills. There were at both conventions the same feverish zeal, the same irreconcilable convictions. Both attracted sincerity without balance, conviction without compromise. Both were dependent upon the popularity of a single man, and both drew a Western senator for Vice President. Both resurrected the name “Progressive.”

Beyond that, great differences appear. Only the conservative railway unions were really active in the La Follette movement. The AFL in the main remained in the Gompers non-partisan tradition. Very little in the La Follette platform had to do with labor, and what there was is now firmly in the law of the land. There was support for nationalization only of the railroads and water power. No great public expenditures were advocated, for the La Follettes have always favored budget balancing, and sound finance. Much of the more advanced program of Northwestern farm organizations was advocated, but that program now looks mild compared even with the Republican platform.

On foreign affairs the La Follette program was anti-imperialist. It favored a revision of the Versailles Treaty and advocated disarmament and a referendum on war. There was no civil-rights program, beyond a mere affirmation of freedom of speech, press and assemblage.

The real support of the Wallace movement comes from groups that were hardly articulate in 1924. According to the *New Republic*, only recently Wallace’s personal organ, “the support of the New Party comes largely from minority groups and left-wing trade unions.”

The Wallace party hopes to be on the ballot in 40 states. But at the hour of the convention it was officially on the ballot in only ten states and had filed in five others. It probably will be a serious factor in only eight or ten states.

It is hardly safe or useful to guess at the total Wallace vote in the November election. Records of third parties in the past can hardly be trustworthy guidance. Since 1890 the most significant votes for minor candidates were for the Populist Weaver in 1892; for the Socialist Debs in 1912 and 1920; and for Lemke in 1936. The vote given Weaver was about 9 per cent of the total; for Debs, 6 per cent in 1912 and 3 per cent in 1920; and for Lemke, 2 per cent in 1936. This shows a steady decline in the relative vote of these minor candidates.

It is not useful to compare the candidacies of Wallace and T. R. for obvious reasons. But there is some ground for comparing those of Wallace and La Follette. If Wallace gets as large a share of the total vote as La Follette, he will have more than 8,000,000. But Wallace has the odious Communist following, which is a heavy handicap in practically every state. He lacks the solid following in the great Northwest enjoyed by La Follette.

La Follette carried Wisconsin and ran second in eleven states. His big votes were (in this order) in New York, Wisconsin, Illinois, California, Ohio, Minnesota and Pennsylvania. The best estimates now of the Wallace vote in California, New York, Illinois and Washington run at a relative rate of about three-fifths of what La Follette gathered.

Despite the poor record of insurgent parties in the past, the Wallace movement cannot be too heavily discounted. Unless the Republican Party can offer a constructive foreign policy which suggests something beside a mere military threat against Soviet Russia, thousands will be driven to Wallace as a protest. How large that protest will be will depend upon the course of affairs in Europe in the weeks and months ahead.

Newsweek, August 2, 1948