Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've tried my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns and to exclude the advertisement.  There might be minor inaccuracies due to the image quality and layout.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Mercy and the Big Chance

Those who know Frank Murphy
will have no doubt about either his sincerity,
his energy or his intelligence as he goes
about the job of bracing the Federal courts
and judicial machinery under his jurisdiction.
A shrewd old friend of Murphy's recently
said:  "I've always had faint reservations
about Murphy when he has gone into each
of his successive jobs. But he's always
done better than I expected him to do."

That's a good appraisal of the man. His
record in the Recorders Court, as Mayor
of Detroit, as Governor General of the Philippines
and—with the possible exception of his
handling of the sit-down strikes—as
Governor of Michigan, can be set down as
the history of a thoroughly effective, resolute
and intelligent man.

Heaven knows that there's need for such
a man in the Department of Justice. The
Roosevelt Administration, to date, has
hardly been happy in its appointment of
Federal judges. It's true that three of the
four appointments to the Supreme Court
have been excellent. Many appointments
to the Circuit Courts have been good. But
on the whole the appointments to the District
Courts, thanks, largely, to the indifference
of the Department of Justice, have been
mediocre, and the work of these courts
has suffered. Recent lamentable misbehavior
on the part of some judges hasn't helped
to increase the respect for Federal courts
and Federal justice.

We are assured that the new Attorney
General intends to take things in hand.
But Murphy promises more than better
personnel in the Federal courts. He is also
going to use the great power of the Department
of Justice to attack corruption in various
city machines (see page 15). The fact that
these machines are largely Democratic will
not stay his hand.

This cleanup campaign has political implications
of tremendous importance. Which is not
to suggest for a moment that political
considerations are what motivate Murphy.
He'd fight corruption even if such a fight
destroyed his career. But, fortunately for
him, in this case the battle is apt to do
quite the opposite.

Never in our time have a Frank Murphy
temperament and an opportunity of this
magnitude coincided on the public stage.
Corruption exists even in the better municipal
machines. Some are cesspools. Murphy
has the ammunition for the attack. To be
specific, he has J. Edgar Hoover and his
operatives, many of whom, it should be
noted, are lawyers and accountants, and all
of whom are resourceful investigators. For
years Hoover has claimed that racketeering
cannot be stopped unless the political protectors
of the underworld are smashed. Hoover's
files are bulging with information. Murphy
has quickly recognized it for what it is worth
and is giving Hoover the green light. He
will provide vigorous leadership.

Thomas Dewey's crusade in one borough
of one city has built him into a first-rank
Presidential possibility. Murphy can, with
his opportunities, become a super-Dewey.
A spectacular national drive on municipal
corruption will cut the ground from under
Dewey's chief and, to date, apparently his
only campaign argument. We can pretty
well predict what Dewey would do if nominated.
He would promise a cleanup, a drive on
Democratic urban machines.

Now, both Roosevelt and Farley will find
it difficult to escape blame for the support
they have accepted from these machines.
In 1936 the big city organizations supplied
millions of votes for Roosevelt's majority.
It was dangerous support to take, and Farley
may find his chances grievously hurt by
Murphy's drive.

The Democrats have for five years been
losing farm votes and gaining city votes.
That is why continuing Dewey strength
may leave Murphy able to claim, plausibly,
that he is the only "natural" Democratic
candidate to oppose Dewey. And he may
get both Roosevelt and anti-Roosevelt
Democrats to agree with him.  If all goes
well, Roosevelt might make it clear that he
thought of all this when he appointed
Murphy. But Murphy will be a candidate
on his own account by that time—with much
support from both the New Dealers and the
middle-of-the-roaders who feel he is less
radical than Roosevelt.

Opposition to sin may yet be the only
thing on which the Democrats can agree.


Innocents Abroad

This Administration's appointments of
ambassadors and ministers have never been
anything to write home about, and they
seem to get worse as time goes on. The
President said a good deal two years ago
about old men and their inability to function
under pressure. Yet he's just made Uncle
Dan Roper, well past 70, Minister to Canada,
and he retains in the vitally important
Mexican Embassy Josephus Daniels, aged 77.
Of course, this isn't any way to argue. The
ability of these gentle-

NEWSWEEK, MAY 15, 1939

men to do their jobs isn't related to their
age. And age isn't the objection to Alexander
W. Weddell, 63, recently appointed our
Ambassador to Spain. Mr. Weddell served
for many years in the Consular Service and
then, after a retirement of five years, as
Ambassador to the Argentine. Nothing in
his amiable career hints that he possesses
the qualities required for service in Spain,
these days, as all of the great nations
continue to play their games on the Spanish
chessboard.

The post of Minister to Canada has been
vacant for fifteen months. Mr. Roper himself
would probably be the last person in the
world to believe that he is equipped to represent
us at Ottawa in any more than a ceremonial
capacity during the visit of King George and
Queen Elizabeth. But meanwhile, any comparison
of the ministers we have sent to Canada and
the ministers Canada has sent us cannot be
reassuring.

Nor has our representation in Mexico been
calculated to further our long-time interests.
No one doubts that the nation owes a debt
of gratitude to the gracious gentleman who
is our Ambassador there. But the hard fact
is that the job is so difficult, so complex and
so delicate at the moment, that it calls for
something other than a statesman of the old
school.

The informed and astute Arthur Krock,
writing in The New York Times, comments
as follows about our Ambassador to Paris:
"It is strongly suspected, if not proved, that
he mixes beyond the point of prudence in
the affairs of Europe; gives off too many
bright but dangerous ideas; and, brilliantly
impatient with routine, is often disposed to
skip the department in bringing these and
other things to the President's attention. One
of the department's most important services
(for which the career men qualify in long
years of study and foreign assignment) is to
annotate and comment on the reports and
suggestions of envoys in the field. Too frequent
skipping of the stabilizing link between envoy
and President deprives the Chief Executive of
this invaluable contribution to his knowledge.

"Mr. Bullitt also has impressed some of his
Washington colleagues with qualities of nervousness
and excitement which seem to have taken form
in the sounding of war alarms when fellow diplomats
have found hope in the situation. He is accused of
having made a number of bad predictions."

It is profoundly disturbing to reflect on
this picture. The information sent from Paris
to the White House and the commitments
made in Paris may mean the difference between
war and peace for this country.

All of this suggests a belief in Washington
that the men who represent us abroad need
be little except glorified handshakers or, in
the Bullitt case, romantic news bees. The
Administration could go far toward quieting
war fears that exist in Congress if resolute
moves were made to give us more competent
diplomatic representation.