PERSPECTIVE
WILSON, BULLITT, FREUD
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

At least three long and perceptive reviews have fairly well disposed of the book “Thomas Woodrow Wilson” by Sigmund Freud and William C. Bullitt. Two of these were written by students of Freudianism and one by a fine historian, Barbara Tuchman. Their conclusions are that it is bad history, bad biography, bad psychoanalysis and even bad Freud. My own comment is based on certain personal experiences.

After Bullitt had left a minor position in Versailles and had attacked Wilson in 1919 over an estimate of the stability of the new Russian regime, he drifted about for twelve years. In 1933 he appeared as a Roosevelt supporter and so convinced me of his desire to return to public service that I persuaded the President to give him an appointment as Assistant to the Secretary of State. I have no regret about that, because he served well in the early months of the first New Deal Administration.

My own evaluation of Bullitt in 1939, which Mrs. Tuchman quotes in the “Atlantic Monthly,” was that Bullitt “had a deep and somewhat disturbing strain of romanticism in him. Foreign affairs were, to his imaginative mind, full of lights and shadows, plots and counterplots, villains and a few heroes—a state of mind that seemed to me dangerous, if not constantly subjected to the quieting influence of some controlling authority.”

AN OLD GRUDGE

Apparently much of this book is of Bullitt’s composition. His clumsy use of Freudian jargon gives him a cruel weapon to pay off a 48-year-old grudge. For anyone can be impaled upon the two-pronged fork. If you love, you really hate and if you hate, you are a frustrated lover.

All of Wilson’s career is emasculated. When there are no facts, you are informed of what Wilson entertained in his “unconscious.” My common sense suggests that if Wilson didn’t know, how could Bullitt and Freud know?

Mrs. Tuchman contradicts the Bullitt-Freud claim that Wilson rose on the wings of beautiful but empty rhetoric: “Behind Wilson’s speeches were thought and profound belief and ideas which pierced through to men’s hearts, aroused minds and awakened hopes.” Then she mentions Wilson’s enduring influence, “the devotion, adoration and respect of good men.”

I knew personally some of those good men—Herbert Hoover, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Carter Glass, Newton D. Baker, John N. Garner, Bernard Baruch, Joe Tumulty and many others. They had served under Wilson during his Presidency. Their respect for Wilson’s mind, his ideas and influence was profound and enduring.

A MASSIVE REPUTATION

I add my own experience. I never met Wilson. I saw and heard him only once. But in the period between the ages of 14 and 26 I sought by reading to enlarge my equipment to teach political science and constitutional principles. That was truly a formative time, and no writer except Edmund Burke taught me so much of the essence of my subject as Woodrow Wilson. His “Congressional Government,” written in 1885 as his Ph.D. thesis and contemptuously dismissed by Bullitt, broke new ground in the study of comparative political institutions.

In 1887 Wilson published an article, “The Study of Administration,” which turned students of government for many years to the practical problems of a growing government establishment. His essays on Burke, Gladstone and Bagehot are enduring classics. These were not mere exercises in rhetoric; they were deep, penetrating projections of original thought, of ideas and prophecy. His lectures at Columbia, published as “Constitutional Government in the United States,” and his book “The State” are as fresh today as when they were written. Even if Wilson had never been president of Princeton, or governor, or President, his place among great Americans would have been established.

Bullitt, whose knowledge of constitutional principles and government was sketchy and superficial, misses or deliberately denigrates Wilson’s achievements to fit the Procrustean bed of his amateurish Freudianism. A professor at Oberlin once said to a student who said he did not like Shakespeare: “Young man, you do not judge Shakespeare. Shakespeare judges you.” Both Bullitt and Freud have crashed head-on into a massive reputation.

Newsweek, February 20, 1967