Here's a text version of the provided article, respecting column breaks as much as possible.  I've tried to minimize overlaps, but due to the image quality and column layout some minor inconsistencies might remain.  For perfect accuracy, a higher-resolution scan would be helpful.


TODAY IN AMERICA
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

RELIEF AND INFLATION

A FEW simple economic facts have been accepted by
all fair and unprejudiced observers of the ups and
downs of the business cycle. They are: that runaway
price inflation can be prevented only through the in-
creased production and consumption of goods; that the
essentials of increased production and consumption
are a plentiful supply of money, materials and men;
and that whatever restricts the supply of any one of
these items tends toward disastrous inflation.

Chairman Eccles last week quite properly took the
position that the government has a primary responsi-
bility for the regulation of the amount and cost of
money. Now that recovery has come, it must keep cap-
ital abundant and at the same time balance the budget
and begin retiring the public debt in order to counter-
balance the expansion of private debts. But he says
further that the government has a secondary responsi-
bility. It must intervene with "all the powers at its
command" to deal with those conditions that restrict
the free supply of materials and men (see page 7).

It is natural, then, that Chairman Eccles' statement
should raise the question of whether the Administra-
tion is, in fact, adjusting its policies in relation to men
and materials to conform with its announced policy on
capital. Let us look at two aspects of Administration
policy—its relief and labor policies—and see if we can
discern the elements of a consistent program designed
to prevent inflation.

IN the face of an acute outbreak of strikes, the Ad-
ministration is making no apparent effort to remind
the onward-marching C.I.O. that increased wages and
shorter hours threaten the real interest of the public
and the workers when they limit production and stimu-
late unjustifiable price advances. It gives indication
of no apparent concern over the interruptions of that
continuity of production which alone can make the
profits on which the government's tax receipts are de-
pendent.

At the same time, trustworthy reporters who are not
ignorant of Mr. Hopkins' plans have announced that
he envisions a permanent relief policy which runs coun-
ter to Mr. Eccles' wise credit policies in every partic-
ular. These relief plans grow out of Mr. Hopkins' frank
recognition of the disintegration that has taken place in
the WPA, the decline in the quality of WPA projects
and the growing dissatisfaction with the unstandardized
methods of distributing WPA funds.

Mr. Hopkins looks toward a policy based upon a long-
range program of public works not unlike that which
Mr. Ickes' Public Works Administration has been car-
rying on. This program would discard the "means"
test and hire unemployed men regardless of whether or
not they were "flat broke." Its purpose would appear
to be not so much the employment of any particular
group of men, as the general stimulation of the build-
ing industry and, through it, general industry. Mr.
Hopkins would simultaneously force private industry
to hire men off WPA rolls through legislation shorten-
ing the work week. Such a policy, he allows, would
still leave a number of people unemployable either in


a stepped-up WPA or a stepped-down industry. But
these people might be taken care of by an expansion of
the Social Security program (especially if the pension
age were immediately lowered) and by the localities
(to which the Federal government would contribute on
a matched-money basis).

WHAT would be the effect of such a program?
(1) Scarcities of goods—since laws would shorten
the working week faster than machinery improved our
efficiency and since great public-works projects would
accentuate scarcities of capital goods thus produced.
(2) Increasing scarcity of skilled men.
(3) Retarded employment of the unskilled, who can
go to work no more rapidly than jobs are furnished for
them through the services of the skilled—hence a pos-
sible net decline in employment.
(4) Price inflation caused by restricted production.
(5) The allotment of an ever higher ratio of relief
funds to materials necessary to an elaborate public-
works program.
(6) Continued and more acute budget unbalance.
(7) Monetary inflation.

In brief, Mr. Hopkins' program, by causing a serious
budget unbalance, on the one hand, and by artificially
restricting production, on the other, would churn the
surf of price inflation into a devastating tidal wave. He
would prime the pump at the very moment that Mr.
Eccles, who was himself one of the staunchest advo-
cates of a government policy of borrow-and-spend dur-
ing the depression, cries out that the time has come to
call a halt. And this in the name of the unemployed
who still remain on the rolls of WPA.

Now it is perfectly clear that hundreds of thousands
who have been unemployed for several years can no
longer expect to fit again into enterprises which call
for fast, smooth and skillful performance in a disci-
plined organization. They have slipped behind. The
pace and nature of their work have been too slow and
the cadence of industry is as high as it ever was. Ob-
viously whether in light public work or in no work at
all, the government is likely to have to support a good
many of these people for a good many years to come.

But that does not justify an elaborate program of
public works supporting, out of the public purse, hun-
dreds of thousands of other men capable of securing
private employment. Probably the most useful thing
the WPA, NYA and CCC can do now is to develop vo-
cational training, thus helping to separate from the re-
lief rolls everyone who is in any way capable of taking
up the industrial pace again. Many of us have repeat-
edly emphasized the need for such training.

The relief policy of which Mr. Hopkins is now think-
ing, on the contrary, looks to the reduction rather than
the increase of the supply of skilled workers available
to the nation's rapidly expanding private industry.
It would contribute further to a lagging production
already aggravated by strikes.

To adopt such a policy toward relief and at the same
time to fail to exercise every possible means to red. e
strikes is truly to burn the candle at both ends.

March 27, 1937