Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**Crack-Up?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

On the fifteenth anniversary of its rise
to power, the Democratic party is
returning to the primeval chaos from
which F.D.R. lifted it. Minorities are
not only drifting away; they are splitting up. Minority groupism as a political faith is at the end of its sandy rope. Too many wanted too much from too few.

They were held together by the magic personality of F.D.R. Each could see in the crystal ball the image of his desire. On that March day in 1933, it was bliss to be alive and heaven to be young. Remember the first Inaugural: "We face the arduous days that lie before us in the warm courage of national unity." Over and over, in the years that followed, F.D.R. summoned people to look to the future. Now the future is here with a bang.

Mr. Truman tried to maintain public anticipation by his full employment bill, his medical plan and his recent social manifesto. But anxiety as well as hope has melted away in an enervating boom.

The promises of fifteen years are coming due, and expectant beneficiaries are lining up before the harried cashier in the White House.

And now comes Henry Wallace with still more promises.


The Bronx election is an excellent illustration of Democratic discontent. The significance of the vote there can now be examined in some detail. This was, of course, a special election in a heavily Democratic Congressional district. Of the 58,780 enrolled Democrats, 23,443 voted. But only 12,598 voted for the Democratic candidate. This shows that, while Edward J. Flynn's organization got out a good percentage of its vote, the people who came out voted heavily for the Wallace-backed candidate.

Something also happened in the thin Republican ranks. The enrollment of that party was 8,349. Of these, 2,370 voted. But the Republican candidate received only 1,482 votes. The rest went somewhere else—some undoubtedly to the Democrat in the hope of beating the Wallace man; some to the Wallace man himself.

Isacson, the Wallace man, was an American Labor Party candidate. The enrollment of that party was 16,074. Of these, 9,935 voted. But Isacson received 22,697 votes. Thus, he was elected largely by Democratic voters, with some Republican help.

The Liberal party, a chip off the ALP block, had 7,045 enrolled voters. Of these, 3,323 voted, and the Liberal candidate received 3,840 votes. This group stuck to its candidate.

What are the inferences?

In the first place, these figures show that Democratic Chairman McGrath's excuse—that the result was due to a light vote—was pure bunk. The average New York City vote in special elections over a period of fifteen years has been 25 per cent. In this election, 44 per cent of the voters turned out.

Charges that the Flynn machine fell down are disproved by the fact that it turned out enough votes to win. But half the voters it got to the polls bolted the candidate. A machine can lead the horse to water. Something else must induce it to drink.

The vote was not an unusual tour de force for the Communists. They worked hard, but they got out more votes in another Congressional district for Earl Browder in 1940 and for another ALP candidate in 1946.

The Palestine issue was important. Vicious and false charges were whispered about the Democratic candidate, including the howler that his wife is an Arab. But these canards were but symptoms. The fact is that the Jewish voters in large numbers feel that the Roosevelt-Truman promises were greater than their fulfillment. And now, voting for Wallace is the means of protest.


Another conclusion is vastly more important in estimating the results in November. Truman simply does not have what it takes to bring masses of city voters enthusiastically, almost fanatically, to vote Democratic. The vast majorities in the big Northern cities were not voting Democratic in the past fifteen years. They were voting Roosevelt. If Truman is to win in November, he must do more than carry these cities. He must get something like the massive Roosevelt vote.

Newsweek, March 8, 1948