Here's the text from the provided image, respecting the column structure and omitting the advertisement:

PERSPECTIVE
TWO GREAT FLORENTINES-II
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Florence—To anyone concerned
with the course of politics and
political thinking, the two monuments
memorializing Dante and
Machiavelli in the church of Santa
Croce mark a vast transition in values,
methods, and objectives. Dante was
born 700 years ago this month, and
Machiavelli followed 204 years later.
There are superficial likenesses in
their careers. Both were active for a
number of years in the politics and
government of Florence. Both left
lasting contributions to political philosophy. Both were exiled because of
their political associations. When
Dante’s party fell from power, he was
banished and was told that if ever he
reappeared in Florence he would
be burned. He never returned.
Machiavelli fell from office and
favor when the Medici regained
power in 1512. After he was briefly
tortured, he retired to his small farm
near Florence long enough to write
his famous “Prince” and “Discourses.”
Later he returned, without regaining
office, and did his potboiling “History
of Florence.” His play, “Mandragola,”
which satirized Florentine society,
was an immense success. This comedy
was called by John Addington Symonds, “the ripest and most powerful
play in the Italian language.”
Both Dante and Machiavelli drew
heavily upon the life and literature of
ancient Rome, but the lessons which
they learned from the classics were
widely divergent.

ACCENT ON PUNISHMENT
Here all parallels cease. For Dante
reflected a world which had vanished
before Machiavelli was born. Dante’s
great works, his prose treatise “De
Monarchia” and the “Divine Comedy,” were summations of medieval
thought, aspirations, and methods.
What Machiavelli tells us comes un-
comfortably close to the civilization in
which we live. He was less concerned with ultimate political power
than with the means by which political
authority should be exercised.
Dante dreamed of peace through
world empire. Machiavelli scoffed at
the concept of world dominion. He
would settle for a united Italy. He
sought peace only through military
security. He was not anti-religious,
for he was born and died in the
church. But he sensed the decline of
the papacy as a temporal power in
and after the Renaissance.
His hard, practical mind would
have regarded, if he did not so regard, the “Divine Comedy”—with its
geometrical, astronomical arrangement of the Inferno, Purgatorio, and
Paradiso—as mystical hocus pocus.
He would, no doubt, have shared
the conviction of many believers today, that Dante’s assignment of individuals by name to these various
realms of punishment and bliss was
an incredible presumption. For it is
God, and no mundane poet, who will
make final judgments.

PROPHET OF MODERN AGE
Dante’s emphasis upon punishment
belongs to the later Middle Ages.
Henry Adams points out that before
1200 religious art and architecture
were concerned much less with terrible punishments. But later “the despair of the damned was the evident
joy of the artist.”
Machiavelli, the prophet of the
modern age, was concerned with how
secular authority should be organized. “The Prince” was less an affirmation of what its author believed
to be desirable than a reflection of
what he knew about how power in
his day was won and held. He was
condemned not for what he was, but
for what he saw.
His “Discourses on Livy” was a
consideration of how the Roman Republic was governed before the
Caesars betrayed its institutions.
Throughout the “Discourses” there
are hints, even specifications, which
resemble the constitutional system
created in England and America.
Machiavelli stresses republican government with the strength and virtue
of the citizens, restraints upon the
authority of those who govern, and
a citizen soldiery.
Machiavelli was a loyal Florentine
and an incorruptible public servant
amid the corruptions of his time.
Perhaps the bad press which Machiavelli has had for so long is due
to the accuracy with which he portrayed politics, even unto our own
time. Like Frederick the Great, the
politicians shield their own methods
by condemning the man who so accurately described them.

Newsweek, May 31, 1965