Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

Rockefeller's Candidacy

by Raymond Moley

GOV. NELSON ROCKEFELLER'S quest
for the 1964 nomination faces
grim and seemingly unsurmountable
odds. He is quite aware of this. But
he seems to misunderstand the reasons. This bleak outlook is not entirely due to his personal domestic affairs. But the publicity which those matters received had the effect of inviting a closer scrutiny of his political policies.

Since his quest began five years ago, Rockefeller has been naïve enough to believe that with the inclination, a well-known name, and money enough to employ a large staff of researchers and writers he could win the Presidency. His staff is heavily laden with theorists, "modern economists," foreign-policy "experts," and rhetoricians. For such academic tasks these people are extravagantly paid. But with two or three exceptions they have had little contact with or sympathy for Republicans over the nation. Some are quite sympathetic with the policies of the New Frontier. Rockefeller has needed not more but fewer guides.

As is the case with the members of any such group, there are many differences of opinion. For that reason, the policy papers and material which they provide for their chief are blurred by compromise and fancy double-talk. They are a synthetic product which imposes upon Rockefeller himself the stamp of a synthetic statesman.

VIEW FROM METROPOLIS

But in one respect the Rockefeller advisers have a likeness one to the other. All are oriented to the special concerns of New York and the international banking, commercial, and cultural outlook of the metropolis. To such a group the rest of the country seems benighted and reactionary.

But the people west of the Statue of Liberty have their pride and also their memories of what happened to Wendell Willkie and Thomas E. Dewey, who were likewise oriented. And so Rockefeller has failed to project himself over the nation as one who has strong and clear convictions in opposition to those of the Kennedy Administration and the dominant part of the Democratic Party. This Rockefeller weakness has revealed itself in New York State. For in 1958, running against a Democratic incumbent who had plenty of campaign money and the strength of four years of patronage and publicity, Rockefeller's majority was 573,000. In 1962, after he had enjoyed the advantage of four years of patronage and publicity as well as money, he defeated with a majority of 529,000 the weakest and most colorless Democratic candidate for governor in a generation. Such a decline in strength of an incumbent New York governor has been rare. In 1930 Franklin D. Roosevelt won reelection by 30 times the majority he received in 1928.

ISSUES AND CONGRESS

In Rockefeller's forays into the Middle West and West he has been greeted by the apathy of Republican leaders in the states. But no Republican can win in 1964 without their virile and enthusiastic support.

The policy-shaping and most active sector of the Republican Party is in the Congressional minority, especially in the House. Rockefeller has sought to maintain a sort of contact there. But members say that it has not been an impressive performance. There is the precedent of Thomas E. Dewey's failure in 1948 to recognize and capitalize on the fine record of the Republican 80th Congress. Thus, he left that Congressional majority naked to the merciless attack of Harry S. Truman. Republican members of Congress in 1964 will be fighting on their record in their districts and states for their political lives. They will know far more than Rockefeller about the issues which have been fought against the Kennedy Administration and its supporters in Congress. Without more than their nominal support, Rockefeller would run far behind his party.

On the issues which Mr. Kennedy has proposed to Congress, Rockefeller's position is in many respects quite similar to that of the President. For the most part, he favors those policies but says he could administer them better. But millions of Americans of both parties want a clear choice in 1964. Up to now, Rockefeller has not offered that sort of alternative.

Newsweek, October 14, 1963