Here's a text version of the article, attempting to preserve the original column structure:


**Recapping the World**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

MONTREAL—The great interest of
Canadian people in the Truman Doctrine is due to something much more
vital than propinquity. It rises from
basic similarities in our economic systems. In the great epochs in which
civilizations rise and decline, Canada
and the United States are in the same
general span. They are capitalist, or, if
you will, individual-enterprise nations in which the stigmata of decline
have not yet appeared.

Over the past two centuries they have received the
same financial and technological nourishment from
Europe, particularly from
England. Capital from the
mother country contributed
heavily toward the building
of both nations' railroads
which, in turn, opened up
the West to agricultural and
industrial production. The two nations
grew much faster than would have
been possible without that capital. Our
own austere independence would have
had to have been much more productive, and our achievement would have
been slower, if pools of capital had
not been available from abroad.

Now both the United States and
Canada are to reverse the flow and extend capital to nations to which we
owe no such obligation. We are not
doing this for benevolent reasons alone.
Nor are we doing it entirely for political and military reasons, although those
aspects have monopolized public discussion of the new adventure. The
deep economic consequences of the
Truman Doctrine will, in the long
stretch, be of most interest to history.
England, Germany, France, Italy,
Greece, Turkey, Korea, China and so
on are either badly damaged or worn-out capitalistic economies or they are,
in such instances as Turkey, countries
where there has been no true capitalistic economy. To restore productive
capitalism in badly damaged countries
would probably take more discipline
and self-denial than their people would
endure. That is our reason for offering
help from the outside. That help must
come mainly from North America. And
that help will be not only in money loans, but in goods which no one else is
equipped to make.

This is what I call the "recapping" or "recapitalizing" process. Whether
the users of the new tools are capitalists, Socialists or Communists, the net
effect will be the same. The new tools
will chiefly be in the hands of individuals, corporations or the state. But
since the system we are seeking to restore requires the incentives of profits,
a free social and political system is
essential to the grand plan. By providing tools, supplies and working capital,
North America will bolster greatly enfeebled systems of democratic choice
and build up resistance to
the seductions and desperation of Communism.

Arnold Toynbee in "A
Study of History" correctly
points out that our Western
system of industrialism,
"which means local specialization in skilled and costly
production for a worldwide
market, demands the establishment of some kind of
world order as its framework." That world order for nearly two
centuries was the British Empire. The
future world order will be this process
of aid from the West, working toward,
we hope, a vital UN.

The Communist alternative must, to
any intelligent mind in the non-Russian
world be exceedingly doubtful. While
capitalism requires a world order, it is
not yet certain that Communism can
adapt itself to an international order.
That has not been proved, while capitalism has its record to show. No
money is likely to come from Communist production. Soviet Russia is too
badly damaged to provide it, of course.
But it is doubtful if the U.S.S.R. could
have provided it, had it remained outside the orbit of war. Nor is it likely
that the Socialist economy envisaged
by many Englishmen or Frenchmen
could provide world capital. It is for
that reason that Marxism is essentially
reactionary, and its realization in some
countries is a step backward in world
affairs.

But the great unknown in our
venture is the hard fact that the recapitalization of the world must come from
the earnings of capitalist production.
That means we must produce more
and more or we shall defeat the world's
expectations. And that consideration is
what is behind the appeal for more
work and more goods which was recently made by Bernard Baruch. In
the face of our great adventure, we
must work harder or we shall all likewise perish. No atom bomb can protect
a Castle of Indolence.