Perspective

Ordeal of New Orleans

by Raymond Moley

SINCE my return to New York after
three days in New Orleans dur-
ing the disturbances there two weeks
ago, the question I have encountered
over and over has been: "Did you
see the riots?"

This piece answers that question
and offers observations on the injus-
tice done the city by these incidents.
No, I did not see the disturbances,
and very few people in New Orleans
did. The trouble was limited to two
small areas in a very large city. Those
who did see the "riots" said that
the disturbers were an accumulation,
mostly kids out of school, a few mis-
guided parents, and an occasional
idle hoodlum.

Life in the city continued its busy
way as usual. The people with whom
I talked regretted the excessive pub-
licity given to the trouble in the East-
ern and Northern press and on radio
and television. Perhaps the fact that
the integration order was fixed for a
few days after election had the effect
of requiring some sort of news to fill
the vacuum created by the absence
of political news.

The responsible citizens of New Or-
leans are proud people-proud of the
achievements of their city and its en-
virons during the past few years. They
feel that widespread publicizing of
these incidents will impair the city's
well-earned reputation as a fine
place to live and work and for the
location of trade and industry.

CLEAN GOVERNMENT

Those, like this writer, who have
visited the city from time to time dur-
ing the years since the end of the war
have been greatly impressed by its
remarkable achievements.

Since the first election of Mayor
deLesseps S. Morrison in 1946, New
Orleans has had competent and clean
government. This followed many
years of corruption, neglect, and ma-
lign interference in city affairs by the
Long machine which dominated the
state of Louisiana.

In this environment of good gov-
ernment, business and civic leaders
labored hard to realize the city's po-
tential as an internationally important
seaport and a major trade and indus-
trial center. Its location on the Gulf
together with its position at the lower
end of the vast Mississippi Valley
made it a great outlet for trade with
Latin America. One of the great im-
provements has been the building of
a tidewater channel substantially by-
passing the river meandering through
the delta. Along that channel are sites
for many kinds of industry.

To promote foreign trade, the In-
ternational House and the Interna-
tional Trade Mart were built. As a step
further to accommodate new industry
and more population, there is an area
of 30,000 acres to the east of the main
part of the city which will become a
city in itself. A new civic center has
taken the place of slum land near the
heart of the city, with a new city hall,
a library, and other public buildings.
Street improvements have been built,
as good as the best and better than
most of those of the great cities of the
nation. There is a magnificent airport
built within the past year.

VICTIMIZED CITY

In the national struggle over in-
tegration, New Orleans was caught as
a more or less innocent victim. The
state administration and legislature
are committed to resistance to a
greater degree perhaps than in any
other state. From day to day recently,
legal actions by the Federal and state
governments crisscrossed. It was diffi-
cult to say at any moment who was
out or in office and who was sub-
jected to what injunction.

The mayor and the school board
had one interlocking responsibility:
To prevent violence and to keep the
schools open. The police behaved
with commendable firmness and re-
straint. The school board's financial
problems were and are critical be-
cause of the actions of the state. The
tiny tokens of integration, four Negro
children, were escorted to the schools
by United States marshals.

Meanwhile, the responsible civic
and business leaders of the city, meet-
ing in the office of the mayor, were
united in commending the mayor and
the police. Whatever may be the
judgment over the nation about the
respective general rights of the two
sides in the great issue of integration,
New Orleans deserves high marks for
calm efficiency in a situation threat-
ened by real perils.

Newsweek, December 5, 1960