Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

The Subsidy Narcotic

by Raymond Moley

THE President's omnibus essay on
transportation is so comprehensive
that it is incomprehensible unless we
choose one phase for examination and
comment. My selection is "Urban
Transportation. The President's "solu-
tion" would be the same old narcotic,
a Federal subsidy-in this case half
a billion dollars, with hundreds of mil-
lions more to come.

This concept of curing all ills by
subsidies brings to mind the oldest in
written history, alms to the street beg-
gar. The rule is that the number of
panhandlers increases in direct pro-
portion to the number of soft touches.
The narcotic not only intensifies the
impulse to beg, but it brings more
people into the business of begging.
The proposed subsidies for urban
transportation cannot be separated
from government subsidies for hous-
ing. Indeed, much of the problem of
urban transportation has been created
by subsidized housing and urban re-
newal. There is more wisdom in the
introduction to Jane Jacobs' fine book,
"The Death and Life of Great Ameri-
can Cities," than in all the researches
of the bureaucrats who prepared the
President's plan. She says:
"There is a wistful myth that if we
had enough money to spend-the fig-
ure is usually put at one hundred bil-
lion dollars-we could wipe out slums
in ten years, reverse decay in the
great, dull, gray belts that were yes-
terday's and day-before-yesterday's
suburbs, anchor the wandering middle
class and its wandering tax money,
and perhaps solve the traffic problem."

DEATH OF CITIES

But, as she points out and proves,
our first several billions have not re-
created our cities. They have gone a
great way to destroy whatever indi-
viduality they once possessed. Low-
income projects have become the
disjointed centers of displaced frag-
ments of what were once neigh-
borhoods, ridden with delinquency,
vandalism, and confusion. By 1975
they will be new slums, only big-
ger. Middle-income housing is a mar-
vel of dullness and regimentation.
There are "cultural centers" which
cannot support a good bookstore.
Civic centers which are avoided by
everyone but bums and those who


have unpleasant business with the
government. "Promenades that go
from no place to nowhere and have
no promenaders." Small businesses are
uprooted. Old communities with
strong ties among the residents are
scattered to the four winds. And those
who live in these "Experiments in
Democracy" wear a price tag which
creates new classes.

Cities exist, Miss Jacobs points out,
because the concentration of business
and recreational services in one local-
ity provides shoppers a wide option
of choice and other satisfactions of
gregarious instincts. But since there
must be access, facilities of mass trans-
portation were created. Then came
swarms of automobiles, wholly ridicu-
lous ways of carrying people, because
200 or 300 pounds of human flesh re-
quire 2 or more tons of steel. There
must be super-freeways and vast
areas for parking, tearing away the
cities they were designed to serve.
And so the cities vanish under the
impact of their means of service.

THE URBAN SPRAWL

With the outpouring of government
money to build housing and transport,
vast speculation enters the picture.
Among the blocks of business build-
ings and apartment houses appear
gaping holes of land held out for
higher prices. In the surrounding
areas there are abandoned farm lands
held by speculators in the midst of
widely scattered housing and indus-
trial developments. The result is a
vast sprawl, not a community.

There is plenty of money in urban
communities to create contiguous,
functional, and beautiful metropolitan
areas. But most cities are the victims
of governments intent upon snaring
votes by the lure of "free" money.
Cities are also under restrictions in
taxation, assessment practices, and
debt limitations imposed long ago by
the states. The results are tax and
assessment policies which invite spec-
ulation and mass transportation fares
politically restricted below the capac-
ity to maintain good service.

Then these official panhandlers, be-
cause they will not or cannot tax them-
selves, run to Washington and now
find soft touches in Congress and in the
White House.

Newsweek, April 23, 1962