Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


NEWSWEEK, AUGUST 12, 1946

Perspective
U. S. Patent Office

Wisconsin, Minnesota and Montana
by RAYMOND MOLEY

SPOKANE—This is written after
an automobile journey between Chicago and Spokane. Trends in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Montana have significance in this first year of after-war politics.

In Wisconsin major interest is in Robert M. La Follette Jr.'s campaign for another term in the Senate. He is opposed in the Aug. 13 primary by Judge Joseph McCarthy, who is endorsed by what is known as Tom Coleman's regular Republican organization. McCarthy has a war record in the Marines. He tried for the Senate before against Alexander Wiley and lost. There is nothing spectacular about him or his campaign.

La Follette has a potent name, a positive record of his own and what remains of his Progressive party organization. His stature is increased by the final passage of his Congressional reorganization bill. La Follette's tendency to isolationism before the war is being used against him, but at the moment not effectively. His only danger will be the political apathy of the voters now busy with colossal crops and the tendency of voters this year to tire of old names. It would be hard, however, for an impartial person to wish for La Follette's defeat. The Senate has no expendable surplus of experience, great integrity and constructive statesmanship. La Follette has all these qualities.

While the La Follettes have returned to the Republican party, the Coleman organization is still opposing them. If the La Follettes win they will probably become the regular Republican organization themselves.

For the Wisconsin governorship on the Republican side there are three candidates: the ancient Governor Goodland, hungering at 84 for another term; Delbert Kenny, who is Coleman's choice and a virile ex-Progressive; and a former brigadier general in the service forces, Ralph M. Immell. The Republican ticket will probably be elected in November.

In Minnesota Harold Stassen stands high. His people are confident of sweeping the state with a Stassen-supported ticket. And their assurance seems justified. They have an excellent chance of sweeping away one and maybe two of the remaining Democratic congressmen. Stassen personally will support over the nation about 30 sitting Republican congressmen and about the same number of candidates against sitting Democratic congressmen. He avoids opposition in his party by this method and stands to gain strong friends and supporters in the new Congress. If he helps to win most of these fights his importance as a national figure will be enhanced. Stassen is not announcing the list of candidates he is supporting, but their identity will be revealed as the campaign progresses.

Montana people attribute the defeat of Senator Wheeler more to the weakness of his campaign than to the strength of his opponent, Leif Erikson, who was badly beaten two years ago in a try for the governorship. Wheeler's isolationism was only one factor in the campaign. He was, however, bitterly attacked because his opposition to the Roosevelt Administration prevented Montana from getting more war industry. His supporters were overconfident. The CIO and Senator Murray and a part of the railway unions fought hard against him. The intervention of President Truman seems to have made no impression. James Roosevelt's opposition didn't hurt much. Another factor was the voting in the Democratic primary of many Republicans. Montana has the same loose primary system as does Wisconsin.

The Republicans have a good candidate for senator, Zales Ecton, and he has an excellent chance of winning. Eastern Montana is Republican, and the present congressman, Wesley D'Ewart, will probably win. Opposed to the Western Montana Democrat, Michael Mansfield, is a war hero, Barney Rankin, who may win.

Over all it seems as if Republicans in these three states are in the ascendency. They will hold the governorships, probably gain a senator-ship and two or three congressmen. Crops are unprecedented and employment is high. When that happens these states are generally Republican.

Next week I shall have something to say of the Pacific States—Washington, Oregon and California.