Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Death Sentence for State Government

by RAYMOND MOLEY

SANTA BARBARA—A clear piece of
evidence that the Truman Fair
Deal is a far-reaching advance on the
earlier series of reforms of the Roosevelt
New Deal is in the proposal for a
Columbia Valley Administration. This
is a more autocratic setup than the
Tennessee Valley Authority, and its
scope is several times as large. The full
text of Senate Bill 1646 should be read
by those who would like to
comprehend the extent to
which the welfare state
threatens our institutions. It
is only possible in this space
to hit the highlights.

Practically every Administration
stalwart in the Senate appears as a cosponsor of
the bill, which is being actively
pressed by President
Truman’s Interior Department.
It applies not only to the immense
Columbia watershed, but to
everything else in Washington and
Oregon except the basins of the Klamath
River and Goose Lake.

The proposal would set up a monopolistic
government corporation, well
protected from the reach of the governments
of the four states of Washington,
Oregon, Montana, and Idaho
and, it should be added, practically
independent of Congress. It specifies
three directors with six-year tenure
who would be utterly free of local
control and who could only with great
difficulty be removed by a new President.
The appointments of their subordinates
are specifically exempted from
the Federal Civil Service. The magnitude
of the Administration would ultimately
bring a vast horde of employees
to the region, with full voting rights
and under the control of the directors.

Since the Columbia Valley is dependent on
water and its uses for
power, irrigation, navigation, and the
maintenance of lumbering and wild
life, the autocracy of the CVA would
mean power of life or death for every
economic, political, and financial activity.
Through plenary governmental
powers the CVA could and would become
the owner of vast property and
would be free to develop, distribute,
lease, and dispose of that property
without let or hindrance. It could at
will rearrange highways, railways,
bridges, mills, and electric-light plants, publicly or privately owned. It would
make and distribute electric power
and water without control by state or
local regulation.

Since its huge properties would be
removed from the reach of the taxing
authorities of the state and local governments,
those agencies, thus impoverished,
would become mendicants
dependent upon the CVA. In lieu of
taxes, that administration
would be authorized to dole
out payments to such state
and local units of government.
It would have such
great discretion in such doles
that it is hard to see how
state and local governments
would retain a shred of independence.
So that there
could be no nonsense in the
courts, the bill specifically
says that “the determination by the
[CVA] of the necessity of making any
payments and of the amounts thereof
shall be final.”

The CVA would determine the size
of farm units that should be benefited
by vital irrigation or flood protection.
It would give or sell newly
reclaimed land in such units as it might
determine as “economic.” We would
have to go back some hundreds of
years to find a parallel to such serfdom.

The CVA could operate with unlimited
funds a wide variety of businesses
exempt from the restraints that
states have set up for the control of
competition.

The CVA would start with a fund in
the Treasury of the United States, appropriated
without strings by Congress,
and it could dip into that fund practically
at its own discretion. But after
a while it would be receiving huge
sums from its own operations. It could
literally play with hundreds of millions
of dollars. And it could make its
profitable power and irrigation business
pay for almost any activity that
might occur to the directors.

In the battle to come, the opponents
of this plan will be smeared as tools of
the power interests. The erstwhile important
power interests have been left
far behind in this drive for statism. It
is not only private enterprise that is
proscribed in the Columbia Valley Administration.
It is the public’s control
of its own government.

Newsweek, August 15, 1949