Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and column layout.  Some minor errors might remain.


**The Shackles of Victory**

by Raymond Moley

A CONQUERING general who turned
statesman, the Duke of Wellington,
once said that "nothing except a
battle won can be half so melancholy
as a battle won." Another victorious
general turned statesman, Dwight D.
Eisenhower, is probably thinking
something exactly like that. For this
warrior who hurled armies across Europe
is beating futile blows against the
rubber wall of bureaucracy.

His words go round
the world; the press heark-
ens to his conferences; he
greets distinguished visitors,
speaks at party gatherings,
directs foreign affairs, appoints
committees to look
into this or that, and is privileged
to enjoy all the superficial
perquisites pertaining
to his splendiferous office.

But he cannot as of this date administer
his government, because he
lacks the very vitals of control. He can
and has appointed a group of what
are technically called top policymakers.
But they, too, are finding
that while they may have "policies,"
somebody else has the "makings."

They, like the President, are
Gullivers bound down by Lilliputians,
without whom they can know nothing
and do nothing, but because of whom
they cannot effectively carry out the
policies and promises of their party.

Picture, if you will, a present-day
Cabinet officer moving into his job
after all the joyous business of the
congratulations of friends, the glad
messages of well-wishers and job
wanters, the bestowing of approval
by senators, and the photographed
oath of office at the White House.
He moves into the great paneled
chamber called his office. (New Dealers,
who professed undying devotion
to the ill housed back in the '30s,
built elegantly for themselves.) He
has taken with him from his job in
private life a personal secretary who
must immediately learn from the civil-
service stenographers the basic elements
of routine. With the new boss
there has possibly been appointed an
Under Secretary and one or two Assistant
Secretaries. Possibly there is a
new departmental solicitor and a new
bureau head or two.

This makes up a tiny group of
uninformed men and women lost on
the summit of a mountainous bureaucracy.
Every hour they must turn to
someone who knows the facts and
figures. And the someones are people
who for the most part got their original
jobs or their promotions because they
were sympathetic with the "objectives"
of the New and Fair Deals.
That is, they are generally committed
intellectually, emotionally, and morally
to the policies which
the voters rejected in November
and which President
Eisenhower and his
top officials have promised
to change. To call these people
"career" civil servants
is merely to stress the length
of their past service and
their desire to keep their
jobs. This is not to say that
they are lacking in integrity
or a sincere desire to fit into a new
regime. But it is naïve to expect success
of an Administration that must
work through people with such antecedents
and sympathies.

A few statistics will illuminate the
reason for the frustration of the President
and, incidentally, the bitter lamentation
of loyal Republican Party
workers everywhere. For the success
of this Administration must depend
not only on the wisdom of its policies,
but on the building of party strength
by a wise disposition of patronage.

Mrs. Hobby presides over some
30,000-odd employees, but has only
sixteen available job openings. Mr.
Weeks is boss of 55,000, but can
provide 4,000 jobs, mostly casual and
part time. Post Office, which used to
be the best source of patronage, has
535,000 employees, but there are only
22 immediate openings and some
2,000 "acting" postmasters. In Agriculture,
there are 55,500 employees and
less than 500 can be replaced. Moreover,
this Administration is pledged to
economies, and some of these few remaining
crumbs may be swept away.

UNLESS this is remedied, we may
expect the recent Democratic
candidate to reach into his spacious
treasury of the classics and produce
these lines from Vergil:
"O vanquisher, whosoever thou art,
not long shall thou exult, nor shall
I be unavenged."

Newsweek, May 18, 1953