Here's the text from the provided image, extracted and formatted to avoid overlapping columns:


**Hyphenated Votes**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

On one or two occasions I have, in this column, referred to the repercussions among American voters of disputes over boundaries and the like in Eastern Europe. Such references resulted from a feeling, which I have had for a long time, that as postwar settlements are approached, there will be those who will seek political advantage from hyphenated votes in American cities. Since the Moscow Declaration, there has been evidence that such advantage is sought and will be sought. Hence, it seems to me an appropriate time to drag this thing out into the open and see it for what it is.

The United States, alone among the United Nations, has what T. R. used to call a "hyphenated vote." Many of our great cities have several big clusters of voters whose common national origins make them most sensitive to the attitude of our government toward their home lands. None of us can be too smug about this, because over the years we all—English, Irish, French, German and Scandinavian—have at times voted for or against candidates in American elections for reasons that had nothing legitimately to do with American affairs.

But the issue now is very special and very critical. Our big ally, Russia, has no appreciable hyphenated vote in the United States. There is the little Communist party, but so far as numbers go, it doesn't count. That is why it is always politically safe to kick Russia. But on the other hand, hundreds of thousands of former nationals of the small nations of Eastern Europe, from the Baltic to the Adriatic, are voters in American cities. In several cities of a quarter of a million or more, these groups can easily swing the balance between the parties. In the years from 1914 to 1920, such groups were swept by every wind of politics, and national as well as local leaders stooped to every contemptible device to truckle to their prejudices. That should not recur.

Great apprehension exists now, as then, in the home lands of these voters about the intentions of Russia. So, as voters, they are a veritable tinderbox into which American politicians may, by inadvertence or design, toss sparks of suggestion. This situation, I repeat, is critical and dangerous.

The best treatment for it is forbearance—forbearance by Republicans and Democrats alike. But especially this applies to Republicans, for they stand to gain most votes by any attack upon the Moscow Declaration. The time is not ripe to thrash out the rights-of-small-nations issue. The less said by politicians about the thing now and in 1944, the better. The Moscow agreement wisely permits a period of conditional peace, during which boundary questions, proposed federations, the recognition of governments in small states, and similar issues can be resolved. What we need now is a stabilized Europe. Only the three great powers can guarantee that. There must be force until justice is ready.

To introduce the small-nations issue into the 1944 campaign would be to contribute to disunity at home, suspicion among the big allies, and, possibly, civil war in Europe. This isn't to say that foreign policy should be ruled out of the campaign or that the parties should adopt identical foreign-policy platforms. A satisfactory formula for party leaders in their discussion of foreign affairs during the forthcoming months might be to take the Moscow Declaration, the Mackinac declaration, and the Connally resolution as a basis for principles of both parties. Then Republicans can take the position that the development of the details within that framework is a proper subject for party discussion. They need not endorse anything beyond the broad principles involved. Beyond this, both Republican and Democratic politicians may well avoid seeking votes on the basis of their championship of small nations until the peace negotiations are sufficiently advanced to make such discussion pertinent and helpful. To discuss that subject now is to excite fears and to arouse emotions about matters of pure speculation. For no one knows what Russia will ultimately ask.

To declare such a truce would leave plenty to discuss in the field of foreign relations.

Our political leaders can perform an additional service. They can take up the fight against hyphenated voting where T. R. left it twenty-five years ago. They would do well to remind Americans everywhere that the United States is a nation, not a federation of nostalgic émigrés.