Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:


**Golden State Politics**

by Raymond Moley

LOS ANGELES—It isn't just the great
number of people moving in that
makes the California of 1953 so re-
markable. It is the distinct alteration
in the character of the thinking and
outlook in the state—a change which
finds marked expression in politics.

This state was once known over the
nation as a haven for retired elders
and ambitious youngsters. Among
those who came, some
brought large means and
others only large needs. Out
of the latter came fantastic
political schemes for getting
something for nothing—
schemes which were not
only an embarrassment to
the great solid majority of
Californians but an item of
bad publicity for the state.

Here in Los Angeles, color
was also added by the motion-picture
industry which, despite touches of
doubtful glamour, is a useful industry
that has contributed a great deal to
the culture of the nation.

But basically California has always
had a solid backbone of intelligent and
imaginative people and the natural
resources and advantages to become
one of the two or three leading states
in the nation. The people who have
come here recently have brought that
goal nearer and nearer. Those people,
in great part, have come here not just
to retire or to find an easy life, but to
work, to own homes, to educate their
children in the state's excellent
schools, and to save money. The older
eccentricities have been submerged
and all but forgotten.

California's position among the
states has distinctly changed. It can no
longer be counted among those states
into which the taxpayers of other re-
gions must pour money through Federal
government. It has become a
sustaining rather than a sustained
state. In the present fiscal year, Cali-
fornia will rank second among the
states in tax money paid to the Federal
government, with an estimated
total of $6,225,000,000.

All this adds up to a greater conservatism in politics. California members of Congress are more and more aligning themselves with those favoring economy. The state has contributed to the Washington scene two of the leaders in the present Republican regime, Vice President Nixon and Senate Majority Leader Knowland.  Both of these are to the right of center. The new senator, Thomas Kuchel, was formerly state comptroller and is a public official who has a keen sense of the value of a dollar. He is likely to be found aligning himself with economizers like Senator Byrd.

The California delegation in the
House of Representatives is
an attractive lot. They are
younger than the average
there. Eleven of the 30 are
serving first terms.

Despite a heavy Democratic
registration and a
tendency in the past to vote
that way, the state since the
war has been veering toward
the Republican Party.
Nineteen of the House
members are of that party. While the
state, since the advent of nonpartisan-
ship 40 years ago, has had rather
shadowy political parties, a strong Republican organization is now growing up. The Democrats, out of power and lacking patronage, are divided and lacking in leadership.

The decision of Governor Warren
to relinquish the governorship he has
held so long greatly improves the
chances of the Republicans to carry
the state next year, because it forestalls a contest with Lt. Gov. Goodwin Knight, who is already actively seeking the governorship. Knight is a popular, well-known figure and an indefatigable campaigner. If, as is probable, Warren resigns to take a high Federal post, Knight will have the advantage of holding the governorship in the 1954 campaign. Senator Kuchel, who will run for the unexpired term, is not so well known, but he will have strong support.


SEVERAL of the Republican House
members were elected by small
margins and will have to work seriously to be re-elected. One of them, Ernest K. Bramblett, is in dire trouble, but an attractive substitute could be found in Mayor John T. Rickard of Santa Barbara. The Republican Congressional slate can count on every possible aid from the Eisenhower Administration. For upon its success may well hinge the control of the next House of Representatives.

Newsweek, September 14, 1953