Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:


**The Irrepressible Taft-Dewey Conflict**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CLEVELAND—A cloud no bigger than Tom Dewey's hand floats in the ruddy Republican sky of Ohio. As this portent expands, it is likely to bring into closer contact Ohio's two distinguished sons and senators, Bricker and Taft. Their common interest may not be apparent for some time, although rumors came thick and fast over the holidays. But it must be clear to both Ohio senators that divided they merely contribute to the chances of a Dewey runaway.

Taft and Bricker have been in contact several times. Their relationship can best be described by piecing together several factors. In 1940 and 1944, they observed an agreement to support each other. Bricker was for Taft in 1940; Taft for Bricker in 1944. This arrangement was not a permanent Alphonse-Gaston act, and circumstances have altered things. Taft is all but an avowed candidate. He talks like a candidate. He says that he and Bricker will discuss the Ohio situation after Congress meets. But he adds that the job before him and his party in Congress precludes consideration of personal ambitions now. After the adjournment of Congress, Presidential candidates can be taken up, he says.

Bricker's public position is that he can scarcely announce a withdrawal from a candidacy he has not avowed. He has made no effort to promote his candidacy. Even in 1944, his pursuit of the nomination was organized at a late date. He enjoys the prospect of long service in the Senate, with an opportunity to give proper thought to his private affairs. To go after delegates is an expensive job, and it certainly disturbs a man's attention to his task in the Senate. It is likely, therefore, that Bricker will give Taft a free hand to get the Ohio delegation and to gather strength wherever else his inclinations may lead him.

There is no direct evidence of any Taft-Bricker agreement at this time. But it would not be illogical for Bricker to reason that, if he supports Taft by sufferance now, he would be entitled to second choice by Taft's followers if, in 1948, it is evident that the senior senator cannot make the nomination grade. Perhaps that is where he chooses to leave it.

There is no doubt at all about the two senators' attitude toward Dewey. They are both implacably opposed to him. He dashed the hopes of one in 1940 and of the other in 1944.

It is a little silly to put such stock as some have in the effect of Bricker's speech at the Gridiron Club in December. A Gridiron speech is no measure of a man's capacity. It is believed in Ohio, however, that people favorable to Dewey and to Taft lost no opportunity to make it known that Bricker made a poor speech on that occasion.

In the inevitable ideological struggle for power in the Republican party, there is little doubt even now about the alignment. Taft, Bricker and others will be on the conservative side. Dewey, Stassen, Warren and probably Baldwin will be to the left.

When the views of New York's new senator, Irving Ives, become known in the debate over labor-law revision, there are bound to be fireworks. He is far to the left of Taft and somewhat more pro-labor than Dewey. He is exceedingly well informed on labor questions. He has been head of the Labor Relations School at Cornell and was prominently identified with labor legislation while majority leader in the New York Assembly. Dewey's anti-discrimination act bears Ives's name. His position is best described by saying that, had he been a member of the Senate last spring, he would not have approved the Case bill.

Since Ives and Dewey have been politically associated and since Dewey is primarily responsible for Ives's being in the Senate, Ives will inevitably be the Dewey Senate spearhead when Taft, as labor chairman, gets to work. Dewey can avoid a clear avowal of candidacy, but as titular head of the party and a potential candidate, he will be a heavy influence in Republican affairs in the next two years. And that influence will not favor Taft.

Upon the impending Taft-Dewey rivalry rest most of the hopes of all other candidates. Never have there been so many first-rate, second-string candidates. And the White House will haunt their dreams as did the white whale those of Captain Ahab in "Moby Dick."