Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Elect a Recovery Congress

Theoretically, there are two possible ways to change the psychology of fear and distrust which has brought on the present depression. The Administration might, by concrete action, demonstrate that it does not intend to seek increasingly intimate control over the processes of capital accumulation and investment and over industrial operations. Or, the country, when it goes to the polls next autumn, might register so unmistakable a disapproval of the ways the Administration has extended such control since 1936, that the Administration is forced to retreat.

But actually, only one of these two things is remotely apt to happen. There is no evidence whatever that the Administration is going to undergo a change of heart about the adequacy of its present policies. The illusion that it might do so has been completely dispelled by the events of the past six months—the incessant attacks upon business generally by responsible officials; the cavalier dismissal of Dr. Arthur Morgan; the Administration’s stubborn resistance to the abolition of the unsound corporate-surplus tax implying, as it does, a characteristic contempt for the judgments of Congress; the elevation of Robert Jackson, champion business-baiter, to the Solicitor General-ship; and the proposal of a monopoly study in such terms as to demonstrate, unmistakably, that it is the official view of the Administration that the difficulties under which we labor are due to villainy, greed or maliciousness and not to ignorance of the endlessly complex interrelationships of our economic system. On the other hand no experienced political observer expects the Democratic party to lose control of either House or Senate in the coming elections. Yet it is possible that the loss of a number of seats falling considerably short of that might allay the fears of the country by creating a forcible and articulate opposition to the Administration in Congress—an opposition which will compel the Administration to clarify its objectives, defend its methods, remedy some of its errors and which, above all, will displace those Charlie McCarthys whose only claim to the confidence of the voters is their 100 per cent compliance with the wishes of the President.

That is the only practicable means of restoring hope in a recovery based upon private enterprise at this time. It is the only way to check that silent revolution whose instrument and expression has been the steadily continued absorption of the legislative function by the Executive. The political and economic destiny of the country depends upon the election of a Congress composed of members who are not the creatures of Executive caprice, not the witless ratifiers of policies which have short-circuited existing economic relationships without providing new lines through which economic currents can flow. And this, in turn, can be brought about only by public understanding of the immense issues involved.

The job of dispelling confusion and ignorance begins at home—with self-education, with study of the votes of each citizen’s Senators and Congressmen, of the significance of those votes, with a decision as to the competence of these men and with a search for more able candidates if the incumbents do not deserve reelection. It culminates in active support of the most worthy candidate, regardless of his party label. It devolves upon every citizen of a democratic, representative government. And since the businessman is also a citizen (a fact not always remembered in high Administration circles these days) it properly concerns him.

In the past, businessmen have not been especially effective in politics. This is so because of many circumstances—among them the indifference of businessmen to political affairs, their habit of delegating their political responsibilities to large and usually futile organizations, their tendency to contribute unnecessarily large sums to political campaigns and their occasional attempt to coerce employees and stockholders to support their political views.

These mistakes are easily avoidable. The businessman, working as an individual, and through a party wherever possible, must bring to bear his own brains and efforts in support of the most available candidate. He must learn that district and state political campaigns need not and should not be financed by large sums. But he should contribute some money within the limits prescribed by the state and Federal laws. He must use his personal influence by word of mouth if he can speak, by letter if he can write and by telegram if he is in a hurry (despite the activity of certain Senate committees, it should be remembered that it is still not criminal to send letters and telegrams in this country) to present the issues cogently and persuasively to his fellow voters.

Congressional elections have been traditionally left to politicians. This year every one of the 435 Representatives and the 32 or more Senators who is to be elected will be a vital factor in the determination of whether to remove the deterrents to healthy and legitimate business activity. That fact alone is reason for the active concern of all those engaged in business enterprise—large and small. And their concern—translated into action—can make the coming elections recovery elections. It can sweep into office a Recovery Congress.

The Pennsylvania Primary

As Mr. Frank R. Kent shrewdly points out, the way to appraise the Pennsylvania primary is to consider what would have been the situation if its results had been reversed. John L. Lewis would now be the undisputed master of the second most populous state in the Union, controlling its delegates to the next national conventions; his ability to threaten the Administration in Washington and Congress would be vastly enhanced.

The Pennsylvania primary smashed those ambitions. It is going to be increasingly difficult for Mr. Lewis to lead his followers into politics. That suggests a return to nonpolitical unionism or, at the very least, a decision on labor’s part to operate within the two major parties. A number of recent elections testify to more than the unpopularity of C.I.O. leadership: they mark the growth of a reaction against the politicalization of labor.

The incidental deflation of Senator Guffey is less important in itself than in its implications. This arrogant figure, privileged to voice the Administration’s threat against all opponents of the President’s Court-packing plan last year, has now become a defeated dependent of a defeated labor leader. Small likelihood that he, at any rate, will be able to assist the Administration in the work of “purging” the party.

At the same time, the young men around the President have been deprived of the twin bugaboos with which they are wont to frighten timid Congressmen—the threat of defeat within their constituency by a third party, a labor candidate, and the threat that a revolution is just around the corner, that business and the moderate Democrats had better embrace the Roosevelt policies or else. It is too early to foresee an end of this shaking of fleshless bones. But those who can put a stop to it may find cheer in the Pennsylvania primary.

Businessmen will do well to bear in mind a central fact revealed by the Pennsylvania vote. It was no reactionary victory: it was a victory for moderation, a signal by the plain citizens that America is ready for an overhauling of policies which throttle sound enterprise. These people are asking for leadership intent on preserving the best traditions of American economic and political life though it accepts responsibility for the relative well-being of all economic groups. If business courageously offers such leadership, they will not fail to support it.