Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

To the Governor of Arizona
by Raymond Moley

HON. HOWARD PYLE
PHOENIX, ARIZ.
DEAR GOVERNOR:

Your friendly letter, to which I assigned this space last week, raises a number of issues which deserve a considered reply.

My criticism of the Central Arizona Project was not based on California propaganda, but on the Senate debates, in which your Senators McFarland and Hayden took a leading part, on the Arizona case as presented to the House committee in March, on the letters and documents of the Interior Department on the subject, and on other pertinent public documents.

I have not approached the subject from the standpoint of the dispute between Arizona and California, but from the standpoint of a taxpayer in a wholly remote state.

It is perfectly apparent that Arizona is entitled to a very considerable amount of the water of the Colorado River that now flows to the sea. It is also clear that the needs of Arizona are urgent and critical. It is clear, too, that your predecessors in office and your state legislature were negligent in failing to impose restrictions on the veritable looting of the water table by wells drilled for the raising of quick and highly profitable crops by people who rushed there in war years for that purpose. You are commendably trying now to lock the stable.

I CANNOT agree that the question submitted to the Secretary of the Interior was “loaded.” It was: “How much interest on the national debt occasioned by the project would be borne by the nation’s taxpayers, assuming a 75-year repayment period and a reasonable construction period?” His answer, $2,075,729,000, is a matter of arithmetic. The immense size of this interest charge is due to the incorporation in the bill of a principle of accounting that has never hitherto been approved by Congress and that is a product of the Interior Department’s desire to enlarge its activities, regardless of expense and despite the old principle that irrigation and power should pay for themselves. In power projects the rate at which power is sold is fixed high enough to pay interest on the money borrowed to build the project. That interest has been paid into the Treasury, as it should be. Under the principle in this bill, this interest money or “interest component” would be used to pay the costs of irrigation, thus giving a subsidy to farmer-users of the water. Also, the period of repayment is fixed in the bill at 75 years, thus nearly doubling the time which has always been the rule in reclamation projects.

If Arizona is so in need of water and if the return is so favorable as the figures you have presented suggest, it should abide by the traditional rules that have always governed reclamation.

There is also something very strange in the claim of sponsors of this project that the whole thing must be authorized by Congress before the Supreme Court can determine the dispute with California about how much water Arizona is entitled to. I realize that lawyers argue that the court cannot take jurisdiction of the case unless actual damage can be claimed by California. Other lawyers argue that it can. It would seem that this is a most expensive way to bring a law suit. If the court should refuse the cheaper way, then it might set up some temporary body to adjudicate the case.

FINALLY, the cost of the project can hardly be judged by the Reclamation Bureau estimate of $788,000,000 for building. If past experience with such reclamation projects is any guide, the cost will be two or three times that. Also, it is admitted that the proposed dam will fill up with silt in 30-odd years unless another dam or dams are built up the river.

It would seem that Congress ought to take a long look at the whole immediate and remote cost of this and all related projects and then measure them against the capacity of American taxpayers to meet such expenses in a period when immense sums must be raised for armament and foreign aid. These, it seems to me, are considerations which must be measured against the recognized needs of your state.

Newsweek, September 10, 1951