Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:

**Befuddled 'Liberals'**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

SELF-STYLED "liberals," hereinafter
described as neo- or new liberals,
are making frantic, hysterical efforts to
escape destruction in the jungle of
their own philosophy. Faced by the
stark fact that Communism is not only
an enemy of free capitalism, but a
malignant military enemy and that
their country is gathering itself together to
resist, they find a part of
their escape cut off by their
own earlier professions. For
the Communists' charges
against capitalism are almost
identical with the political
slogans of the neo-liberals.
From that situation they
seek escape in declaring
that the real enemy is not
Communism but Russian imperialism.
Thus, they can
contrive to hate Soviet Russia
and continue to revile the traditional
institutions of the United States.
The conservative has no such ordeal.
He has always held Marxism to be
inimical to the freedoms of his country,
and when Communism appears in
the form of a military aggressor, his
capacity and his determination to resist is
redoubled. For he not only
prefers a free capitalistic society but
he loves his country. He is a patriot.
The neo-liberal can never yield his
emotions to a whole-hearted love of
his country. He must always find some
fine-feathered reasons for supporting
the national interest. These reasons
generally add up to the conclusion
that, while his country has deep blemishes,
it might be fit to live in if he
could only be permitted to perform
some experimental plastic surgery on
its free institutions. And so the neo-
liberals reach the strange conclusion
that while they prefer the United
States, they would like to substitute
alien institutions for the traditional
institutions that give it character and
distinction. In short, they like the assumptions
of Communism, but they do
not like it when it carries a gun. That
makes "cooperation" difficult.

VICTOR RIESEL, a reliable labor reporter,
writes that the records of
some of the critics of the ADA show
that UAW president Walter Reuther
said at a recent meeting of that organization:
"I am not interested in
fighting world Communism. I'm only
interested in fighting Communist imperialism.
I draw a distinction between
world Communism and Communist
imperialism. I'm willing to leave the
fight against world Communism to
McCarthy and the Republicans."
How we are to fight the one without
fighting the other I leave to experts on
national schizophrenia.
And now comes O. John Rogge,
former New Deal Assistant
United States Attorney General, who with
former Vice
President Henry Wallace
led many guileless "liberals"
into an association with
American Communists, with
an article in The New
Leader. Rogge says that
American conservatives are
intellectual kin of Stalin and
Vishinsky in "their common
hostility to human freedom." Wishing
to destroy another good word, as the
word "liberal" was destroyed, he
summons "moderates" to battle. The
battle cry of the Rogge party would
be that they are against not Communism,
but "Russian expansionism."
MY NEWSWEEK colleague, Ralph de
Toledano, joint author of the fine book
on the Hiss case, "Seeds of Treason,"
writes movingly in The Freeman of
the utter confusion of the neo-liberals
when the Hiss conviction broke over
their heads. He points out that before
the conviction they protested that
Hiss was innocent. Then, "identifying
themselves with the crime," they said
the act was no crime at all. Finally,
they "insisted that the evil was not in
the cancer but the surgeon who laid
open the flesh to expose it." In short,
they attacked Chambers.

The neo-liberals have no spiritual or
intellectual relationship to the liberals
who first gave the name meaning
as we emerged from the eighteenth
century. Basic and true liberalism is
rooted in a fear of government expansionism
and a dedication to individual
liberty. But when the good name liberal
was seized by the proponents of
state power, not only did it lose its
meaning, but those who called themselves
liberals became the most subtle
promoters of totalitarianism. The
deadly enemy of American freedom
is not only Soviet imperialism, but all
of the Marxian ideas that gave it birth.

Newsweek, February 12, 1951