Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


**Truman's Home State**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

ST. LOUIS—Political people here tell you that President Truman's personal prestige is at stake in Missouri. So is Hannegan's. And so the President and the Postmaster General are preparing to shoot the works out here this fall to elect a senator and a good majority of congressmen.

Wise newspapermen in Missouri believe that the Truman-Hannegan drive will have hard going. It should be remembered that Messrs. Truman and Hannegan are products of city machines. They know little of rural politics. And two-thirds of the Missourians live outside Kansas City and St. Louis. Moreover, the President elicits the same full indifference in Missouri as he does in every other state I have visited.

The President won a victory of sorts in purging Roger C. Slaughter in a Kansas City primary. But at a bitter cost. His interference in the primary welded the Democratic party there to Pendergast II, the nephew and successor of the President's old benefactor and leader, Pendergast I. Kansas City people who have fought over the years for decent government will not soon forget this Truman stand for bossism.

Hannegan, former Democratic leader in St. Louis, was never an outstanding success as a local boss. Despite all the prestige of his membership in the Cabinet and his party chairmanship, he is still no name to conjure with in his home town where, as late as last year, the Republican candidate for mayor won a resounding victory. Roosevelt-Truman carried the city in 1944 by more than 60,000. But there will be no such sweep this year. The St. Louis Democratic organization is rickety, and Hannegan can do little to restore it.

The senatorship may hinge on the St. Louis vote, which in 1940 carried Mr. Truman successfully over the line. Frank Briggs, Truman's successor and the Democratic candidate, is running against James Kem, a Kansas City lawyer. Briggs is a likable person who has done little in the Senate to reveal his quality as a statesman. Kem is a conservative anti-New Dealer. His campaign will be based on opposition to the domestic policies of the Roosevelt-Truman Administrations. The

Senatorial race looks even now, but a trend against the Truman Administration would elect Kem.

Missouri will be a key state in the battle for control of the next House of Representatives. It is represented now by seven Democrats and six Republicans. Four of these Republicans were elected in 1944 by less than 2 per cent of the vote, and one Democrat won by a margin of one half of 1 per cent. Five seats were therefore very close. But conditions may well be different this year. It is another off year, and there will be no Roosevelt at the head of the ticket. The proportion of Republicans will probably be larger than in 1944 and possibly larger than in 1942, when Republicans carried eight districts and Democrats five. As things look now, five Democratic and five Republican seats look fairly safe, with three about even. This takes no account of a Republican trend, however, which may or may not appear before election.

While there will be active campaigns in half a dozen districts, major interest will be in the Truman-Pendergast candidates in the Slaughter district. Slaughter's friends are enraged at the President's aid in reviving Pendergast rule. Many of them will vote for the Republican candidate, Albert L. Reeves Jr. The Truman-Pendergast candidate, Enos A. Axtell, prior to the primary was not well known. The decisive element in the result will no doubt be the Negro vote in the district, and that is now unpredictable.

There will also be fierce contests in the First District, now represented by Wat Arnold, a Republican; in the Second, by Max Schwabe, a Republican; and in the Eighth, by A. S. J. Carnahan, a Democrat who barely won in 1944.

In Missouri, as elsewhere, the PAC will be active but less potent than in 1944. The story is the same everywhere. In 1944, war workers lived and worked in compact groups. It was easy for PAC workers to operate. Now the industrial population is more scattered. The PAC is not built for such a situation, and even with the same amount of money to spend and the same number of workers, it is bound to be less effective.