Higgins Scans the Future

by RAYMOND MOLEY

NEW ORLEANS—The future has no
terrors for Andrew Jackson Higgins,
top-flight inventor and builder of boats,
engines, planes, torpedo tubes and many
other things. Sitting in his office in the
midst of his enormous enterprises in
war production, he permitted his mind
to rove far into the misty postwar era.
As he sees it, it will simply present
somewhat more complex problems of
invention, production and organization.
But he has no doubts about the ability
of men who have successfully challenged
existing methods to lick the problems
that lie ahead. His office itself is a vivid
preview of the future. Models, drawings,
bits of ingenious plastics are scattered
about. All are the product of his tire-
less brain and vivid imagination. All
have some future connotation.

I asked what he saw in the world
after the war. "I see," he answered,
"the instinct of all nations to survive,
to get back to work and to restore their
broken and neglected means of peace-
time life. Some will need plenty of help,
but that help will not be exclusively
shipments of goods. It will be the use
by slower moving countries of American
engineers and managers. Our best sur-
plus for export will be brains.

"In this country there will be a period
of great productive activity to replace
civilian goods. We must not be deceived
into thinking that period will be per-
manent. But it will give us time to think
of what must next be done. And now is
the time to start that thinking."

Higgins believes in international trade.
But he says that the greatest barrier
to trade is internal in all countries.
Any nation could be prosperous if it
could solve the problem of distribu-
tion. China, he points out, has been
kept poor because its communities are
isolated from each other. River transpor-
tation everywhere must be improved,
Higgins believes, and he adds, in pass-
ing, that his boats will have a big part
in that job.

"The railroads in this country," Hig-
gins said, "will have to come in for
lots of overhauling. The railroads are
doing a good job. But they are using
up their rolling stock. Since the job
they are doing is being done for the
nation, the government should provide
money for their rebuilding. Such money
should be set up as a separate fund, to
be serviced and retired by means of a
tax on freight."

The rebuilding job on the railroads
that Higgins proposes is fairly revolu-
tionary. Among other things he suggests
that the standard gauge be widened.
"Twelve or eighteen, or even six inches,
added to the present gauge would be a
boon to transportation. The elimination
of a great deal of trackage, even whole
lines, could be achieved in that way."
Existing equipment retired by new con-
struction, Higgins continues, could be
sold, lent-leased or given to backward
countries to be used in their develop-
ment.

Provision for the orderly return of
soldiers should be made with great care,
Higgins says. "They should be dis-
charged only in such numbers as can
be provided with suitable opportunities
for jobs. The place from which each
man came should be studied now from
the standpoint of its capacity to pro-
vide him with a good living. The men
will never be content with made-work.
Provision for land ownership should be
made for some, industrial training for
others. Many of our war plants could
be used after the war for industrial
training centers, and great areas of the
fertile South should be set aside for new
forms of agricultural production useful
in making synthetics. Decentralization
of industry should be encouraged. At
the end of the war we should be able to
do these things in an orderly way."

Turning from national policies to
his own plans, Higgins said: "We've
learned much in war manufacturing
that can be applied to civilian produc-
tion. Because I am convinced that
transportation of freight by air over-
seas can ultimately be cheaper than by
ship, for instance, I am developing cargo
planes made largely of wood that are
stronger, lighter and cheaper than metal
planes. Beyond this, we are planning
every day to make new products after
the war."

Higgins is promising New Orleans
that there will be no industrial collapse
here when the war ends. He and his
organization will see to that. Ten thou-
sand employes—his payroll numbered
only 300 in 1939—are concerned in his
plans. Associated with him are a sizable
number of hard-working managers, in-
cluding three of his sons, his financial
director, Morris Gottesmann, and men
like Harry Atwood, G. M. Bellanca,
Enea Bossi, Colonel J. H. Jouett, well-
remembered pioneers in aviation, who
are engaged exclusively in long-time
planning. But Higgins himself leads them
all in the search for new horizons.