TODAY IN AMERICA
By Raymond Moley

Bluff and Mr. Lewis

ESPITE his Labor Day speech, I
D
don't believe John L. Lewis has the
slightest intention of launching his
craft on the perilous seas of independ-
ent political action. His bluff is clever;
but it is still a bluff. Why? Because
Mr. Lewis is not naive. To think that
he will attempt to form a third party
is to suppose that he doesn't know
what came of the efforts of the Knights
of Labor to form a connection with the
Farmers Alliance in the late 1880s, or
that he's forgotten his fight with War-
ren Stone of the Engineers, who was
the chief inspiration of the Farmer-
Labor party of 1920. Mr. Lewis has
no taste for political wallflowers-
whether in third-party dress or other-
wise. That is indicated by the dwin-
dling of his once-sturdy devotion to the
Republican party in the early '30s.
A most convincing piece of collateral
evidence on this point is an article by
Mr. Max Lerner in The Nation for
September 4, 1937. Mr. Lerner is an
intelligent and honest reporter. He did
not write his piece without an intimate
knowledge of what was going on in Mr.
Lewis' head. Hence the significance of
his bold assertions that a third party is
not just around the corner, that "third-
party talk is one-quarter based on
probabilities, one-quarter irresistible
speculation, and the remaining half,
propaganda." The C.I.O. leaders are
primarily realists, he says, "hardheaded,
pragmatic men, brought up not in the
academies but the trade unions
supple and flexible men... Lewis,
Hillman, Dubinsky, Murray, Brophy,
Oliver... But there is one thing on
which they are all agreed, and that is
that political action can go no faster or
farther than economic action."

NOW all this does not mean that Mr.
Lewis cannot profit by toying
publicly with the idea of a farmer-
labor alliance. The immediate gains of
such a procedure are obvious. He suc-
ceeded, thereby, in turning what might
have been just another Labor Day
statement into a sensational news story.
And, far from incidentally, he weak-
ened those critics of the Administration
who were charging it with too great a
friendliness toward labor. In short, he
provided so stinging a slap from the
Left that only the unreasonable can
now expect President Roosevelt to offer
the other cheek to the Right.


There are, of course, genuine differ-
ences of opinion and personality be-
tween the President and Mr. Lewis.
Heywood Broun, who writes without
guile and whose knowledge of Mr.
Lewis' activities is certainly not sec-
ondhand, says that Mr. Lewis has not
seen the President for more than a
year, and there is nothing to indicate
that the two men have grown to under-
stand each other better during that
year. Mr. Lewis, concerned as he is
with today's battles and today's gains,
must, in any case, always be some-
thing of a mystery to a man who be-
lieves that people can be enlisted in
support of great abstract objectives for
years on end. Unquestionably Mr.
Roosevelt entertains visions of a long-
term alliance with labor. And, just as
unquestionably, alliances are important
to labor only insofar as they facilitate
the achievement of immediate ends. It
is likely, in fact, that Mr. Lewis al-
ready regards his half-million-dollar
appropriation to the Democratic party
as an investment that has already
yielded value in full, although in pub-
lic utterances he is too shrewd to admit
it. He has gained valuable legislation,
prestige, and the use of the name of
the Democratic party in the difficult
business of getting membership.

STILL it is a mistake to suppose that
the relations between the two men
are as badly strained as Mr. Lewis'
Labor Day speech would have them.
Understatement has never been a tool
in the armory of the hard-bitten labor
leader. Mr. Lewis shouts when a
politician would whisper.

There is even reason to suppose that
feeling between the C.I.O. and the
A.F. of L. is less violent than outsiders
imagine. Certainly the passions dis-
played there are assisting both organi-
zation campaigns. While Mr. Green is
shouting about the "Communistic" and
"subversive" activities of the C.I.O.,
he must be noting out of one corner of
his eye that his busy lieutenants are
rushing employers by the hundreds into
A.F. of L. contracts. They are selling
like hotcakes as sure-fire insurance
against the C.I.O. The C.I.O. in turn,
is profiting from the fears of employers
that jurisdictional disputes will make
Shanghais of their plants. Mr. Green
and Mr. Lewis have both learned how
sweet can be the uses of discord.
The combination of another business
depression, years of political confusion
and some new experience with a re-
actionary national administration is the
minimum requirement for the success
of a national farmer-labor alliance.
Failing that, it is improbable that Mr.
Lewis will be diverted to political pur-
poses which would divide his personnel
and dissipate his funds. Nonpartisan-
ship in political action, I believe, is still
his ultimate objective. Meanwhile, he
knows that just as a labor union is
strongest on the brink of a strike, so is
political labor strongest before-not
after-it walks out of a party.

September 'Jitters'

EIGHT years to the week after the
stock market reached its summit in
1929, a Cabinet officer was again hav-
ing to inform the country that con-
ditions were fundamentally sound. This
time it was Secretary Roper who ap-
pealed to business to view the situation
"objectively."

The stock-market troubles this year
are ascribable to the fear of worldwide
war and accumulated discouragement
at the looks of Autumn business.
We were overconfident in betting on
peace in 1914. We are probably over-
anxious now.

But the slight business recession of
this Summer cannot be explained away
by excursions into the psychology of
fear. The fact of the matter is that
despite all the "education" the public
has had about the coming of higher
costs, enough individuals have refused
to pay them, or have put off paying
them, to suspend the boom. There is,
besides, good reason for suspecting
that the bills for our public-regulation
spree are beginning to come due. Busi-
ness first became aware of the enormity
of its problem when it tried to master,
during the long days of this Summer,
the interconnections and cross-currents
of not only the measures of regulation
which Congress piled up in 1936 and
1937, but of each state's grist of re-
strictive law. Planning on the part of
business has been unable to keep up
with miscellaneous regulation.

So, too, with planning on the part
of government. The Federal Reserve
Board's recent lowering of rediscount
rates and freeing of "sterilized" gold,
which have reversed the anti-inflation
policy inaugurated early last Spring,
have effectively disposed of any re-
maining confidence in the singleness of
purpose among such national planners
as we possess.

It is probably time for us to con-
sider, as the French have had to do,
whether we can afford at once all of
the reform we have talked about and
still continue to live in the style to
which we have been accustomed. It is
encouraging, at any rate, that a con-
siderable number of Administration
officials are beginning to ask them-
selves that very question.

NEWS-WEEK September 20, 1937