Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Take, but Don't Grab

by Raymond Moley

THE Interior Department in the long
Ickes years was the central power-
house of a Federal invasion not only
of private business but also of state
sovereignty. Its immense influence
stemmed from building and adminis-
tering projects for the production of
electric power and irrigation, and
from its control of public lands. The
biggest unit in its vast bureaucracy
was the Reclamation Bu-
reau. The blind zeal of Sec-
retary Ickes in the virtues
of public ownership trans-
formed the department
from a mere custodian and
conserver of natural re-
sources to a fiercely ag-
gressive agency for the
propagation of a species of
Federal socialism.

This fitted perfectly into
the general pattern of Trumanism, and
the drive even intensified after the re-
tirement of Ickes. Michael Straus, who
was not an engineer but who had
been Ickes's publicity man, became
Commissioner of Reclamation, with
the power and money of that bureau
to further the drive for public owner-
ship. Propaganda agents permeated
the West with the gospel of Federal-
ism and with distrust of private power
companies. In the enormous ramifica-
tions of the department were many
zealous advocates of state socialism,
for Ickes was almost as ardent a crank
collector as was Henry Wallace. A
secretarial directive by Ickes literally
ordered members of the department
to work for public ownership. Opinions
emanating from the legal department
were designed to give the department
something close to autocracy in spend-
ing the proceeds from power projects.
Only the vigilance of the House of
Representatives kept most of the West
safe from the Federal octopus.

That was the problem faced by
Douglas McKay when he became
Secretary of the Interior. After an
analysis of his statements, acts, and
appointments and after talking with
him, I would, on my own respon-
sibility, describe him in the ideologi-
cal scale midway between Herbert
Hoover and F.D.R., or between
H.S.T. and the House of Representa-
tives. His attitude toward the private
power companies is that he would
open to them something less than a
completely open door to assume the
job of providing power for private use.
His admonition would be that of a
mother who offers a plate of cake to
her children: "Take, but don't grab."
McKay believes that there is a
great need for the multipurpose dams
already built or substantially under
way, that new ones will need careful
scrutiny, that there must be a good
reservoir of plans for public
works to be started in case
of a business recession. He
believes the job of his de-
partment is to conserve, care
for, and build when directed
by Congress, but not to edu-
cate, propagandize, or exert
any other form of pressure
in behalf of either public or
private power. The propa-
ganda machine he inherited
will vanish. He will economize.

His general position is fairly well
shown by what has happened to the
budget of the Interior Department.
For fiscal 1954, Truman asked
$607,251,400 for the department.
McKay cut this to $484,363,000.
The House last week cut this to
$406,080,343. There is always a mad
rush when the Senate is taking final
action on an Interior appropriations
bill, and hence some of these econo-
mies may be lost. But this reduction
represents a real effort to cut back
the wild growth of this department.
One reason why the problems of
the Interior Department have been
so little understood over the nation,
and especially in the East, is the con-
centration of its interests. All of the
reclamation funds are spent in seven-
teen states west of the Mississippi.
Three fourths of the department's ex-
pense is in that area. Almost the only
concerns of the department east of
the Mississippi are the Federal parks.

IN INDIAN affairs, McKay proposes
to withdraw, so far as possible, the
debilitating care of government. For
'Lo-the-Poor-Indian has suffered as
much as a ward as he did as an
enemy of the Great White Father.
McKay's top assistants are excellent
choices, and progress is being made
in improving personnel lower down.
Altogether, McKay has made a good
start in attacking the problems of this
immense bureaucracy.

Newsweek, May 11, 1953