Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Nixon vs. Douglas

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—The national importance of the contest between
Richard Nixon and Helen Gahagan Douglas for a United States senatorship
is underlined for at least three major reasons: the size and increasing
importance of the state of California, the clear issue of political and economic
philosophy between the two contestants, and the question of party responsibility
for the Korean ordeal.

This year’s census recorded the fact that California has become the nation’s
second state in population. In congressional representation it will gain from six to
eight House seats. It will rank with Pennsylvania in the Electoral College and in
national nominating conventions. It is a tremendous factor in the political affairs of
the nation.

The contest between Nixon and Douglas presents the essential domestic issue
before the country—the issue of individual freedom as against increasing
governmental intervention in economic life. On this issue Nixon is a moderate
conservative; Douglas, a radical. There are few contests this year for either the
Senate or the House where the distinction is so clear.


NIXON is on record against the Brannan plan for agriculture, the
Administration plan for government medicine, the seizure of the tidelands from
the states, compulsory Federal fair-employment legislation, and monopolistic
Federal ownership of electric-power production. As a freshman congressman he
took an active part in framing and passing the Taft-Hartley Act and has had the
courage to defend it. He also voted for the Wood bill, which would have greatly
improved Taft-Hartley. He is on record for a revision of the present social-security
plan and for a straight pay-as-you-go system. He has been a vigorous worker for
drastic economies in Federal expenditures. He is best known for his services as a
member of the House Un-American Activities Committee. It was Nixon’s persistent
and intelligent work, despite the obstructionism of the State Department and the
Administration generally, that finally broke the Hiss case. He is co-sponsor of the
Mundt-Ferguson-Nixon bill for the control, disclosure, and punishment of subversive
activities.

Helen Gahagan Douglas, on the other hand, has consistently pursued the
so-called Fair Deal party line, with some embellishments of her own. Practically
every measure to enlarge Federal power, to inject government into economic life,
to spend more government money has had her support. She has vigorously opposed
the House Un-American Activities Committee for years. Her so-called liberalism has
caused her to take positions contrary to any rational dealing with Communist
activities in our national life.

In a speech delivered in 1946 she stated what she termed her “Democratic
Credo.” It consisted of a great deal of vague talk about democracy, behind which
lurked the reality of a super state with handouts for everyone. At the beginning of
this speech, moreover, there was the extraordinary statement: “I think we all know
that Communism is no real threat to the institutions of this country.” A number of
other statements followed, the import of which was that people who seek by
positive action to control Communism are either hiding some sinister purpose
behind their activities or are deluded and hysterical.

Following the line apparently marked out by the Democratic high command, she
has made the flat accusation that Nixon opposed aid to Korea. The fact is that Nixon
voted for military aid to Korea a year ago, but, as is well known now, precious little
of that aid ever reached that unhappy land. In January of this year he voted with
other Republicans against a grant of economic aid to Korea because no military aid
was included. Later, he voted for a new bill which extended aid to Formosa as well.


IT is unfortunate that real issues in a campaign like this will be pushed aside by
this confusion, but the election is likely to be decided upon the question of
responsibility for our lack of preparedness for the Korean attack. In any event, the
California campaign will be a means for a straight-out vote for or against the
Administration. For Douglas is 100 per cent for Truman.

Newsweek, August 28, 1950.