Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column structure:

**How Democracy Democs**

by Raymond Moley

THE so-called Progressive Era almost always lost the nomination
clothed a large, lovely body of later. Witness Kefauver, Taft, Stassen.
good intentions in some of the most Whoever believes that this circus is
cockeyed garments ever devised by a really "solemn referendum" should
man. Its adornment culminated in have traveled with NEWSWEEK'S
1912 with the first use of the Presi- Harry Homewood in his car over
dential primary. Woodrow Wilson, many hundreds of miles in the state.
whose practical political experience He reports: "Going into the great
until 1910 was confined to the library reaches of Wisconsin in the dead of
and the classroom, hailed the new winter is a fearsome task. The roads
gadget as marking the end of all nomi- are glazed with ice. Drifts appear in
nating conventions. Then, in every places where to back and fill on low
state where he campaigned for the gear is exhausting. It is cold. So, so
nomination he was walloped. He got cold. You don't know how cold until
the nomination because "Peerless you start polling from door to door.
Leader" Bryan broke his Nebraska Your face creases with a smile. It
primary instructions. stays that way because the flesh is so
If, as a contemporary said, Progres- cold that it hurts to change expres-
sivism was "triumphant democracy," sion." And then, after such polling, he
the Presidential primary is a triumph found that most people didn't realize
over common sense, justice, experi- what the campaign was all about. Peo-
ence, and the facts of life. Born of ple seldom can gather together in the
yearning to help the poor, it provides streets or icy halls to hear a candidate.
a gigantic advantage to the rich candi- There is a peril, too, in such cam-
date. It is poisonous to two-party gov- paigning. Glenn Frank, running for the
ernment. It does not reflect public Senate up there, lost his life in a high-
opinion. It denies the United States way accident.
the services of fine candidates who
refuse to make fools of themselves. SONGS AND BALLYHOO
And such as choose to enter the pri- The two senators who are running
maries are cruelly punished. this year must fly back and forth to
Practical considerations would have Washington to aid on roll calls.
deterred any minds less confused than Humphrey skids and bumps over
those of the reformers of the Progres- the roads in a bus, napping when he
sive Era. For to hold all the primaries can resist talking to sleepy newsmen
at once would have physically pre- and nourished by his wife Muriel's
vented candidates from entering more beef soup. He is the wandering actor,
than two or three. And to scatter them wailing farm blues with occasional
as they are means that any candidate thrusts at Secretary Benson in the
who tried several would be exhausted North, singing with frosty lips "Soli-
physically, financially, and probably darity Forever" in Racine, to the
morally by the time of the real cam- rhythm of the guitar of an official of
paign in July. He would have "lost the United Rubber Workers.
his fight in the gymnasium." Chance Kennedy is expensive theater, Hol-
and woolly planning mean that one lywood, and café-society style, the
must campaign in Wisconsin when it actor subdued in a mass of imported
is too cold to electioneer, and in family, actors, crooners, and other
Florida when it is too hot. employees. There are coffee parties,
speeches by telephone from Washing-
NO TEST ton when he cannot attend in person,
The Wisconsin Progressives sought and much traveling over the state in
to destroy all party responsibility. a private plane.
Hence, a Republican this year may Their ideology is identical. Both
select the Democrat he believes eas- rate 13-0, a perfect score in the ADA
ier to beat and vote for him. Anyhow, book. Only the trimmings vary.
only a fraction of Democrats will vote This "insubstantial pageant," this
at all. It cannot be a "test" of national ballyhoo, is "democracy in action," to
sentiment because that common- determine the leadership of a great
wealth has a character all its own. In nation in critical times. Democracy for
past primaries the victors there have which men toiled and died!

Newsweek, March 28, 1960