Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Bethlehem-Youngstown Merger

by Raymond Moley

OVER a period of no less than 25
years there has been under consideration, in one form or another, a
merger of the Bethlehem Steel Corp. and the Youngstown Sheet and Tube
Co. Recently the proposal has taken concrete form, and at the moment
nothing stands in its way but the lack of a determination whether such a
merger would be in violation of the antitrust laws. Such a determination, as we all know,
is not easily made. A method exists, however,
which might be used by the Justice Department to expedite it, but which up to this
writing has not been used.

The reasons for this reluctance are not apparent, and it would be unfair to
suggest that they lie in the danger that such a move by the Justice Department would encourage
further political attacks upon the Eisenhower Administration.

The facts are these. The plants of the Bethlehem company are mainly
on the East and West Coasts. It is unable to compete with the large companies in most of the mid-continent
field. The Youngstown company is a mid-continent institution but is unable
effectively to reach markets on the Coasts. The two companies are therefore not directly in competition and
their claim is that a merger would not eliminate any competition and thus be monopolistic. Moreover, the present
production of two companies combined is only 19.6 per cent of the steel business. U.S. Steel, with 30.9 per
cent of the business, is and would continue to be much larger.

The companies contend that a merger would enable the new company to proceed with expansions
which would materially aid the steel industry to keep up with the future needs of the nation. The Federal government has declared that there will
be urgent need for an additional 10 million tons of capacity within three years. Arthur B. Homer, president of
Bethlehem, testifying before a Senate judiciary subcommittee last month, stated that if the merger could be accomplished, the company would be able to meet a part of this needed production with a $350 million expansion
program, largely in plants at Chicago and Youngstown. The bar to this action is the refusal of the Department
of Justice to give its consent.

Under our vague laws which govern the maintenance of competition and the prevention of monopoly, there
is no way of determining in advance whether a given action of a company would be good or bad. The action
must be taken, and then by the bringing of a suit the courts decide the issue in that specific case. The normal
course of such a suit as would be brought against this merger would drag on for five years or more. The
Department of Justice is now prosecuting eight cases that are more than six years old. The parties to the
proposed Bethlehem-Youngstown merger point out that in their case, with the urgent demands for more steel by the government and
private business now prevailing, such a delay would be fatal.

Congress, however, has provided a means of expediting such a case which involves a large public and national interest. It would be possible
for the Department of Justice publicly to offer to invoke an existing amendment to the antitrust laws which would expedite the case. The
companies could then afford to sign a merger agreement and face a suit in court. The department would then bring the suit and the Attorney General would make known to the court
that the case is "of general public importance." The Federal Circuit Court would then designate three judges in the circuit "to hear and determine"
the case and "to assign the case for hearing at the earliest practicable date, to participate in the hearing and determination thereof and to cause the case to be in every way expedited." This law is called an "expediting act," and it has been invoked on a considerable number of occasions.

IT WOULD seem that this merger, involving as it does the essential production of such a tremendous amount of the steel needed in the defense effort, is certainly "of general public importance." The companies are simply asking that the Federal government tell them what the law really is.

Newsweek, July 11, 1955