Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  It's difficult to be perfectly precise due to the image quality and column layout:


NEWSWEEK, APRIL 23, 1945

Perspective

Epilogue

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It would be entirely in the nature
of Franklin D. Roosevelt to warn any-
one sitting down to write at a time
like this against overwriting, emotion-
alism or empty eulogy. There has been
enough of that in any event. Mr.
Roosevelt had a buoyant way of be-
lieving that things would go on some-
how, regardless of losses and disaster.
The proof of this trait over the years
was shown by his boundless
optimism, by his disposition
to let difficult situations set-
tle themselves and by his
indifference to what might
happen to him personally in
the face of physical danger.
He would probably advise
us all at this moment to
have no fear, to expect with
quiet confidence that the
country's future is secure
and to pursue actively the
broad outlines of policy,
which he often called his "objectives."

Our military effort will move re-
lentlessly to its assured conclusion.
The armed services are in good hands.
Whatever may have been his love of
novelty, he knew how to run a war on
sound principles. He was vastly more
skillful than Lincoln in that respect.
It took the Great Emancipator years
to find competent leadership for his
armies. Mr. Roosevelt's initial choice
of leaders has proved wise. King and
Marshall have been a great team, and
subordinate commanders have proven
themselves. There have been singular-
ly few changes in the high command
in our years of conflict. The American
people, then, need have no major wor-
ries on the war front.

On the diplomatic front, what
lies ahead is not so clear. The broad
objectives of a peace have been de-
clared and agreed to. In determining
the ideal ends Mr. Roosevelt was at his
best. In the working out of details he
was somewhat less interested. To the
making of peace we have, therefore,
the best of Mr. Roosevelt's contribu-
tions. Still, his assistants in that field
were selected with the assumption that
the President himself would be his own
Secretary of State. Mr. Stettinius clear-
ly faces a major difficulty, which he
can overcome only if he displays
major qualities of leadership, since we
can assume that Mr. Truman will not
try to direct details in this field.


If Mr. Stettinius fails to show force
and initiative, Mr. Truman will turn
more and more to men like Senators
Barkley, Connally and George. He will
certainly be able to get senatorial sup-
port for foreign policies. In dealing
with our major Allies, Mr. Truman
will be vastly less effective than was
Mr. Roosevelt. Churchill and Stalin
are master statesmen. Mr. Truman will
have to see that the strong-
est of Americans are repre-
senting him in dealing with
them.

On the home front, the
trend is likely to be more
conservative. This will be an
administration conducted on
the pattern of orthodox poli-
tics. It will generally follow
the broad lines of the Roose-
velt humanitarianism, but
its method is likely to be
less novel.

Mr. Roosevelt's departure from the
scene at a moment when broad
foreign and domestic ideals have been
established and before the long labor
of effectuating them has been finished
will enlarge his memory. If disillusion
should come in the years ahead, nei-
ther Mr. Roosevelt nor the ideals he
defined will be blamed. The fault will
fall on those who succeed him. Like
Lincoln, he died at the moment of vic-
tory and before the labors of recon-
struction began. Mr. Roosevelt will
stand in history beside his ideals,
whatever chance may befall their
working out.

Of Franklin D. Roosevelt as an
individual and friend, all who knew
him well have a single verdict. He
was kind, considerate, gay and gen-
erous. He was, in truth, a happy war-
rior. Those who disagreed with his
policies or political views did so with
the painful sense that the resulting
impairment of personal relations took
a precious value out of human life.
That is what made it so hard to
disagree with him. His endearing
friendliness which so warmed those
who knew him expanded, with the
years, to the millions who had never
seen him. Whenever men and women
felt the burden of toil or worry or
misfortune, there was a sense that
Mr. Roosevelt understood and cared.
That endures beyond the fitful fevers
of life.