Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

NEWSWEEK, FEBRUARY 28, 1944

Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

De Senectute
by RAYMOND MOLEY

A few years ago, when Mr.
Morgenthau's Treasury presented us
with a newly designed dollar bill, one
of those responsible for the change
pointed out that the New Deal was inscribed not only upon the great seal of
the United States, but upon that token
which does so much to support us.
There it is: "Novus Ordo Seclorum,"
which, in the rough and ready ety-
mology of Washington, might mean
"The New Deal."

Since the phrase "New Deal" has
been scrapped, I have been watching
the backs of my dollars to see if the
Latin inscription is to go, too. Perhaps,
in view of the age and retrospective
qualities of those who govern us,
the Ciceronian phrase "de senectute"
might be a more appropriate slogan
for 1944.

If Mr. Roosevelt is reelected and
carries both houses of Congress, the
age situation among the leaders of the
New Deal (Novus Ordo) party, will
be as follows on January 20, 1945—
the date of the beginning of the fourth
term:

The ten men who, because of their
committee chairmanships, will run the
House of Representatives, will average
72½ years.

The men at the heads of the ten
most important Senate committees
will average 70½ years.

The Cabinet, despite the presence of
such youngsters as Secretaries Perkins
(62) and Wickard (52), will be, almost to a day, 65.

If the Hon. Henry A. Wallace gets
the boot, and the Hon. Sam Rayburn
gets the nod, the Vice President will
be 63.

The President, as everyone knows,
will be ten days short of 63.

So the regime that came into office
so gaily in 1933 moves into the late
afternoon. The New Deal is the Old
Deal, now.

Because a matter of this sort is
of public interest, we shall hear much
of it in the forthcoming campaign. The
bitter things said of the old men on
the Supreme Court, in 1937, will be
repeated. It will be recalled that the
President, in that year, said that old
men are unable "to perceive their own
infirmities." He quoted a judge, presumably against himself, who said:
"They seem to be tenacious of the appearance of inadequacy." And he read

this to his press conference, amid the
roars of laughter of his favorite press
stooges.

He said in his message to Congress:
"Modern complexities call also for a
constant infusion of new blood in the
courts, just as it is needed in executive
functions of the government and in
private business. A lowered mental or
physical vigor leads men to avoid an
examination of complicated and
changed conditions. Little by little,
new facts become blurred through old
glasses fitted, as it were, for the needs
of another generation; older men, assuming that the scene is the same as it
was in the past, cease to explore or inquire into the present or the future."

The President's party has controlled
the House for fourteen years. There
has been no reorganization of its business, no preparation for the situation
which the rule of seniority has created.
The same is true of the Senate.

The President offers the country,
after eleven years, a cabinet in which
five of the most important members
are past 70, the age which he, himself,
said was proper only for retirement.
And if, as is possible, he wants to
retire himself after three terms, he has
permitted no possible successor to appear in his official family.

Even now, Father Time is whittling
away the small Democratic majority in
the House. The Democrats stand to
lose more members this year by death
than will the Republicans, for the
simple reason that their members have
been at the grinding work of government longer.

It is characteristic of regimes in
government to fall into this age predicament. Their members grow old.
They live on the early ideas that got
them into office until those ideas get
stale. They get immersed in routine
and stop looking ahead; their imagination fails; and their vested interests in
the past prevent new ventures in policy.
Businesses and universities prevent
this by rules of retirement. Governments never learn this method. They
have to be taught it the hard way.
So it was with the Virginia dynasty in
1824, with the Democratic party in
1860 and in 1920, and with the Republican party in 1912 and 1932.
When time plucks at their sleeve, they
do not respond. Then the voters swing
a cruel ax.