Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Issues

Either something ominous is lurking under the calm of this Congressional campaign or the voters are indifferent to the kind of representation that they are to have in the next Congress. Considering the issues, things are altogether too quiet.

The Administration seems to believe that the less said during this campaign the better and that it is best to coast through the critical test of November without raising too many questions. But for that very reason independent voters everywhere ought to take an aggressive personal interest in the outcome. They ought to insist upon raising the questions that are ticklish for candidates to answer. And insist on getting the answers, too. Not the usual politic vaporings, which ought to be punished by a vote for the other fellow, but honest, straightforward replies to the following:

1—Will you vote for a new reorganization bill which retains any one of the three objectionable features of last year’s bill—destruction of the Comptroller General’s department, abolition of the Civil Service Commission and a grant to the President of power to reorganize bureaus and departments without Congressional action in each case?

2—Will you vote to amend the Wagner Act to give employers substantially the same rights as those now enjoyed by employees?

3—Will you vote for a revision of the Social Security Act drastically to change the present provision for a reserve fund?

4—Will you vote to restore relief to the states, with Federal grants if necessary, but administered on a strictly nonpolitical basis?

5—Will you vote against lump-sum appropriations to be expended at the discretion of the Executive?

6—Will you support an effort to compel the Administration to settle the existing war with the private utilities?

7—Will you support a Congressional resolution condemning a third successive term for Presidents?

8—Will you vote to take generally from the President those emergency powers which were given to the President in the crisis of 1933 and 1934 and which substantially altered the balance of power under the Constitution?

Candidates should not be permitted to escape the full force of such an inquiry. This is not a partisan election. It is a national referendum on the maintenance of representative government in accordance with the specifications of the Constitution. Voters have the right to expect a vastly more independent Congress this year. The time to see that we get it is during the campaign, not after.


The End of a Breathing Spell

For some weeks Washington has permitted the idea that we are enjoying another breathing spell to gain credence. The word has spread that the need for peace at home in the face of uncertainties abroad is the basis for this breathing spell. Cynical observers suggest that the coming elections also have something to do with it. But be that as it may, the country has been exhorted to stop “saber rattling”; those members of the Administration, like Douglas and Patterson, whose relations with business are reasonable, have been pushed forward; and the net of it all has been a growing improvement in public sentiment definitely reflected in business activity.

It is to be hoped that the speech of Secretary Ickes before the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco does not mark the end of this era (it must be all of four weeks now) of good feeling. But the fact that Mr. Ickes has so often in the past said the last rites over such truces hints of Sturm and Drang ahead.

I like Secretary Ickes. There is much to admire in his five and a half years of public service—his honesty, his insistence upon efficiency, his resistance to the perfunctory kind of service mere politics would achieve and, above all, his indomitable courage. But it is hard to see why a man so intelligent as he should persist in giving authority to the popular confusion that identifies the possession of wealth with the exercise of corporate power. Again and again Secretary Ickes has voiced the half-truth that a given number of individuals, having legal possession of a given proportion of the national wealth, ipso facto control business enterprise in America. And the answer to that half-truth has been made so many times to Mr. Ickes and ignored so many times by Mr. Ickes that it is difficult to escape the conclusion that the distortion is willful.

The answer is that ownership of wealth and the exercise of corporate power are two separate things, and the second is by no means an inevitable consequence of the first. To assume that it is, is to overlook the limitations and restrictions that public policy, business necessity and legal restraint impose upon directors of the American corporation.

The power of a corporation like the Westinghouse or the General Electric, to mention only two, is not located in the individual will of the members of their boards of directors. It rests, in trust, in a group of professional managers who are not necessarily men of great wealth.

These professional managers, in turn, are a kind of constitutional government. In a very real sense they are accountable for the way in which they exercise power not only to their directors but to their stockholders, their employees and their customers.

Mr. Ickes would tell you that this accountability—except to the directors—is fictitious. Let us see if it is.

True, the stockholders cannot be familiar with every decision the management makes. But the stockholders have the unquestioned power to sell their stock at any time if the affairs of the company are not conducted to their satisfaction. They must be dealt with frankly and honestly or they will divest themselves of ownership and move their capital elsewhere.

Similarly, the success of the corporation in no small degree depends upon the maintenance of a satisfactory relationship between management and employees. The health, the working conditions, the right to organize and, to a degree, the wages of labor are properly protected by law. But the maintenance of good industrial relations involves much more than this. It involves that cooperation without which the company suffers, the directors charge management with incompetence and the stockholders move their capital out.

But above all management is responsible to the customers of its business. The most ruthless master of any business is that vast public which can destroy that business by withholding purchases if it finds that prices are too high, products are unsatisfactory or practices are unfair. A publication, for example, has a board of directors, the identity of which becomes a matter of public record; but if the product does not hold the confidence and the loyalty of its readers, the board of directors, far from exercising power, becomes the owner of a liability.

Mr. Ickes asserts that Fascism and Communism both came from the concentration of economic power in the countries in which they have sprung up. This statement will hardly bear the test of a factual examination. In Italy, Germany and Russia, for one reason or another, the people felt that their economic and political systems were decadent. Ours are not, and need not become so.

But one way to bring them to that pass is to incite an unending conflict between them—a needless and bootless conflict.