What Capitalism Learned at Yalta

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Three little words, "reparations in kind," in the Yalta agreement may mean more in the future economic and political life of Europe than all the rest of the document. For they mean that two capitalistic leaders sat at the feet of Schoolmaster Stalin and learned a profound lesson. The institutions of international capitalism are unsuitable to enforcing on Germany the judgment which the moral sense of the Allied nations requires. Stalin's method does promise the fulfillment of that judgment. Roosevelt and Churchill were sufficiently realistic to see this and to agree.

We shall be deluding ourselves if we spend our indignation in bewailing this as a victory for Russia. The Yalta meeting should not be regarded as an arena where Allies contended with one another. Rather, it was a place where unity might be cemented and where each might profit by learning from the other. The Russians have a lot to teach us about reparations. And the memory of our mistakes in the years from 1918 to 1933 should hammer the lesson home.

Why reparations "in kind"? Why not in cash?

The answers to these questions will take some explaining, and this column and two or three subsequent ones will be devoted to the subject.

It has been clear for a long time that Soviet Russia was determined to have no part in a reparations program on the old pattern. Eighteen months ago, I commented in this column on a speech made by Eugene Varga, head of the World Economic Institute in Moscow, in which a full explanation was made of the Russian idea of reparations in kind. Dr. Varga said that since Germany had inflicted heavier damages on Russia than on any other country, his country would claim reparations commensurate in amount and in nature. This, he suggested, would be the delivery of machines, livestock and other materials and, what is more important, labor performed in Russia by Germans. This, I pointed out, was in harmony with the principle of Soviet economics in which wealth is measured in labor. Stalin, I suggested, would offer this plan with the powerful argument that reparations in money did not work out before. Apparently, Stalin did so and convinced his fellow conferees. It was also apparent then that he could not enforce such reparations alone. He has now made that point, too, and the job will be a joint one.

My piece drew for NEWSWEEK the distinction of an outburst in Hitler's paper, the Völkischer Beobacher, which erroneously identified me as a British economist.

Since then, Russia has imposed reparations in kind on Finland, Rumania and Hungary without the provision for enforced labor. Another interesting feature appears in the "armistices" these countries signed. It is the principle that reparations should, while heavy, be paid over a term of only a few years. The shrewdness of this has been repeatedly shown by history. Reparations are easier to collect in the years immediately after a war. Resistance grows with the years when the end of the burden is not in sight. A new generation grows up which quite properly rebels against paying for the sins of its fathers. The Varga proposal made ten years the limit for payments in manpower. Finally, it is not without significance that the Yalta agreement specified that the reparations commission "will work in Moscow."

Eugene Varga, who is apparently an important factor in the authorship of "reparations in kind," has for many years been a significant figure in Soviet affairs. Some 30-odd years ago, he was a resident of Hungary, where he was a university lecturer. He next appeared as a revolutionary colleague of Lenin. When Germany decided to accelerate the Russian revolution, the device used was a so-called sealed railway carriage. (Actually it was not sealed.) Varga joined Lenin, Zinovieff, Radek, Lunacharsky and others who made that historic journey.

Varga's survival over all these years during which so many of the original Bolsheviks have been liquidated is evidence not only of his loyalty to the fortunes of Stalin, but of his usefulness to the government. During the fateful years of the '20s, he spent a long time in the Russian Embassy in Berlin, where his opportunity to view the reparations farce of those years was unsurpassed.

Some of the factors which made it futile to collect reparations at that time I shall outline on this page next week.