Perspective

End of a Dream

by Raymond Moley

ON APRIL 17, 1960, in a television
program, “Open End,” Walter
Reuther said, as the Presidential cam-
paign approached:
“Congressional leadership has got
to be reinforced with more effective
leadership in the White House.
The Presidency is where the initi-
ative has to come. I mean this is
where you get the broad sweep,
where you get a sense of over-all
direction, where you get a sense of
working out a proper relationship of
your priorities, wherein you put first
things first, and you allocate your re-
sources. This is the job that has to be
done by the Presidency.”
Now, fifteen months later, Walter
Reuther is at the bargaining table
with the employers of most of the
members of his union. The scene is a
familiar re-enactment of what we
have seen many times before: Weeks
of discussion, arguments, endless sta-
tistics, incandescent oratory, and
threats. But there is a vital difference
this time. This is not completely free
collective bargaining, in which a strike
may mark failure to agree.
It is a long discussion under the
overshadowing threat of an Adminis-
tration which is going to have the last
word and the final “priority.” It is
going to use all of its overawing power
to prevent a strike. Within that
“framework”—a Reutherian cliché—
the contestants in this game can have
their statistical roundelay. Reuther
once more may operate, to use his
phrase, an “ideological windmill,” but
finally his power to strike will be chal-
lenged by the President.

KENNEDY’S PRIORITIES

For the hard fact appears that the
President is really fulfilling the
Reuther demand that his and his
alone must be the true “priorities.”
And it is to the interest of the Presi-
dential priorities that there be neither
a work stoppage which will endanger
the economic growth which as a can-
didate Mr. Kennedy promised, nor an
inflation caused by excessive wage
and fringe concessions. In short, in-
flations themselves have priorities. If
there is going to be inflation, it is
going to be created by the piling up of
government debt because of the Ad-
ministration’s welfare programs. Pri-
vately created inflation by wage-price
increases must step aside. To permit
inflation fueled by both public and
private indulgence would spell politi-
cal perils to a regime bent first of all
on maintaining its political primacy.
To use another cliché repeated over
and over by Reuther in the program
to which I have referred, “the public
sector” comes first.
This is the end of a Reutherian
dream which seemed to come true
last November. The man he so ar-
dently supported sits in the White
House; his chosen governor presides
in Lansing; dozens of members of
Congress for whom he mobilized a
margin of victory are in Washington.
And still his wishes are flouted, his
“priorities” disregarded, his hard-won
political power challenged.

GOMPERS WAS RIGHT

A quarter of a century ago, Reuther
and like-minded leaders in the verti-
cal labor movement began the build-
ing of a political machine as a means
to economic power. The mechanism
was automation applied to politics. Its
terrible efficiency was the terror of
candidates whom it opposed and the
mighty fortress of its friends. Ulti-
mately, it grasped the final prize, the
election of a President who had voted
right so many years and who had
promised so much.
In the same program to which I
have referred, Reuther himself sub-
stantially admitted under the prod-
ding of Leo Rosten, perhaps the
ablest debating opponent Reuther
had ever met, his total dedication to
Democrats. They, he said, presented
the most satisfactory “total image.”
Now he must realize that this politi-
cal power is “of such stuff as dreams
are made on.” He is the prisoner of
his own dedication.
Possibly a voice from the far past,
that of Samuel Gompers, may be
heard again in the ranks of labor. That
wise man believed that utter dedica-
tion to a political party or candidate
would prove to be a deadly peril,
even when that party or candidate
came to power. Politicians in power
are little concerned with what was
done for them in the past. The promis-
sory notes of 1958 and 1960 have no
validity amid the urgencies of 1961.

Newsweek, July 24, 1961