PERSPECTIVE

Rioting in Utopia

by Raymond Moley

THE politicians, propagandists, and
organizations dedicated to Fed-
eral ownership of the means of pro-
ducing, transmitting, and distributing
electric power have two sacredly held
objectives. One is the maintenance
of “preference.” The other is the con-
struction of a vast transmission “grid”
over the nation, interconnecting all
the regional Federal systems.

Preference, which has been written
into all legislation on the subject for
50 years, means that power from any
Federal plant shall be available first
to cooperatives, municipally owned
systems, and other public agencies.
What remains shall be sold to pri-
vately owned electric companies and
industries. Also, whenever such power
is demanded by a public agency, it is
taken away from the private company.

Meanwhile, there have come into
being regional grids—the Bonneville
Power Administration, the Southwest
Power Administration, the TVA, and
other systems.

President Kennedy and Secretary
of the Interior Udall have brought into
focus the idea of inter-ties among
these systems. As a first step, they
decided to refuse permission to two
privately owned companies in Califor-
nia and the Northwest to build such
an inter-tie and to ask Congress to
authorize a Federal inter-tie from the
Bonneville system to California at a
cost to the taxpayers of between
$126 million and $342 million.

UDALL’S BILL

Since Bonneville is losing an esti-
mated $15 million a year, its adminis-
trator, Charles F. Luce, has proposed
that when and if the inter-tie is built,
the Pacific Gas and Electric Co. buy
surplus or “dump” power to help meet
costs. This is non-firm power not avail-
able when consumers in the North-
west are using Bonneville’s capacity.
PG and E has sufficient steam and
other facilities to “back up” such inter-
mittent production as it would receive
from Bonneville. If the Federal inter-
tie is built, some of the California
preference customers also would get
some of the power.

However, as soon as the Federal
inter-tie was proposed, the public
power people in the Northwest de-
manded that their priority rights be
respected even against preference
customers in California. Therefore,
Secretary Udall prepared a bill, now
introduced in both houses, to protect
the Northwest.

This legislation would fix the fol-
lowing priorities: First, the preference
customers in the Northwest; next, the
private power companies and the in-
dustries up there; next, the prefer-
ence customers in California. In short,
the bill would protect all non-
preference (private) customers in the
Northwest as against preference cus-
tomers in California. And under the
terms of the bill wide discretion would
be given to the Interior Secretary as
to what areas would be included,
what power would be transmitted,
and who would have priority.

WHICH COW MUST DIE?

Since such a pattern might well be
applied to all inter-ties over the na-
tion, a loud protest came from public-
power people elsewhere. Some called
the plan a regional “Chinese Wall.”
Even Senator Anderson voiced his
doubts, although he had introduced
the bill at the “request” of Udall.
Norman Clapp, administrator of the
Rural Electrification Administration,
vigorously disagreed with the Udall
plan, calling it “provincialism.” In Ne-
braska, Fred Seaton, who is running
for governor, protested against what
he conceived to be a threat to that
wholly public-power state.

In this controversy the private
power companies can enjoy complete
neutrality. For this is a fight among
their old enemies.

What is now unfolding is a situation
in which a national Federal system is
seriously endangering the whole con-
cept of preference. Because when the
chips are down regional interests
seeking new industries and jobs will
be up in arms even to the extent that
non-preference customers will be pro-
tected by the public-power people.
Then with “Chinese Walls” surround-
ing each region, there will be no argu-
ment for Federal inter-ties. In this
instance, it comes down to which sa-
cred cow must be slaughtered—pref-
erences within regions or a national
Federally built and operated grid.
In short, national socialism is incom-
patible with local socialism.

Newsweek, June 18, 1962