Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Indestructible Bureaucracy

by Raymond Moley

BACK in the days before the chemical companies created a magical whiffle-dust to kill poison ivy by merely sprinkling the leaves, suburbanites had a dreadful time making their gardens safe for the susceptible. Every year there was incessant cutting, scratching, and digging, and every spring there came resplendently forth the deadly shiny green leaves.

Friends of private enterprise and government economy in Congress and the Administration have long been engaged in an equally discouraging effort to rid the government of business enterprises which engaged in costly and unnecessary competition with small private businesses.

In 1933, a House committee accumulated 37 volumes of data on the subject of government in business which gathered dust in the great growth of government in business under the New and Fair Deals. In 1951, a subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Operations attacked the subject, and by the end of 1954 accumulated more volumes. Meanwhile, the Hoover commission of 1949 called attention to the subject. The Eisenhower Secretaries of Defense and Commerce in 1953 actively set to work to terminate government businesses. The new Hoover commission had a task force under the energetic leadership of Charles R. Hook, which provided the evidence that in the Department of Defense alone there are nineteen different categories of commercial and industrial activities, representing well over 1,000 facilities, a great many of which might well be discontinued. Secretary Wilson, who had already been at work weeding out these facilities, pledged himself to Hoover that there would be close cooperation with the Hook people in prosecuting the task with renewed vigor. Indeed, the efforts of Wilson were yielding such excellent results last spring that friends of these various government activities hastily added an amendment to the Appropriation Act for the Department of Defense which was designed to check the purge. This amendment required that any proposal to eliminate a facility which had been performed for three or more years should be submitted to the two appropriation committees of Congress for a possible veto. The President quite properly denounced this as an unconstitutional invasion of his powers.

The barriers and booby traps in the way of getting government out of its many businesses are very serious. First, there is the vast size of the Defense Department. The late Secretary Forrestal said that in six years his knowledge of the Navy alone was far from complete and as for the other arms of the service, he was at the mercy of the Chiefs of Staff. Defense Secretary Wilson, despite his great ability and good intentions, is at the mercy of as tenacious a bureaucracy as has ever existed.

The passage of the amendment is evidence of the vigilance of members of Congress determined to have no Federal money taken from their own communities. A dozen Paul Reveres, including Speaker Martin, Senators Saltonstall and Kennedy, and Majority Leader McCormick sounded the alarm when it was proposed to abolish Boston’s precious Rope Walk. Virginians rose in revolt when it was suggested that some activities in Norfolk be eliminated. These people are all for economy—in somebody else’s back yard.

MOST of all, there are the protests of the military personnel who are getting subsidized items at commissaries and post exchanges. My article on this subject two months ago elicited a choice collection of abusive letters, from corporals and colonels alike. I was asked to believe that these people would starve without this fringe benefit. Again I remind them that if they need more pay they should get it. But that a fringe which is indeterminate in amount, that is denied some of the service men, and that is, according to testimony before the House committees, surreptitiously shared by civilians is not dignified or fair compensation.

Next week and at intervals in months to come I shall set forth the progress being made to rid the Defense Department of these activities.

Newsweek, December 12, 1955