Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure and avoiding overlap.  Due to the image quality and column layout, some minor inaccuracies might be present.

**Twilight of Bosses**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

THAT great American biped, the boss
who flourished 50 years ago, hardly
put in an appearance at the two na-
tional conventions. The species is not
extinct. But like the American buffalo,
it lives a protected life only in certain
preserves. Those preserves—Chicago,
Jersey City, New York and other cen-
ters of civic culture—are not yet offi-
cially characterized as national parks
or monuments. In that re-
spect, the venerated bison
has a distinction. But in the
lush days of the New Deal
the care and feeding of
bosses and machines cost the
Federal Treasury much more
than did the Park Service.
These modern bosses have
been maintained only by
cosmic generosity. Even so,
they grow old and feeble
and distracted by faction and reform.

In the Republican convention there
were many would-be Warwicks. But
the prevalence of split delegations
pointed up the rarity of a state held
in the firm but clammy grip of a new
Penrose or Hanna. A few Southern
delegations were undoubtedly held by
a single will. But generally, delegations
were of many minds. Never did the in-
dividual delegate dare show so much
independence.

Pennsylvania, Indiana, Massachu-
setts, New Jersey and Missouri had
semi-bosses who controlled fractions of
delegations. But no smoke-filled room
could have held this multitude. The
room that really counted was the one
in which Dewey met groups of the un-
hitched and uninstructed and, beguiled
them with the assurance that passes all
doubt.

COL. ROBERT R. MCCORMICK had
potency of a negative sort. After a
year’s deliberation he decided upon
Taft. Then, after a pleasant dinner,
he added Stassen. The majority of the
Illinois delegation wanted Governor
Green on the national ticket. Their prac-
tical minds conceived Dewey to have
the better chance for the nomination.
They also thought Dewey would draw
better in Chicago and thus could better
help the county ticket. They wanted to
cast their bread on Dewey waters. The
colonel said “No.” Over his dead body
or, more accurately, over his living
newspaper, would any leader—Green

or Brooks or anyone else—go for
Dewey. There was no choice. Most re-
luctantly the delegation turned to Taft.
As one delegate remarked to me in a
crowded elevator: “The cunnel shore
made us miss the boat.” And so the
colonel denied himself the happiness of
having his friend Governor Green on
the ticket. As a man of convictions he
was great. As a boss he fell on his face.
Perhaps he will learn that a
boss cannot afford convic-
tions. A boss takes what he
can get.

In the Democratic convention
bosses have cut a sorry
figure. True, the puissant
Hague before the convention
led his robots to Truman and
then to Eisenhower. The
Arvey-Kelly hold is consid-
erable in the Illinois group.

But New York lacks cohesion, and no
leadership distinguishes Pennsylvania.
It would be easy at this point to in-
dulge in some wishful thinking. I wish
I could say that the days of bosses
are over. That civil righteousness has
triumphed and that from here on every
man is boss. But that would suggest a
transformation in human nature hardly
justified by the facts. Selfishness, weak-
ness, cupidity, indifference and igno-
rance are not gone. The elements that
made bosses still live.

BUT we can legitimately take account
of some factors which made it harder
for one man or group to control a state
or city. New organs of public opinion
have emerged which have not yet been
adapted to the uses of a boss. There is
more dissemination of information, if
not of wisdom, by agencies which can-
not be controlled locally. The radio and
television operating on a national scale
enter the homes, clubs and saloons of
the tightest ward bailiwicks. The news-
paper is more largely nourished by
national advertising than in earlier
days. As a business the newspaper must
appeal to all parties and all people.
To be too partisan is too expensive. And
last but not least, there is the magazine
with national support and circulation
moving into the homes and newsstands
and dentists’ offices and barbershops of
the nation.

Maybe human nature has been all
right all along. It just needed a little
more information.

Newsweek, July 19, 1948