Here's a text version of the provided article, maintaining the column structure as much as possible.  There might be minor variations in formatting due to the complexities of OCR on multi-column layouts.


**The Mars and the Future**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

BALTIMORE — Airplane manufacturers have something that is a cool, bracing tonic to the spirit. Perhaps that is because they are mostly men who launched their careers in a great adventure. They have lived their lives in no puny pursuit of security. After risking their necks in primitive machines, they risked their money in making better ones. With every success they doubled their stakes by risking their reputations on new designs and models. They risked their reputation for good judgment by telling us this would be a new kind of war. And always, like magnificent cats, they landed on their feet.

That is why I sit up and take notice when these men talk about the future. They have won all the fights so far, and the wise man doesn’t bet against a champion. He can win occasionally by so betting, but he will lose a lot before he wins.

Take Glenn Martin here in Baltimore, for example. In 1909, in a small abandoned church in Santa Ana, Calif., Martin built his first plane and taught himself to fly it. He had built gliders before that, and still earlier, ingenious kites. He flew his own machines and became one of that great group of fliers who put new life into county fairs. He flew the first air mail in 1912. He tossed the first bombs from an airplane in 1913 and made the first over-ocean flight —to Catalina and return. The money he made by risking his life he ventured in the manufacture of planes for an incredulous public. In 1913 he built the Army’s first training and bombing plane. From that beginning he developed an association with the armed services that has continued to this day. The record of that association is a distinguished one.

In 1914, within a week after the war broke out, he said: “The airplane will practically decide the war in Europe. Veritable flying death will smash armies, wreck mammoth battleships, and bring the whole world to a vivid realization of the awful possibilities of a few men and a few swift aerial demons… The generals who realize this quickest and fight first with the flying death, will win.” With good humor he now admits that he was one war too soon. But as this war unfolds, his vision is justified.

Today as we rest our confidence in our great present production, Martin and other manufacturers are raising our sights. The future is beginning to get clearer. While croakers are asking what will happen to our production machinery after the war, and academic postwar planners are readying the rakes and shovels for the unemployed, practical men with real vision are telling us how we can avoid the chaos of unemployment. If we will listen to the right people, we can escape that chaos.

Martin is building big planes for the United Nations. There is the B-26 bomber, of which the OWI said last week: “No nation but the United States, so far as is known, has so efficient a plane in its class.” The Martin company is also building the Baltimore, a stand-by with the RAF. And it is building a long-range flying boat, the Mariner.

The Martin lights are shining far down the road ahead. The giant Mars is a promise of what the future holds, although it may well be a factor in the war also. The Mars is an outgrowth of the big Clippers that Martin built for over-ocean travel. It weighs 140,000 pounds, and has a wingspread of 200 feet. It is capable of a nonstop flight to Europe and back. It has been flying since early summer and is still in process of experimentation.

Beyond the Mars, the Martin plans call for a flying boat of 250,000 pounds, able to carry 100 passengers to London in thirteen hours. Mr. Martin believes in the future of such flying boats for cargoes, for passengers and for war. It is unnecessary to quibble now over land-planes versus seaplanes. Both, it would seem, have their place in the immediate and distant future.

These plane makers have seized gravitation, tamed it and trained it for useful domestic service. The Greeks told of the giant Anteus who got strength from the earth by touching it. These men get power from Mother Earth by rising above her. Gravitation propels their bombs, gives them maneuver-ability and multiplies the striking power of their arms. They are saving freedom in the war and they are opening vistas for a brilliant future.