Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure as much as possible.  Because of the image quality, some words might be slightly off or missing.

**Is This Food Necessary?**

by Raymond Moley

ONCE more, according to the President's budget, we are to have a deficit. Running back over the six fiscal years to the year before the Korean war, there were six deficits and one surplus. The average for the four Truman years was $3,250,000,000. The average for the two Eisenhower years will be $3.1 billion. This is a small gain, considering the promises made in 1952 and the piping times since.

And for the final full year of his term the President will present us with another bit of red ink, if any considerable part of the requests in his State of the Union message is granted. Among those requests is the multibillion-dollar Upper Colorado power and irrigation plan and several other reclamation projects urgently supported by members of his party from the arid states.

These proposals will be defended by reclamation people on the ground that new food and fiber acreage will be needed to fill more mouths and cover more backs in the future. The usual "famine" year given in such specious arguments is 1975. I have heard this dire prediction all over the reclamation West for a long time, and during the past year I have made it my business to do a bit of research on the subject.

The claim of a shortage in 1975 or in any foreseeable future is a barefaced fabrication. It is high time that the people in the big tax-paying states are awakened to this fraud. The material refuting this claim is in official government sources, and a large part of it comes from the scientists in the United States Department of Agriculture. In addition to the authorities I shall cite in what follows, plenty of refutation is in President Truman's Materials Policy Commission Report, 1952; his Water Resources Policy Commission Report, and in many periodicals.

One of those sources of future food will be land now used to feed horses and mules, which will be released for other purposes. Byron Shaw of the USDA told a House committee in 1952 that there would be 15 million acres. That would be almost five times the amount of land for which irrigation is demanded.

But Sherman E. Johnson of the USDA points out that we should need no new acreage at all because the area now under cultivation will produce 40 to 50 per cent more food and fiber because of improvements in methods of farming, such as the use of insecticides, variations in the uses of land, and mechanization.

Another USDA expert, John A. Short, put the case this way in 1952:  "For every four persons sitting down at the table in 1950 there will be another person in 1975... This is a big order but American farmers have always met the challenge. For example, they increased production by more than 40 per cent during the last fifteen years... The findings of a recent nationwide study emphasized that, if necessary, agricultural production could be increased about 20 per cent above 1950 by 1955. And this could be accomplished with our present farm land base. Thus, although we will probably not be required to fill the fifth plate until 1975, we could almost fill it by 1955, if necessary."

We also have assurance from experts in agriculture that we shall be plagued with surpluses from our present production for some years to come. This year we are spending "for price support and related programs," which means mainly surpluses, $1,538,000,000. The carry-over of wheat and cotton more than trebled in the years 1952-54. A year ago the CCC had exhausted its $6.7 billion borrowing authority, and the President asked Congress to increase it to $8.5 billion. In June he asked for $1.5 billion more. There has been a small drop in surpluses since.

IF by some miracle this problem of surpluses should be solved by 1975 and the population should proliferate like mosquitoes in a swamp, there are millions of acres in the Southeast which, with a small fraction of the cost of reclaiming arid land, can be fitted for production either by clearing and drainage or by supplemental irrigation. I shall describe those possibilities next week.

Newsweek, January 24, 1955