Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure.  There may be minor formatting differences.

**Just One Dam After Another—I**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

This piece and one to follow are short comments on an immense subject, the Central Arizona Project. In the midst of the Senate investigation of foreign policy, it has been largely overlooked. But we and our children may be paying for it long after Truman, MacArthur, Chiang, Mao, and Stalin are dead. It has been called the most gigantic reclamation project in history. Certainly, it is the most expensive. And the Senate has authorized it. It is embodied in Senate Bill 75 and H.R. 1500.

The subject is very, very complicated. To grasp it, a person should read at least 150 pages of Senate debates led by Senators McFarland and Knowland, and the volumes of committee hearings.

The water of the Colorado River is vital to the life of several states. Some years ago, the seven states in its basin concluded a compact to govern its use. The states in the upper basin were to be entitled to use about half the water; the lower ones—California, Arizona, and Nevada—the available remainder. The apportionment of the latter has never been exactly determined. California gets some through the Hoover Dam development, for which it pays or has contracted for.

Arizona now claims some more, partly to supply electric power and to irrigate the area near Phoenix, mainly three large counties. These counties have gained 78 per cent in population in ten years. The farmers face a diminishing water supply. The new project, according to the Bureau of Reclamation, would directly supply 225,000 acres, including 6,000 farms. Indirectly affected would be 725,000 acres and 30,000 farmers.

Arizona proposes that the Federal government build a great dam at Bridge Canyon, above the Hoover Dam. The water there gathered would generate a large amount of power and also provide irrigation to "rescue," not "reclaim," the farmers in Central Arizona. To provide these, there would be built a series of works, a generating plant, a great pump to give the water a start, and channels to carry it many miles to the thirsty land. The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation has made elaborate plans and estimates.

The bill now passed by the Senate would not authorize the building of this project (a) until present emergency controls are removed, and (b) until the Supreme Court has decided that Arizona is entitled to the amount of water required.

The Bureau of Reclamation’s estimate of the cost of building is about $788,000,000. This, however, would not be the total cost to Federal taxpayers, because there are interest charges running throughout the period of repayment by beneficiaries, a period estimated at between 73 and 100 years. The cost to the Federal government would be between $2,000,000,000 and $3,000,000,000.

The President cannot be held responsible for this plan, because his Budget Bureau has stated that this project is "not in accord with his program at this time." Responsibility for this authorization rests with Congress. The controversy between California and Nevada on one side and Arizona on the other need not detain us long, for the matter comes down to a national issue. California and Nevada claim that Arizona is not entitled to the amount of water involved, and also that the amount is not available if California’s contractual claims are deducted. Apparently, the Senate decided that the only way to get the issue to the Supreme Court was to pass the entire authorization. California claims that the issue could be made justiciable by a more direct and simple act of Congress.

The foregoing facts seem to be clear. The issue now goes to the argument of policy and expediency.

It is asserted by the Interior Department that the Bridge Canyon dam would fill up with silt in a period of 30 to 40 years. To prevent this, another dam or dams would have to be built up the river. Those not included in the above costs would be future charges of hundreds of millions of dollars.

The real issue to those who live in the other 45 states is the cost, the claims of Arizona citizens, and the precedent set in the financing plans in this bill.

Newsweek, June 18, 1951