Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:


How to Lose With Ike

by Raymond Moley

LOS ANGELES—"The blood of martyrs
is the seed of the church." Tragedy,
they say, is the ultimate teacher.
Republicans this year might learn
from their best-remembered disaster,
in the dark November of 1948.

Long before that election the
smartest political brains of the labor
unions wrote off Mr. Truman as missing
and probably lost. They concentrated
their money and manpower in
the districts where they believed they
could defeat Republican members of
Congress. They held their fire until
October. Then they shot the works.

Some Republicans after but not before
the election realized what had taken
place. Dewey carried sixteen states and
a considerable electoral vote. But the
Republican casualties were nine
senatorships and 74 House seats. So far
as I know, this was the first time in
history when a winning candidate for
the Presidency ran behind the vote of
his party for the House. His plurality
was 2,135,747. Democratic candidates
for the House had 2,861,442.

POWER OVER LAWS

In the light of this experience and
of the facts before us today, can we
conceive that smart fellows like the
Reuthers are interested in who is
nominated in Chicago? Those realists
are interested in power—in power
over the making of laws that must be
obeyed by industrial management, by
the producers of food, by those who
disseminate news and entertainment,
by the people who run transportation
systems, by the huge bureaucracy
that only nominally works for the
President, and by all of us as taxpayers
and citizens. They know that the
pattern for the seizure of that power
is that which has guided every minority
which has driven its ruthless energy
into strategic spots while a listless
majority was looking the other way.

Victor Riesel, who continues to be
the best labor reporter in the country,
wrote two weeks ago that "Labor is
practically ignoring the Presidential
election and is concentrating on the
tiniest local districts. So carefully and
scientifically has this grass-roots campaign
been worked out by labor strategists
that the Republicans may find
themselves in control of the White
House and its surrounding lawns but
little else." These detailed plans have
been written for labor political workers
in a manual called "How to Win,"
published by COPE, the political arm
of the AFL-CIO.

The multitudinous ears that listen
for these labor politicians gather the
information that Stevenson stirs the
cockles of no hearts and that very few
know Harriman or Herter or Clement
or where they live or what they do
for a living. Labor politicians feel that
they can do with Mr. Eisenhower, although
they will give lip service, not money, to
his opponent. What they want is an
obedient Congress. The Supreme Court
is on their side already.

COPE'S LESSON

They are not interested in Presidential
patronage, because they already have
captive unions with immense treasuries
and tens of thousands of jobs paid out
of the gross earnings of industry. In the
drive this year, COPE is vastly better
equipped than were the labor committees
in 1948. They also have the successful
pilot operation in Michigan to guide
them in taking over the Democratic
organizations in other states.

The tail may be on the other coat as
it was in 1948, and Ike himself may be
swept away in the rout. Those who
merely like Ike and stop there and who
limit their lazy interest to gossip about
the President's innards or what is ailing
Stassen, or what is the matter that
Democrats don't like Nixon may be in
for the shock of their lives.

It is naïve to think and it is untrue
that Democrats and "independents" can
be diverted by a Republican policy of
copying the ideology of labor's realists.
They can be frustrated only by taking a
lesson from their diligence, their energy,
their attention to the dull details of
rooting out votes sympathetic to their
collectivist principles. This lesson should
be used by conservatives who are willing
to comb the byways, the side streets, the
apartment houses, and the suburban
homes for conservative votes for conservative
candidates for Congress. This may be the
best way to help Ike, and it is certainly
the only way to save us from minority rule.

Newsweek, August 20, 1956