Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


U.S. vs. Small Business

by Raymond Moley

IN THE autumn of 1955 I presented in this space several articles describing the extent to which the Federal government, notably the Defense Department, was engaged in competition with small private businesses. I noted the long fight in Congress to eliminate this form of competition and the startling facts presented by a Hoover commission task force headed by Charles R. Hook of Armco. The Hoover commission itself stated that in the Department of Defense alone there were 2,500 commercial and industrial businesses representing an investment of more than $15 million and that a great many of them might safely be eliminated.

The Eisenhower Administration was making good progress in eliminating such unnecessary competition with private businesses when Congress in 1955 erected a serious roadblock. An amendment to the Defense Appropriation Bill, Sec. 638, provided that the respective appropriation committees of the Congress might have a veto on any eliminations. The President strongly protested this invasion of his authority but without avail. I promised in my final article to report later developments and now, more than a year later, there are hopeful signs of reform.

When, in May 1956 the Defense Appropriation Bill came before the House, an amendment similar to the obnoxious Sec. 638 was eliminated by an overwhelming vote. The Senate failed to restore the amendment and the way was clear for action by the Administration so far as the Defense Department was concerned.

BUDGET REPORT

Meanwhile, director P.F. Brundage of the Budget Bureau has been active in getting the government out of unnecessary businesses. In May 1956 he issued a remarkable document which incorporated an inventory of certain commercial-industrial activities of the government together with a directive to the various departments and agencies of the government to evaluate these activities and to eliminate those not in the public interest. The Budget Bureau's inventory presented figures which were even more startling than those presented by the Hoover commission. The total number of commercial-industrial activities in all agencies of the government, military and civilian, was 19,321 with capital assets of $3 billion and 266,525 employees. There were in addition 450 government-owned but contractor-operated activities with an additional $9 billion of government investment.

On Oct. 27 of this year budget director Brundage made a report to the President stating the progress that had been made in eliminating such activities. His figures when compared with the immense task that the above figures suggest seem small but considering the enormous difficulty of excising from a government bureaucracy any of its job-providing and money-spending activities, they are notable.

ELIMINATIONS

Brundage reported that the Defense Department had eliminated 355 businesses including "83 office-equipment repair shops, 79 automotive repair shops, 45 tree and garden nurseries, 22 bakeries, twenty cobbler shops, fifteen laundries, eleven cement-mixing plants, four coffee-roasting plants," and 70 other miscellaneous activities. The civilian agencies have eliminated or curtailed 137 somewhat similar businesses. The criteria set by the Budget Bureau are not based upon "apparent" cost of an article. The Departments are told to keep in mind (a) that the government pays no taxes, (b) keeps its accounts on a different basis than private concerns, and (c) "Above all ...that the government ordinarily has no right to compete in a private enterprise economy."

This is a step-a small one-but in the right direction. It is regrettable, however, that nothing seems to have been done to eliminate many commissaries and post exchanges, not in remote places but in direct competition with private retail stores where members of the armed services, their families, relatives, and often mere friends and others get goods at a price which imposes a considerable part of the cost on the taxpayer. That would seem to be the next problem to be faced.

Newsweek, December 31, 1956