Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Moley on the Masters

This review of Raymond Moley's "27
Masters of Politics," second volume of the
NEWSWEEK'S Bookshelf, was written by
Kenneth Crawford, NEWSWEEK'S Senior
Editor for National Affairs.

American politics has a bad name with
Americans. As a "game," it is not quite
cricket; as a "profession," it is only somewhat more respectable than the oldest.
And serious American political writing,
which runs to the polemical, tends to
keep it under a cloud. For the writer or-
dinarily attacks and
"exposes" it to
make a case for
what he thinks it
should be.

Habitual readers
of political books
may be baffled, until they get used to
its unconventional
approach, by "27
Masters of Politics," Raymond
Moley's appraisal
of some of the politicians he has known at various stages of
his long career as a college professor concerned with public affairs, as a Roosevelt
brain truster in the early New Deal, and
as a journalist operating in the field of
national and international politics.

High Art: Moley proceeds from the
premise that politics is neither a tricky
game nor a shady profession but an
art whose successful practitioners are
artists of a high
order. His selected
politicians are
judged strictly on
the merits of their
performance as
politicians. He
writes about them
as a seasoned dramatic critic might
write about actors.
They have their
points of strength
and weakness, but
they always play

to a tough audience and their failures can
be forgiven if they have their successes.
Moley is an adult and indulgent critic
with deep respect for the politician's
craft and affection for those who brave
its exactions.

While he obviously has his own favorites among the 27 selected masters and expresses his own opinions freely, he hawks
neither their political wares nor any line
of his own. All he is selling, besides much
solid inside information about the careers
of his subjects and the impact of these
careers on the American scene, is orderly,
honest government within the framework

of the American Constitution, which he
reveres. Violent partisans will find little
food for their prejudices in this book.
Even Franklin D. Roosevelt, who is
not one of Moley's favorites, gets high
marks for courage and bona fide political
genius, even though he gets low grades
for studiousness and intellectual depth.
As for the still moot question of Roosevelt's sincerity, Moley says: "... Sincerity, as a quality known to the generality
of people, is not fairly applicable to a politician ... And that is in no way damning
the politician, for he may exalt virtues
such as kindness, understanding, and
public service far beyond those who sniff
at his lack of sincerity.

"Ultimately, the considerations of a
politician are not based upon truth or
fact; they are based upon what the public
will conceive to be truth or fact.
"This produces what is called a 'political mind.' [Like Roosevelt's] it is an
adaptation enforced by the necessities of
environment and survival, just as is the
fur of a polar bear or the coloration of
a groundhog.
"I realize that Roosevelt himself would
and Mrs. Roosevelt probably will deny
the foregoing evaluation. That, however,
would be a logical
extension of my argument. For no
real politician
would wish his
words and judgments to be known
as political. To eschew political motives is the first
rule of politics."

On Spooks:
Similarly Moley
defends political
ghost writing. Politicians' speeches, he thinks, should be
produced by a process of consultation between expert minds. But he contends
that Thomas E. Dewey overdid the organization of ghosts during his last
campaign.

"By the time the least common denominator of everyone's ideas was reached,"
Moley writes, "there was precious little
left. The breeding of perfection in
speeches produces something like the
overbreeding of animals. They are too
frail for the inclement atmosphere
of a campaign."

Moley's characters range from
such well-known
figures as Wendell
Willkie and Herbert Hoover to
such relatively obscure ones as the
late Tom L. Johnson, the great
Cleveland municipal


Will Hays
Newsweek, October 24, 1949