Here's the extracted text from the provided image, focusing on the main article and avoiding the advertisement columns:

More Democracy Through More Machinery
by RAYMOND MOLEY

PEORIA—The gentle Father Marquette, with whose name the early years of this city are associated, would cross himself in amazement if he could see the mechanical marvels now in production here. Later, he would offer a prayer of gratitude for what such machines will do for human welfare. Chicago, too, is thinking of machines this week. International Harvester has put on a demonstration of new machines destined to transform country life in the years ahead. It is no part of a political commentator's job to describe these little and big tractors, these new combines, these corn, beet and hay harvesters and this cotton picker. But a political commentator would be blind and dumb if he failed to see the tremendous political implications of the coming farm revolution.

The first will come from a slowing down, perhaps a reversal of the drift of young, able, farm-bred boys and girls to the cities. At first blush, it might seem that labor-saving on the farm will turn people away to find new employment. But it has been the toil, sweat and pay of farm work which have driven people from the farm in former years. New mechanical devices will provide a vastly better living under more pleasant conditions on smaller farms. The saving of good blood for farms will vitalize progress and democracy in the rural regions. Rural counties will regain some—perhaps much—of the voting strength they have lost in the past generation. There will be more intelligent political leadership coming from the townships and counties.

Another result with great political significance will flow from the creation of more individual property owners—more capitalists and small businesses, if you will. The first effect, twenty-odd years ago, of power-driven farm machinery was a trend toward larger farms. That was because the first machines were large and costly. Now the one-family farm can get small and cheap machines to do what the earlier big machines did. This is a fulfillment of Jefferson’s recipe for democracy, which pointed out that the safest custodian of political liberty was the small farmer—with a property stake in stable government. This man was, to Jefferson, the salt of the democratic earth. With the means of making a good life on a personally owned farm, the vanishing individualist will once more take form and substance.

The most spectacular result will come gradually and will relate especially to the South. Except in the delta, the cotton land east of the Mississippi has been declining in fertility. For this and many other reasons, there has been a big drift of Negroes and whites to coast cities and to the North. The decline of cotton has introduced more diversified farming. The South is finding it profitable to grow much the same products as the North and West. Thus, the nation is losing its sectional differences. The introduction of small, cheap machinery will greatly accelerate this trend. It is a trend toward national unity. It is a trend away from party divisions based on economic differences. Farmers in Iowa and Georgia will have more and more common problems. This trend, together with the scattering of the Negro population throughout the nation, may ultimately break up the political situation which has created the Solid South.

The mechanical cotton picker will, for a considerable time, be practical only on the richer cotton areas. Its introduction will be decisive, but gradual. Its effect will be evolutionary, not revolutionary. There will be the same kind of tears which watered the cheeks of sentimentalists in 1831, when the reaper appeared. The same dry breeze of facts which dried those tears will blow again. For the mechanical picker is not displacing happy cotton pickers. The war has taken hosts of them away, perhaps forever. And no one who has ever picked cotton will regret the coming of this machine. It will abolish a species of slavery—of slavery to as primitive a life as that of ancient Egypt.

Broad political patterns are written in such developments. Wise people will lift their eyes from current unrests and see these larger facts.