Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain column separation:

**Responsible Journalism**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

REFLECTION on the circumstances
that preceded and contributed to
the tragic personal crack-up and death
of James Forrestal comes inevitably
to a grave threat that hangs over all
public service in this particular democracy in this particular age. That
threat is that, as long as the press and
radio neglect their responsibility to
keep their news comment (as distinguished from routine
press reporting and radio
newscasting, which are generally good) scrupulously
within the limits of pertinent
truth and their criticism within the limits of
fairness, able but sensitive
men like Forrestal will
either be deterred from
entering public life or leave
it in disgust, disillusion-
ment, or with broken spirit. For in
part, and no one will ever know how
large a part, the pressure under which
Forrestal labored was criticism in the
press and over the radio.

A man in public life must expect
criticism and personal attack. He can,
if his temperament permits, adopt a
bit of advice that I once offered a
friend in public life: Your enemies
will believe anything against you,
your friends will know better, and
most everybody else will forget it.
This is an elaboration of a bit of wisdom attributed to Boss McCooey of
Brooklyn: "What would you give for
yesterday's newspaper?" This capacity
to shrug off unfair criticism comes
naturally to some whom Providence
has equipped with thick skins.

But capricious Providence does not
often provide fine minds with
thick skins. Sensitivity is a common
attribute of that vivid imagination
and deep conscience which are so
critically needed in high office. The
inevitable result of the privilege accorded by press and radio to a few
dispensers of attack is to deny the
public the services of sensitive men
and women. They can find happiness
in the obscurity of private life and
leave public office to the insensitive,
the dull, and the cynical.

I need not here elaborate what I
mean by pertinent truth and fair
criticism, for every important person
in the press and radio knows what
these qualities are. The real issue is
in the excuses that some responsible
heads of those media offer while they
permit incorrect news comment and
unfair criticism to use their facilities
for reaching the public. Most often,
the excuse is that a considerable part
of the public wants that sort of thing.
The answer is that a considerable
part of the public would buy opium.
The public, too, would buy
papers that published false
advertising. In the first instance the law protects the
public. In the second the
press and radio by voluntary action protect their
customers. In the matter I
am discussing a similar responsibility exists.

Those who practice journalism within the limits of
pertinent truth and fair criticism not
only have the responsibility of dissociating themselves from the perversion of an essential and honorable
calling, but have a right to expect
that those who control the press and
radio will protect the good name of
that profession. For the irrelevant reporting and unfair criticism that beat
so pitilessly upon Secretary Forrestal
have measurably destroyed the esteem
in which we are all held by the public.
For every excess committed by one
or two unworthy members of a profession, all others must suffer some of
the shame and the penalty.

The remedy lies squarely within the
reach of the ownership and management of the press and radio and
the profession of journalism which
serves both. Just as the cure of most
unfair business practices has been
found in self-restraint, so it could be
in this instance. Those who overstep
the bounds are exceedingly amenable
to prudential pressure, for the simple
reason that the desire to gain vast and
lucrative readership and audiences is
the major excitant to the excesses of
which so many are aware. The press
and radio should police themselves.
They enjoy vast power, immunity,
guaranteed privilege, and the generous cooperation of government. But
a considerable proportion of both
media is not manifesting a prudence
and self-discipline which match its
liberty.

Newsweek, June 6, 1949