Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Illusion of Economy

by RAYMOND MOLEY

In the hearings before the House Post
Office Committee on House bill
2945, which drastically increases postal
rates, representative newspaper
and magazine publishers have conclusively made two points. First, that
such drastic increases as those proposed would really fall upon the reading public by denying them a service they have enjoyed since the beginning of the republic. Second, that no economy would be achieved but, rather, a much larger Post Office deficit.

The imposition of the drastic increase in postal rates proposed in H.R. 2945 would immediately exterminate more than half of the nation’s magazines and countless weekly newspapers and small dailies. New publications in those classes could hardly be launched, except with the aid of large private subsidies. The publications most likely to die would be those which serve agricultural, trade, industrial, labor, fraternal, educational, artistic, scientific, technical, and religious interests. Strong newspapers and magazines could painfully survive, with large immediate losses, by limiting their sales to private deliveries and newsstands and by raising rates for those dependent on the mails to an almost prohibitive level. For example, the yearly rate for The New York Times would be over $50, and for the Saturday Evening Post, $10. Advertising rates would rise to a level which would bar great numbers of small manufacturers, distributors, and retailers. The publications and advertisers which survived would ultimately enjoy a quite unwholesome monopoly of access to the public.

The magnitude of this suppression of reading matter can be described by noting that 71,550,000 Americans are magazine readers. The magazines included in the Audit Bureau of Circulation, numbering 254—which is three-fifths of the total—sell about 180,000,000 an issue, of which 77,000,000 are subscriptions, almost entirely by mail. Because this dissemination of ideas and information is a service to the people and their government, Congress has always recognized the legitimacy of paying some part of its cost, just as it pays for hundreds of services to much smaller parts of our population through grants for education, soil conservation, and lighthouses. The late Mr. Justice Brandeis said in an opinion: “The justification for this non-compensatory service lies in the belief that education in its broad sense—intellectual activity fostered through the dissemination of information and ideas—is essential to the life of a free, self-governing, and striving people.”

In 1933 in a notable declaration of government policy, the Acting Postmaster General pointed out that when the government assumed some of the cost of second-class mail, it was trying to equalize opportunity and access to information as between people in large communities and others in more remote places. He asserted that one of the principal reasons for providing rural free delivery for 25,000,000 people was to afford a means for the regular distribution of newspapers to the homes of farmers and others remote from newsstands and private delivery.

I HAVE argued many times in this space for a less costly government and so, lest I be charged with inconsistency, let me add an additional word. The distribution of great numbers of magazines and the diversion of others to means of distribution other than the mails would disastrously reduce the present income of the Post Office Department. That would throw a new burden on the taxpayer or on the users of other classes of mail. Postmaster General Donaldson made that point in 1947. The Acting Postmaster General in 1933 said: “There is no class of Post Office business to which the law of diminishing returns applies with greater force than second-class mailings; and the department considers it to be beyond question that further advances in the rate of postage applicable to this class of mail matter will diminish rather than increase its revenues.”

This measure would therefore increase rather than decrease the cost of government. Like the dog in the fable, it would lose reality by reaching for an illusion.

Newsweek, April 11, 1949