Perspective
A Living Doctrine
by Raymond Moley

IT WOULD be difficult to name
any individual other than Adlai
Stevenson whose presence in Latin
America at this time would create
more anxiety among those of us who
hope for the preservation of long-
established and respected national
policies. For he and our other foreign-
policy administrators may make deci-
sions from day to day which may
weaken and abrogate the very prin-
ciples upon which our national secu-
rity was established and has since
been maintained.

Among those principles in this
hemisphere is the Monroe Doctrine,
which came into being because of the
threat to our security by Russian im-
perialist aggression. This aggressive
tradition remains unchanged.

In 1821 Czar Alexander proclaimed
a ukase which forbade any non-
Russian navigation and fishing in the
waters of the Pacific 100 miles from
the North American coast from the
Bering Strait to the 51st parallel, in
clear violation of international law
and custom.

George Canning, the British For-
eign Minister, reminded the United
States of the joint responsibility of his
country and ours. President Monroe
took counsel with Jefferson and
Madison, and with Secretary of State
John Quincy Adams composed the fa-
mous statement. The Monroe Doc-
trine was aimed at Russia and its
partners in the Holy Alliance, Prussia
and Austria.

It said that "the American conti-
nents . . . shall henceforth not be
considered as subjects for future colo-
nization by any European power."

ALIEN SYSTEMS

Then, recognizing that the unholy
trinity had designs to move in on the
new Latin American states lately
freed from Spanish rule, it declared:
"The political system of the allied
powers is essentially different . . . from
that of America . . . we should con-
sider any attempt on their part to
extend their system to any part of
this hemisphere as dangerous to our
peace and security."

Those great Secretaries of State and
Presidents who reaffirmed the Doc-
trine in the generations which fol-
lowed placed its basis firmly, as
Secretary Elihu Root said 80 years
later, "upon the right of self protec-
tion, and that right is recognized by
international law." It was, moreover,
accepted in the stipulation accepted
by the nations subscribing to the
Hague conventions of 1899 and 1907,
in these words: "Nor shall anything
contained in the said convention be
construed to imply a relinquishment
by the United States of America of
its traditional attitude toward purely
American questions."

HEIRS TO A PRINCIPLE

A century after the announcement
of the Doctrine, one of our
most eminent Secretaries of State,
Charles Evans Hughes—who, it
should be noted, through continuing
non-recognition of Soviet Russia
pointed to the essentially malign na-
ture of Communism—stated the mod-
ern meaning of the Monroe Doctrine:
"It still remains, to be applied if
necessary, as a principle of national
security. Its significance lies in the
fact that, in its essentials as set forth
by President Monroe and as forcibly
asserted by responsible statesmen, it
has been for 100 years, and continues
to be, an integral part of national
thought and purpose expressing a
profound conviction which even the
upheaval caused by the world war,
and the participation of the United
States in that struggle on European
soil, did not upset."

At this moment it should be under-
lined that the Doctrine applies not
just to the acquisition of territory, but
to the extension of a "system." (And
Communism is more inimical than was
the Holy Alliance.) Now there is not
merely a threat but an actual, demon-
strable fact that the Communist sys-
tem is established in Cuba and in
strong Communist movements in other
Latin American nations.

The men selected by the President
to interpret foreign policy are the
heirs of a principle established and
maintained by illustrious American
statesmen. The Monroe Doctrine is
an "entailed" inheritance. It cannot
be sold for the promise of good will
nor given away, nor dissipated by re-
interpretation. Those who speak for
the nation now are not creators, they
are trustees.

Newsweek, June 26, 1961