Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective

NEWSWEEK, JULY 24, 1944

The Election Is Not A Draft

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The fact that Mr. Roosevelt regards Mr. Dewey as a formidable opponent is made clear by his insistence on the draft aspects in his fourth-term announcement. He, too, wants the office to seek the man and, by taking that position, has surrendered any right to criticize Mr. Dewey for not serving out his term as Governor, if elected.

The President's letter to Democratic Chairman Robert E. Hannegan has further stressed the draft matter by saying that he would not run "in the usual partisan, political sense." It is apparent that the 1944 political fashion is to seem not to want political office. Messrs. Willkie and Bricker are melancholy reminders of what happens when a man really and openly runs for office.

If it were not so serious a moment, we might spare a minute for innocent merriment by taking the draft idea at face value. What, to suggest one possibility, if the great, generous heart of America should go out to the supposedly reluctant draftees and grant them their passionate wish to remain on the banks of the lordly Hudson? What would we do for a President then? Or if reluctance is to be the keynote of the campaign, perhaps we should let Messrs. Roosevelt and Dewey make speeches for each other. That would certainly not be running "in the usual partisan, political sense." What is more, it would doubtless provide us with a lot of interesting information.

After his nomination, however, Mr. Dewey dropped the idea of reluctance to run, and it is to be hoped that Mr. Roosevelt will do likewise. Mr. Dewey has plunged into problems of party organization, has held conferences, made plans and given directions. The Republican governors are to have a major role in their states. Every effort will be made to get out the vote. The issues will be presented in speeches now in process of careful preparation.

Mr. Roosevelt is now busy directing national affairs, of course. But to concentrate on the public performance of war matters and to exclude all mention of policies and plans for the next four years would be to deny the voters their right to know the nature of those plans.

A man should not run for the Presidential office on his record alone. He is being chosen for future, not past service. Reelection to public office is not a sort of decoration conferred for past deeds.

It is noteworthy that wherever in American life reason and experience have been used to govern tenure of office, the same people who respond to the one-good-term-deserves-another slogan in elections have established an entirely different principle. They have devised a system of honorable and rewarded retirement. When generals and admirals attain a fixed age or period of service, they are retired. They are not given new commands as rewards for battles long ago. Retirement rules apply to firemen, policemen, teachers, business executives and others. And in the selection of people for such employment, the test is the sort of job which is ahead for the sort of man under consideration.

This is not to suggest retirement for Mr. Roosevelt, but to draw attention to the irrationality of our political habits. Perhaps it is in line with our irrational voting habits that Mr. Roosevelt talks of running in a nonpolitical way. It may be that this means visiting war plants and battlegrounds or merely showing himself. But when a modification of that technique was tried four years ago, it failed, and Mr. Roosevelt ultimately took to the stump and discussed the issues.

This time, a discussion of the issues is still more important. We shall want to know a lot more of what is to be done in the four years ahead than we know now. We shall want to know how vigorous and resourceful our candidates are and precisely how they propose to serve.

This is not going to require an old-fashioned torchlight campaign with personal appearances at every station. But it will require a cogent, understandable debate between two candidates who are really running for an office they both want.

The draft idea might have been satisfactory for preconvention purposes. But it is certainly not appropriate for an election. This is a year for sincerity, straight shooting and straight talking.