Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


**Liberal's Odyssey**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

READERS of this column may safely
pass the hint to friends or relatives
that they would enjoy for Christmas a
copy of George Creel's "Rebel at Large."
It is the season's best political story
and the most stimulating bit of remi-
niscence since Lincoln Steffens's auto-
biography.

It is the Odyssey of a man who has
spent 50 exciting years in the stormy
waters of politics. Unlike
Steffens, who always held to
the detachment of a journal-
ist, Creel from time to time
was led by his intense feel-
ings to plunge into the mid-
dle of the battle. He served
as police commissioner in a
reform regime in Denver, as
Wilson's chairman of the
Committee on Public Infor-
mation in the World War;
held office in the NRA and WPA in
New Deal days; and ran against Upton
Sinclair in the gubernatorial primary
in California.

As participant or journalist, Creel
turned up wherever things were hap-
pening in this momentous half-century.
Vivid and often extremely amusing pic-
tures emerge from his pacemaking
prose: Kansas City at the height and
worst of the Pendergast regime, Denver
with Tammen and Bonfils and Patter-
son, Wilson days in Washington, primi-
tive Hollywood, Washington in the
early New Deal days, and California
when bizarre Utopianism burgeoned in
the 30s.

The serious historian cannot overlook
Creel's articles in Collier's during
F.D.R.'s first and second terms, for he
had easy access to the President and,
in many cases, Creel was writing what
the President was thinking. Some of
his pieces were authentic trial balloons.
Creel's judgment of Woodrow Wilson
is kindly but judicial. He worshipped
the breadth of Wilson's vision but la-
mented the blunders and prejudices
which frustrated the peace. The Creel
appraisal of Colonel House is etched in
bitter lines. Creel reserves judgment on
Truman, but he inexorably sets forth
the President's Pendergast antecedents.

ARDENT worshippers will not enjoy the
Creel appraisal of F.D.R., but the
pattern of his disillusionment is not
unlike that of many early New Dealers.
He was thrilled by the 1933 promise,
disconcerted by the rag-tag California
supporters of Roosevelt in 1934, shocked
by the Roosevelt who made the Court
fight of 1937, frightened by the at-
tempted purge of 1938. The final Creel
judgment is that F.D.R. dissipated a
great liberal movement by failure to
complete what was started and that,
under the influence of power and public
acclaim, he developed a complex of
infallibility.

The wild oats of New
Dealism in California grew
in the form of many radical
movements. The mumbo-
jumbo rituals of the Utopi-
ans, the weird economics of
Upton Sinclair's production-
for-use and the unprincipled
exploitation of the old and
guileless by the Townsend
movement are all dissected
by Creel in unforgettable terms.

I do not want to put words in the
mouth of my witness, but I strongly
feel that the implication of Creel's story
of 50 years is that the problems as well
as the remedies of the Progressive Era
of 40 years ago are as dead as Nineveh
and Tyre. Whether the remedies pro-
posed by Progressives were effective or
whether the patient recovered naturally,
we cannot know. That there have been
gains is indisputable. Business, which
now "operates in a shop window," has
a sense of trusteeship unknown in 1900.
There will probably never be another
Tweed. Journalism is less colorful but
more reliable.

MANY of the cure-alls advocated by
Creel and some of the rest of us
turned to dust when they were tried.
The direct primary, initiative, referen-
dum and recall and other gadgets failed
to meet the hopes of 40 years ago. De-
vices to improve city government, such
as commission government and the city-
manager plan, were temporarily useful.
But corrupt politics generally succeeded
in controlling these systems as ade-
quately as it controlled mayors and
councils. Creel's comments have a bear-
ing on city problems everywhere.

We are, Creel believes, at the portal
of a new era. Our lines must be re-
formed, our problems restated and
our methods rebuilt. We shall need
more Creels in the days to come, with
stout hearts, burning loyalties and a
passion for justice.

Newsweek, December 15, 1947