Here's the extracted text from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible.  The advertisement on the left is excluded.

**Perspective**

Continued from Mr. Moley's regular column space on page 116

have already seen that there is no validity in that claim. Payment from that source would not begin anyhow until after about 50 years. By that time, the power features might well be obsolete. It should be emphasized that there appears to be a very serious doubt as to whether any power revenues would ever be applied to the payment of irrigation costs in the Upper Colorado Basin. I submit that a proposal to start payment after 50 years on a debt for any purpose is not worth the paper it is written on.

Meanwhile, because of the high construction costs per acre of the irrigation works and the accumulating unpaid interest, the Federal subsidy would be enormous. Under the ultraliberal construction of the reclamation law by the department, freedom from interest extends not only through the 40 or 50 years beyond a "development" period, but indefinitely into the future.

Something like 90 per cent of the irrigation costs (including interest) would be Federal subsidy. Besides, experience with reclamation projects indicates that after 30 years or so it is necessary in a considerable number of cases to spend further money on rehabilitation. This is another large item of expense for the Federal government. There is also the fact that there is pending in Congress a proposal to subsidize a "soil bank" of land now under production. We are faced with subsidies for taking land out of production and with subsidies for putting land into production at the same time.

Q. But proponents of the Upper Colorado storage project, ignoring the fact that in humid or semi-humid sections of the country there are millions of acres which might with relatively small cost be prepared for cultivation, say that new irrigated land will be necessary by 1975 because of the rapidly increasing population in the United States. What about that argument for bringing new irrigated land into cultivation?

A. Such a claim must be balanced against the fact that through technology increased production can be and is being obtained from fewer acres. It will be very many years, if ever, before such land as is proposed in this project could be needed.

I would conclude that if Congress proposes to pay this immense subsidy to bring this arid land into production, it should be done in the open. As it is, the subsidy is pretty well concealed by means of a repayment formula which is absolutely without validity.

February 20, 1956