Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the image's quality and column layout.


Illusions of Security

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Nothing in Herbert Hoover's warning to his country on his 75th birthday was more impressive than his statement that if governments take all that has been authorized and seriously proposed, 75 or 85 per cent of the savings of the American people will go to support government. Since private insurance is a major means of saving, I sought the opinion in Los Angeles of a notably forthright insurance executive on the relationship between government social-security measures and savings. Asa Call is president of the Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Co. and head of the Life Insurance Association of America. In expressing the opinions which follow, he made it clear that he was speaking solely as an individual and not for the association.

"Three points," said Call, "impress me in the basic evaluation of compulsory social security which, as we all know, is becoming a major part of government spending.

"First, when government takes income from the individual, it is taxing away the source from which real personal security can be provided. The more government absorbs, the less remains in the hands of the citizen to provide for his personal wishes, desires, and needs. Ultimately the government usurps the function of providing security by taking private income in exchange for doles of bread and butter. The end of this is slavery. And the degree to which we are approaching this is terrifying, if we will only sit down and think about the figures.

"Second, we must recognize that when the beneficiaries of a trust become its administrators, the essential principle of trusteeship is destroyed. In compulsory social security, the people who are the beneficiaries elect from among themselves the people who frame the program of benefits, exact the money to meet it, and administer the details of the plan. It differs from the principle of private mutual insurance in that the means to meet the costs are not voluntarily subscribed by the beneficiaries but are taken from all taxpayers. It would be difficult to imagine a more dangerous situation.

The citizen who accepts the largess of government cannot preserve individual freedom, for he who pays the piper calls the tune.

"Third, I have been greatly disturbed to note that businessmen and business groups give their approval to what they call the 'principle' of social security without any specifications of the facts involved in such a program. The so-called 'reasonable yardsticks' which they envision may not be what the people who enact and control the plan have in mind. Many endorsements of social security have been expressed with the expectation that the fund, properly administered and frugally applied, would provide a subsistence level for those in need, without too great damage to our economy or restraint upon initiative and incentive. Such ill-considered endorsements have been used by government officials, pressure groups, and others to expand the coverage and cost.

Proposals before the present Congress dealing with government gifts to the public in the general welfare field would if adopted take a substantial part of the earnings of all employed persons. The endorsements of well-meaning people in support of a modest program have proved to be the Frankenstein monsters which are now threatening to engulf the economic system which created the businesses of which these endorsers are the managers and trustees."

This warning to businessmen and organizations might well be pondered by the responsible people concerned. Asa Call knows how extensively the concept of social security has been expanded in Western states since the idea was first proposed nationally by Franklin Roosevelt fifteen years ago. Roosevelt asked Congress to consider means of protecting people from the "vicissitudes" of old age and unemployment. Under laws now enacted in many states, the proof of need is no longer in order. The principle of a minimum subsistence has vanished. And the new principles which have evolved are hardly those to which any person can subscribe who takes a realistic view of public finance.

Newsweek, August 29, 1949