Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to maintain the original column structure.  It's difficult to be completely accurate due to the image quality and columnar layout, but this is a close approximation:


**NEWSWEEK, APRIL 15, 1940**

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Chaos in California

A week's study of the strange
didos in the Democratic party in California
discloses, first, that Garner has a surprisingly
good chance of getting a solid delegation
from that state for the Democratic
convention in July. The reason is the hopeless
chaos in the ranks of the piebald collection
of politicians that has hitherto moved to the
mesmerism of the Roosevelt appeal. Up to
this time, Democrats in California were
fairly united behind Roosevelt, although they
had violently contesting leaders. Now they
are not only split on leaders, but split on
policies.

The Garner movement, unsteady to begin
with, has, at this writing, found skillful
leaders and a sizable following among
Democrats. The awful confusion among the
third termers and the quality of their slates
of candidates has at long last driven
Democrats to the conclusion that they must
stop the travesty of party rule that has
characterized the so-called "Democracy" of
California. They have found in Garner a
rallying point and, despite the kindly
feeling among them for much that Roosevelt
has done, they are prepared to knock state
"radicalism" into a cocked hat even if the
third-term issue shares the same fate.

About a month ago, Washington got some
wind of all this. It had, needless to say, been
common knowledge in California political
circles for weeks, but it took the usual while
to travel to the national capital. When it
finally did get there, though, the facts were
pretty garbled. Harold L. Ickes, a recently
converted Democrat himself, seems to have
decided that California "Democracy" is a
simple thing. He apparently figured it
consisted of William G. McAdoo and Culbert
Olson, the Governor, and that, if they could
be reconciled, a solid pro-Roosevelt
delegation could be selected in the primary
next month. But the so-called "Democracy"
of California is something that neither Mr.
McAdoo nor Mr. Olson nor the two together
can control. This is not to disparage Mr.
McAdoo and Mr. Olson. No one can control
the "Democracy" of California because no one
knows what it is. Its habitat is indeterminate;
its size, problematical, and its various
purposes, unlimited in number and completely
contradictory one to the other.

Mr. Ickes did get Mr. McAdoo and Mr.
Olson into the same room for a few minutes.
Presently Mr. McAdoo left. Not out of pique,
but because he had other things to do. So the
rest of the group proceeded to select a "slate"
which included both McAdoo and Olson. A
good judge of politics in California said that
Mr. McAdoo, in addition to himself, really
controlled only two and a half of the forty-four
votes represented by the "slate." Mr.
McAdoo's friends were disappointed, and Mr.
McAdoo, after thinking the matter over,
withdrew his name. There were other
withdrawals.

Among them was that of Lieutenant
Governor Patterson, more radical than Olson,
and now strongly opposed to him. Patterson
got up a slate of his own. He is now
denouncing Olson for trying to break up his
slate, charging that Olson is promising jobs
to his colleagues on the delegation. The
attitude of the Patterson group toward
President Roosevelt is not very clear.

Then there are the Ham 'n' Eggers. They
are cranks, but they are consistent cranks.
They are homogeneous in their fantasy-
weaving. They are not for anyone in
particular for President. They are for
pensions. Presumably the candidate who
favors the biggest pensions will get their
votes. They claim more than half the total
number of registered Democrats in the state.

Meanwhile, Governor Olson faces recall.
Slightly over three hundred thousand petitioners
are required for a recall election. The best
information I could get is that there are five
hundred thousand names on the petitions now,
and that seven hundred thousand will
probably be filed. In the event of a recall, the
ballot will carry new candidates for governor.
Everyone will run, of course, and the man with
the most votes will get in if Olson is voted
out. Olson supporters are already arguing
against his recall on the ground that, in view
of the probable field of candidates, someone
more radical might succeed him. A not wholly
dignified argument, but a persuasive one,
everything considered.

So if a Roosevelt-for-President delegation
goes to Chicago it will be one led either by a
governor who may not be governor long, or by
a Ham 'n' Egger, or by Patterson. Which
explains why so many Democrats in California
are turning to the Garner cause.

There is a pretty fundamental lesson for
Democrats in this California situation. The
election of Roosevelt in 1936 was a rallying,
under one flag, of a wholly incongruous
collection of groups. The party had no real
philosophy. It had only a candidate—a
candidate who persuaded the voters that,
through him, they could attain their hearts'
desire. There were those who warned that a
smaller and less disparate majority might last
longer. No one listened. Mutually antagonistic
groups must ultimately fall out. No leader can
hold them together. The reckoning may be
nearer than we think, and the California
chaos may be the portent.

Midwestern Trends

The impressions that remain with me after
conversations with political observers and
newspapermen in New Mexico, Kansas and
Missouri are all more or less related to the
recent state primaries in Wisconsin. Roosevelt
and Dewey are the central figures in the
speculation of those out here who are trying to
discover trends. Roughly, the picture is as
follows:

1—In these and surrounding states, Republican
political leaders, most of whom will be
delegates to the Philadelphia convention, feel
no great personal enthusiasm for Mr. Dewey's
candidacy. But his remarkable ability to get
votes and attract public attention compels
their increasing interest. He has, they say,
shown in an actual vote that his superiority in
private polls has not been exaggerated. They
point out that Dewey's vote in Wisconsin was
all the more impressive because he was running
in an "isolationist" state against an "isolationist"
opponent. They believe that he will go to
Philadelphia with at least 300 votes. Taft, they
estimate, will come next, with about 150; James
and Vandenberg will have about 100 each; and
the others will have a scattering of votes.

2—In this neighborhood, the rank and file of
voters like candidates who appear personally to
ask for their support. Dewey has been shrewd in
coming out here and making speeches. He has
won friends. Politicians in this part of the
country view his farm speech in Lincoln with no
little admiration. It was a fairly successful
speech, and a farm-policy speech that is
anything short of a flop is a triumph. Dewey has
passed this particular test with flying colors. Mr.
Taft, on the other hand, has injured himself in
these states by his opposition in the Senate to
"parity." Vandenberg likewise, but to a lesser
degree. For, while he voted against "parity," he
did not participate, as did Taft, in the debate on
the subject.

3—Leaders in both parties say that Roosevelt
acts like a candidate and has eliminated most of
the possible substitutes. They guess that he will
run. But, privately, both Democrats and
Republicans interpret the Garner vote in
Wisconsin as weighty evidence of the strength of
the opposition within the Democratic party to a
third term. They also find reason to ponder the
sizable gain for the GOP in the total vote cast.