Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

PERSPECTIVE
Tyranny of Minorities
by Raymond Moley

PERHAPS the most treasured and
distinctive of American ideals is
that of a classless society. The vision
of every American is that he is a citi-
zen of a nation in which, by the grace
of God, he may by his efforts move
his status from low to high place. He
knows too that if his efforts fail or he
manages badly or if he chooses ease or
dissipation rather than effort, he will
move downward.

As everyone knows, there is no
equality in capacity, in environment,
or in the capricious chances of life.
But collective America through its
government seeks to maintain and
open more widely the gates of oppor-
tunity. For there are distinctions, if not
classes-distinctions in age, race, oc-
cupation, education, and physical and
mental capability. These differences
have always been present and no
doubt always will be. But so long as
they were recognized and there was
among all Americans a great reservoir
of compassion, mutual aid, fair play,
and cooperative effort, such differ-
ences were bearable within the con-
text of a classless society.

But as Aristotle put it, man is a
"political animal," and in a free politi-
cal society Americans have developed
the political practice of seizing upon
these differences for political exploi-
tation. Jefferson's praise of those
engaged in agriculture, however sin-
cere, was not only a great sociological
truth but a shrewd means of bringing
to his support a large segment of the
voting strength of the new nation. So
also was Hamilton's famous "Report
on Industry and Commerce." But with
that report Hamilton originated cer-
tain governmental privileges which
developed over the years in tariffs
and other special advantages to a
very powerful group. Ultimately,
what were called "the interests" dom-
inated the Republican Party.

NEW SPECIAL INTERESTS

But in this century there has awak-
ened a sense of unity among many
more minorities. In the first place,
such groups create their own organi-
zations. Then politicians secure for
them special privileges. The emer-
gence of the super-service state with
privileges, immunities, and benefits
for many groups creates a quite dif-
ferent political society than the class-
less egalitarian "democracy" which
philosophers have hailed and of
which poets have sung. Whenever a
group develops power to get from
government some advantage, its
power grows by what it feeds upon.
And political government is ready
with more nourishment. I hardly need
to name the multitude of such organ-
ized groups. Now on the national
scene a new interest is growing to ma-
turity which may well rival even the
greatest of them all, including organ-
ized labor.

It is based upon one of the most
natural differences in the world-age.
In many states the elderly have been
powerful political agencies. This has
been especially true in favored ha-
vens for retired oldsters. But with the
multiplication of survivors over 65, po-
litical calculations have envisaged a
national group which numbers ap-
proximately 17 million.

AN OLD-AGE BLOC

This consideration is basic in the
conflict in Congress over medical care
for the aged. And the definable popu-
lation of senior citizens now enjoying
social-security benefits is made to
order and to government specifica-
tions as a broad base of power. But it
is a base upon which can be built, as
time goes on, many, many more than
are now specifically social-security re-
cipients. For as Senator Kerr says,
once the device of adding free medi-
cal care is attached to the OASDI tax,
there can be no end to the future ad-
ditions. In short, once this measure is
enacted, the end of private medical
care is only a matter of time. No po-
litical party can measurably check its
subservience to government. Also the
inexorable march of science will con-
tinue to lengthen the life span, and
employment conditions will continu-
ally lower the retirement age.

This vast segment of the population
will in consequence attain organiza-
tion at the national level, pressing in-
exorably for more and more as those
who support it with their taxes have
less and less surplus to give. Inflation
will take charge then.

One more member will join the
ranks of what has become in fact a
government by, for, and of minorities.

Newsweek, March 19, 1962