Here's a text extraction from the provided image, aiming to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Propaganda for Princetonians

by RAYMOND MOLEY

THERE is considerable practical
value as well as a touch of grim
humor in the announcement by Fred
G. Clark's American Economic Foun-
dation of a short seminar in economics
in New York Sept. 13-15 "to inoculate"
prospective college students against
the leftist teachings which their pro-
fessors are about to bestow upon them.
An examination of the assigned
readings, texts, and oral in-
struction in a great many
courses in our first-rate insti-
tutions reveals not objective
teaching but specific propa-
ganda. Plenty of proof of
this is at hand, but space
permits only one excellent
example. Two assistant pro-
fessors of politics at Prince-
ton got out a book of
readings last year called
"Roots of Political Behavior-Introduc-
tion to Government and Politics." The
introduction bears the presumptuous
claim that the book provides students
"certain basic tools of analysis."

BUT in the section on "Economics
and Politics," the authors are not
content to let their selections speak for
themselves, but provide their own in-
terpretations, which follow squarely in
the groove of the biased selections that
they offer. We are told by them that
free private enterprise is more or less
mythical and that "concentration, no
matter how measured, is certainly
characteristic of the American econ-
omy." Then follows a quote from that
great economist, Senator Murray of
Montana. The cream of the jest is an
assertion that new competitors can
only come into the field through gov-
ernment help, and as an example they
offer "Preston Tucker in automobiles."
The readings are taken from nine
authors. Charles A. Beard's economic
basis of politics is stated. Gardiner C.
Means, formerly adviser to Henry
Wallace, wants us to detach ourselves
from the old tradition that opportunity
is open to everybody. David Lynch,
summarizing what he chooses to select
from the late but unlamented TNEC
study, says that the basic theory of
industry is that "unrestricted competi-
tion should be required of everyone
but 'us." Adolf A. Berle depicts omi-
nously the separation of ownership
from control in business. Stephen
Raushenbush, one of the most social-
istic of all New Dealers, says in
effect that the government must con-
trol business or business will control
government. Robert S. Lynd speaks of
"lawyers... the public-relations men,
the press, and all the other pliant
agents of organized business." Robert
Brady says that the issue is "whether
government will be able to coordinate
and plan economic activities
toward popular ends." Walton
Hamilton says that "the
separation of the state and
economy is now gone," and
"we the people" should
"make the industrial system
the instrument of general
welfare." Dewey Anderson
and Percy E. Davidson,
zealous members of the old
TNEC staff, contribute a
long, wordy essay on the truism that
people vote according to interests.
The net of all these articles is that
competition is dying or dead, that a
few corporations control economic life,
that only the state must be allowed to
save us, and that government planning
is essential. This was and is the phi-
losophy of British Socialism.
No expression is offered from the
view of those who disagree with this
thesis, although volumes are available.

FATHERS who object to paying for
this sort of teaching about the
system in which they are working can
do little by crying out for investiga-
tions and purges. This sort of thing is
too deeply seated and subtle for that.
They can, however, do a few things
on their own. They can give their sons
and daughters some real instruction at
home about the economic facts of
life. They can take sufficient interest
in their children's education to look
into the courses and texts that are
offered. They can see that their chil-
dren take courses taught by sound
teachers. They can, if they look close-
ly, find plenty of colleges where fair
and sound economics is taught. And
they can give material aid to institu-
tions that do not teach that fathers in
business get their money from an
unholy economic system.
All this is no suggestion of limiting
the freedom of inquiry of the pro-
fessors. It is to suggest that parents
have some freedom of inquiry, too.

Newsweek, September 11, 1950