Here's the text from the provided image, separated into columns to avoid overlapping:


**Column 2:**

Perspective

Our Not Too Alert Front

by Raymond Moley

THE President's July call for readiness and sacrifice in meeting the Soviet threat seems to have little application to Interior Secretary Udall's attitudes toward two of our most vital industries. The one is the plan to create a government monopoly in the production and distribution of electric power. The other is an almost unbelievable indifference toward the Soviet Union's tremendous drive to subvert large areas of the world by dumping a large part of its rapidly growing oil production.

This oil offensive is one of the most dramatic weapons forged by the Soviet in the cold war. The Kremlin has been stepping up its production of oil by drilling to greater depths in the rich Baku region and by bringing into production a recently opened oil field in the Volga-Baku region. Two years ago a Soviet Seven Year Plan for Oil called for doubling production by 1965 and for doubling exports of oil by 1970. New pipelines will stretch out to the Eastern European satellites, to the Baltic, Black, and Caspian seas, and to the east along the borders of Siberia, as far as Mongolia and China. To carry oil on the seven seas, Soviet tankers are on the ways in satellite and free-world yards.

But there will continue to be drastic denials of oil for Soviet home consumption and for the satellites. Also, the prices charged the satellites for oil are far above those which are levied for countries in which the Soviet hopes to create economic dependence and subsequent upheaval. This is shown by a barter deal with Italy in which needed pipeline material and machinery are paid for by crude oil at $1 a barrel, while the average price to satellites is $3.02. The free-world market price is $2.25.

THE FRENDZEL REPORT

The Soviet oil offensive is underway in Southeast Asia, South America, Africa—wherever there is unrest— marketing petroleum, helping in the construction of refineries, and even prospecting for more oil in certain backward countries.

The nature and potentialities of this threat have been well known for a considerable time to the American and British oil companies, to the Middle Eastern countries, and to various Congressional committees. An informative study was prepared for the Senate subcommittee on internal security by the Library of Congress. But an employe of the Interior Department, Donald J. Frendzel, prepared an “information circular” on the subject which reaches some astonishing conclusions. This report was finished in 1960 but was not released by Secretary Seaton. After Udall came into office, however, it was published for wide distribution.

In June, Senator Dirksen wrote to Secretary Udall protesting the publication of the Frendzel report. In the reply, which was signed by Acting Secretary Carr, the report was defended. It has since been given additional distribution. On July 28, Senator Dirksen made this correspondence public and called attention to the injury that the conclusions of the report might cause among our allies and elsewhere.

UDALL'S FOREIGN POLICY

In the Frendzel report, after a comprehensive delineation of the facts, there are added the conclusions which are called “positive aspects” of the Soviet offensive—that “the availability of Soviet oil will allow some consumers to become less dependent upon Middle Eastern oil,” that this availability will increase “competition,” and that the “realization of a rich oil base at home may cause the Soviets to exert less pressure in their desire to eventually control the oil wealth of the Middle East.” On the Italian barter agreement there is the conclusion that “this type of economic interdependence will tend toward political stability . . .”

This is an expression of high, international policy which affects not only our attitude toward the Soviet drive for economic supremacy but which affects all our allies. It is issued under the name and imprimatur of the U.S. Secretary of the Interior. The fact that the Frendzel conclusions are simply not true is incidental. The real issue is that Udall has plunged himself into foreign policy with a report which is nothing more or less than a posture of indifference, not to say appeasement.

Newsweek, August 21, 1961

Page 882 of 1197