Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've done my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  There might be minor inconsistencies due to the image quality and column layout.


TODAY IN AMERICA

May 29, 1937

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

NO COMPROMISE WITH PRINCIPLE

ONE hundred and fifty years ago, this week, the
Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia actu-
ally organized itself and got down to business. That
event the American people are now celebrating in a
very practical way: they are reaffirming their faith in
constitutional government by growing increasingly
sour about Court-packing in any form whatsoever.

This week's Gallup poll is a good measure of their
hardheaded reaction. Five successive polls, taken in
February, March, April and May, chart the flow and
the ebb of pro-Court-packing sentiment. It rose to
its highest point early in April. Since that time, it
has abruptly declined until today a preponderant
majority of the people of this country, regardless of
their devotion to the President, have set their faces
against his proposal. This is further confirmed by the
July Fortune survey, released this week.

On the fundamental issue there should be no com-
promise. The events of the past three months have
demonstrated that every legitimate objective of those
who recognize the need for change in the Supreme
Court can and should be accomplished by the method
prescribed in the Constitution—by amendment—and
that any increase in the size of the Court now would
give the President more power than is good for any
man, however lofty his intentions may be. The suc-
cess of efforts to force a compromise through vote-
trading for patronage or favors in order to save face
for the Administration at this juncture would only
assure a permanent loss of face for every man jack
who participated in the deal. History would not be
kind to those Senators, for example, who voted to in-
crease the Court by two new members in return for
the appointment of Senator Robinson to the Court.
For an increase in the Court, even by a single member,
in the light of existing circumstances would violate
fundamental principles of liberty antedating the Con-
stitution, flowing from the traditions of the mother
country and sustained in the Constitution, the law
and custom of this country until the present time.
The American Constitution, as has been pointed out
by numerous commentators, is in reality two charters
in one. It is a charter of liberty and a charter of
order. The liberty of the citizen is guaranteed in
many specific ways, on the one hand, and the form
of government is defined, on the other. But each is
dependent upon the other.

The charter of order itself is, in essence, known to
every schoolboy. It consists, first, of a division of
power between the states and the nation and, second,
of a division of the power of the national government
among three coordinate branches.

THE first principle of this charter was the subject
of the great debates that preceded the War Be-
tween the States. But it has apparently remained for
men in this generation to challenge its second prin-
ciple, the principle of a threefold division of power
in the national government, through what Edmund
Burke has called a "back door of the Constitution."
It was probably inevitable that this should happen at
a time when republican forms of government were
being threatened all over the world. But that the
threat should have come here in so flimsy a disguise


and with such brutal suddenness will remain for many
years a fact of great historical interest.

Yet it is not alone this fact that has insured the
defeat of the Court-packing proposal. Neither is it
the retirement of Justice Van Devanter, the favorable
decisions of the Court on the Wagner and Social Se-
curity Acts or the scorching reply of the Chief Justice
to the insubstantial statistics of the Attorney General.
These things have helped. But more powerful than
all of them has been the growing and unmistakable
awareness of the public that James Madison spoke
truly when he said: "The accumulation of all powers,
legislative, executive and judicial, in the same hands,
whether of one, a few, or many, and whether heredi-
tary, self-appointed, or elective, may justly be pro-
nounced the very definition of tyranny." That is the
sense, at any rate, of the public's aversion to the Court-
packing scheme. It is a preference for the stability of
established constitutional institutions as against the
unpredictable will of leaders, even exceedingly popular
leaders. It arises from a profound instinct for self-
preservation which other Presidents, Jefferson, Mon-
roe, Jackson, however angry they grew at the Court,
were prudent enough not to arouse.

IT IS interesting to note, too, as we look back at the
events of the past three months, that the defense
of the integrity of the Court against invasion by the
Executive has at last awakened Congress to the im-
portance of its own place in our constitutional system.
It must have been assumed by the President when he
made his extraordinary proposal in February that
such was his power over Congress that his will would
prevail despite all opposition. This was certainly in-
dicated by the way that the proposal was thrown at an
astonished Congress. Congress was not consulted; it
was ordered. And at first it seemed as though the
order would be obeyed.

Speaking not only for the Executive but for Con-
gress, an impropriety which Congress apparently over-
looked, the President in March presented the homely
fable of the three horses. Two of the three horses, he
said, were pulling away like everything. The third,
the judicial horse, was engaged in a sit-down strike
(the first and last sit-down strike that apparently
warranted Executive notice). But the result of the
proposal for joint action to compel the recalcitrant
third horse to move is, at the end of three months,
that the hitherto obedient Congressional horse is
lustily kicking the Executive. In seeking to dominate
the Court, the President has seriously impaired his
control over Congress. Another fable, this time by
Aesop, suggests itself—a fable the moral of which is:
"All covet, all lose: which may serve for a reproof to
those that govern their lives by fancy . . . without
consulting the justice of the case."

Beyond the shadow of a doubt, the proposal in its
original form is dead. Even the danger of compromise
is remote, for as Dr. Gallup's poll indicates, the two-
judge-packing plan is even more unpopular than the
original plan. Congressmen are aware of that fact.
And they know, too, as a result of the debate of the
past three months, if they were ever tempted to forget
it, that 150 years are looking down on them.

Page 1049 of 1087