Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
The Class of 1939

“On the college campus,” writes Stanley High in a recent issue of The Saturday Evening Post, “a widely publicized depression has collided, head on, with the recently less-touted stamina of the younger generation. Most of the resulting damage has been to the depression.” Mr. High then describes in a most illuminating way how extensively the present college generation is taking its maintenance upon itself and is helping, by dint of a dollar hard-earned here and there, to carry the expenses of its own education. This is encouraging and significant. It suggests that self-reliance is far more characteristic of the students who are graduating today than it seemed to be in the early days of the depression.

It’s hard to realize that these youngsters of today can remember nothing but depression years. They were in the early grades when the market crashed ten years ago. Despite all that they have heard about economic problems, the business of becoming completely self-supporting is, to them, just another difficulty to be met. They are going out to meet it and to do what they can. And my personal contact with undergraduates leads me to believe they are going to approach it much as some of us who graduated thirty years ago did. We thought it would be hard to get a job, too. But it didn’t occur to us then to blame Mr. Hoover or the wicked bankers for it, or to talk about technological unemployment and security—collective or social—and a new order. We just had a devil of a time muscling into the ranks of earners. We did it eventually, somehow.

We ignored, of course, the preachments that we heard at Commencement about the great opportunity that was before us and the wonderful things we could accomplish with our education. It wasn’t that we didn’t believe what we heard. We simply didn’t pay much attention to it. Doubtless that was just as well.

Certainly it is interesting to see how the present generation of students is surviving the new clichés that are taking the place of the old. The new patter, largely the product of the thinking of a generation that has reached maturity since the war, teaches us that capitalism has failed, that we must band ourselves together here and abroad to fight selfish men who wrecked the pre-depression world, that we must believe that a dollar spent is a dollar earned, that Roosevelt is greater than Abraham Lincoln, that Congress is terrible, that businessmen are curious beings with myopic eyes in the backs of their heads, etcetera, etcetera. So far as I can see, the present generation is ignoring these solemnities just as we ignored the platitudinous preachings of thirty years ago.

Skepticism about the teachings of their elders is no less characteristic of these young people than it was fifteen or thirty years ago. That their elders should happen to be a generation whose skepticisms have already become a formal and pretty dog-eared philosophy is not extraordinary. Nor is it extraordinary that the new crop of skeptics is not swallowing the preachments of the old crop of skeptics. They assuredly doubt that it is within the power of government to provide, by fiat, security and prosperity for all. Their drive, imagination and resourcefulness are no more apt to be dissipated by a complacent acceptance of the new defeatist economic folklore proclaimed by the fashionable intellectual and political leaders of today, than the energies of their predecessors were dissipated by a supine acceptance of the old the-world-is-your-oyster pronouncements.

Youth has a very special vitality. Anyone who has attempted to teach it over a long period of time must, if he is intelligent, realize this. It has a way of reaching its own conclusions, developing its own psychological defenses and making up its own mind about things of the world. It has to have, in order to protect itself against the fallacies that it meets on every side—fallacies, I have to confess, that it meets in classes on economics, sociology, political science almost as frequently as it meets them in the market place.

Close observation of hundreds of undergraduates has led me to conclude that there has been a considerable change in the undergraduate mind even in the past five years. The graduates of 1934 were deeply worried. They realized they were to have a tough time of it, but they believed that the world into which they were going was a temporarily disarranged place to which, nevertheless, a well-remembered state of prosperity would quickly return. The graduates of 1939, it seems to me, are ever so subtly shaped by a consciousness of the futility and ineffectiveness of most of our recovery efforts to date. They are not thinking in terms of a restoration, even of a purified restoration, of the ‘20s because they know only dimly and at second-

hand what the ‘20s were like. They are just going out to make the best of things, as Mr. High’s undergraduates are making the best of their undergraduate difficulties. This provides grounds for hope, as well as grounds for apprehension—hope in the knowledge that a fresh, new generation is coming along which is not going to fall for the preachment that the American way of life has failed; apprehension lest this generation of graduates become an easy prey to the fallacies of some future political witchcraft.

But here they are, with their skepticism, their vitality and their indomitable energy. Let us, literally, give a hand to the class of 1939.

The King and Queen

“The best reason why monarchy is a strong government is, that it is an intelligible government… It is often said that men are ruled by their imaginations; but it would be truer to say they are governed by the weakness of their imaginations. The nature of a constitution, the action of an assembly, the play of parties, the unseen formation of a guiding opinion, are complex facts, difficult to know, and easy to mistake. But the action of a single will, the fiat of a single mind, are easy ideas; anybody can make them out, and no one can ever forget them. When you put before the mass of mankind the question, ‘Will you be governed by a king, or will you be governed by a constitution?’ the inquiry comes out thus—‘Will you be governed in a way you understand, or will you be governed in a way you do not understand’?”

Thus Walter Bagehot stated the case for a monarchy. No one has ever done it better.

To this might be added the statement that when the monarch thoroughly understands the purpose which he fulfills and performs his onerous though seemingly irrelevant duties with simple dignity and painstaking precision, he popularizes his nation and adds to its influence.

This, our distinguished visitors, George VI and Queen Elizabeth, have done admirably. Their trip has strengthened the empire and has given it greater intelligibility. They deserve the good will of the United States not only for what they represent, but for their success, as human beings, in doing their difficult job so well.