Here's the text from the provided image, avoiding the advertisement column:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Politics Discovers Freud

by Raymond Moley

IN 1949, a few months after the great
embarrassment of the pollsters in
the election of 1948, Prof. Lindsay
Rogers of Columbia University pro-
duced a devastating analysis of poll-
taking entitled “The Pollsters.” In a
very interesting and reasonable lec-
ture just published by the University
of Illinois, Rogers has returned to the
subject. His views are unchanged. In-
deed, they are supported
by new evidence.
Rogers belongs to a re-
gime at Columbia in which
teachers of politics and re-
lated subjects entertained
a virile skepticism concerning
the empirical, mathematical
measurement of
political motives. They used
such tools as historical evi-
dence, philosophical speculation, and common-sense judgments.
A new and more credulous group,
however, has now taken over in the
so-called social sciences, liberally
financed by equally credulous foundations. Some of them have married the
interviewing methods of the pollsters
to a Freudian process of interpretation of the subconscious.
A colleague of Rogers, Prof. Richard
Hofstadter, in an essay on what he
calls the “pseudo-conservatives” has
set forth in brief and dogmatic terms
some of the freakish progeny of this
marriage, interspersed with plenty of
unsubstantiated opinions of his own.
So far as Hofstadter offers any identification of a pseudo-conservative, he
or she is a person who disapproved of
the appointment of Warren to the Supreme Court, who favored the Bricker
amendment (this is brought into the
discussion twice), who opposes the
United Nations, who was anti-
Acheson, who opposes foreign-aid
programs, who is worried about subversion in the United States, who favors
constitutional amendments, who
would repeal the income tax, and who
belongs to an “old-family” American
group that is afraid it is losing status
or to a group of new Americans rising
in the world.
These pseudo-conservatives are
then subjected by Hofstadter (with
abundant references to various “studies” by people who have conducted
“clinical interviews and thematic apperception tests”) to certain Freudian
judgments. These follow the old
Freudian process of entrapment which
holds that if you think you love someone you really hate him, and vice
versa. It is an intellectual heads-I-
win-tails-you-lose.
Thus, the pseudo-conservatives believe themselves to be conservative, but
are really dissatisfied with American
life, traditions, and institutions. There
is, says Hofstadter, “clinical”
evidence of their hatred for
our society and its ways.
They conceal from themselves “in the unconscious
sphere … violence, anarchic impulses and chaotic
destructiveness.” Those who
lead conservative movements often have “a tendency toward paranoia.” This
has become a country “in
which so many people do not know
who they are or what they are or
what they belong to or what belongs
to them.” Their hostility “cannot be
admitted to consciousness.” There is,
according to a study cited by
Hofstadter, “a high proportion of persons who have been unable to develop
the capacity to criticize justly and in
moderation the failings of parents.”
The pseudo-conservative “imagines
himself to be dominated and imposed
upon because he feels that he is
not dominant.”
Having thus established the identity
of the pseudo-conservative by stating
what he believes he believes, and
having convicted him of subconscious
tendencies to violence, Hofstadter
brings the victim down to the kill.
“I believe,” says Hofstadter, “that
the typical prejudiced person and the
typical pseudo-conservative are usually the same person, that the mechanisms at work in both complexes are
quite the same.” The context from
which this is taken shows clearly that
“prejudice” means “ethnic prejudice.”
But the “prejudiced” person could be
a Communist who would oppose everything which Hofstadter’s pseudo-
conservative favors.

This is nonsense with dangerous
potentialities. Is not Professor
Hofstadter brandishing a two-edged
weapon which is the last thing in the
world that a conscientious, experienced politician would use?

Newsweek, January 16, 1956