Here's a text extraction of the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible:


**Party of the Fourth Part**

by Raymond Moley

DURING the days of the Wilson crisis, we heard a great deal about three parties of interest: President Eisenhower, embarrassed by the threat of a conflict with the Senate at the outset of his term; Charles E. Wilson, confronted by the heavy price exacted by public service; and the senators, sworn to uphold the law. For all of these there were many sympathizers. There were also many peace lovers with plans to save the law and Mr. Wilson, too.

But there seemed to be forgotten a fourth party of interest—the massive General Motors Corp. Forgotten, that is, by all except those who seized the opportunity to raise the ancient spook of big bad business. But among all four interests, GM stood to sustain the most injury by such a controversy and, because GM is a multitude, the greatest harm to the greatest number.

What is General Motors? Certainly not a few rich men with ice water in their veins and monopoly in their minds. It is 475,000 owners among whom one, holding 23 per cent of the stock, is the du Pont company, owned by 138,000 people. It is 450,000 in the United States and 50,000 abroad who work for wages or salaries and who are for the most part proud of their company. It is technicians and scientists pushing back the borders of knowledge. It is 30,000 smaller businesses that make things for GM and that also have a myriad of owners. It is men of vision and genius like Kettering and humanitarians like Sloan. A part of it used to be big, generous Bill Knudsen.

Above all, it is the confidence and good will of millions whose lives are enlarged by GM products.

A similar measure can be applied to other immense businesses like Chrysler and Ford.

Big business is not a soulless machine squeezing profits from an unwilling but helpless public. It is a part of the public assuming the duty of serving all the public.

The following figures were not supplied by General Motors. They were gathered for me by L. Robert Driver from the reports of the Department of Commerce and the Securities and Exchange Commission. They compare sales, payroll, and income of General Motors and "all corporations" in certain selected years.

The period of four years, 1936-39 is used as a base, or 100 per cent. During the four-year war period, 1942-45, GM's sales were up 144 per cent; its payroll was up 198 per cent; but its income was down 6 per cent. For "all corporations," the sales were up only 93 per cent; payroll was up 110 per cent; but income was up 142 per cent.

For the postwar period, 1946-51, GM's sales were up 278 per cent; payroll up 266 per cent; income up 160 per cent. For the same period, "all corporations" figures were: sales up 219 per cent; payroll up 214 per cent; income up 348 per cent.

On the much-discussed subject of profits, it ought to be added that the same figures from which the foregoing are derived show a smaller margin of profit during the war and postwar period than for 1936-39. Those who benefited the most were the workers and the consumers. Far from benefiting from war, hot and cold, over the past decade, GM would have been better off had peace prevailed. The immense contracts for war materials were not bonanzas for companies like GM, Chrysler, and Ford. They would have done better without them.

BUT the very size of these great corporations becomes an indispensable factor in defense work. If there were not such immense businesses available, it would be necessary to create the equivalent, and that would mean building within and by government vast producing industries. That would be socialism, plus. Hence, big business becomes a real alternative to big government. And since the big businesses mentioned above are intensely competitive, they are a basic factor in economic liberty.

Sometimes, as in the Wilson case, it hurts when a good law is applied to a good man. For such laws are not aimed at good men but bad men. Good men must comply because they must pay the inexorable price of living in the same world with bad men.

Newsweek, February 2, 1953