PERSPECTIVE

WHAT KIND OF CITY?

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In 1911 William Jennings Bryan was
on a ship bound for Jamaica. With
New York 1,100 miles behind, there
was a storm and the ship struck a reef.
Some passengers thought of God, their
souls and their sins. Others, of their
queasy innards. But the Peerless
Leader conducted an investigation
and concluded that there-ought-to-
be-a-law. That was the oldest habit of
American statesmen.

Lyndon Johnson followed the same
pattern in the wake of catastrophe.
He appointed a commission to buy
time after Newark and Detroit. Congressmen follow along. Some benefit
may come from these investigations, if
they stick to finding the facts about
the breakdown of law and order under
present conditions. But nothing
new will come from their probing of
how cities should be reconstructed to
ease civic malaise in the future. There
have been many committees, agencies
and individuals working on that problem. There is a vast literature. These
Presidential and Congressional investigations can tell us only what we already know. After the pause, the
building of cities may go on as before-
wastefully, irrationally and unhappily.

HIGH UP, NOT SPRAWL

My files are crammed with the stuff.
But out of the mass I select one item
which seems to make the most sense.
It is the report of a 1966 conference of
33 urban specialists, sponsored by the
National League of Cities and the
American Institute of Architects. A
Lincoln Foundation grant covered the
expenses. The report was published
by Nation's Cities and the Journal of
the AIA. Thousands of reprints were
distributed.

It looks to a basic question: "What
kind of city do we want?"-say, by
1999, more than 30 years ahead. The
report looks beyond these present discontents, these investigations, and beyond our governments' feeble efforts
toward urban relief. It presents a goal
that should be kept in mind by those
who plan and build in the interim.
This is not utopian. The figures show
that in the generation ahead radical
reconstruction of our cities is desirable
and possible.

By 1999 our urban population will
reach 250 million; urban wealth will
increase fourfold, and the average
family income will be much higher,
even in today's purchasing power.
To build for that growth, $3,500
billion must be found: $1,500 billion
for new housing; $1,000 billion for
streets, highways, mass transportation,
parking, hospitals, schools and colleges, sewers and sewage disposal and
water supply; $1,000 billion for commercial, industrial and utility construction. Only a small fraction of this
money can come from the various governments. Most must come from private investment, hitched, as it must
be, to the profit motive.

Urban life will keep people close
together in any event. Planning must
look toward rebuilding the city itself
so that all may live in conditions that
are more rewarding and less expensive. There are technological tools,
among them air conditioning and the
electronic elevator.

TAX SLUM LAND

There should be three-dimensional
building-length, breadth and up. One
member of that conference, speaking
in Philadelphia this month, said that
by three-dimensional building most of
the population there could live, shop,
play and learn within walking distance
of Broad and Market streets. Industry,
colleges and certain recreational areas
could be on the periphery but fairly
close in. Those who flee to the suburbs fail to realize that those who live
within the city and high up can also
enjoy privacy. In the future city's center everything is within reach-stores,
theaters, playgrounds, parks and cultural facilities far superior to those in
the distant suburbs. The air will be
just as good, too, when the pollution
is removed.

The flow of commuting will be reversed. People will commute out to
work by mass transportation or find
work close in. And with suburban
sprawl eliminated, the dreadful waste
of hours in commuting can be stopped.
Private investment for urban rebuilding can be attracted by modifying our tax system to encourage new
construction and better land use. High
land taxes and lower levies on improvements will compel owners to
build or to sell to those who will build.
To a greater extent this emphasis on a
change in assessments is being accepted by planners, architects, public
authorities and economists.

The point is not a new one. Those
who improve their property are now
penalized by higher taxes. Those who
maintain slums are rewarded by a
rise in land values.

Newsweek, August 21, 1967