PERSPECTIVE

THE MANY-MEMBERED GOP

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Two solid truths, if grasped firmly, should dissipate much of
the fog which now envelops Republicans over the nation. But judging
from what so many GOP leaders are saying, they seem to have forgotten
these durable facts.

One is that political talk is mostly make-believe. The other is that an
American political party is a many-membered thing.

The words, slogans, and much of the activity of political leaders are
mostly meaningless. They are designed to evoke from the public
certain mental and emotional reactions and to serve the concerns of leaders
struggling for power and influence.

In the present context, the expressions "moderate" and "progressive" as
they are used by so many are without substance. These good words
wrenched from their true meanings serve merely to throw salt in wounds
opened in 1964 and to prevent GOP reconstruction from getting on in
many states, congressional districts, and local communities in preparation
for the 1966 elections.

ROMNEY'S GENERALITIES

To illustrate my point, I use the attractive and successful governor of
Michigan, George Romney. I could as easily illustrate my point with Gov-
ernors Rockefeller and Scranton or Senators Javits, Case, and Kuchel.
Romney wanted to be elected and re-elected governor in 1962 and
1964. He had to contend with certain powerful minority interests in his
state—the big labor unions and the Negroes. The nomination of Senator
Goldwater, he believed, threatened the party vote of those interests. Also,
there were some, not all, of the owners and managers of the large
industries of the state who feared that Goldwater's election would "unsettle"
the business boom. But the Romney expressions before, during, and
since the campaign ran to generalities and he repeated over and over the
clichés adopted by the GOP governors at Denver, that the party
should be "inclusive," not "exclusive," and that an "extremist" is someone
who wants to create a monolithic GOP. This sort of thing is all for the
birds and the voters. The realities are the interests centered in each of


50 states, among which there are great differences.

Only once in four years is there anything like a national political
party. In the long stretches between, what are called Democratic and Re-
publican parties consist of innumerable groups—state and local—and the
party memberships in Congress that in turn are elected at the state and
local level.

CONSENSUS UNNECESSARY

The decision which imposes this disparate character upon our parties
was made in 1787 when, because of the great differences among the
thirteen states, the statesmen who wrote our Constitution created a Fed-
eral republic. This left to the states most of the powers they had hitherto
exercised and created a Federal establishment to care for limited na-
tional interests. Our party system, so far as the two major parties have
been concerned, was imposed upon this Federal pattern. The governors,
U.S. senators, and congressmen are elected in conformity with the in-
terests of their constituencies. The party organizations of the states, dis-
tricts, and local communities conform to these various interests. If we
would recognize this, much of the hullabaloo about a national "consen-
sus" would disappear.

To bring the matter down to the practicalities of the present, we need
not worry about a "consensus" until 1968. The GOP's problem now is to
look to 1966 when a new House and some senators and governors are
to be elected. Political leaders should stop looking at the stars and get down
to their work at home. This is as it has always been after the echoes of
a national election have died away. And this is as it will be in the future.

The immediate bone of contention is the chairmanship of the Republi-
can National Committee. Dean Burch is not the chairman of the GOP. And
his authority is largely limited to the direction of the small staff in his
Washington office. He has no authority over his party in Congress or
in the 50 state GOP organizations. So whether Dean Burch goes or
stays, the Republican Party will remain as it has always been, scattered
through the states and in Congress.

Newsweek, January 11, 1965