Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure:

**A Fortress Can Become a Prison**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Government is a tricky and perilous partner. Time and again, some group or interest has offered its votes as collateral and has moved into the big house on the plaza, only to find, after a while, that there are bars on the windows and a new landlord. Samuel Gompers warned labor of this danger. But Lewis, Green, Hillman and Murray thought they knew better. The Wagner Act, once hailed as the toilers' Magna Charta, with a few turns of a congressman's wrist, could become a writ of execution.

Twelve years ago, when the Wagner bill was before Congress, I suggested in an article about that legislation:  "Labor today is maneuvering itself into a position where it is open to devastating consequences from a change in the American political climate... The search for ever closer relationships with government, such as that contemplated in the Wagner bill, would provide the machinery for the control of labor by a party more conservative than the one now in power. The present liberal Democratic party, which recognizes the need of a strong labor movement, ought itself to take care lest it permit labor to assume a yoke from which it might never free itself. The remedy does not lie in suggesting to labor that it become a party of opposition, but in pointing out to labor that the protection it seeks from government must not exceed too greatly the rights it is capable of obtaining without aid in the industrial field."

That advice is still pertinent. Now, if ever, is the time for organized labor to free itself of the legal support it no longer needs. It has grown enormously, and its bargaining power is established. If, beyond that, it insists on a permanent alliance with government, it may find itself, in two years, helplessly confined in a much more conservative administration.

I am not suggesting that the following changes in the Wagner Act are desirable or that they will be enacted. I simply want to point out how, under an overdetailed law, it becomes possible by simple amendments to turn "protections" into drastic restrictions. The NLRB is given wide discretion-ary power in selecting and recognizing those unions which are appropriate for purposes of collective bargaining.

Hence, government under the act can substantially dictate forms and methods of union organization. A single change in the act could withhold recognition from any unit which includes employees of more than one employer. That would not only destroy labor monopolies, but throw the AFL and the CIO into chaos.

By further definitions of those unions which are suitable for collective bargaining, there could be requirements to incorporate, to keep records, to make public reports and to regulate membership. In short, government could, by inserting a few new provisions in the act, completely change the form of the labor movement, bring into being new competitive unions, or set up a nation-wide system of company unions.

Revisions could be designed to shape the exact methods of conducting strikes by defining "unlawful concerted activities." Any or all of the drastic provisions of some state laws could be incorporated-laws which labor now regards as relics of the dark ages.

Union discipline could be greatly impaired by recognizing a broad right of individual union members to have access to the board and by protecting such individuals in that right. It is quite reasonable to enlarge the power of individual members to secure relief from excessive union discipline. But this is a matter of degree. The point is that such rights, broadly extended, could shake the unions to their very foundations.

Congress will find that most or perhaps all that needs to be done about labor can be accomplished by amending the Wagner Act. The labor problem is the Wagner Act problem. But because it is better for management and for labor to get government out of industrial relations, amendments should be in the nature of simplification and elimination. Equality in bargaining should be sought not so much by adding new powers for management as by eliminating special advantages for labor. Labor and management are both minority interests in this broad land. They are also adult members of the community. Their true interests are in freedom, not dependency.