Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Since the image quality isn't perfect, some minor errors might remain.


Indispensable Men and Women
by Raymond Moley

LAST WEEK in Cleveland I attended
the most inspiring political meet-
ing I can remember. I was a speaker
but that certainly was not the reason
for the inspiration. In fact, the inter-
esting thing about the meeting was
not the speakers or anything that hap-
pened on the stage. There was no
candidate for President, no governor,
no senator there. There were no so-
called "stars of the stage
and screen." But hardened,
experienced political report-
ers in their stories the next
day used superlatives to de-
scribe the affair.

It was a meeting of the
precinct workers of the city.
There are 3,000 or more
such active workers in the
city and to the amazement
of everyone, 2,000 came.

The Republican organization that
called the meeting was tempting
providence for many reasons. In fact
County Chairman Bender said with
justifiable pride that "no other organi-
zation in the country would dare at-
tempt such a meeting." The one thing
a political leader dreads is a small
crowd in a big hall, but with incredible
nerve they held this in a big down-
town auditorium. They had no major
political figure as a drawing card; it
was early in the campaign year, and a
party out of power had no patronage
whip to help. For the hundred-odd
thousand Federal workers, the 30,000
state employes, and the 12,000 city
jobholders are all working for Demo-
crats in Ohio and Cleveland. And to
make matters still more difficult,
Mother Nature assigned the hottest
and most humid weather of the year.

But things like this don't just hap-
pen. A lot of things have been happen-
ing in Republican circles in Cleveland
of which Republicans elsewhere
should take note. Back in 1950 in the
Taft campaign for senator there devel-
oped a habit of cooperation between
volunteers and professionals. It was
recognized on all sides that the Re-
publican Party as a really vital, effec-
tive organization needed auxiliary
forces just as the Democratic Party
has had its political labor groups for
a good many years. In short, the Re-
publican Party had the bus and the
driver, but it needed passengers.

The clash between volunteers and
professionals that wrecked the Willkie
campaign has been avoided in Cleve-
land by reasonable adjustments
agreed upon by all concerned. One of
the volunteers, a businessman who
was never active in politics before,
outlined to me the principles that
have been followed in this great co-
operative effort. In the first place it
has been recognized that the legally
constituted Republican or-
ganization is the only proper
and effective means for the
expression of political effort.
The volunteer needs the di-
rection of experienced poli-
ticians. The politician needs
the enthusiasm of the vol-
unteer. Next, the volunteer
group can be started by the
appointment by the organi-
zation county chairman of
an advisory committee of civic lead-
ers. The latter can confirm and inter-
pret to volunteers throughout the
community the methods, purposes,
and leadership of the regular organi-
zation. The volunteer organization can
function best if it avoids group or
personal publicity. The organization
should get all the public credit marks.
A very active advisory committee of
twelve men and women of the county
has been created. These are repre-
sentative of all points of view in the
Republican Party, as well as of con-
servative opinion outside the party.
From this group, committees have
been created, one to raise money for
the regular organization, one on strat-
egy, and one on creating and ener-
gizing staff and volunteer groups.

THE leaders on both sides, the vol-
unteers and the regulars, have
agreed that the people who are to be
featured this year are not so-called
"big shots," but the precinct workers.
Upon them must rest the ultimate
responsibility. They are the ones who
deliver the vote. They are the indis-
pensable men and women. For no
matter what candidate emerges from
the show in Chicago, no matter how
wise the platform may be, no matter
how much radio and television time is
used, or how much press support is
enlisted, the ultimate result will de-
pend upon the men and women in
the ranks. That is why the Cleveland
meeting was so significant.

Newsweek, June 30, 1952