Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


PERSPECTIVE
Lincoln's Incentive Plan
by Raymond Moley

The frustration and annoyance of
liberals which the successful in-
dustrial innovations of James F. Lin-
coln provoke arise from his insistence
that just conditions can prevail in a
company without pressure from either
government or the unions. He has
made possible in a big industrial es-
tablishment the ends allegedly sought
by organized labor and by liberal gov-
ernments without the means which
they constantly advocate.
Two incidents in the history of the
Lincoln Electric Co. offer sensational
examples of the success of his poli-
cies. Twenty-five years ago his
employes actually petitioned manage-
ment to increase the number of hours
of work, and later the Federal gov-
ernment sought to reduce the earn-
ings of his employes.
In a new book, "A New Approach
to Industrial Economics" (165 pages.
Devin-Adair. $3.50), Lincoln explains
that his managerial policies are em-
bedded in the Christian principles
which he learned as a boy.
He and his brother, John Cromwell
Lincoln, were the sons of a dedicated
Congregationalist minister. John, who
was seventeen years the senior of
James, entered the infant electrical in-
dustry when Edison and Brush were
in their most creative stage. John
founded the Lincoln Electric Co. in
1895 with a capital of $150. James
entered the growing company in
1907. Since the genius of James soon
appeared to be in management while
John manifested amazing capacity as
a creative inventor, an agreement was
reached in 1914 which gave James
full management control. John went
on for the remainder of his 93 years
in many other successful ventures.

THE INNOVATIONS
Lincoln Electric's distinctive place
in American industry has been in con-
stantly improving its production of
arc-welding equipment. When the
United States entered the second
world war, Lincoln Electric was the
world's largest manufacturer of weld-
ing equipment, with subsidiary plants
in England, Canada, and Australia.
James' first innovation as general
manager of the company was to call
together all employes and to ask them
to appoint representatives of all de-
partments to serve him as an advisory
board. He sought to add to the com-
pany's potential the ideas generated
by all employes. Since arc welding
was then in its infancy, it was essential
to interest all manufacturing in its
multifarious uses. There was also con-
tinuous education of employes. The
company sponsored competitions for
design, published textbooks, con-
ducted seminars, provided articles for
technical journals, and worked with
engineering colleges.
Within the company there were
more and more worker incentives: In-
surance policies for employes and an
organization to provide health and
sickness benefits. In 1923 Lincoln ad-
justed the scale of employe earnings
to the U.S. cost-of-living index. In
1925 a stock purchase plan was pro-
vided for employes.

THE REWARDS
In 1934 a bonus plan was estab-
lished which over the years has
added an average of 30 per cent to
the yearly earnings of employes. All
this was done without collective bar-
gaining or government coercion.
The efficiency of the company
grew. In the years since 1934, while
the costs of labor have gone up five-
fold, of copper fourfold, and steel
threefold, the prices of the product
have declined 20 per cent. Lincoln's
plan involves cooperative manage-
ment without collective bargaining.
In 1945 the average annual earn-
ings of employes in the company were
$5,791, while in manufacturing gen-
erally they were half that. In 1959
the company paid an average annual
compensation of $10,467 to employes.
In all manufacturing it was $5,648.
Lincoln's employes suffer no layoffs.
Employment is continuous in good
times and bad. Needless to say, there
are no labor "problems" which cannot
be solved by the cooperative system
which prevails.
The Lincoln aim is to promote the
worker's progress in a strongly com-
petitive system. This, Lincoln
plains, is simply a practical application
of the Christian gospels. It is also, for
those who choose to assign another
related cause, the application of com-
mon sense and right reason in indus-
trial life.

Newsweek, December 11, 1961