Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure.  Due to the image quality and layout, some minor errors may be present.


**The New Conservatism**

by Raymond Moley

UNLESS all portents fail, the voters of
Britain will presently return to
power one of the oldest political parties
in the world. The Conservatives have
survived the vicissitudes of genera-
tions. The Liberals, their former rivals,
have melted away, while the Labor
Party, a relative newcomer, is already
showing signs of disintegration.
Meanwhile, the accumulated wealth
and vested interests which
were once identified with
the Conservative Party have
almost vanished. Why, then,
does this party live on and
command, as it undoubtedly
does, the support of a ma-
jority of the British elector-
ate? If we seek an intelligent
answer to this question, we
shall find perhaps a guide to
understanding not only the
British but our own American people.

A part of the answer is that over the
years the Conservative Party has sus-
tained the institutions under which the
United Kingdom, the Commonwealth,
and the United States have found that
liberty and progress are indivisible.
Twice in its history the Conserva-
tive Party has broken away from a
popular economic philosophy which
put mere material well-being above
considerations of non-material national
ideals. It did this a century ago when
Disraeli repudiated the dismal Eco-
nomics of his day. It is doing it now
in providing an alternative to the crass
materialism of the Socialists. It has
appealed from the court of economics
to the supreme tribunal of patriotism.


The Socialists and, to a degree, the
Liberals have reversed the order but
have found that in putting material
concerns first a nation loses both its
patriotism and its prosperity.
The old Conservative spirit is finding
expression among the younger mem-
bers of the party today. David Eccles,
whom I saw in action while he was
winning his election in Chippenham
in 1950, has given a fine
expression of this new Con-
servatism. At that time, I
heard him say that he had
scant patience for those who
were talking about "the tight
little island" and were con-
tent with a future in which
the British people were to
eke out a living by merely
dividing up what they have.
The proper destiny of Brit-
ain, he continued, is in world trade
and world influence backed by the
proud spirit of the people at home.

RECENTLY in notable speeches
R Eccles has elaborated this theme.
"Our party," he said at Sturminster,
"is the party of new creation. We are
proud of our inheritance but not con-
tent with it. We mean to add to it and
to make it still more glorious and more
widespread... The Labor Party is
the party of the carving knife. The
Socialists... cut up wealth and parcel
it out more or less equally whether a
man has worked hard or not."
The London Economist, which, de-
spite occasional lucid moments, is
mostly imbued with materialistic,
quasi-socialist economics, took excep-
tions to the Eccles position. It took a
dim view of Eccles' faith in rousing
the spirit of the people. To this Eccles
replied: "The failure is not economic.
What is on trial is the British character
... you underestimate the rapidity and
vigor with which a Conservative gov-
ernment could rouse the virtues of
enterprise and patriotism."
This issue, which is to be made in
the election over there, might well be
made by the Republicans over here.
Our political leaders have put the cart
before the horse too long. Economic
progress follows a revival of the spirit.
The body is badly fed and the spirit
dies when statesmanship merely di-
vides what we have. Creation, not
division, is the need.

Newsweek, October 8, 1951