Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Irrelevant Loyalties
by Raymond Moley

WHEN party responsibility is absent
or there is no choice between
candidates, it is a human trait to turn
to other and politically irrelevant loy-
alties in voting. Among these other
loyalties religion, race, and national
origins come first.

It hardly needs to be argued that
to inject these as reasons for or
against supporting a man is repugnant
to decent Americans. It is not enough
to say that the architects of our Fed-
eral and most of our state constitutions
condemned a religious test for public
office. Such prejudices are inconsist-
ent with morality and justice.

Let us see what happens when a
man's religion becomes an issue in
politics. Our moral instinct to trust and
make friends is frustrated. Hatred
and suspicion corrode our minds and
souls. We violate the sanctities which
we claim for ourselves when we deny
them to others. We infect and dis-
integrate the ties which make a co-
operative society possible. We create
fertile muck for the growth of bigoted
demagogues who, like Hitler, seek
power through the frailties rather
than the moral instincts of men. We
condemn our neighbor for his per-
sonal convictions and his liberty to
express them.

RELEVANT CHOICES

Let us see how such prejudices im-
peril our free political institutions.
In our choices among those who
offer themselves for public service and
in our preferences for the laws and
policies which we wish to prevail, we
inject completely irrelevant motives.
In such choices and preferences com-
mon sense should tell us that we
should seek wise, prudent, and effi-
cient public servants, equitable laws
to restrain dangerous power and to
maintain opportunities for all in politi-
cal and economic life. Republican
government is the means through
which free men seek a compromise
between efficient centralization and
protective decentralized power, be-
tween urgent help for the needy by
the government and devitalizing pa-
ternalism-in short, between freedom
and order. Politics is the very, very
delicate means through which we
guide and control that government.
In politics the two-party system has

proved to be the most stable means
through which political action has op-
erated. History is strewn with the
wreckage of multiparty degeneration.
The introduction of irrelevant
loyalties is the sure way to make a
chaos of political choices. For no one
is an island of independence. Each of
us is a complex of loyalties-to a re-
ligion, a nation of origin, a family, a
community, a state, a region. Matters
of taste and personal affinities move
us. Eliminate a political choice, and
we are the prey of other loyalties.

SEEDS OF PREJUDICE

In 1923, as a junior teacher
of political science in Columbia Uni-
versity, I decided to make a test
of nonpartisanship, which was the
panacea of the early progres-
sive movement. I conducted an
analysis of the first proportional
representation election in Cleveland.
(Published in Political Science Quar-
terly, December 1923.) The method
of vote counting offered a perfect
means of studying voter loyalties.
When the ballots are distributed, it
is easy to see preferences through
the second and other choices. Among
many others, two men with Polish
names were on the ballot-Orlikowski,
a Republican, and Benkoski, a Dem-
ocrat. When Benkoski's ballots were
distributed among the other candi-
dates, 411 went to Orlikowski, and
only 145 to the three other Republi-
cans. Thus their party was subordi-
nated to Polish loyalty. The same
thing was apparent among people
with other loyalties-religious, racial,
and national. A cigar maker whose
perfectos were displayed all over his
section of the city ran far ahead.
Voters were choosing a name on a
cigar box.

When in the recent Wisconsin pri-
mary no Republican was active and
the two Democrats had identical ADA
voting records, voters in large num-
bers turned to religious preferences.
There was also the choice between
Humphrey ham and Kennedy coffee.
Hair-dos, café-society atmosphere,
and other diversions abounded.
Unless the Republicans offer a
clearly articulated political choice, ir-
relevancies and apathy may choose
the next President.

Newsweek, April 25, 1960