Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column structure.  I've omitted the advertisement on the left.


**Reform in Truman's Town**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It begins to look as if reform and
the Democratic party had reached the
parting of the ways. In Mr. Ickes's
case, the bill of divorcement charges
mental cruelty. The remaining elements
of the New Deal in Washington
mutter about neglect. Nobody charges
nonsupport, because Messrs. Truman
and Hannegan are good providers, as
the CIO is willing to testify. The old
Roosevelt alliance with progressive
Republicans is broken, too. The "Sons of
the Wild Jackass" are going back to
living alone. As it was in the beginning,
so it shall be once more.

Mr. Truman is neither inconsistent
nor insincere, for he has never cared for
reform. Out where he grew up, in
Kansas City, reform and the Democratic
party never made a pretense of alliance.
The events of the next few weeks will be
important in the life of that city, which
is facing its fourth municipal election
since the Pendergast crowd was swept out
of office. The issues then were known to
the whole country. There had been vote
fraud, income-tax evasions, gambling and
narcotic prosecutions in the Federal courts.
And Pendergast went to jail.

The old Pendergast machine underwent
a pretty general overhauling. The
remainder of the crowd managed to retain
control of the Democratic County
Committee and, after a time, recovered a
number of county offices. This year, it is
determined to recover the city government.

The machine has planned its comeback
with great skill. To select candidates, the
county committee appointed an advisory
committee of citizens who had no taint of
past corruption. This citizens' committee
banked heavily on veteran appeal. The list
of eleven candidates—one for mayor, eight
for councilmen and two for municipal
judges—includes two veterans of both wars,
one veteran of the last war and three of
this war. Heading the ticket is a Marine
officer who served in both wars. This test
in a city election will be a preview of
veteran strength in politics.

The reform government which is now
fighting for reelection has been, from the
beginning, a purely non-partisan affair.
The retiring mayor, John B. Gage, and the
new candidate, William E. Kemp, have
carefully kept out of politics. Mr. Kemp's
career has been not unlike that of Harold
Ickes in the old days. He, too, was a fighter
for reform who later supported the Roosevelt
New Deal.

There is little question about the
competence and honesty of the reform
government during the past six years. Mayor
Gage believes he has held office long
enough. But he has been the rallying symbol
for all believers in good government, and
his absence from the ticket is a serious loss.

The record is impressive. The finances of
the city are in good shape, personnel has
been measurably improved, extensive city
improvements have been made, and the
whole region has become a much greater
business and manufacturing center.

Hard at work in this battle is the city's
great newspaper, The Kansas City Star. The
newspaper's managing editor, Roy Roberts, is
carrying on the tradition of William Rockhill
Nelson, which was "no national politics in
city government and no quarter to corruption."

Since no charge can be made that the
reform ticket in Kansas City is tainted with
Republican politics, there has been no
interference in the campaign from the two
Missourians at the head of the national
party, Messrs. Truman and Hannegan. If, as
the primary date approaches (March 5, with
run-off election three weeks later), there is
any evidence of Washington influence, there
will be a blast from the reformers.

Mr. Truman must have mixed feelings as he
views these happenings in his home town. It
is the machine in which he grew up that is
fighting to supplant reform. If the old crowd
comes back by its out-and-out appeal to
veterans, the pattern will be set for national
elections in 1946 and 1948. For it is certain
that the Democratic National Committee
will be glad to unload its progressives, if it can
count on sufficient new strength from war
veterans. It will only be by some such
development that the blow administered by
Harold Ickes can be borne. There may be a
cloud no bigger than a man's hand, but it
packs a lot of lightning.