Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlapping text:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Banner With a Strange Device
by RAYMOND MOLEY

“I REMEMBER being once much amused
at seeing two partially intoxicated
men engaged in a fight with greatcoats
on, which fight, after a long and rather
harmless contest, ended in each having
fought himself out of his own coat and
into that of the other.”

Abraham Lincoln used this story to
illustrate the ideological shift in Amer-
ican parties from Jefferson to Buchan-
an. It can effectively point
up the difference between
the old and new Comintern.

Communist parties, says
the new declaration, “must
take into their hands the de-
fense of national independ-
ence and sovereignty of their
countries.”

The issue is defined in the
same document: “On the
one side is the policy of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and
democratic countries directed toward
undermining imperialism and strength-
ening democracy, on the other side is
the policy of the United States and
England directed toward strengthening
imperialism and strangling democracy.”

WHERE is the great “International of
Deeds” of the 1919 Lenin-Trotsky
Manifesto? Where is the “International
Republic of the Workers’ Soviets”?
Where is the “world army of the prole-
tariat”?

Where, also, is the “State,” which
Lenin set himself to destroy? The new
Communist ideology is isolationist,
nationalistic and antagonistic to a
world order. Instead of destroying the
State, Communism would now elevate
the State to supreme power, swallowing
every vestige of the individual.

To the rest of the world is left the
burden of carrying the creed of inter-
nationalism, of limited sovereignty,
mutual aid and political democracy.

The Communist retreat has left on
the scorched earth the charred bones of
an abandoned Marx. The ghost of Marx
goes west and inhabits various govern-
ments in the form of socialist, social-
democratic and other parties. For the
Comintern spares no words in condemn-
ing “traitorous” socialists like Attlee,
Bevin and Ramadier.

The new Communist position retains
little of the theories expounded by
Marx or Lenin, except the concept of
dictatorship. And dictatorship is ageless.

A first reaction to this declaration of
political conflict is a well-worn ques-
tion. What is the Western ideological
alternative to Communism? What is
our belief? What have we in common,
except poverty in Europe and the
means of help in America? We cannot
be merely anti-Communist.

The definition of Western aims and
ideals is a formidable undertaking. The
mouthing of a few
worn
clichés is not enough. Nor
can we content ourselves
with a traditional American
definition. For most of Eu-
rope has traveled a long way
from perfect economic free-
dom, and we ourselves have
excluded competition from
much of our economic life.

We shall not in our time
retrace the steps from Jeffer-
son to the Roosevelts.

Perhaps there will never be a mani-
festo of Western ideals, because if and
when such a definition is attempted, a
basic difficulty will be encountered.
That difficulty lies in the fact that the
individual is our fundamental unit, and
the first right of an individual is free-
dom of choice. Hence, the individual
creates his own ideological standard,
and governments are established to
guarantee him his right. The notion
inherent in Communism that some
higher power can impose a set of politi-
cal and economic beliefs upon individ-
uals is abhorrent to Western thinking.
We are, at the outset, at an ideological
disadvantage, because we can present
no tight-fitting set of ideals as our own.
Our greatest source of strength is free-
dom, and freedom denies the right of
anyone to define its limits.

In economic life freedom is defined by
law, and law is constantly changing.
In all the Western countries, including
the United States, government be-
strides a considerable part of economic
life. The extent of its power is a con-
stant subject of political conflict.

The limits of governmental power
over economic life should be determined
by a representative government, rest-
ing upon wide suffrage and vitalized by
freedom of expression.

This is a standard for all Western
nations—socialist, half-socialist and
non-socialist. It is our answer to old
and new Cominterns.

Newsweek, October 20, 1947