Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**The Baltic States**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The State Department's ex-big shots, such as Sumner Welles and Bill Bullitt, are emitting low mooing sounds over the small nations of Eastern Europe. "The Jedge [meaning Mr. Hull] has done sold the little folks down the river," it will be said. And kindly Americans, always quick to leap to uphold the rights of small nations, will join in the chorus.

The noise will be intensified by hyphenated political groups in our Mid-western American cities, where tens of thousands of Polish, Lithuanian, and other Slavic votes are at stake. Non-citizens of the countries involved will issue pamphlets and make speeches about the long national history of places which never were nations at all.

A nation seems to be created whenever someone with a title from a former principality of Russia gets established in expensive quarters in New York or London, hires an American Public-relations man, gets out a propaganda journal with the aid of tender-hearted Americans and holds forth at inane teas and dinners.

Let's get two things straight. First, not everything that is small is a nation. Second, not everyone who is in exile is a government-in-exile. Consider, for instance, the cases of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia.

Versailles did not create these paper nations because they had a long and legitimate national identity. They were created because the makers of Versailles wanted to weaken Russia. In fact, if a man from Mars should have read the territorial provisions of the Versailles treaty without knowing of the four bloody years of war against Germany that preceded it, he would have concluded that the Allies had defeated not Germany, but Russia. There can be no question that the people who created the European map of 1919 were vastly more afraid of Russia than of a revival of Germany. Twenty-four years of history show how wrong they were.

The Lithuanians are by origin Slavs. Their period of grandeur ended some hundreds of years ago. For some centuries after that, their destiny was mingled with that of Poland, although the two were never completely integrated. Meanwhile, the region more recently known as Lithuania became a hodge-podge of races, religions and nationalities. In the partitions of Poland in the eighteenth century, most of Lithuania was incorporated in Russia, where it remained until the last war. Its career after its re-creation in 1919 was marked by constant friction with Poland. After Hitler came to power, it became clear that Lithuanian sympathies were turning strongly toward Germany. In the election of the Diet in 1938, the German ticket elected 25 Diet deputies; the Lithuanian nationalists, only four.

Latvia is populated by 10 per cent Russians, 5 per cent Germans, about the same number of Jews, and the rest, a miscellaneous Slavic mixture indistinguishable from the Lithuanians. The most important thing about Latvia is its fine port, Riga, founded in 1200 by the German traders. In 1914, four-fifths of Latvia was owned by 500 Germans. It has never developed a distinctive national life.

Still less deserving of the name "nation" is Estonia, which was ruled, over the centuries, by a variety of powers—the Danes, the Teutonic Knights, the Swedes and the Russians. Its people are a mixture of Mongolian, Scandinavian and Slavic elements. It has been taken over by the Germans in this war, as it was in the last.

These three "nations," the creation of Versailles, have neither by historical tradition, nor by ethnology, nor by proved capacity for self-government the characteristics of national life. In common with Poland, their career as buffer states was marked by a tendency to buff each other. Stalin may well be willing to grant them some measure of self-government, and, if he does, it would probably be better frankly to permit Russia to be responsible for them than to make them once more the prey of internal instability with incessant intrigue and interference by German, by Russian and by Polish interests.

Self-determination is a nice word, but ultimately, the question is who determines whom and what. Under the terms of the Moscow agreement, the federation of these three quasi-nations has been suggested as a solution. But Russia objects to such a plan. Stalin regards these countries as legitimately Russian and, no doubt, will insist that they return to the Soviet with some sort of autonomy to meet their local necessities.