Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure.  Due to the image quality and some overlapping text, minor inaccuracies might be present.


**Republican Advance and the ADA**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The belief prevails in the minds of several sharp political observers in Washington that the so-called Republican Advance is a part of a general plan inspired by the left-wing Americans for Democratic Action to infiltrate both major parties with promoters of more and more government and less and less personal liberty.

Coincidences favoring this theory were pointed out as early as last April by Frank C. Hanighen in his shrewd weekly newsletter, titled *Not Merely Gossip*. He noted that at the very moment when the ADA was meeting in Washington early in April, several members of and sympathizers with that group broke out with a rash of articles telling the Republican Party what it must do to be saved. Arthur Schlesinger Jr., Marquis Childs, and Herbert Agar were mentioned. Later, there appeared Eleanor Roosevelt's piece, *"If I Were a Republican Today,"* probably written in April.

The ADA meanwhile adopted a platform affirming its "political independence" and promising to work for candidates of "whatever party," so long as they agreed with the ADA.  Meanwhile, Robert S. Allen, another good reporter, spotted and published an account of a private get-together of "liberal" Republicans in Washington, of which Russell Davenport was the "chief mover." Allen reported that Davenport was intent upon a Republican ADA. Senator Morse sounded off on his favorite theme of "maverickism," which is political anarchy—everyone for himself rather than the party.


Democratic Federal Administration. After some preliminaries in Rhode Island and other states, the Davenport efforts brought together in Philadelphia a group of "Republicans" from ten states. The name selected for the group was the "Republican Advance," and on July 1 a long and windy document appeared.

Almost every real issue is buried in generalities. But specifically, civil rights were stressed. The terms used on this issue could serve for an ADA or Truman declaration. The Republican Advance editorially is against the Truman-Ewing plan for government medicine. But it carefully sidesteps the Taft alternative for Federal aid to states for medical aid. It therefore endorses the Flanders-Ives bill, under which the Federal government would subsidize and probably finally absorb voluntary plans as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield. This is merely seeking a back door for government invasion of private and cooperative medicine.


Davenport's willingness to serve as a Republican Moses is a wry piece of humor. When he was associated with the late Wendell Willkie, the inference could be drawn that he, like Willkie himself, was acting as the official opposition to the Republican Party. In 1944 he was the moving spirit of "Republicans for Roosevelt." The present movement would hardly be notable, except for the strange editorial sympathy of a few newspapers and the approval of the Advance "principles" by a handful of Republican senators and congressmen. Perhaps, being politicians, the latter are willing to approve anything ambiguous. Certainly, they have not considered what this sort of thing might do to their party.

For while Davenport and his associates may be sincere visionaries, their proposal is inimical to the maintenance of a party that, despite defeats, can still stand for conservative principles. If the Advance should succeed, which fortunately is impossible, it could well kill the Republican Party. A party, like a person, is just as dead when it is the victim of a sincere blunder as when it is blasted by its enemies.


All this offers some relieving humor for dark days. Here are people who have devoted most of their lives to discrediting the Republican Party and to perpetuating the Federal machine rule of the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations. Can they really want the Republican Party to succeed? Yes, on their own terms. But since the Republican Party is still the refuge of sincere conservatives, it is clear that it never can win on those terms. Hence, the conclusion is inescapable that the end of this strategy would be Republican frustration. Then the nation would be dominated by a

Newsweek, July 31, 1950