Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Roosevelt and Dewey-I

by RAYMOND MOLEY

PERHAPS this series should start with
a sentence or two of personal quali-
fication. I have had the somewhat un-
usual experience of working with both
the late Franklin D. Roosevelt and
Thomas E. Dewey. These personal
services in Dewey's case have not been
continuous or official, but they were
continuous in the 1940 campaign and
occasional since. In Roosevelt's case
they were continuous from
1931 to 1936. I have had the
opportunity to see both of
them working as governor
of New York, Roosevelt as
President for three years,
and both men in the midst
of political turmoil, speech-
making and in moments of
decision. I have known well
the people with whom they
worked intimately, whose
observations on their bosses were often
most illuminating.

The mentality, character, working
habits and ideas of these men com-
pared and contrasted have a special
importance since Dewey is so likely to
be the next President. If he is, he will
deeply impress and affect the history
of the country. Moreover, his accession
to the Presidency may well usher in a
period of party supremacy as long and
noteworthy as the Roosevelt era now
closing.

THERE are more similarities between
the two men than might be as-
sumed. Quite unlike in early origins,
they both unquestionably aimed at the
Presidency many years before they
were nominated. Both have had a sense
of high destiny. Both have revealed in-
tense ambition. A newspaper publish-
er some years ago comparing Dewey
with Roosevelt murmured the historic
words about the youthful Caesar: "In
this young man is many a Marius."

It is also important to note that the
basic concern of both men has been in
political organization. Neither could be
classified as a man of nonpolitical vo-
cation, drawn almost accidentally into
politics, as was Hoover or, as in earlier
times, Grant, Jackson and Washington.
Probably political ambition became a
conscious concern at an earlier age in
Roosevelt than in Dewey, but both
entered public office at exactly the
same age, 29. Both, of course, were
actively identified with New York

politics. As politicians they have both
shown that they are the active di-
rectors of their political managers.
Both will be written in the books as
"strong" executives. This term, "strong"
executive, has a very special meaning
in political science. It does not neces-
sarily carry with it the connotation of
excellence or success. It means active
party leadership, direction of legislative
policy and the full use of
high office to influence pub-
lic opinion. A "strong" Pres-
idency means, in Woodrow
Wilson's terms, Presidents
who "more and more come
to feel that they are admin-
istering [their office] in its
truest purpose and with
greatest effect by regarding
themselves as less and less
executive officers and more
and more directors of affairs and lead-
ers of the nation."

Wilson in discussing this point four
years before his election pointed out
that the makers of the Constitution
conceived of the Presidency as Whigs
regarded the crown, that is, "only the
legal executive, the presiding and guid-
ing authority in the application of laws
and the execution of policy."

But time, circumstance and the great
growth of the country decreed a larger
role, and only Presidents of inferior
capacity have failed to fill that role.

In a period of isolation and of con-
cern with domestic affairs, as from
1865 to 1898, leadership drifted to
Congress. But when the United States
assumed world power, the President,
as director of foreign affairs, assumed
more and more leadership. In the peri-
od now beginning, foreign policy will
increasingly add to the potential of the
White House.

THE Executive Chamber in Albany is
a remarkable school for strong ex-
ecutives. All three who came from there
were "strong" Presidents-Cleveland,
T. R. and F.D. R. Dewey will have
been governor of the Empire State
longer than any of these predecessors.
He has more completely dominated the
legislature than they did. And he has
done so with quiet but meticulous care.
Dewey as President will follow this
course with Congress. Like the Roose-
velt of 1933-1937, he will actively in-
fluence its decisions.

Newsweek, August 23, 1948