PERSPECTIVE

INNOCENT BYSTANDER

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A great deal of the shiny novelty that made Nelson Rockefeller so attractive when he ran successfully for governor of New York in 1958 has worn off. More than seven years in office and two unsuccessful quests for the Presidential nomination have taken their toll. But his prospects for a third term would still be better than good except for the blundering of Mayor John V. Lindsay during his first months in City Hall.

It seemed incredible in 1958 that a man named Rockefeller should submit himself to the mercies of a heterogeneous electorate. Many believed, because prejudices linger so long in the public mind, that the odium attached to Grandpa's business career would inflict itself politically upon all of his descendants.

But beginning with the creation of the Rockefeller Foundation in 1913, a rebuilding of the family's name had taken place. Nelson's father, John D. Rockefeller Jr., bore his responsibilities so wisely that the nation learned that great wealth, however accumulated, might usefully serve the public interest. By John D. Jr.'s rigorous discipline over his considerable family, five sons were taught to become worthy individuals in their own right. Meanwhile, the old founder's business exploits measurably faded into the history of a productive but ruthless past age.

ROCKEFELLER'S RECORD

Grandson Nelson's weakness as a rich man in politics in 1958 was not so great an impediment because his opponent, Governor Harriman, carried a similar handicap of millions. What is important, as Rockefeller's appeal for another term comes up this year, is not his antecedents or his name but his usefulness to the state in the governor's office. There, it seems to me, experience is his major qualification. He has operated a good store, fairly expensive but satisfactorily efficient and, except for two bad instances, free of scandal. This sort of service is what the people of the state should expect of their government in Albany.

Rockefeller's Presidential ambitions were terminated in 1964. That distraction will be eliminated in the future. The governor's prestige in upstate New York is impaired, but if he can get a fair fraction of the New York City vote, his chance of reelection will be bright.

But there's the rub. Mayor Lindsay and his merry young amateurs have created a formidable candidate who might well defeat Rockefeller in November. This potential candidate is Democrat Frank D. O'Connor, formerly a popular district attorney in the borough of Queens who was elected president of the City Council along with Lindsay. He is shrewd and personable. His popularity in New York was shown in the election. His plurality was 427,000; Lindsay's was 125,000. In his office as president of the council O'Connor has plenty of authority to whip up more and more opposition to Lindsay's actions since he entered the City Hall. He can emerge as a reformer of reformers.

LINDSAY'S MISTAKES

There have been minor miscues by Lindsay, but three in particular have created bitter opposition. First there was Lindsay's projection of City Hall politics into the Police Department. After twelve years during which Mayor Wagner respected the integrity and independence of the police, Lindsay plunged with all the valor of an amateur into the internal management of the department.

Lindsay has also proposed a unification of all transit systems, including the independent Triborough Bridge Authority. This has aroused not only the redoubtable Robert Moses, chairman of the Authority, but the bondholders and the banking trustee.

Finally, a Lindsay tax package which includes a proposed increase in the tax on stock transfers has threatened the loss to New York of the Stock Exchange itself. That would not only cut into the city's revenues but it would impair New York's status as the nation's financial center.

All these unpopular actions provide a means for the exploitation of O'Connor's image as a defender of the city's rights and prerogatives. The protest against Lindsay would cut into the vote in New York City which, although a minority, is essential in a statewide election.

Rockefeller is the quite innocent bystander.

Newsweek, April 4, 1966