Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


**What's Happening to Us?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Mental and moral reconversion are already on the way. These sections of the aftermath don’t wait for priorities and aren’t controlled by percentages. Total war becomes partial peace, and reaction starts with a rush. If you have any reform hay on the ground, you’d better get it in. Because the sky is getting dark.

This observation is not based solely on a recollection of the great reaction in standards and ideas which followed the Armistice in 1918, although that analogy has some helpful lessons. It is based on bits of evidence here and there that are usually noted by people dealing with news, politics or public affairs. It is based finally on what experience teaches us about what Americans do under given conditions.

The reaction which is setting in starts on the mental side. Then moral values will be involved. Then we hear all professional deplorers begin to deplore. And then, after a few years… But let’s not get ahead of our story…

For almost seven years—roughly, since Munich—Europe has engaged the attention of Americans longer and more intensely than ever before. Vicariously, until Pearl Harbor, and then actually, we shared the agonies of Europe. The war with Japan called for additional mental and emotional concentration on Asia. We felt only a partial concern about what was happening at home. And we found strength to carry on in the hard present by making moral resolutions to devote ourselves to better purposes here at home and out in the wide world. Human beings can maintain such a rigid concentration only for a limited time. Seldom in history have they succeeded in doing it so long.

A good half of our interest in the war is gone, although there is no lack of resolve to finish the Japs. Those who respond quickly to public moods, like newspaper editors, will reduce European news to smaller proportions, so far as quantity and position are concerned. Like William Pitt after the battle of Austerlitz, the average citizen says: “Roll up that map; it will not be wanted these ten years.”

We lived in the past seven years in an era of resplendent leaders—leaders who spoke eloquently of idealism and high resolve. The sun is setting on them. Death has removed some. Others, like Churchill, are moving toward honored retirement. Human beings, wearied of the mental and moral exactions those leaders required, turn to mere average types, easier people to live with. Voices, faces and phrases that suggest the strenuous days of war will be less agreeable to the public.

The end of a great event like the war in Europe creates a major shift in what you read in the papers, see in the movies and hear over the radio. News and the materials for entertainment are made of elastic stuff. When you see more crime news in your paper, for example, don’t assume that there actually is more crime. Most likely the reason is that other news has become less plentiful, as it is right now. When one topic of interest shrinks, another expands to fill the vacant space.

In the period to come we will read more of lesser stuff. Entertainment will become lighter and not so clean. Publishers will look for books on less serious subjects. Lecturers on “Our Responsibilities” will face empty chairs.

The evidence of incipient reaction in politics is appearing. This month in Jersey City and Newark, boss-ridden government rolled over the forces of reform. Mayor La Guardia’s twelve years of reform government are through. A newspaper poll in New York City shows a heavy public preference for Jimmy Walker for mayor again. This is absurd because Jimmy, who doesn’t want the job, has been in retirement for thirteen years. But his name suggests to a nostalgic people the gay and carefree ‘20s.

Despite this public reaction, there are enormously important things before us. The Pacific war has not reached a climax. In the nation and in the world great problems must be solved somehow. But those whose consciences drive them to the laudable purpose of reminding people of those things will have harder going. The public will find it harder to concentrate. A public reaction is a mighty tide. And it is here.