Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

War on Merchandising

When the Federal Communications Commission tossed the immediate future of television into the stage of wrangling and confusion, it did much more than it knew. It provided a particularly vivid demonstration of a growing tendency on the part of Washington to impose a theory of merchandising that is alien to American practice and traditions.

Here, in brief, is the story:

For upwards of twelve years, the engineers of the Radio Corporation of America have been working on television, at a cost to the corporation of over ten million dollars. Just a year ago, the corporation began broadcasting to the public from the Empire State Tower. In the course of the year, the practical development of two inventions provided the solution of two of the most serious technical problems television still faced and at last opened up the ultimate prospect of successful commercial television. The first, the application of the orthicon iconoscope, reduced the intensity of the light that had to play on the sweating actors and actresses and improved the quality of the image. The second, the radio relay, makes possible network broadcasting in place of broadcasting confined to the radius of a single station.

Needless to say, these spectacular advances did not convince anybody, RCA officials included, that television had reached a state of technical perfection. But the advances did make clear that the time had come for wider research and experiment in television program making. And they certainly demonstrated that television could be made more available to the public than it had hitherto been. So the RCA, which had been selling sets for $600, reduced its price to less than $400 (incidentally reimbursing those who had paid $600 to the amount of the difference) and proceeded to make plans for the sale of 25,000 sets within a year in the New York area. RCA appeared in hearings before the FCC and described its plans.

On February 29, the FCC issued an order authorizing two classes of stations—one for technical experiment and a second for experiment in program production and technique. Beginning September 1, it held, Class II stations might begin limited commercial operations. The FCC also remarked that "there is no reason apparent why those members of the public to whom regular television programs are available, who are conscious of the fluid state of the art, and who are willing to assume the financial risks involved for the obvious benefits of current programs, should not acquire receivers.”

In view of this, RCA called meetings of dealers to discuss a sales campaign and published an advertisement—the advertisement that seems to have precipitated the FCC’s “suspension.” This advertisement said that RCA was ready to provide a regular television program service and that it was offering to sell receiving sets at a stated price. It described the receiving sets and some of the programs recently shown. It also explained that RCA had licensed 45 of its competitors.

Two days after the appearance of the advertisement, the FCC issued an order calling for new hearings and suspending the rule authorizing limited commercialization as of September 1. In a press release the FCC suggested that sales resulting from RCA’s sales promotion might give one manufacturer “an unfair advantage over competitors” and thus “cause them to abandon the further research and experimentation which is in the public interest...” The FCC also said that “promotional activities” might result in the sale of so many receiving sets as to bring about the “crystallizing” of standards “at present levels.” In and out of the hearings that ensued, Chairman James L. Fly has dwelt alternately on the possible “freezing” of television standards and on the possible uselessness of sets now sold in the event of radical changes in methods of radiovision.

The FCC logic at this point becomes difficult to follow. FCC apparently desires to keep the cake and have it eaten too; to protect the buyer of receivers against radical changes in television and yet insure the utmost advance in the science of television; to stave off obsolescence and guarantee advance at the same moment. When everyone knows that whatever creates also destroys; that obsolescence is the ugly spouse of progress!

Mr. Fly’s quarrel is clearly with the “intensive and extensive sales promotion campaign” of RCA. In hearings before a Senate committee he admitted, on questioning, that the FCC has no right to regulate advertising. But, at the same time, he did not hesitate to pass judgment on this particular sales-promotion campaign. The two bones of his contention seemed to be that purchasers would not know that their sets might become obsolete and that the sales campaign would induce the purchase of more sets than the FCC thought the public ought to buy.

This stand raises very fundamental questions. To begin with, how general is public understanding of the fact that no product of invention is perfect when it is first put on the market?

Mythology tells us that Minerva, the Goddess of Wisdom, sprang from the brain of Jupiter, mature and in complete armor. Mythology does not tell us whether there were human witnesses, but, if there were, I surmise that they were more interested in the fabulous emergence of Minerva than they were in her equipment. So it is with the products of invention. In the case of television, the chief interest of the observer is the miracle that produces any picture at all out of the ether. In the case of the automobile, early purchasers were motivated as much by intense interest in a mechanical wonder and a desire to be among the first to possess it, as by anything else. The early buyers of such products are those who can afford to pay a relatively high price to indulge this sort of interest. They do not expect perfection. In fact, they take pride in the important part which their observations, their minor experiments and their criticisms play in the developmental process itself.

It was this limited group, obviously, that was expected to buy the sets advertised by the RCA. The judgment as to how to reach this group was admittedly no concern of the FCC. But, in effect, the FCC has made such a judgment.

The stand of the FCC, then, raises another question. Is it a proper function of government to “protect” prospective buyers of a product against statements which are not false, fraudulent or misleading and against individual impulses whose satisfaction may be only temporary? This seems to be a basic position of the FCC, just as it seemed to be a basic contention of some of SEC inquirers into insurance before the TNEC.

Every intelligent businessman knows that the penalty for “overselling” must be paid by those who “oversell” as well as by those who “overbuy.” But what can even the most benign government do about it? To attempt to regulate it would involve an examination of the sales-promotion budget of every company in the nation. It would involve an examination of the relative drawing power of different kinds of advertising copy. It would call for careful study and supervision of the personal budget of every American citizen. Possibly the time might come when a man of moderate means who bought an expensive mattress would have it snatched from under him as he was presented with a command to buy a new set of teeth which he didn’t want.

This, apparently, is the ideal of some of our forward thinkers.