Here's a text version of the provided article, preserving the column structure as much as possible:


**Twenty-Six Years After**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CHICAGO—Visits during the past two weeks to Indiana, Southwestern Michigan and Southern Wisconsin leave me with the impression that, while the war is of prime interest to everyone, there is hardly less concern over what will be doing in the field of international politics once the end of the war in Europe is comfortably in sight. Impressions on that subject are doubly important here because, in this section, was probably the strongest sentiment before Pearl Harbor to keep us out of war.

I claim no right to interpret public opinion on the basis of such a casual survey as I have been able to make, but it is an outstanding impression that the details of European diplomatic maneuvers, the plans for holding Germany in check, the disposition of the spheres of power among Britain, Russia, and France provide questions closer to the man in the street here than they ever did before. It would be silly to say that people are not worried. It would be equally foolish to say that there is not some fear of Russia and, to a lesser degree, of Britain.

News of the diplomatic commitments of Mr. Roosevelt is anxiously awaited and will be searchingly discussed, since plenty of frightening things are being said in the press and by public men in speeches. And much propaganda is being disseminated by groups with origins in one or another of the nations of Europe—a fact which adds no confidence and quiets no fears.

And yet, beneath all are a great hope and determination that this time we shall not permit frustration to dim the light of victory as it did 25 years ago. A public man with whom I talked recently, who was called isolationist by his critics four years ago, a man who knows public sentiment as few men in his state have ever known it, said: "The people want something tried this time. They know that something went wrong before. They have suffered twice what they did in the other war. They are expecting their government to do a better job this time."

A great deal of this sort of sentiment is going to be felt and expressed as the months pass, and public men in Congress and elsewhere are going to be hearing a lot from home. The memory of 1919 and 1920 will be sharpened, and people are going to turn back to the records of these years for guidance. They will find when they do that all was not merely black and white in those days. The great frustration which followed the last war was not merely an impasse between isolationist senators and an idealistic but stubborn President.

The final rejection of the League in the Senate came after a long period of public controversy, and many senators who finally ended up as opponents of the League started as men who sincerely wanted to do something internationally to prevent wars. It was the accumulation of information about the errors of judgment at the Peace Conference and about the festering centers of disturbance in many parts of Europe which survived the defeat of Germany, and particularly the hostility of the victorious Allies toward a defeated and chaotic Russia which destroyed American confidence in anything we could do. Senator Borah, who became an arch-opponent of the League, pleaded for Russia and for its recognition. His advice at that time has proved to be more right than wrong by the test of events since.

Those mistakes, that mounting misunderstanding, that senseless partisanship and personal jealousy of authorship can well be avoided this time, if an ear is lent to the voice of history and experience. Fortunately, public opinion is being made this time in large part by people who can remember the distressing events of 25 years ago. Many of those men and women have the added poignant stimulus occasioned by the dangers or death that their own children are facing at the front. Our statesmen will have a better informed and more determined public opinion at home to prod them on.

And, this time, the chains of security around a defeated Germany will have powerful anchorage in the East as well as in the West. Senator Vandenberg has made an immense impression out here, and there will be other powerful men of both parties in the Senate who will recognize that the importance of making a good peace demands action which knows no partisan lines.