PERSPECTIVE

BLOCKADE SAVES LIVES

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Last week I made the point that
“freedom of the seas” presup-
poses control of the seas by a domi-
nant naval power. This imposes upon
the United States, which has that
dominance, the responsibility to make
sure that the seas are used to frus-
trate the Communist threat to end all
freedoms in Southeast Asia and the
western Pacific. It means that the
U.S. Navy be used to cut off all sea
traffic in war material into North Viet-
nam. There are ample precedents for
the use of a “pacific blockade,” which
has historically been used when the
nations concerned are not formally in
a state of war.

A reading of the long, detailed and
precise account in Theodore Soren-
sen’s book “Kennedy” of the high-
level discussions which preceded the
confrontation over the Cuban missiles
in 1962 shows that there is firm prec-
edent for a pacific blockade in this
present instance. Sorensen describes
the argument which went on among
the President’s advisers over various
alternatives open to us after the mis-
siles were discovered. After consider-
able discussion, an invasion and an air
strike were rejected, and a blockade
was adopted. This was accompanied
by a Presidential appeal to Khru-
shchev. But the subsequent reaction
of the Soviet Union makes clear that
there was an understanding in the
Kremlin of the nature and capability
of dominant seapower. The blockade
was called a “quarantine” by the
President, but the reality was the ca-
pacity of the United States to bar
access at sea. The Soviet ships sub-
mitted, stopped and turned back.

HONG KONG TRAFFIC

There are certain differences now
in Southeast Asia from the 1962 con-
frontation, but the essential means of
control are the same. Superior sea-
power can choke off the means of
warfare and lessen and ultimately
stop the bloody and inconclusive na-
ture of the conflict on land and avert
wasteful and equally bloody air
strikes in North Vietnam.

It has been known for some time
that supplies for the aggression in
South Vietnam, especially the heavier
material, come by sea to North Viet-
nam. The United States appealed to
the free-world nations whose ships
were carrying goods into Haiphong,
and there has been evidence of some
restraint. A compilation of the free-
world ships engaged in the trade in
eleven months of 1965 indicates that
some countries, notably Japan, re-
sponded. But the count in 1965 shows
that a large majority of those ships
supplying the Communists were Brit-
ish, with a few Greek, Norwegian,
Cypriot and Maltese vessels. Most of
these ships under free-world flags
came from Hong Kong to Haiphong.
The British Government has been ei-
ther powerless or reluctant to control
vessels registered under its flag by
Chinese owners.

It would be a futile business
merely to bomb the shipping and
docks of that great port which is
Hanoi’s access to the sea. Haiphong
is on a river, with facilities stretched
along for miles. Access is not denied
when a few docks are bombed. For
ships can anchor in the river, and the
stuff they carry can be landed by
small craft.

PRECEDENTS

It is probable that many of the car-
goes picked up at Hong Kong are
carried in there by free-world ships.
The Communist bloc, with a large
merchant fleet, is engaged in the
North Vietnamese trade. And a great
deal of the smaller stuff is transported
in junks, ideally suited to coastal wa-
ters. As I said in my piece last week,
the Ho Chi Minh trail is long and
winding. But it begins at sea.

Pacific blockade was repeatedly
used by the British and the French in
the nineteenth century. It was also
used in 1902 and 1903 by the British
and Germans, with the full consent of
the U.S., in bringing to heel a Vene-
zuelan tyrant named Cipriano Castro.
It is still a legitimate means of arrest-
ing traffic where a state of war does
not formally exist.

It is bloodless use of superior force.
Ships carrying contraband are turned
back. Of course, the British will pro-
test, but that will mean only a long
exchange of notes, which, too, are
bloodless. For the British cannot
maintain a legal right when they es-
tablished the precedents. At the mo-
ment they are calling upon the
United States and the U.N. to aid in
a land blockade against Rhodesia.

Newsweek, January 3, 1966