Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

A Political Intelligence Service
by RAYMOND MOLEY

BOSTON—President James B. Conant
of Harvard makes a great deal of
sense in his comments on the current
international situation. He sees no war
in the next few years, but, rather, an
armed truce unlike anything the modern
world has known. That truce—"not
peace, not war," to use a Soviet term—
presents us with the necessity of cre-
ating extraordinary methods of action.
Conant, in a speech delivered
here last week, pointed out
that, in the course of the
nerve-racking period into
which we are passing, we
must afford to the nations
outside the Soviet orbit not
only economic assistance but
“political leadership of a
subtle sort—ideological rein-
forcement, so to speak.”
Conant did not pursue the
exciting connotations behind his word
“subtle.” What follows is my own sug-
gestion for giving practical effect to
the idea.

THE most obvious and important ob-
jective in the ideological war is to
reduce the political power of Commu-
nist parties. This involves winning elec-
tions; strengthening non-Communist
parties; identifying, learning all about
and watching all political parties and
leaders. Americans should be more
capable of this sort of activity than
any other people on earth. But when
we seek to project our political faculties
into a foreign atmosphere, we are un-
realistic and fumbling.

What is needed is a service whose sole
and exclusive function is to know every-
thing possible about the details and
ramifications of European parties and
to work unceasingly to strengthen non-
Communist political movements and
parties. Such a service should be
manned by people genuinely expert in
practical politics. It should operate, un-
publicized, in every country. It should
be amply, not to say lavishly, supplied
with cash and it should be accountable
only to the Secretary of State or the
President. It should be directed by a
person of great discretion who has had
long and successful experience in organ-
ization politics and who has sufficient
background to comprehend the realities
of many political systems.

Propaganda is not enough. Elections
are won in the neighborhood, in club-
houses, in homes, in saloons, on the
sidewalks and in the polling places.
The State Department and its foreign
service are not equipped to deal with
the political realities of internal politics.
Personal observation of our career men
convinced me that they couldn’t even
carry a high-school fraternity election.
Such a service should cooperate with
but not be dominated by the intelligence
service of the armed forces.
The idea, of course, would
be repellent to the American
concept of noninterference in
the politics of foreign coun-
tries. But we are dealing with
a concrete situation which
has no precedent. Great gifts
and grants to nations and
governments, such as are
contemplated in ERP, are
fine, but they are not enough.
The individual voter must be reached—
and reached with the magic of material
gain. Have we so distorted our moral
sense that we find justification for giv-
ing millions, plus a Trieste or so, to a
nation and shrink from handing little
Giuseppe a dollar to vote?

How about free elections? Shucks,
there are no free elections. The con-
cept of a completely independent voter
marching to the polls and voting his
cool, rational, idealistic will is a myth.
Voters go to the polls stooped under a
burden of prejudices, selfishness, delu-
sions and habits. In many, many cases
they go because they are either scared
or mad or bribed. We cannot trust
that, after an ERP grant and the gift
of a Trieste, a favorable vote can be
left to chance. To get the vote on our
side, we must fight all the way to the
ballot box by the hard-bitten practical
politics we have learned in a thousand
American districts, wards and cities.

IF this plan does some damage to our
beribboned, beruffled copybook con-
cept of civic virtue, permit me to remind
my disturbed reader that it is better
than war.

We ought to find means to stop Rus-
sia which are less costly, less bloody
and more permanent than the use of
military force. We must have military
force, and we must give massive eco-
nomic aid. But this ideological war can
be won in those ballot boxes which are
still free of Communist control.
Let’s be tough, but let’s be smart, too.

Newsweek, April 5, 1948