PERSPECTIVE
SUBSIDY OR WINDFALL
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Dolitical appeal, rather than econom-
ic sense and long-term constitu-
tional wisdom, has made the proposal
to share Federal revenues with the
states popular with all sorts of people.
Governors in both parties favor it be-
cause it would relieve them of some of
the unpleasant worry of collecting
taxes. Members of Congress love it
because it would please their tax-
burdened constituents at home. Con-
servatives are for it because it seems-
repeat seems-to be a way to return
power to the states. And federalizers
like Walter Heller support it because
his proposal would expand the power
of Congress over the states.
President Johnson and his fiscal
subordinates oppose it because it
would cut into their spending money.
On this issue LBJ, for the wrong rea-
son, is on the side of the angels.
The popularity of Federal revenue
sharing in Congress is shown in the
more than 70 bills introduced during
the first five months of this session. If
we count the co-sponsors of a Senate
bill on the subject, at least 100 repre-
sentatives and senators are backing
some form of the idea. Some plans
would return a percentage of the in-
dividual income-tax revenues to the
states as a substitute for the specific
grants-in-aid already in effect. Others
would give the handout in addition to
the grants-in-aid.
ALLOCATE RESPONSIBILITY
When Heller first proposed reve-
nue sharing, he said it would be a
way of disposing of an anticipated
Federal surplus. But when deficits
continued, he changed his position
and said he would favor the plan even
under deficit conditions. His proposal
would give the money in addition to
the present grants-in-aid.
The bills are of infinite variety.
They differ in the percentage of Fed-
eral revenues that they would return
and also in the allocation of the wind-
fall among the states.
There can be no denying the basic
proposition upon which the plans rest.
Grants-in-aid have grown prodigious-
ly. They have hopelessly scrambled
the relations between the Federal
government and the states. When
Taft was President, Federal grants to
the states amounted to only $3 mil-
lion. By 1920 they were $33 million;
by 1941 $836 million. In the past
twenty years they have increased
from $1 billion to $15 billion.
In principle, what we need is not
revenue sharing but responsibility
sharing. Indeed, much of the Ameri-
can Constitution has to do with the
sharing of responsibility between the
Federal establishment and the states.
For a century and a half, government
was nicely divided. There was the
Federal province, the states' prov-
ince and certain areas of joint respon-
sibility. But legislative actions have
greatly increased the functions of joint
responsibility and also programs in
which the Federal government has
taken over completely. The states
have been the most willing partici-
pants in this change.
DISCIPLINE OF TAXATION
Perhaps it is too late to reconstruct
the balance, even through constitu-
tional amendment. But the proposal
to share the revenues is to create a
still greater imbalance and still more
centralized power in Washington.
For the simple facts of political life
must convince anyone that if Congress
returns Federal revenues, governors,
legislatures and cities will not levy the
taxes needed to do what they should
do themselves. A windfall from Wash-
ington would relieve them of the
painful business of taxing their own
people.
As I noted earlier this year, taxation
is discipline. Those who levy taxes at
the state and local level must justify
their action because the new money
meets a manifest need. Discipline in-
volves courage, since state and local
forms of taxation must be unpleasant
and unpopular among taxpayers. This
imposes upon the taxing authorities
the duty of making clear that the
money is needed. And it also imposes
upon state and local governments the
responsibility of making sure that the
money is prudently and efficiently
spent. When taxes are levied and rev-
enues spent close to the taxpayers,
countless eyes are upon the spenders.
Federal income taxes are also pain-
ful to the taxpayers. But they are pa-
tiently endured, like the weather and
the certainty of death. Those who im-
pose them are far away in Washing-
ton. It is almost impossible to fix re-
sponsibility. The money is spent by a
faceless bureaucracy. Taxpayers can-
not reach the spenders. They cannot
effectively complain to them and they
cannot vote them out of office. That
is the traditional evil of a centralized
government.
Newsweek, October 2, 1967