Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, avoiding overlap between columns:


PERSPECTIVE
INTERSTATE HIGHWAYS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It may be that as the years pass
Dwight D. Eisenhower’s most enduring service to his country will be
regarded as his sponsorship of the
great new Interstate highway system.
For he first proposed its creation in
1954 and after long consideration and
debate he signed the final legislation
which launched the vast project.
When completed, this system will
transform the face of the nation, bring
scores of cities closer through speedy,
safe and comfortable automotive
travel, facilitate commerce among the
states and offer inexpensive recreation for millions of people.
It is a relief after the long preoccupation last winter and spring over
the sanguinary matter of highway accidents, and now while the tourist
season is at its height, to consider
what is right about our highways.
Since 1946 I have crossed the nation 31 times by car and from year to
year have literally seen the evidences
of improvement. I have used almost
every route from coast to coast and
have crossed a large majority of the
states. Ten or more years ago, such a
crossing required eight to ten days.
Last month I made the round trip in
twelve days of comfortable daytime
travel. The difference was due to the
construction over those years of what
is called the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways and
toll turnpikes in six states.

TWO PROGRAMS

There has been some Federal aid
ever since the great westward migration in the 1820s. But the first systematic plan was not adopted until
1916. In 1944 Congress adopted the
concept of a great network to connect
many cities and towns. But it was not
until the Eisenhower Administration
assumed office that the network plan
was adopted. It was in 1956 that the
present plan was finally passed by
Congress and a means of financing it
was created.
There are two systems of Federal
highway aid. The older one involves
grants in varying amounts to help the
states and urban areas construct their
own highways. The new system is
marked by the shields “Interstate,”
with even numbering for East-West
and odd numbering for North-South.
The Interstate is the primary system.

When completed, Interstate will
include 41,000 miles of uniform
construction with wide pavements,
depressed dividing areas and landscaping—the epitome of safety, speed
and attractiveness. In March of this
year 21,000 miles of this system were
open to traffic; 5,900 miles were under construction and the remainder
were in various stages of planning. Of
these, 17,000 miles have been built
under the 90-10 sharing of costs between the Federal government and
the states. Interstate will be only 1
per cent of the total mileage of roads,
streets and highways of the nation.
But it will carry 20 per cent of the
automotive traffic.

SOUND FINANCING

Various plans were proposed in the
1950s for financing this immense public work. Tolls were considered and
rejected, as was financing by bond issues. Finally the present plan of user
taxes routed through a Federal trust
fund was adopted. Thus the burden
does not fall on the income tax and,
since it is not financed by bonds, it is
only indirectly inflationary.
A total of $25.6 billion has been
committed since 1956. When the system is completed the cost will be
$46 billion. This will be the greatest
government public-works project in
the world’s history.
Since safety is a major consideration in highway construction, Interstate has a notable record. The ratio
of fatalities on this system to those on
highways in the same channels of
travel is 2-9. In April and June I traveled nearly 10,000 miles, mostly over
Interstate, and saw evidence of only
one accident, an overturned truck.
The driver sustained only bumps and
bruises.
The directing genius in this construction since 1961 has been Rex M.
Whitton, Federal Highway Administrator. Whitton has been a highway
engineer for 40 years. In 1956 as
president of the Association of Highway Departments he gave testimony
before Congress which materially
contributed to the final plan. When
Interstate is completed in 1972 the
system will be a monument to his capacity as an administrator. And to
Dwight D. Eisenhower, whose vision
prevailed at the beginning.

Newsweek, August 1, 1966