Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

After Oregon

by RAYMOND MOLEY

This is written after twelve days in
California, Oregon and Washington
and after the Oregon returns are all in.
The days spent in Oregon were the
more exciting, but the detached views
expressed in the other coast states and
in Illinois before and after the great
primary contest were actually more en-
lightening. Here is how things look now:

If Stassen had won in Oregon, the
race for the nomination
would have been extremely
difficult to judge. Stassen's
nomination would not have
been assured, but he would
have had a profound moral
claim. It would have been
impossible to determine the
extent of Dewey's delegate
strength, because scores of
uninstructed but Dewey-
tending delegates would
have begun to locate convenient exits.
The chance of a deadlock would have
increased.

But after Dewey's victory, a dead-
lock is by no means certain. One reason
why it may not happen is that so many
people believe it is inevitable. Their
belief is based largely on the fact that
eight years ago Dewey and Taft en-
gaged in mutual extermination. Dele-
gates were not prepared for that or for
the Willkie blitz. Politicians, including
Dewey and Taft, live and learn, and
such historical episodes are seldom re-
peated. Deadlocks bring utter confu-
sion and uncertainty, which the poli-
tician dreads like a plague.

It is undoubtedly true that Taft and
Dewey have no agreement. But that
does not prevent delegates and political
leaders under them from acting as if
there were an agreement. Wherever I
go, I hear politicians talking of a Taft-
Dewey merger. Any such merger would
probably be from Taft to Dewey; first,
because Dewey will have more dele-
gates, and, second, because Taft's dele-
gates are more manageable.

It is impossible to give anything like
a certain estimate of the present
strength of the candidates, because the
uninstructed politicians' preference is
temporarily locked in a wary and
suspicious brain. But after Oregon, it
looks as if Dewey is the first choice of
about 300 delegates, with a possible
additional 30 or 40. Taft now has in
prospect about 250; Stassen, something
over 150. Those estimates include a
number of delegates in states where
conventions are still to be held, but
where the selection has in fact already
been made.

Hovering over the scene and not in-
cluded above are the big undeclared
and uncertain delegations of Illinois,
Indiana, Pennsylvania and New Jer-
sey, whose total is 190. Michigan has
41 for Vandenberg, and Con-
necticut's 19 will go to
Baldwin. There are also Cali-
fornia's 53, who will vote
for Warren. If he fails, the
53 will probably go to
Dewey or Taft or be split
between them. To say that
the Warren support will not
go to Stassen is a gross un-
derstatement.

It must not be forgotten
that deeply embedded in every dele-
gate's mind is confidence that a Re-
publican will win. The politician who
plies his trade twelve months a year is
not likely to be concerned in Philadel-
phia with somebody who has a great
appeal to independents, the youth and
the so-called intelligentsia. He wants a
man in the White House upon whom
he can depend in such matters as
patronage. That does not mean that
this convention, like that of 1920, will
turn to another Harding. The politi-
cian has lived and learned. He wants
an authentic political President, but he
is likely to be wary of a weak one.

After Oregon, therefore, the practical
odds favor Dewey and Taft, in that
order. Taft is the favorite of the very
conservative and of the business com-
munity. He is also more popular among
regulars than Dewey. Dewey has the
advantage of a really able national
organization. He is not a pliable politi-
cian, but he plays the game. He will
have the most delegates. This pro-
foundly impresses such men as are in
control in Illinois, Indiana and Penn-
sylvania.

All this is not to be interpreted as a
personal preference or as a proph-
ecy that Dewey will win the nomina-
tion. It is merely to suggest the prac-
tical factors which favor Dewey and
Taft. The race is not always to the
swift, or the battle to the strong, but
politicians are powerfully attracted by
candidates who have lots of votes.

Newsweek, May 31, 1948