Here's a text version of the provided image, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlap.  I've omitted the advertisement in the left column.

**Dewey and General Sherman**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Before many weeks, the race for
the Republican nomination will probably
involve an assertion by the Willkie
supporters that Governor Dewey cannot,
in light of his previous statements,
accept a nomination. This assertion
will be violently debated and innumerable
versions will be provided about
what Mr. Dewey's statements really
mean. Before the shooting starts, it
may be useful to examine the record.
The statement upon which Mr. Dewey
stood during his campaign for Governor
in 1942 was made in his speech of
acceptance in August at Saratoga
Springs. It was: "For my part, let me
say right now that I shall devote the
next four years exclusively to the service
of the people of New York State."

Replying to letters in 1943 urging
him to run, his office, in what was
practically a form letter, quoted the
Saratoga Springs statement and indicated
that Mr. Dewey had reiterated it
repeatedly. The letter said: "He is not
and will not become a candidate for
any other nomination during his term."

After the election of his candidate
for lieutenant governor in November
1943, Mr. Dewey said: "I am not and
will not become a candidate for the
Presidential nomination."

There the matter stands, and Mr.
Dewey has indicated his intention to
say no more on the subject.

So much for the record. Now for
its interpretation. Those who argue
that Mr. Dewey, if nominated by the
convention, can and should accept that
nomination, begin by referring to Gen.
William Tecumseh Sherman's refusal
to run for President in 1884. The
General expressed his views in several
ways, notably in a letter to Blaine, who
was later nominated. "I will not in any
event entertain or accept a nomination,"
he wrote. He went on to say
that his full duty to his country had
been in the military field and that he
would account himself "a fool, a madman,
an ass" to enter a field for which
experience had not prepared him and
from which age precluded him.

As nearly as I can paraphrase it, the
argument of those who urge the nomination
of Dewey, despite his statements, and who
sincerely assert that
he should not refuse, is as follows:
General Sherman was a soldier. He
was subject to the call of his country
for military service and, if commanded
to serve, could not morally refuse. He
had not adopted public service in the
civil field as a career, and if his party
commanded him to serve there, he
might disobey.

But it is contended that when a
man like Dewey enters the public
service as a career, he is subject to
the rules and traditional moral directives
which prevail in that field. Since
the selection of a candidate for President
is, under established law and
custom vested in the party convention,
a public servant cannot refuse its command.
Because to refuse is to disobey
the constituted authority of the nation.
And even if he has pledged his service
to the State of New York, as Dewey
has done, the greater authority of the
nation can break such a pledge. In
short, it also overrules Mr. Dewey, the
servant of the state. There is, it is asserted,
no violation of morals here, any
more than there is in the drafting of a
man for military duty who has announced
that he would not in any circumstances
go to war.

It is further indicated that the significant
words in the 1942 Dewey statement
quoted above are "For my part."
That is, so far as anything Mr. Dewey
can or will do, he will not seek any
service other than that of Governor.
The status of a man who asks the
party to nominate him is quite unlike
one the party calls to service. Dewey
has made no effort to get the nomination.
On two occasions, he has made
statements which would be regarded
as suicidal by a candidate. The first
was his speech on feed and livestock
before the Governors' Conference last
June. It made Midwestern governors
hopping mad. The other was his
English alliance statement at Mackinac.
The nomination if it comes to
him, will depend entirely upon party
and public compulsion and not upon
the result of any disposition of his.

The foregoing is intended as a recital
of facts and as a preview of a
debate which lies ahead. It should be
added that Mr. Dewey was perfectly
sincere when he made his 1942 and
1943 statements and is sincere now in
his preference to continue as Governor
to the end of his term. The issue will
be the extent to which a party call
can override personal preferences.