Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Sprained Ankle or Broken Neck?

If all that we needed to plan about, in trying to prepare for post-emergency adjustments, were the part government ought to play, the National Resources Planning Board, which reported this week, might well do the job of planning. But despite the many excellent qualities of the report, it has the limitations of its origin. It is the report of a government agency, and no government agency can, in the nature of things, size up the situation that we shall have to cope with after the great defense effort slackens and peace is restored. The report is a good summary of what the government has been doing in the way of construction in the past few years. We can learn a lot from such reviews. But to expect completely wise and completely objective appraisals of government policy from a government agency is too much. The all-over job of appraisal and planning can only be done by more or less detached people on the outside.

The Board's report admits that public works can only be a partial answer to recovery from a depression, postwar or otherwise. But there is more to the story than that. There are many planners outside the National Resources Board, particularly New Dealers without business experience or the technical equipment to participate in the defense setup, who find themselves with nothing to do but think up postwar reconstruction plans. And somehow these planners are reluctant to admit that we are going to be short of a lot of things not mentioned in any of their plans. After the World War we were short of cars, clothes and a thousand other things. According to present indications, we are going to be fairly well out of everything made of metal before we are through arming. Despite verbal disclaimers, government planning tends to run too much to public works. If we rely upon it exclusively, we may find ourselves building roads when we actually need more automobiles. And the continuation of deficit financing on a pre-war scale, after such a tremendous financial strain as we are now passing through, may make it impossible for us to get the cars.

So in this matter of planning we ought to hear from agencies that can back away from the problem and see both the roads and the cars—agencies that can, in short, see both what the government needs to do and what private industry should be expected to contribute. The splendid report of the Rockefeller Foundation, released last week, suggests that some such agency could render a great public service by undertaking this job.

The thing that disturbs the observer is the extent to which the Washington planning of these days seems to conceive of post-emergency adjustment as a thing apart from mid-emergency policy. It is as if a doctor were planning, in advance, the convalescence of an acutely ill patient without bothering too much about the course of the patient’s disease or the methods he was using to treat it. It makes very little sense to plan to cushion post-emergency shocks unless we do everything in our power to minimize those shocks while they are in the making. Proper planning means preventing current and foreseeable difficulties from getting out of hand.

This will suggest immediately the flaw in those planning suggestions that contemplate nothing more than enlarged doses of the same medicine we’ve been having—loans, public works and deficit financing. We cannot, for instance, use government credit for recovery plans unless we maintain government credit during the emergency. Unwise financing now could impair it beyond help in the days ahead. The South went through that experience. So did the thirteen states, before that. Obviously, therefore, we ought to pay for as much armament as possible while we are making it.

Likewise we ought to strip off every one of the gratuitous burdens that we have inherited from our interrupted and incomplete job of recovery. For one thing, maintaining a WPA to take care of people who could, with pressures of various kinds, be worked into armament employment, invites trouble. Beyond this, consider the difficulty of certain cities which, in the nature of things, must bring in thousands of new workers from the country to replace their older workers on relief. At the end of the period of emergency these cities will have the new workers, suddenly left jobless, together with the survivors of the old unemployment and, in addition, they will have returning soldiers. American cities have been notoriously lax in looking ahead. They are not looking ahead now. And yet it is plain that they are in process of permitting one of the most critical problems that they have ever encountered to grow up in their midst.

Much the same thing might be said of the problems of dislocated prices and dislocated markets. The best way to remedy them is to prevent them so far as possible. This means actual planning of the armament program in the light of after-war conditions. Some of the OPM people are infinitely more aware of the need for this than the postwar planners whose planning is wholly removed from the current defense setup. Such men as Robert L. Mehornay of the defense contract service, for example, are trying to get as much work as possible done in existing plants, on original or subcontract, building as few new plants as possible, and those only the special types such as powder, artillery, naval gun, tank and airplane plants and shipyards.

What we shall have to do to ease our economic fall after the war will depend upon how far we shall have to drop. We ought to see to it now that we don’t have to risk our necks dropping from the top of the Washington Monument. There is a heap of difference between a sprained ankle and a broken neck.

‘Contumacy’

The Supreme Court has now lowered the curtain on the case of Arthur Morgan, ousted from the TVA two years ago by the President. Perhaps one should not use the word shrewd in describing an action of the Supreme Court. But by declining on technical grounds to consider a decision of the Sixth Circuit Court, the Supreme Court has avoided an excruciatingly embarrassing choice. For if it followed its own precedent in the fairly recent Humphrey case, it would deny the validity of the President’s most sensational removal. And if it upheld the President in his right to remove Morgan, some of its members might live to see the day when another President would lop off New Deal heads by the dozen in a major housecleaning of administrative boards.

A strange word came into popular currency with Morgan’s removal two years ago. The President ousted Morgan for “contumacy.” Students of jurisprudence have been puzzled by this curiosity in the lexicon of American law. There is excellent reason to believe that it emerged in the Securities Exchange Act and that Ben Cohen was either its father or its finder. The word was well known in the time of Henry VIII. Historians tell us, for instance, that Henry punished certain “unhappy martyrs” with “stake and faggot” less for their heresy than for their “contumacy.” But, of course, no one believes that contumacy in the America of the twentieth century has any resemblance to the contumacy of those cruel days.

Dr. Morgan, unscathed by stake and faggot, rich in honor and happy in his integrity, will not worry about his association with the word. He knows that Hampden and Pym and Samuel Adams and George Washington were also called “contumacious” or its equivalent, once upon a time.