Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Not a Needy State

by Raymond Moley

COLUMBIA, S. C.—The clamor for
Federal aid to education is certainly
not coming from the states alleged to
be "needy." I have visited a number
of those states in the South in the
past two months and found nothing
but solid opposition. I also found
none which was unable to meet its
school needs and which was not rapidly
eliminating its building deficiency. In
NEWSWEEK (March 25) I offered the
evidence on this point from Louisiana
and Oklahoma.

Surely, if relative wealth were the
criterion, South Carolina would qualify.
Its per capita income as of 1955 was
$1,108. The national average was
much higher. On this basis, only two
states were more "needy." But only
seven states exceed South Carolina in
the proportion of their means devoted
to education. It is a proud state which
abhors the idea that a state should
seek help in educating its children.

When James F. Byrnes became
governor of his home state in 1951, he
persuaded the legislature to authorize
an immense bond issue, which in the
years since has provided state
allocation to school districts for school
construction in the sum of $172,226,332.74.
This sum will mount by 1960 to more
than $200 million. Many districts,
especially in urban areas, have provided
a good deal of their own money. And
the Federal government has spent some
in and near its installations.


ROOMS FOR ALL

Counting state, local, and Federal
construction, more than half of the
children of the state are in new classrooms,
and a large number are in rooms which
have been remodeled and renovated. If
the rate of building over the past five
years should be continued, nearly all the
state's children will be in new or remodeled
rooms. But there is no necessity to
continue such a rate.

The director of the State Educational
Finance Commission, which has charge of
the allocations, estimates that something
like 2,400 more new classrooms will be
needed between now and 1960. But there
is, he says, "a balance of entitlement in
the state program of about $34.5 million."
At a cost of $21,000 per classroom, this
would provide for 1,643 more classrooms
with state money. But counting all
sources, the gap would be much more than
closed. The special tax instituted to meet
the state building program will continue,
and a total of 4,500 new rooms will be
provided.

The absurdity of the attempt of the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare to make a case for Federal aid
for education was thoroughly exposed by
Gov. George Bell Timmerman Jr., in
response to an inquiry from Congressman
Ralph W. Gwinn of the House committee
considering the bills for Federal aid.
Gwinn's question had to do with the
figures for South Carolina listed in the
famous and thoroughly unreliable Circular
490. There were listed 1,953 classrooms
"needed" to accommodate excess enrollment
and 4,500 "to replace unsatisfactory
facilities."


WASHINGTON'S ERROR

Governor Timmerman stated that the
Department of HEW sent a questionnaire
to the South Carolina State Department of
Education, which, incidentally, has nothing
to do with the state's construction program.
That department found that the Federal
questionnaire used criteria which were
overlapping and hence used its own criteria.
Washington found the reply unsatisfactory
and then sent its questionnaire to the State
Educational Finance Commission, which
replied that 1,953 rooms were under
construction in the year 1956-57. Thus the
figure in Circular 490 was not a shortage
not being met. It was the number of rooms
in process of construction. So far as the
figure 4,500 is concerned, it was given as
the estimated number of classrooms which
were expected to be built by 1960 under
the current program of construction. It was
not intended to mean "unsatisfactory
facilities."

This evidence of confusion in the
interpretation of what constitutes "need" in
one state suggests the mass of misinformation
upon which the entire "case" is made for all
of the states by the Federal government. The
case for Federal aid collapses under the
weight of its own confusion.

Newsweek, April 29, 1957