Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


**Industry and the Draft**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CLEVELAND—Our experience with
the draft law is beginning to make it
apparent that the need for earnest co-
operation between industrial leaders and
draft boards is becoming critical.

This year the boards must provide
for the Army over 4,000,000 men, in-
stead of 2,400,000, as originally planned.
The Army is calling on the boards for
more men in one month now than they
provided in the six months prior to last
March. For reasons easily understand-
able, the boards want the younger men.
But so do war industries. What is more,
employers have been asking to keep
many of them. Yet there are simply not
enough young men to satisfy both the
needs of the Army and the requests for
men to continue work in industry.

It may be well to recall the basic
principle recognized in the Selective
Service Laws of 1917 and 1940. That
principle is that civilian boards, com-
posed of men and women of proved in-
tegrity and intelligence, are set up to
make selections under the law. The
boards' function is quasi-judicial, in that
they sit in judgment on a number of
interests. On one side is the Army, on
another, the prospective draftee and,
on still another, industries with a ne-
cessitous claim upon prospective draft-
ees. The boards must pass judgment on
these conflicting claims. The present law
differs from that of 1917 in that "ex-
emptions" are not permitted. The word
now is "deferment." The distinction is
clear and unmistakable.

To make the immediate problem clear,
consider the situation in this typical
large industrial city—Cleveland. This
county has 51 boards. To facilitate the
formulation of policies, the chairmen of
these boards have formed an association
headed by Judge George B. Harris.
After making a painstaking study of the
problem now confronting the boards, he
tells this reporter that the situation is
as follows:

"A large percentage of the employers
have not yet learned the true significance
of the word 'deferment.' Many of them
have treated the occupational deferment
into the II classification, not as a
temporary convenience for them so that
in the six months period of deferment,
provided since the act became effective,
they might train some one else to take
the deferred employe's place," says Judge
Harris, "but rather as a period within
which they could train him to become
more efficient for their work and, hence,
more certainly 'necessary to the war
production program.'

"The word 'necessary' is the criterion.
Many employers think that every man
in their service is necessary. And when
local boards refuse their demands, they
appeal to the county boards of appeal
in such vast numbers that the dockets
of those boards become clogged. In
many instances, several months pass
before they can reach and act upon the
cases. Meanwhile, the men are not in
the Army, but remain at the factory.
Meanwhile, too, the boards are un-
able to meet their monthly calls for
men.

"The Army suffers, and the success-
ful prosecution of the war is greatly
impeded. Also, civilian morale is ad-
versely affected. Young men, who never
saw a fifty-dollar bill, get jobs in war
factories at $50 per week or more, and
are deferred. They flaunt their newly
gained riches in their own neighbor-
hoods. Parents and other members of
the families of boys of the same age in
the vicinity, who are already in the
service or have been classified for early
induction, see this and become in-
furiated. They complain to the local
boards. They become resentful. The
effect is very bad.

"For all these reasons, the employers
must release large numbers of the 20-
26-year-old men and replace them with
older men and with women," Judge
Harris concludes. "The embargo on
colored workmen must be removed, and
men in many lines of activity unrelated
to the war program must leave their
current employment and enter war pro-
duction."

The method Judge Harris is fol-
lowing in Cleveland consists of calling
meetings of major employers, labor rep-
resentatives and some members of draft
boards and working out amicably, by
compromise, the difficulties involved. It
is clear that this process, or something
like it, might well be set in motion in
all industrial centers. For the success of
raising an adequate Army while main-
taining industrial production is de-
pendent upon such mutual understand-
ing.