Common Sense and Taxes

by Raymond Moley

The rush into print by leaders of
both parties in Congress with
assurances of relief to the suffering tax-
payer is belated but welcome. Quite
properly, these promises are made
with the qualification that drastic
budget cuts should precede tax cuts.
There is another qualification which
may or may not be observed. When
and if tax relief comes, it should be
something more than a mere hand-
out, such as a raising of exemptions.
A tax plan should recognize a number
of very important principles:
It should provide relief all along
the line. It should be a program of
reduction extending over a period of
years. It should recognize that the
evil in present rates is their steep
progression. It should provide the
greatest relief for the middle-income
groups—the real victims of present
policies. It should recognize that more
revenue may well be gained from
lower, rather than higher, rates. It
should discourage the growth of gov-
ernment, particularly Federal ex-
penditures. It should moderate the
tax on individuals and on small busi-
nesses, and also discourage the
unproductive disposition of large in-
comes now made to escape taxes.

THE ‘NEW BOUNTY’

Finally, and I believe most impor-
tant, it should give the benefit of the
anticipated growth of our national
production to taxpayers, not to spe-
cially selected beneficiaries of hand-
outs. One of the most pernicious of
economic theories which now prevail
in Washington is that, since we may
anticipate about $3 billion or $4 bil-
lion increases in our national product,
this “new bounty,” as Candidate
Stevenson called it in his campaign,
should go for increases in Federal
expenditures. This “new” economics
is more dangerous than that promul-
gated by the late Lord Keynes. For
Keynes favored cutting back spend-
ing in good times. The “new bounty”
economics, popular not only among
“liberal” Democrats but among eco-
nomic wizards in the Eisenhower Ad-
ministration, would continue spending
increases in good times because
there is more wealth to tax.
Antoni N. Sadlak has been a hard-
working and clear-thinking congress-
man from Connecticut for more than
ten years. Out of his experience on
the Ways and Means Committee and
other sources, he has developed a
tax-reduction plan embodied in H.R.
6452. This bill recognizes the prin-
ciples listed above. It does not cover
all inequities, but it strikes at the most
pernicious, which are in the individual
and corporate income taxes.

GRADUAL REDUCTION

His plan would contemplate a grad-
ual reduction in rates over a period
of five years beginning next January.
The reductions specified would give
to the taxpayers the benefit of the
“new bounty” without reducing the
actual revenues of the Federal gov-
ernment. If the President and Con-
gress will keep expenditures down,
it might be possible under such a plan
to pay off a part of the debt.
The Sadlak plan would start with
a reduction of 1 per cent a year in
the basic 20 per cent rate. Then the
surtaxes above that would be re-
duced yearly at rates which in five
years would bring the total paid by
any individual down to 42 per cent.
Corporate taxes would come down
from 52 to 42 per cent. The bulk of
individual relief would be in the basic
rate, which now provides 83 per cent
of the $33 billion raised from indi-
viduals. The extremely high rates
yield relatively little revenue at pres-
ent. People in the brackets above 26
per cent paid, in 1956, only seven
per cent of the total individual income
taxes. Those in the brackets above
80 per cent paid less than two per
cent. The reduction in corporate rates
would, in fact, enable a price reduc-
tion, since in reality the corporate tax
is an excise paid by the consumer.
The bill has a built-in safeguard
which would permit the President and
Congress to postpone a scheduled re-
duction for six months or a year,
whenever there is danger of a deficit.
If all possible postponements were
used, the full reduction would take
place in nine rather than five years.
Authority for these reductions, how-
ever, would put the burden of proof
on the President and Congress.
There will be other plans for tax
relief. But Sadlak has drawn attention
to the substance of the problem.

Newsweek, May 6, 1957