Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:

**Reappraising Hoover**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

HISTORY is one-third fact, one-third
controversy and one-third mythology.  It is
easy to say that history will give the final
answer to contro-verted questions, place the
crowns on the proper heads and emerge finally
as the supreme judge of the past. But that
never happens. As facts accumulate, they
inspire new controversy. And the myths
deepen their hold as time recedes.  One of
the recently made legends concerns the life
and times of Herbert Hoover. It needs to be
whittled away as much as possible while
Hoover himself is living and while the facts
can be fairly weighed. The trouble is that one
of our great political parties still finds it
useful to perpetuate the myths, and the party
which elected Hoover President has a cowardly
way of avoiding controversy by abandoning
its former leader to his detractors.


EUGENE LYONS, who is a well-quali-
fied enemy of historical mythology, has
written a book about Hoover*—a book which
is not only historically important but
inspiring. It is inspiring because Hoover’s life
up to the dark years of the early ‘30s is a great
American success story. I leave that earlier
story to the reader of Lyons’ book, where it is
set forth in moving detail. Lyons properly
points out that Hoover as President was no part
of the old Republican laissez-faire tradition.
Early in the depression he boldly asserted that
in any major breakdown the Federal
government must assume responsibility in seeing
that no one should go hungry, that Federal
credit should be used to stay the rush of deflation
and that leadership for distracted and chaotic
business should come from Washington. Hoover
had in his eight years as Secretary of Commerce
fully recognized the large part government must
play. His department burgeoned with activities
designed not to regiment business but to help it
expand. He believed that not only a higher
standard of living but true economic stability
could come only by more production, more
consumption and high levels of wages.  It should
be set down for the record


that, except for an argument for reciprocal
tariffs, which were an old Blaine-McKinley
idea, F.D.R. deliberately declined, during the
1932 campaign, to take issue on foreign policy.
When, that October, the question came up, I
talked with F.D.R. about a speech on foreign
policy. He said: “Let’s not say anything on
foreign policy. Hoover’s all right on that.” And
so the Hoover-Stimson policies were approved
sub silentio.

When we all burst into Washington after
the inauguration, we found every essential idea
enacted in the 100-day Congress in the Hoover
Administration itself. The essentials of the NRA,
the PWA, the emergency relief setup were all
there. Even the AAA was known to the
Department of Agriculture. Only the TVA and
the Securities Act were drawn from other sources.
The RFC, probably the greatest recovery agency,
was, of course, a Hoover measure passed long
before the inauguration.

The big question is why Hoover did not use
these instruments himself. The answer is twofold.
He was opposed by a Democratic House of
Representatives intent on his destruction. Second,
he lacked political boldness and timing. Obviously,
active cooperation between F.D.R. and Hoover
might have mitigated the bank disasters. There
was, however, a disposition in Roosevelt’s camp
to avoid responsibility before the inauguration
and to seize the initiative when the bottom was
reached, on inauguration day. (There was complete
cooperation between the old and the new
Secretaries of the Treasury, Mills and Woodin. If
it had not been for help from the outgoing
Treasury group and the RFC, the storm could
never have been weathered.)

It ought to be added that the development of
the World Economic Conference in London was
nurtured under Hoover, and it was F.D.R. who
turned isolationist at that critical hour. Herbert
Hoover deserves the honor of recognition as an
outstanding economic statesman, an honor that
has unjustly been denied him for a long time.
Lyons’ book serves to open the record to an
unprejudiced view.

Newsweek, June 14, 1948

*OUR UNKNOWN EX-PRESIDENT. 337 pages.
Doubleday. $2.95.