Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Weapons Against a Pitiless Enemy

by Raymond Moley

THE war to which I refer began
sixscore years ago. At that time
an Englishman named Sir Augustus
Frederick D’Este, a grandson of
George III, found himself afflicted
with a serious infirmity. His ample
means permitted him to travel extensively for relief and enlightenment.
Twenty-five physicians were consulted, and there were almost 25
different diagnostic opinions. We now know his
affliction for what it was—
MS, multiple sclerosis.

The courage and perseverance of Sir Augustus endured for 25 years, and to
the immeasurable profit of posterity he kept a minute
record of his symptoms, his treatments, and his ultimate
hopeless prostration. His fruitless search is written in the unsteady scrawl that marks the uncontrolled muscles of the arm. Despite all
his efforts, he was at last, at 60,
paralyzed and helpless.

Almost everything written in the
D’Este account is being substantiated
in the personal lives of about 250,000
individuals, mostly young adults, in
the United States and in those of
millions over the world. There is the
furtive attack and retreat on this bodily function and that, on one organ
or member after another; blurred
vision one day, mumbling speech another; shaking, insubstantial movements of the hands, treacherous steps,
and undependable internal organs.

With this disease there is no moment when the victim can with any
accuracy reckon with his fate, balance
the account with the future, and plan
whatever may be left to him. Even
death lends no quick end. MS denies
the patient everything, even the certitude of an end.

The attacks are not those of a
formal onset of a trial of forces. They
are in the pattern of an infinitely
resourceful guerrilla. MS attacks here
while it retreats there. From time
to time it demonstrates a capacity
to reach every faculty, almost every
organ. Sometimes it beguiles its victim by a long remission. But there
can never be the assurance of the
length or perhaps permanence of
such relief.

During the lifetime of D’Este, a British and a German scientist were,
independently of each other, studying the pathological signs of the disease. It was found that the disease
was accompanied by the disintegration
of the tissue that sheathes the
nerves of the brain and the spinal
cord. Later there appear in such centers of the disintegration patches of
scar or "sclerotic" tissue. These
multiplied manyfold give
the disease its name.

At that point the march
of discovery faltered. We
know little more today.
What we do know is that
science must make a many-sided search for the cause.
On that subject, medical science is now devoting itself
to the investigation of one
hypothesis after another.

The National Multiple Sclerosis Society’s research program is directed at
such investigations. One theory is that
a virus is the guilty agent. Another
suspects faulty metabolism. Others are
allergy, nutritional deficiency, imperfect circulation of the blood. These
are being explored by competent scientists working under the general
observation of the society’s distinguished medical advisory board.

The society, the origins of which go
back only eight years, is the recognized international clearinghouse for
efforts in behalf of this disease. It has
chapters in 45 centers. Its resources
are devoted mainly to research. The
society also publishes numerous helpful pamphlets for doctors, which are
available to them without charge.

BEYOND that, it is seeking to make
the public realize by a broad
campaign of education that this is not
a rare or mysterious disease. Within
limits it is also contributing to diagnostic and treatment clinics maintained
by its chapters. It is most significant
that most of those who have given
work and money to the society’s operations have personally known someone suffering with the scourge. Most
important, the victims of the disease
themselves are fighting to give help to
the next generation. To know this, is
reason enough to help. Gifts, inquiries, and information should go to the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society,
270 Park Avenue, New York 17, N.Y.

Newsweek, May 3, 1954