What For and How Long

by Raymond Moley

THE foregoing title refers to what is
generally known as a liberal-arts
college and the number of years re-
quired for graduation therefrom. The
following reflections are mostly the
result of my observations during a
considerable number of years as a
college and university professor. They
are not those of a professional admin-
istrator or educationist. Nor are they
enlightened or confused by wide
reading in the modern literature on
higher education. I was just a teacher
who knew something of the habits
and capacities of students, colleagues,
and institutions.

1—A great majority of students in
four-year colleges are not required
to use their full energies and capac-
ities. Some regretfully realize this
when they are later subject to the
rigorous discipline of medical and
legal education.

2—Large numbers would have
found some form of remunerative em-
ployment a better preparation for life.

3—Only about half the freshmen
graduate (56.3 per cent).

4—The cumulative diversions of
the junior and senior years—recrea-
tional, romantic, and thinking about
and seeking future employment—
suggest that many students might
profitably have dropped out after the
second year.

5—The exceedingly high cost of a
college education imposes upon many
parents a financial strain which out-
weighs the value of the students’
education, especially when there are
younger children at home.

6—A very considerable number of
the courses have little relevance to
the needs—general, not necessarily
occupational—of later life. Much of
this proliferation is due to the vague
demands of parents and students.

7—In a great many, probably two-
thirds, of our four-year colleges finan-
cial resources are so limited, and thus
teaching talent is so mediocre that
the intellectual nourishment is very
thin. Any teacher can offer three or
four courses in his line, but often the
intermediate and advanced courses
are merely revamped editions of the
elementary version. The Christmas
turkey by Dec. 28 is edible remain-
ders—but hash.

8—Real teaching talent is, like
pure metal deposits, limited. The vast
flood of students since 1945 has com-
pelled administrators to take lower
and lower grades of ore. The stretch-
ing of talent over four years accentu-
ates what has long been a deplorable
defect in college practice. For reasons
of imagined prestige and because of
the pressure on teachers to pro-
duce “written, scholarly work,” the
more gifted teachers seek advanced
courses, leaving freshmen and sopho-
mores to the greenhorns. The be-
ginners need the inspiration and
awakening of the best teaching. Any-
one who is a little older and knows a
little more can sit with good advanced
students who have earlier had the
benefit of the masters.

THE JUNIOR COLLEGE

That such considerations as the
foregoing are evident to educators is
shown by the prevailing confusion as
to what a liberal education is sup-
posed to be and do. Old standards
have been swept away in a flood of
experimentation. Educators are like
the boy who had taken his bicycle
apart to build in a gasoline motor,
helpless amid a profusion of parts, un-
able to put together again the old
muscle-powered machine.

I find no special reason except tra-
dition for four years—no more, no
less—of liberal arts. Is it merely a
breathing spot between adolescence
and manhood or womanhood?

Into this area of backing and filling,
there has broken the junior college.
A great educator, President Harper of
the University of Chicago, surveyed
the problem in the 1890s and put into
effect the concept of “junior” and
“senior” divisions. The first were to
give a rounded offering to those who
had neither the desire, means, nor
aptitude to go on, and also to prepare
others for further study. The latter
were to provide serious stuff for those
with a real objective.

Since 1900 the number of junior
colleges has increased from eight
to nearly 700 with approximately
900,000 students. Of these, about 275
are private institutions; the others are
public, tax-supported schools of an
infinite variety.

In another article I shall consider
private junior colleges, with an ex-
cellent institution as an example.

Newsweek, September 7, 1959