Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

What Liberties Are We Losing?—III
by RAYMOND MOLEY

THE American sponsors of super-
statism have had a great deal of
trouble getting around the constitu-
tional guarantees of the rights of life,
liberty, and property. For when these
are joined in an indivisible triangle of
liberty, they constitute our most
powerful defense against the invasion
of socialism. The one which they
need to eliminate or breach, of course,
is the right of property.

Three methods of attack
have been used for this pur-
pose in legislative and judi-
cial action. The first is to
break down the defenses of
property through a wide,
almost unlimited use of the
general-welfare clause in
the Constitution. The sec-
ond is to rate the three
rights of life, liberty, and
property in a descending order of
importance. The third is to attempt to
disassociate the right of property from
the rights of life and liberty and to
substitute for it a "right" of security.

The first two of these methods have
found help and sympathy not only in
the legislative declarations of Con-
gress but in the Supreme Court as
reconstructed over the past thirteen
years. The third method which is
especially emphasized in the effort
of the United Nations Commission on
Human Rights, has reached the point
of inclusion in the FEPC bill endorsed
by President Truman and urged by
his representatives in Congress.

THE term "general welfare" appears
twice in the Constitution. It is in
the Preamble: "promote the general
welfare," and in Article 1, Section 8:
that Congress may tax to provide,
among other things, for the "general
welfare of the United States." Under
an interpretation of the reconstituted
Supreme Court, a great number of
Federal grants, benefits, and regula-
tions for all sorts of groups and pur-
poses have been allowed. The point
seems to have been forgotten by all
but a minority of the Court that the
words "general welfare" mean some-
thing more than the sum of all little
welfares. For if enough little welfares
are provided, the general welfare of
the nation will be hopelessly impaired.
But an opening has been made in the
Constitution for almost anything a
political Congress and President may
find it expedient to provide.

Another trend has been a disposi-
tion of a group of Supreme Court
Justices, notably Murphy, Rutledge,
Black, and Douglas, to regard the
three rights of life, liberty, and prop-
erty in an order of descending impor-
tance. This tendency was vigorously
resisted by the late Chief Justice
Stone without avail. Justice
Frankfurter has more re-
cently protested about this
"preferred position" of life
and personal liberty, over
property. This double
standard has also been
pointed out—not to say de-
plored—by the notable and
respected Judge Learned
Hand. He has very force-
fully pointed out the truth
that has been assumed for nearly a
century and a half: that there is a
strict equality of all three rights.

In defending the FEPC bill,
Senator Lucas, the majority leader
and Presidential spokesman, asserted
that the right of life was placed "above
all others" and that life meant "liveli-
hood" and that hence the FEPC bill
should pass. This is utter confusion, of
course, but it shows the trend of Fair
Deal thinking. Property, therefore,
becomes a third-class right.

Finally, there is the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights of the
United Nations, adopted a year and a
half ago. This lists a whole flock of
new "rights" and dropped property to
some vague language in Article 17.
It revises the old trilogy of individual
rights as follows: "Everyone has the
right to life, liberty, and security of
person." Mrs. Roosevelt, chairman of
the Human Rights Commission, we
may assume, finds this revision in line
with her own personal philosophy.

IT is almost unbelievable that this
Declaration should be cited in the
Administration's FEPC bill, thus to
embed a new and strange definition
of human rights in the law of the land.
In commenting on this, Sen. George,
who is not given to extravagant lan-
guage, said: "We have never ratified
the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights. Once we do... we shall have
changed... the character of the
Government of the United States."

Newsweek, June 12, 1950