Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


**The Hun Didn't Pay**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

During the last war, the French cried out: "The Hun shall pay!" The British echoed and amended: "The Hun shall pay cash." The Hun did not pay. Instead, he collected from his former enemies the means to attack them again. This strange sequence is a chapter in economic history which explains why the men at Yalta inserted after the word "reparations" the two little but momentous words "in kind."

The history of reparations after the last war began with the peace conference. The treaty did not fix the amount, but entrusted that job to a committee which decided on an amount equal to 32-35 billions in American dollars.

But Germany had no gold and could only offer paper marks for the annual payment of an average of about $1,000,000,000. No one wanted paper marks. Germany then offered 80,000 skilled construction workers. France refused because she wanted work for her own plants and her own workers. Lloyd George said in 1922: "We have 3,000,000 unemployed." France accepted some coal until her own mines were restored. England was not pleased with that, for her own miners were thus thrown out of work. No, the English insisted, the Hun should pay and pay cash!

The Hun could get cash by selling washing machines, tools and cotton goods abroad for money which he could use to buy raw cotton, wool, copper, food and feeds. But world markets were shrinking, and, in the narrow markets which existed, British and Italian workers lost jobs every time the Germans sold machines and fabricated goods. Up went anti-dumping restrictions to keep out German goods. Then came German runaway inflation, the monetary collapse and, in 1923, the first Hitler Bierkeller Putsch.

Enter Uncle Sam with loans-five billions in loans. With part of this good money Germany paid reparations and with another part she performed the amazing reconstruction of her industries. The republican German government of those years hoped to increase the nation's efficiency enough to sell abroad sufficient to pay her private debts to Americans and also to pay a part of reparations. The Young Plan reduced those reparations payments measurably.

Then came the crack of 1929, the shrinking of world markets and the stopping of American loans. "Free" dollars (more than those necessary to cover indispensable imports) disappeared, and in 1931 Germany's finances broke down. Later in the same year England went off gold. The American depression deepened. Banks began to have trouble. In June 1931, the Hoover moratorium was declared for the purpose of relieving the countries which owed us.

When the Hoover moratorium expired in December 1932, France refused to pay her installment of principal and interest, and Herriot, who wanted to pay, resigned as Prime Minister. England paid after some protest. The following June, France refused again, and England paid a token of 10 per cent of the amount due. Other countries, including Italy, Belgium, Poland and Greece, pleaded inability to meet their payments and were permitted to postpone their obligations. Finland paid on the line. After June 1933, there were no more payments of any country except Finland. And reparations were ignored. The whole structure of interconnected debts and reparations disappeared without trace, except for Finland's payments to us, which continued without interruption.

In summary, the whole period saw only a few reparations paid largely out of money lent by Americans to Germany, followed by the loss of these loans by Americans. And, what was the most bizarre chapter of all, the German industry, rebuilt with American dollars, fell into Hitler's hands on Jan. 30, 1933.

Russians saw with a wry smile this drama of capitalistic frustration. To them labor was money, and money was-well, something for capitalistic countries to lose. They created plans and began to build a huge industry on Russian soil. While this was going on, Germany invaded their country, destroyed their plants and houses and cities. Their ideas of reparations are very simple. The Huns should return unarmed and rebuild what they destroyed. Other Huns should go to work in Germany and make things that Russians can use.

The bearing of all this on the interests of the various Allies will be considered on this page next week.