Perspective

Conditional School Aid

by Raymond Moley

SINCE the positions of the prelates
of the Catholic Church agree in
principle but vary somewhat in spe-
cifics on Federal aid limited to the
public schools it will clarify the issue
to present the views of Francis Cardi-
nal Spellman as an example. The
cardinal's views are most important
since his school system is one of the
largest in the United States.
In his archdiocese of New York,
which includes Manhattan, Staten Is-
land, the Bronx, and seven counties
to the North (exclusive of Brooklyn,
Queens, and the rest of Long Island),
216,013 elementary and secondary
school children are enrolled. The an-
nual cost of conducting or operating
these schools is $108,612,440.

Far from being unfriendly to the
public schools, the cardinal, as a citi-
zen of the community, has used his
influence for their improvement. He,
himself, attended and graduated from
public elementary and high schools.
I have discussed the subject with
him and these are his views on the
President's announced plan:
The Catholic schools are equal
partners in the great task of educat-
ing and training Americans to live in
a free society.
Therefore, the cardinal is asking
for equitable treatment, under the
laws, for all children, regardless of
the schools they attend.
The parents of these children are
and have been paying taxes for the
public schools and at the same time
have supported their own parochial
schools. They would, under this Fed-
eral aid plan, pay still another tax
to the Federal government.

PRECEDENTS

There are plenty of precedents
for non-discriminatory Federal aid in
Federal legislation such as in the Na-
tional Defense Education Act, in
providing school lunches and in aid to
college students. The cardinal ques-
tions whether there is an essential
difference between putting a roof
over a pupil's head and giving him a
lunch or medical attention.
The President's announced reason
for limiting aid to public schools is
that aid to private schools would be
unconstitutional. The cardinal notes
that there is a marked difference in
authoritative opinion on that subject.
Prof. Arthur E. Sutherland of the
Harvard Law School states that non-
discriminatory Federal aid would be
constitutional. Sutherland says that
the First Amendment to the Constitu-
tion, cited by opponents of Federal
aid to church schools, was aimed
against the establishment of a state
church, but not specifically against
any particular aid to a church or the
members thereof.
The cardinal points to the enroll-
ment of more than 5 million children
in the elementary and secondary
schools in the United States. The sup-
port of those schools is at an annual
cost of $1.8 billion. This represents a
major contribution by members of the
church to the costly task of education,
and a major relief to the generality
of American taxpayers.

THE BASIC POSITION

The foregoing are the cardinal's
views. A fine statement of the Catholic
position is a recent article by Dr.
Mark J. Hurley, a notable educator in
the archdiocese of San Francisco:
"In a democratic society all citizens
must share equally under the law in
both the burdens and benefits within
the community. The government in
distributing its burdens such as the
income tax and military service does
so without distinction of race, color,
creed, national origins, or of what
kind of school a citizen attended.
Similarly it distributes its benefits,
considering all equal before the law
without arbitrary or artificial exclu-
sion. This is distributive justice.
"To deny benefits on the grounds
that a student is not in a public school
or is taking a different curriculum, or
is studying religion in addition to the
common branches, while at the same
time imposing all the burdens of the
community and enforcing a compul-
sory education law violates dis-
tributive justice. The principle of
distributive justice would seem to re-
quire that a proportionately just share
of public support should be made
available to schools that serve the
public interest. What is a proportion-
ate share, how such should be de-
termined, what needs are in question
are matters for solution but the prin-
ciple remains intact."

Newsweek, March 27, 1961