Here's the text extracted from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

Goldwater's Education

by Raymond Moley

IN THE press and in the talks which
I have had with the "anybody-
but-Goldwater" Republicans I note a
sudden change in the criticisms of
the Arizona senator. There is no
longer a harping on the charge that
he is an "extremist." Over the past
six weeks Goldwater has in printed
interviews and many press confer-
ences stated his views on a great
range of national and international is-
sues. Even his most violent earlier
critics grudgingly admit that he is not
an "extremist" but a "moderate."

Nor can it be claimed, as it was
about Taft, that he would be an un-
popular candidate. His recent appear-
ances from coast to coast, culminating
in a 42,000, World Series-size crowd
in the Dodger Stadium in Los An-
geles, have disposed of that attack.

A more subtle gambit is now cur-
rent among anti-Goldwater Republi-
cans. This is a snooty appraisal based
upon the rather limited contribution
to Goldwater's equipment provided
by formal education and "deep"
reading. These critics are mostly sit-
ting proudly upon an A.B. or sporting
a Phi Beta Kappa key (which may
or may not have been earned in col-
lege). Arthur Krock, whom I revere
as the foremost American political
commentator, tells that another com-
mentator, who is published over the
nation, said in a dinner-table conver-
sation that Goldwater "is illiterate
and third-rate."

RESOURCEFUL MIND

Perhaps I have the academic cre-
dentials to comment upon this anti-
Goldwater attack. But academic
credentials are a minor qualification
in grappling with public issues and
national policies. The indispensable
ingredients are a resourceful mind
and an abundance of common sense.

Barry Goldwater's grammar-school
record was only fair. After a rather
poor first year in high school, his fa-
ther and his highly intelligent and
practical mother sent Barry to the
Staunton (Virginia) Military Acad-
emy. After four years there he grad-
uated, leaving behind a high opinion
of his mastery of military matters in
the cadet corps. He then entered the
University of Arizona, but left in 1929
when his father died. At the age of
20 he entered the Goldwater mer-
chant enterprise and helped carry it
successfully through the Depression.
He ultimately became manager of
the stores. When in 1952 his semi-
learned opponent, the incumbent
senator, called him a "ribbon clerk,"
Goldwater replied that he sold not
only ribbons but shoes, calico, and
dishes, and that he was a "damned
good clerk."

From 1941 to 1945 he served in
the Air Force. In the years that fol-
lowed, his great energies permitted
him to learn more and more of mili-
tary affairs, civic problems, business
enterprise, and his special interests,
electronics and photography.

COMMON SENSE

After he entered the Senate he
carried on studies at the Air Univer-
sity at Maxwell Field and wrote seri-
ous papers on such military matters
as the Polaris submarine.

It is most relevant to suggest that
since the government spends half its
substance on military matters and a
good proportion of the remainder
in technical affairs, this intellectual
equipment could serve the nation
well. And since foreign affairs is so
largely a matter of psychological ap-
praisals, a knowledge of human na-
ture should be indispensable.

Also, since a President, as Wood-
row Wilson once said, is the major
spokesman to as well as for the na-
tion, Goldwater's capacity to make
matters of state intelligible to the
people should clear up much of the
confusion that now afflicts public
knowledge of what government is do-
ing and planning.

I recently asked a priest and edi-
tor with whom I have had a long
correspondence to explain an obscure
passage which I encountered in my
reading. He replied:
"Today there is a cult of obscurant-
ism. The 'professional' scholar must
lapse into his own form of hiero-
glyphics. Don't let it bother you. To-
day the tendency is to say, 'The man
is crazy. He is talking sense'."

If Goldwater's reliance on common
sense is what is now occupying the
attention of his critics, I am content.
For common sense in high places is
what the country sorely needs.

Newsweek, October 7, 1963