Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Highway Slaughter
by Raymond Moley

I AM spending this week end on an
eastbound train. It is not my
usual method of transcontinental
travel, for on ten occasions since 1945
I used an automobile. The other half
of the family went East by air. It
was decided that if the train were
wrecked, there should be a survivor.
The automobile was left in California,
and so were the hazards of touring.
This was done with regret, for touring by car
offers pleasure and advantages far more attractive
than other means of transportation. The modern mo-
tel is admirable. Service by
the oil, automobile, and tire
companies is all that could
be desired. Contemplation
of the nation's beauties in
the cool of the morning or
early evening is beyond compare.
Yes, every prospect pleases and
only some drivers are vile.
A glance at the literature on accidents proves that, on the basis of my
mileage over the years, I am already
statistically dead. As a pedestrian I
have also statistically been run over
and over. We are killing about 40,000
in automobile accidents this year and
maiming more than 2,000,000. Our
accidents are costing perhaps nine
billions in specie. The Korean war
cost us in three years 25,604 dead,
8,529 missing, 2,219 known captured,
and 103,492 wounded.
Consider how we would feel and
what we would do if a foreign enemy
were conducting a truceless, ceaseless
war against us which was costing, in
civilian deaths, injuries, and material
losses, the automobile figures cited
above. And yet the enemies who are
doing this to us are the fools who infest the highways.
There are many facets to the question of the causes of this national peril
and disgrace. Inadequate highways
are a factor. But the folly of drivers
will always outrun the physical improvement of the highways.
As Robert Moses says in a warning
to the users of the highways and
bridges which he has had such a great
part in building in New York: "Speed
is what makes the difference between
major and minor accidents—the difference between injuries and deaths ...”
This means the speed of trucks and
buses as well as of passenger cars.
The pleasure of driving through the
beautiful redwoods of California has
been all but ruined by lumber trucks,
loaded and unloaded, roaring and careening on narrow roads.
A complaint cannot be leveled at
all trucks. Notable are those belonging
to the major oil companies, which
move their fat sides over to give the
passer a chance. Trucks belonging to many other well-
managed companies are
taught to behave.
Nor is it fair to rail at the
manufacturers for stepping
up the power of cars. That
extra potential may prevent
a wreck in an emergency.
The idea of requiring governors on cars, advanced by
some, is impractical.
Moses quite truly says that the legal speed limits are too high. The lawless take 30 to mean 45, and 50 to
mean 65 or 70. Lower speed limits
should be made to mean what they
say. And in most cases those limits
should be flexible. They should vary
according to day and night, summer
and winter in northern regions, and
regulations with strict enforcement
should be made for bad weather.
But the indispensable remedy is, in fact,
the indispensable remedy is more and
better policing. We are dealing with
human devilishness and with selfish
disregard of others. People must be
restrained and restrained by inexorable force. In abating this evil, I would
rather spend a million dollars on more
cops than on more highways. I have
seen busy highways in many a state
where one can travel 100 miles without seeing a policeman. Magistrates
must be more severe. And people
guilty of repeated offenses should
not be permitted to drive at all.
A PROOF of my point was demonstrated in the State of New York
over the Labor Day week end. A
real drive was put on by the state
police this year. Every trooper was on
duty and arrests were made in great
numbers. As a result, accidents were
reduced 35 per cent below 1952.
Better highways, more education,
safer cars, lower speed limits, and
stricter laws will help. But there is no
substitute for a good cop.

Newsweek, September 21, 1953