Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

PERSPECTIVE

THE KEPT SOCIETY

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The President's various speeches and messages in January had a remarkable consistency of philosophy. Taken together, they unfold the reaches of what he calls The Great Society—a borrowed expression which incorporates what he considers will be the state of the nation of the future. It is necessary here, therefore, to lay aside for later consideration the details of the programs recommended to Congress and view the implications in the two general statements—the message on the state of the union and the Inaugural Address to the nation. These are what are called “ceremonial orations,” in which, according to Aristotle’s classic “On Rhetoric,” “the facts are taken in trust.” But what do the President’s orations mean? And what do they portend?

Nothing less than the assumption of an omnipotent and omniscient state. To lift or reduce people to the level of an average standard of life, to cure the ill, to comfort the afflicted, to teach the ignorant and the young, and, while these benefits are bestowed, to make beautiful and comfortable the physical environment. All these blessings are to come from laws and appropriations administered by a vast bureaucracy. The people are not to minister, but be ministered unto.

THE GREAT OMISSION

The ominous omission in all this was a portrayal of the real state of the union. That would have taken account of what has been done over the many generations in private life and at the level of state and local authority. In those areas, the worthy ends and ideals embodied in the President’s rhetoric have also been the ends and ideals of millions of Americans, individually and collectively. They have been laboring as individuals, in private associative efforts, or through the state and local governmental agencies. The pursuit of happiness has always been an American habit. Security, well-being, and freedom from the vicissitudes of life have been an American objective. The embodiment of these efforts are in a vast aggregation of agencies outside the Federal government.

Consider a few of these: state and local governmental improvement and welfare; corporative and labor-union programs for workers’ welfare and security; immense philanthropic endowments for health, education, the arts, churches, and scientific inquiry. All these have worked and should continue to work even more vigorously for the improvement of our life. There is scant recognition of these efforts in the Johnson concept of his Great Society. But even if the Federal government should double its spending for these ends, it would still be a minor part of what is needed and of what is being done.

JOHNSONIAN EUPHORIA

But the implication that the Federal establishment can take over the care and nourishment of our aims and ideals will not help but wither these present activities. A sort of Gresham’s law prevails. When the Federal horn of plenty pours, other activities for betterment dry up. Governors and mayors buy tickets to Washington rather than employ the courage and ingenuity to solve their problems at home. Private individuals with means withhold their contributions. Philanthropic agencies feel the pinch of inflation. And the individual loses the incentive to provide for himself.

A sort of euphoria pervades the President’s pretensions to do all through Federal help. This rises not only from the intoxication induced by the possession of great power, but from Lyndon Johnson’s own experience. No President since James Buchanan has served so long and exclusively in the Federal government. The Johnson record covers 33 years. Most Presidents have been relative newcomers in Washington. And even such Congressional veterans as McKinley and John F. Kennedy had only about half the experience of Mr. Johnson. Thus, with little background except service in Congress, there emerges an addiction to Federal remedies.

The danger is that we shall have not a great and self-reliant society, but a kept society. History has told us of other societies which have suffered this blight on private initiative. And the end of such paternal regimes is not pleasant reading.

Newsweek, February 8, 1965