Here's a text version of the provided article, separating the columns to avoid overlap:


**Postwar Aircraft**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—There is a remarkable similarity of viewpoints among the aircraft executives here with respect to the future commercial possibilities of their product. The common denominator in their outlook is the restraint which they put on their enthusiasm.  Although none of the companies here, so far as I know, is making the helicopter, the executives have great faith in its potentialities. One of these men, who preferred not to be quoted, says that the helicopter is suitable not only for private users, but for all short passenger and freight transportation. Its safety factor, he believes, will greatly outweigh its manifest drawbacks (see page 58).

For long-distance passenger and freight transportation, the aircraft people all see important possibilities in the big plane. For that reason, the trend of war production toward larger and larger bombers and transports is a source of satisfaction to them. They see themselves finishing the war with very large planes in production, the making of which will teach them most of what they must learn to meet commercial demands. Their only fear, as I reported here last week, is the possibility that their market will be blacked out for some time by the conversion of war planes into peace uses. Turning swords into plowshares is fine, but it is hard on the fellow whose business is the making of plowshares.

One of the most brilliant and best-known of aircraft designers here offered a number of observations on the future of cargo planes. This war, he said, despite all that it costs, is removing those “psychological blocks” which normally restrain invention and experimentation. The war’s demands make almost everything worth trying. This applies with special directness to aircraft. The need for carrying the maximum load of bombs with a minimum cargo of fuel drives designers to work toward greater and greater efficiency of operation. The longer the flight, the more the plane’s efficiency becomes the governing factor. This points toward ever-increasing effort to simplify the construction of the plane. Designers are vying with each other in eliminating whatever offers wind resistance, moving in the direction of a merger of tail, fuselage and wings in a single unit.

That factor of efficiency leads to the constant search for refinements in fuel. Here developments in the chemistry of oil and gasoline become of supreme importance. The efficiency of the internal-combustion engine can be measurably increased. I asked if there were in the offing any new and hitherto untried motive power. What about atomic power? One of the men to whom I talked, a man whose knowledge of chemistry and physics is without peer in the industry, is doubtful about any practicable source of energy other than carbon deposits. Uranium, he pointed out, is available in only small quantities, too small to hold out any promise to this generation. It should be added here that while this view is held by many competent scientists and engineers, it is not shared by many others. These others believe that the principle of the release of power by atomic disintegration, while yet applicable almost entirely to the element uranium, may yet be discovered in other elements. Also that uranium may be discovered in much larger quantities.

That the highways of commerce will be considerably changed by air transportation everyone here takes for granted (see Postwar Horizons, March 1). It may well be that arctic conditions will prove more favorable for air transportation than those of other parts of the world. While the bulk of the world’s goods will continue to go by ship and railway, there are many factors which will expand the volume of goods that will go by air. Warehousing and investments in inventory, I was told, will be reduced. Hence the merchants of the future will be able to pay more for transportation. This is a factor which must be considered in any calculation of the cost of air-borne freight. The land-based plane, they say, rather than the flying boat, is best adapted to long-distance efficiency.

There is considerable difference of opinion within the industry about the respective merits of wood, plastic and metal construction. But there is strong support here for the belief that metal will have the edge in the future. The sources of light metals are thought to be as limitless as wood or plastic. Here in this highly competitive field is developing the same quality of ideas for peacetime conditions revealed in the creation of air power for war. The men who design and make our planes are an excellent combination of good sense and vision. Their planes may be in the clouds, but their feet are on the ground.