Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

High Seas Competition
by Raymond Moley

THE recent indiscriminate boycott against ships bearing the flags of Panama, Liberia, and other small nations brings to light a struggle for maritime trade which goes back to the beginning of the American nation. The sixteen unions which carried on the boycott here were led by Joseph Curran’s National Maritime Union and the Seafarers in collaboration with the Teamsters and the Longshoremen. A very large percentage of the ships registered under those flags are American-owned or American-controlled. They are an indispensable part of our industrial economy.

In the beginning, the United States was largely a maritime country. Shipping was so important a part of American economic life that in the Napoleonic wars we were seriously injured by the cross-fire of the British and the French. The origins of the War of 1812 were in this bitter conflict at sea. During the 50 years after that war our maritime strength was at a high level which culminated in the great clippers in the period between 1840 and 1860. Our mariners were the aristocracy of the sea.

After the Civil War, the interests of the United States turned inland, to the building of railroads, the development of the West, and the rise of industry in the East and Middle West. We were caught in the first world war with a wholly inadequate merchant marine to supply our armies and our allies. And so we were compelled to build a fleet, pell-mell, at great cost—a fleet which fell into obsolescence. Later, a meager subsidy was provided by an indifferent government in the form of mail contracts.

U.S.-FLAG REQUIREMENTS

In 1935 F.D.R., who knew the value of a merchant marine as an adjunct of national defense, proposed that we call a subsidy by its right name, and Congress the next year established the Maritime Commission to manage Federal subsidies. We made a beginning on replacement, but the war of 1941 caught us short again, with the consequent immense expenditure of money and manpower to build a new fleet. That fleet now is headed for obsolescence.

There are fifteen American lines receiving subsidies. Their replacement programs are largely dependent on what Congress is willing to provide in construction differentials, but the companies will provide a great part of the funds. A considerable amount of the operating subsidy is recovered under the law in repayment provisions and in corporate and personal income taxes from those who are in the shipping business. But there are limits in the amount Congress is willing to appropriate, and subsidies are restricted to ships built in the United States, manned by American seamen, and using only American materials wherever possible. Subsidies are granted only to liner services plying trade routes which are specifically defined by the Maritime Commission.

NEW ELEMENT

Meanwhile, a vast need for another kind of shipping has developed. This is the transportation of great bulk cargoes such as oil and ores for American industries. As a result of the drain on natural resources during the war and postwar years, America has had to import increasing quantities of raw materials. Because of high labor and materials costs in this country, it would be generally uneconomic to operate these great bulk-carriers under the American flag in the face of low-cost foreign competition. And so, with the full acquiescence, indeed encouragement, of the government, American shipping interests have been building and operating such special-purpose ships, which are registered in friendly countries such as Panama, Liberia, and Honduras. Under agreements with those countries, these tankers and bulk-carriers are ours to use in the event of war.

The boycott against these ships, first called by the International Transport-workers’ Federation, centered abroad, was carried out mainly by American unions. It was in exact line with the purpose of the propaganda of British and Norwegian shipping interests, who are not happy about the competition created by the building of this modern and efficient American-controlled fleet. The charges against these “flags of necessity” vessels and the facts about them will be the subject of next week’s article in this space.

Newsweek, December 22, 1958