Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective®

The Farmer's Best Friend

by Raymond Moley

LAST summer after traversing several
of the major farm states during an
automobile trip from New York to the
Pacific coast, I expressed in this space
some doubt whether there was any
identity between the farmer himself
and the image so pitifully portrayed
by his political friends. For by ob-
servation and from what I heard along
the way, the farmer’s lot was not so
unhappy after all. Then came the
election and a great majority rejected
the political party which had prom-
ised most to the farmers.

President Kennedy has now pre-
sented to Congress a plan the enact-
ment of which may take weeks of
hearings and debate. Then, if
adopted, many months will pass
before it is in full operation.
Meanwhile, natural developments in
agriculture will continue which may
go a long way toward remedying the
farmer’s problems. If given time, the
farmer may save himself and meas-
urably eliminate government from
his business.

To the farm politician “the family
farm” is an expression which calls
for devout genuflections and mut-
tered prayers. Scratch the skin of a
family farmer in the Midwest and the
hot blood of a score or two congress-
men and senators will flow copiously.
Those politicians have been telling
us about how farmers have been
driven from their ancestral holdings in
great numbers. Senator Benton said a
century and a quarter ago that in
those “stricken” farm regions there is
no sound but the auctioneer’s hammer
knocking down the family heirlooms.

SIZE BRINGS EFFICIENCY

It is true that the family-size farm
is vanishing. But not the family farm.
It has simply been growing in size
and in well-being.

More than 1 million farms have
“disappeared” in the past five years—
a drop of 23 per cent. In 1920 the
average size of a farm was 148.2
acres, in 1940 170 acres, in 1954 it
was 242.2 acres, and now it is 302.4
acres. This change has come about
through the operation of economic
law in a free society. It is an example
of free enterprise. And it has not been
accompanied by increasing distress.

A farmer can no longer realize a
profit on what used to be a family-
size farm. He must have more of
the techniques of agriculture and
more mechanical equipment. The
farmer has learned to use machinery
and to take advantage of new chemi-
cal discoveries. He now has the use of
the internal-combustion engine and
electrical equipment. His production
per hour of work has risen. He must
have more land, fully to utilize his
time and equipment.

NATURE TAKES OVER

The economic status of the farmer
has been gaining as the number of
farms has decreased. Seventy-nine
per cent of the farms in the United
States are owned by the people who
operate them, an increase of 22 per
cent since 1935.

But what of those “poor” fellows
who have left the farms which they
have sold to other farmers? They have
been getting excellent prices for their
acres so that they carry away to other
regions or into the towns a nice pack-
age of greenbacks.

In 1959 the selling value of land
and buildings averaged out at $121
per acre, an increase of 44 per cent in
five years. For whole farms the aver-
age value of land and buildings has
increased 63 per cent since 1954.
There are 12 per cent more tractors
than in 1954, 12 per cent more trucks,
7 per cent more combines, and al-
most 100 per cent more forage har-
vesters and balers. More than 35
per cent of the farms have two or
more tractors.

I was told by a farm editor in Tulsa
two weeks ago that until recently a
good deal of “La Salle Street money”
was available for financing corporate
farms but that it has been “scared
away” by the high prices demanded
for farm land.

The farmer is irked by the controls
now imposed upon him. Essentially he
believes in a free market. He wants
above all to be rid of government in
his business. This cannot be accom-
plished at once—that would be a dis-
aster. But surely and steadily the
government should take itself out of
the farming business. It is getting to
be a sector of the economy which will
be able to stand on its feet if it
gets the chance.

Newsweek, April 10, 1961