Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Who Is Responsible for What?

by Raymond Moley

SAN FRANCISCO—In the incandescent
oratory of the late Democratic con-
vention, the claims for credit for the
present high rate of employment and
business generally suggest an apt re-
ply. It would have been just as rea-
sonable for Mrs. O'Leary's cow to have
claimed credit for the housing boom
that followed the great Chicago fire of
1871. For the negligence of this Ad-
ministration and its incredi-
ble policy which lost Asia
to Communism created the
crisis that required the fe-
verish rearmament that is
now one of the main props
of business. If we add the
persistent stimulation of in-
flation by government meas-
ures, we can account for all
the abnormal characteristics
of the present boom. And
abnormal business changes such as
that which we are now witnessing
ultimately must be paid for in disas-
trous deflation and tax burdens.
This question of responsibility was
raised in the gentle, urbane address
of Governor Stevenson after his nomi-
nation. We can all offer due expres-
sions of relief that, after seven years
of the shrill demagoguery of President
Truman, there is a spokesman who
sounds a note of civilized restraint.
But since the governor has offered to
drink from the bitter cup, permit a
few drops to be added to the con-
tents thereof.
In the course of his remarks,
Stevenson had this to say of official
corruption: "If the fear is corruption
in official position, do you believe with
Charles Evans Hughes it is personal
and knows no party?" In this sentence
Governor Stevenson is referring to a
statement made by Hughes in 1924,
when Coolidge was running for Presi-
dent and his supporters were arguing
that the corruption under President
Harding should not be charged
against the Republican Party. It was
one of the less distinguished utter-
ances of the man who was to become
a great Chief Justice, for it claimed
the right of a party to take credit for
such achievements as the Hughes di-
plomacy of the Harding Administra-
tion and to disclaim responsibility for
the general low state of affairs in other
departments, especially in that ad-
ministered by Albert Fall. It was in
effect an assertion that a political Ad-
ministration was not really a trustee of
the property and powers of the peo-
ple's government.
Governor Stevenson's next sentence
should also be seriously challenged.
He said: "Do you doubt the power of
any political leader, if he has the will
to do so, to set his own house in order
without his neighbors burning it
down?" This is an extraordi-
nary assumption that the
public service of the United
States belongs to the party
in power, that the govern-
ment is the President's "own
house," and that people out-
side that party and Adminis-
tration are just "neighbors."
Nobody is talking about
"burning down" anything.
What people are talking
about is the desirability of placing
another party in charge as trustees of
public business that those in office
have administered badly and in many
instances corruptly. The present re-
gime has shown itself incapable of
self-correction.
This claim that the government be-
longs to the party in office is one of
the many perversions of thought that
go with power too long enjoyed. After
twenty years, it is apparently the as-
sumption of the politicians of whom
Governor Stevenson has become the
agent and spokesman. That state of
mind offers the most positive proof
that what is needed is a change.

MANY, many sentences in the
speeches of the Democratic can-
didate reveal a mind that is cultivated
and kindly but does not reason very
clearly. It escapes the need of sharp
logic and clear language by a resort to
vague, inappropriate similes and
avoids the hard substance of fact by
what have been called the "long gray
words" of generality. This infirmity of
the Stevenson thinking and the almost
overpowering sense of inadequacy,
which he himself has admitted, are
very serious traits which disqualify
him for the tremendous task that lies
before the next President.
And the determination of the party,
which Stevenson represents, to claim
credit for all the good and to disclaim
responsibility for all the bad disquali-
fies that party for further public trust.

Newsweek, August 11, 1952