Here's the text extracted from the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:

PERSPECTIVE

AFL-CIO COPE in 1962

by Raymond Moley

It is no secret that many unions
have been losing membership at
a rate highly disturbing to labor chief-
tains. Notable among the decimated
battalions are the automobile and
steelworkers’ unions. But this attrition
in bargaining power will not mean
that the political activities of the un-
ions will be greatly accelerated. In fact they
will be greatly accelerated.

The entire pattern of labor’s par-
ticipation in politics since the forma-
tion of the CIO in the 1930s is a
partnership arrangement with the
Democratic Party. This provides that
in return for powerful union support
for Democratic candidates the Demo-
cratic Party when vested with gov-
ernmental power will care for the
interests of the unions in legislation
and in executive actions.

And the weaker the junior partner
in this alliance becomes, the more
government help it will need. Hence
there is an intense effort this year to
elect liberal Democratic members of
Congress, of state legislatures, gov-
ernors, and other key officials.

The plans of the Committee on
Political Education were outlined in
August by James L. McDevitt,
COPE’s national director, in his report
to the AFL-CIO Administrative Com-
mittee in August.

RICH HARVEST

The McDevitt report made clear
that the formidable power of COPE
is not expended in Presidential
elections but in what he said are “so-
called off-year elections.” In Presi-
dential election years there is a great
deal of interest in the main national
contest. Voters turn out even with-
out external stimulation, registrations
mount, vast sums are spent on all
media of publicity, apathy vanishes,
and the Presidential candidates are
the subject for discussion every-
where. But in the elections between
these quadrennial political carnivals
King Apathy again reigns. And the
total vote for members of Congress
falls by 50 per cent or more.

It is in this climate of indifference
and ignorance that COPE reaps its
richest harvests. I am not condemning
labor chieftains for their interest in
politics. They are doing what most
of us are too lazy to do. And I highly

admire the skill and energy they man-
ifest to ask, beg, drag, and carry their
people to the registration centers and
the polls. I only wish leaders in other
areas of American life would show
this sort of concern for the govern-
ment under which they live.

In the McDevitt report he notes
that there is a rising tide of political
activity among organizations which fa-
vor quite different national policies
than those of the labor leaders. He
mentions the American Medical As-
sociation’s Political Action Committee
as a new and important force with
which liberalism must contend.

OPERATION AKRON

McDevitt discourses upon the ac-
tivity of COPE in the South. There
the battle is not so much against Re-
publicans, although he notes the in-
creasing strength of the Republican
Party in Southern states, but in pri-
mary fights between conservative in-
cumbents and liberal opponents. For
they know well the strength of senior-
ity which has had so much to do with
the frustration of union-supported leg-
islation in the past two years.

But COPE is also pressing a hard
fight in many districts in the North.
Especially notable is an effort to de-
feat William H. Ayres, Republican
Congressman in the Fourteenth Dis-
trict of Ohio. Ayres has held his seat
for six terms despite a heavy Demo-
cratic edge in this highly indus-
trialized center of the rubber industry.
The full forces of the official heads
and employees of the United Rubber
Workers are engaged with manpower
and money in behalf of Ayres’ op-
ponent. To add a touch of the new
“science” of poll taking, the anti-Ayres
people have had the help of Louis
Harris. He visited Akron with his
computers, interviewers, etc. But in
this instance Harris went beyond nose
counting and prepared for the Ayres
opposition a nineteen-page “confiden-
tial” memorandum telling how to trap
the Republican congressman in the
arguments on the issues. The Harris
formula is so obviously what any poli-
tician would use in a campaign that
I wonder at the report that COPE
helped to pay for it. And it violates a
cardinal rule in politics. Harris actu-
ally put it on paper.

Newsweek, October 22, 1962