Perspective

Behind the Figures

Figures will fly furiously for a while
in the current controversy over unemployment. And the effect will be wholesome
because it may cause us all—politicians and
others—to realize that there are significant
elements in this question that neither the
politicians in power nor those who seek it
have really thought out. Unless we get
down to these points, the great and solemn
referendum before us will be lost in an empty row between the parties over which is
employing the biggest adding machine.

The present controversy over the size of
unemployment in the United States was
well summarized by Ralph Robey in last
week’s issue of NEWSWEEK. In brief, a
number of commentators have seriously
challenged the general accuracy of current
unemployment figures promulgated by labor organizations and by various private
agencies. They hold that not eight or ten
million, but two or three million is the true
figure. The real question at issue, as Mr.
Robey pointed out, is whether, in estimates
of present unemployment, changes in the
structure rather than the size of our population since 1929 have been given due
weight. It is not my purpose here to evaluate the merits of the controversy but to
comment upon some of the general issues
which it emphasizes.

The first thing that strikes us is the
predicament into which this puts the Democratic high command in this campaign.
Until now their greatest embarrassment
has been the fact that their own figures
show they have done little in seven years
to reduce the number of unemployed—a
duty which was underlined in the President’s first inaugural address. Suddenly
there come these interesting figures that
they might use, in the blurry confusion of
a political campaign, to claim that things
are about as good as they were in 1929.
But they cannot hop on this magic political carpet because they are caught in the
flypaper of their own statistics. I can see
the official speech writers scowling over
their typewriters. Oh, the pain, when you
might seem to disprove what you must alibi.
Republican orators are also in a fix. They
have pointed at the gross figures of unemployment without much effort to interpret
what lies behind them. Only in the Frank
report have the Republicans reached beyond the statistics to the meat of the thing.
Republican candidates will have to tackle
the fundamentals of this problem.


by RAYMOND MOLEY

The first step toward straight thinking is
to distinguish clearly between the problem of unemployment and that of relief.
They are related, of course, but the government’s duties with respect to each are quite
dissimilar.

We don’t even know what unemployment is, after seven years of talk. Is a
person officially unemployed when he wants
a job? Or when he has had a job and lost
it? Is he still unemployed when he picks
up an odd job to tide him over? Is he unemployed when his former source of employment has vanished—if he is a farmer
dispossessed or a storekeeper who has failed
and must start the long pull toward a new
life in piping times. What if he has come
of working age and has not been able to
get the kind of work he wants?
Statisticians have labored for years over
hundreds of such puzzlers. Their failure
may mean that they have been dealing
with a big problem of human life that cannot be defined in terms that will lend themselves to governmental action, provided
government is to remain the clumsy, human thing it is and not become the omniscient father that dreamers dream about.
For members of a government to say, as
some unwisely have, that government can
assume responsibility for such an inchoate
mass of economic chance and mischance,
of psychological vagaries, of unpredictable
needs and supplies, and of immeasurable
scientific changes, is to practice cruel deception. The savant who said he could
move the world had the honesty to add
that he would need a bar and a fulcrum.
Government’s attack upon unemployment
would have to proceed with tools that have
not yet been invented.

Meanwhile, government must not impede the partial solutions of private initiative where it has no solution itself. For example, government can remove the burden
that is keeping a specific industry motionless and unproductive, especially in cases
where the burden is government itself.
Unemployment is therefore a symptom
rather than a disease. Its size is not the
issue. And this is fortunate, considering the
now obvious fact that its exact size cannot be calculated.

Above all, government itself cannot, except as a method of relief, offer employment as a specific cure for unemployment. That is why the statistics in question are going to be hotly contested if the
total unemployment figure is not to include
the number employed by the WPA. A total

NEWSWEEK, APRIL 1, 1940

figure which does not embrace the number
on WPA is not a true measure. The WPA
statistics, in fact, are the most certain of
all the factors involved. To hold otherwise
and to lull ourselves into the belief that to
the extent of present WPA rolls we have
wiped out unemployment, is to assert that
if we spent billions more on WPA we could
completely eliminate unemployment and
solve our economic difficulties. It is like
talking about an sizable part of that increase
is composed of money spent by the government.

Government’s approach to the relief of
the distressed is a problem involving an
entirely different method and mood. Since
the Middle Ages, government has assumed
an increasing responsibility for helping
other agents—friends, relatives, religious
and private charity organizations—to assist the destitute. For government to supplant these wholly would be to destroy the
greatest source of spiritual development
that we have, the duty and responsibility
to help others. No one wants the mandatory process of taxation and the mechanical
routine of a dole to displace all private giving. That would enable the politicians
temporarily in charge of government to
pose as the monopolists of the humane
sentiments of the nation. Some of them,
of course, seem to claim that now.

Government must remain an aid to, and
not the means of, assisting the needy. To
this end the Federal government can well
limit itself to a few specific responsibilities.
It can provide some accurate information
collected by scrupulously impartial and
nonpolitical administrators. It can give
grants-in-aid to states for relief purposes,
such grants to be made by a board as
strictly nonpolitical as can be—and members of that character can be found. It can
plan its own public works on a time and
geographical basis to alleviate unemployment where and when necessary. It can
provide a system of unemployment and
old-age assistance based upon cooperative
action between government and persons
helped and between states and nation.

In the balancing of responsibility
between the states and the nation in the
matter of relief, it is most important to
provide for a constant challenge by the
Federal government to the states and by
the states to the Federal government. Even
an occasional clash is healthful. With human nature as it is, the best that lawgivers
can do is to provide for vital watchfulness,
prompted by self-interest, among our various governments and within their parts.
The founders of our government set some
people to watch other people. We may
well take a leaf from their book.

It isn’t, then, the size of our army of unemployed that is most important. Whatever it is, it’s too big. What we do about
the problems related to it is our chief concern.