Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Due to the image quality and column layout, some minor inaccuracies might remain.

**Political Roundup**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

There was more than met the eye in Democratic Chairman Frank Walker's bland proposal that the party conventions be held later than usual in 1944 and in Republican Chairman Harrison Spangler's blunt rejection of the idea.  As matters now stand, each party will choose its own time for nominating a candidate. But what provoked this amiable sparring is a matter of intense interest to the aficionados of the political game.

Why was the suggestion made in the first place? The best judges of political behavior I know in both parties interpret it to mean that the President wants as much time as possible to consider his chances for reelection in case the war ends between June and September, or sooner, or if the peace negotiations are under way.

Another reason is equally cogent. It also throws light on Spangler's reply to Walker. The strategy of both parties centers now in the possible bolt of large numbers of Democrats who oppose a fourth term for Roosevelt. Republican maneuvers aim at splitting their opposition. Messrs. Roosevelt and Walker are obviously trying to make a Democratic bolt as difficult and as small as possible.

Late conventions and a short campaign would make an effective bolt very difficult. When, in 1912, T. R. bolted and organized the Progressive party, it took six weeks to get a new convention together and three months more to make a campaign. In 1944, those Democratic leaders who will refuse to go along with a fourth term must decide what to do. Will they form a new party? If not, will they form an organization to support the Republican candidate? To make these decisions will take time. If the President does not finally reveal his intentions until a September convention, the time for counteraction by his own party leaders will be too short.

Republican speculation on how to induce a bolt flickers around several plans. One is the formation of a coalition ticket, called, perhaps, a "union" ticket, as in 1864, with a Democrat nominated for Vice President. A possible refinement of this plan would be the making public of a long list of Democrats and Republicans who would be willing to serve in the new administration.

Another plan would persuade a group of Democratic leaders to organize soon and serve notice on their party that if the President is renominated, they will not support him. The effect of this upon bosses in Northern cities would, it is argued, be electric. It would tell the bosses that a defeat would not only sweep away their Federal patronage, but their local tickets as well. The 1912 bolt, which carried Democrats into office in hundreds of counties and cities, all but wrecked the local Republican machinery everywhere. Its marks are felt even today.

Back of these and other plans is the belief that if the threat of a bolt can be made sufficiently strong, the President may not run. And curiously, the politicians on both sides are almost unanimous in saying, off the record, that a Republican victory is pretty certain if the President himself refuses to run, leaving the Democrats to scratch the meager field of Wallace, Douglas, McNutt and Byrnes.

Never in ten years, in fact, has there been such a lack of confidence among seasoned Democratic politicians. They realize that much of the Washington war organization is unpopular, that farmers are turning from the New Deal and that the South is seething with resentment. They believe that if the war continues, the fourth term will win. If the war ends, they are very far from sure. And, it may be added, they are looking forward with intense concern to the gubernatorial elections this year in Kentucky and New Jersey.

On the other hand, most Republicans are mildly confident. They feel that they have a major issue in bureaucracy, but look forward with no particular pleasure to the pulling and hauling that is almost certain to ensue over the nomination. Candidate talk runs somewhat like this: Dewey, who would be a strong candidate, really means he will not run; Bricker has the lead now but runs the danger of having had the lead too early; Willkie will make a strong bid, but the organization is against him; Stassen is out because he is in the Navy; Saltonstall, Warren and Green are mentioned; MacArthur's name bobs up in every conversation. Also some military hero now unknown may appear.

Obviously it would be foolish to attempt any predictions at this stage. Fifteen months is a long time in war and politics. But what is behind current maneuvers is plain enough.