Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Pax Americana

Whatever Mr. Hull may say for
his State Department in diplomatic lan-
guage, the record shows that Mr. Roose-
velt's Chicago speech announced a new
foreign policy for the United States—not
a modification of the policy Mr. Hull has
patiently built up. There are abundant
indications that the Chicago doctrine was
fathered and partially formulated by Wil-
liam C. Bullitt, United States Ambassador
to France, who, these many years since he
accompanied the crusading Wilson, has
been dreaming of a concert of democratic
powers mobilized to provide for the com-
mon defense of the status quo. The ro-
mantic touches in the expression of the
new policy, like those which embellished
the Chautauqua speech last year, pro-
claim Mr. Bullitt's handiwork.

It is a far cry from the mild preachments
of Mr. Hull to the unqualified denuncia-
tions in Chicago, a far cry from the slow
attempt to marshal public opinion on the
side of treaty keeping, to the sudden as-
sumption of leadership in an effort to re-
generate the world by enforced peace.
And from now on, the State Department
will be put to it to implement the general
aspirations of the Roosevelt-Bullitt policy
with specific plans of performance and to
reconcile the behave-or-I-may-knock-your-
block-off policy with the patient-preaching
policy. The wonder is not that the De-
partment was unable to offer any explana-
tion of exactly what the President meant
when he talked of our joining in an inter-
national quarantine while avoiding involve-
ment in war; the wonder is that the
Department caught its breath quickly
enough to declare that Mr. Roosevelt's
references to international anarchists were
intended for Japan alone.

Obviously Mr. Roosevelt was not
speaking of Japan alone. His broadside
was aimed at Germany and Italy as well.
The internal evidence is completely clear
on this point. "The peace, the freedom
and the security of 90 per cent of the pop-
ulation of the world," he said, "is being
jeopardized by the remaining 10 per cent
who are threatening a breakdown of all
international order and law." Do not
imagine that this nice mathematical di-
vision of the population of the world is a
mere rhetorical flourish. It has been used
before by Mr. Roosevelt, and it means,
specifically, that if you add the populations
of Germany, Italy and Japan, you arrive
at a total which is precisely 10 per cent of
the estimated population of the world.
Try it out with a World Almanac, a pad
and a pencil—and don't forget to include
Ethiopia and Manchukuo, to the conquest
of which Mr. Roosevelt gives statistical,
if not diplomatic, recognition.

Under the Chicago policy, presumably,
the good 90 per cent of the world is to be
mobilized into some sort of association
which "can and must find some way to
make their will prevail." The President
then proceeds to give this new world state
a code of law, which includes not only the
Kellogg-Briand Pact and the Nine Power
Treaty, but the Covenant of the League of
Nations.

The Kellogg-Briand Pact, including
those reservations which are part of it, is
a renunciation of war in the abstract
coupled with the most definite sanction of
specific wars that has ever been promul-
gated. The Senate approved our part in it
only with the expressed declaration that
it was not to carry "teeth," and under no
circumstances was it to be enforced.

The Nine Power Treaty was based on a
condition contrary to fact. China had
not been a state for many decades, but a
mere geographical name. It had no terri-
torial or administrative integrity, and its
sovereignty had been impaired by many
powers, including the United States.

To the Covenant of the League we are
not a party. Whatever the disposition of
some of us may be to settle the "prob-
lems of world economy, world security and
world humanity," the Senate of the United
States has repeatedly rejected, regardless
of the varying guises in which it has ap-
peared, the principle on which the League
rests—the principle that neutrality is im-
moral and that it is the duty of peace-
loving nations to maintain peace through
collective force, if necessary.

The world state whose code of law is
these three documents, will be a brave new
world with a vengeance!

NEWSWEEK

Yet Mr. Roosevelt must know that an
attempt to bluff such cruelly ambitious
realists is dangerous. It stiffens the back
of each war-hungry power; it raises ex-
pectations in other foreign nations which it
is difficult to disappoint; and, at home, it
kindles the issues of moral prestige and
national honor.

There is every reason, on the other
hand, to believe that Mr. Roosevelt is
serious in the announcement of his inten-
tion to impose "the principles of the Prince
of Peace" upon the world—including an-
cestor-worshipping Japan. But this alterna-
tive is no less unhappy. It threatens the
sanctity of a covenant closer to home than
the Nine Power Treaty and the Kellogg-
Briand Pact—the covenant embodied in
the sworn responsibility of a President to
uphold the law of the land. In this case,
the law happens to be the Neutrality Act
of 1937.

There is another obstacle with which the
President must reckon—the state of pub-
lic opinion in this country. The American
Institute of Public Opinion has just pub-
lished the results of two polls. They in-
dicate that an immense majority, larger
than that which elected Mr. Roosevelt,
favors stricter neutrality laws for keep-
ing out of war, rather than leaving the
job up to the President, and believes that,
in order to declare war, Congress should be
required to obtain the approval of the
people by a national vote.

Of this sentiment the Senate is thor-
oughly aware. And the assent of the Sen-
ate is required by the still living Consti-
tution to all of those innumerable
commitments the President must make in
order to engage in economic or military
punitive expeditions to police 10 per cent
of the world.

A final aspect of this question is of
equal importance so far as the future is
concerned. If Mr. Roosevelt intends to
enter the field of international cooperation
in a large way, he must cut short further
efforts to remake the economy of this
country. Liberal legislation does not pro-
ceed in an atmosphere of international pre-
occupation. The very men upon whom
the President has leaned most heavily in
pushing his domestic program are largely
those who will most vigorously oppose him
in any international adventures. The per-
sonnel of his intimates will change. The
Bullitts will replace the Mavericks, and
the Norman Davises will replace the La
Follettes. That is what happened in 1917,
when the enthusiasm and strength that
might have brought Wilson's liberal do-
mestic program to fruition were spent for
the mirage of international salvation. It
can happen again.


It is barely possible, of course, that the
entire Chicago speech was merely designed
to intimidate Japan, Italy and Germany,
and that, if they do not now cease and de-
sist, the President will simply throw up
his hands, sigh and go about the business
of raising the standard of living of one-
third of the population in this country—
which has always been considered quite a
job in itself.