Robbing Peter to Pay...

by Raymond Moley

COLORADO—Cool, clear, sunny, with
rest for the weary, diversion for
the bored, health for the ailing, and
exercise for the flabby. This theme
must nudge many of us as hot, humid
days draw near. An editorialist a
few years back coined an immortal
line to the effect that General
MacArthur was the only man in the
world who was as good as he thought
he was. As a spot for vacationing and
many other things, Colorado is the
only state that is better than even its
Chambers of Commerce claim it is.
You may shower verbal confetti on
the subject until you believe you are
witnessing a Lindbergh parade on
Madison Avenue, and justice for Col-
orado is still lacking. Since Colorado
literally gave me back the breath of
life a long time ago, I suggest that
the foregoing is a wholly sincere ex-
pression of admiration.

If you happen to be one of the
thousands who are fortunate enough
to spend a holiday in Colorado and
you happen to have a moment for seri-
ous contemplation on the state of the
nation, here are subjects to ponder.
The state sits on the backbone of
the continent like a saddle on a horse.
Nature and human migration have de-
creed that there shall be water on the
West Slope while people have ac-
cumulated on the East Slope. That
extravagant equalizer, the Federal
government, has therefore been up
to some strange didos.

MILLIONS FOR HAY

In the past three years it has set
up two great attacks upon the vagar-
ies of nature. The Upper Colorado
project concerns the West Slope of
Colorado as well as adjoining states.
Under its authorization it is planned
to irrigate 68,870 acres of land in
Colorado at a cost estimated at $25
million. Also specified in the legis-
lation are an additional 506,360
acres there, at an estimated cost of
$331,466,000. These irrigated acres
are to raise hay, alfalfa, and other
crops, which will produce cattle,
which will produce milk, which will
produce butter, which will no doubt
be subsidized by the government.
But while this was going on, the
government adopted the soil-bank
program, and in Colorado (mostly in

the eastern part) in 1956 farmers
were paid $4.5 million to take 776,182
acres of wheat out of cultivation.
Perhaps the cows could be made
out of wheat instead of hay and al-
falfa. Or the wheat acres could be
turned into hay and alfalfa. I leave
that highly technical question to the
Department of Agriculture, which is
paid for knowing such things.
But there are other wonders in
Colorado. There is the Big Thompson
project which is a feature of Estes
Park. This was started in 1937, and
the government estimated that it
would cost $31,702,000. Its purpose
is to take water from the West Slope
and carry it, through twenty tunnels,
canals, conduits, and siphons, to the
East Slope to provide city water, elec-
tricity, and to irrigate countless acres
of land. I am not informed whether
the land thus watered has been taken
out of cultivation in the soil bank. I
do know that the project has cost,
to date, about six times the estimate.

ANOTHER RUBE GOLDBERG

Now there is before Congress, with
the blessing of the Administration, a
similar Rube Goldberg contraption
called the Fryingpan project. It would
gather water on the West Slope near
Glenwood Springs and Aspen, and
with many conduits, tunnels, and ca-
nals, carry the water through the
mountains and dump it in the Arkan-
sas River. It would then slake the
thirst of cities, make electricity, and
provide irrigation for land in the Ar-
kansas Valley in southeastern Colorado
at a cost estimated at $172 million.
At the Big Thompson rate of increase,
this would grow to a billion. Since
the West Slope, with vast shale oil
and other mineral resources, will be-
come industrialized before long, it will
need that water.
The cream of the jest is that in the
land which the Fryingpan project
would water at a cost of from $1,000
to $1,500 an acre, the largest of all
grants from the soil bank has been
bestowed. The Garvey Farms of
Colby, Kans., got $61,000 for not cul-
tivating land, mostly in Kiowa County,
Colorado, in the Arkansas Valley.
These are some of the remarkable
things that happen in the remark-
able state of Colorado.

Newsweek, June 24, 1957