Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, respecting the column layout and omitting the advertisement:


Perspective

How to Weaken a Party

by Raymond Moley

IT HAS been recorded that under
the tyranny which prevailed in his
White House office, Sherman Adams
could make three secretaries cry at
the same time. Now the man who
reveled in that brief authority has
written a magazine article which
should make the angels weep.

This Odyssey reflects against the
shining image of the retired President
the shadow of Adams' own embit-
tered soul. For Adams delineates Mr.
Eisenhower as an elected leader who
vitally weakened the political party
which rallied so loyally to his cause.
Republicans, except for a few like
Paul Hoffman and Adams, were pro-
scribed as "Old Guard" and reaction-
ary. The result was that after six years
with the opportunity to create a vital,
unified party, Republicanism was
weaker when Adams removed his in-
fluence over the President than it had
been in 1952 after twenty years in
the wilderness.

Allegedly, this was done in the
name of nonpartisanship. But when
the President retired, there moved
into power the most partisan regime
of recent times.

The circumstances under which
General Eisenhower was nominated
and elected were not what Adams
claims. The general was no Cincin-
natus called from the plow to save a
beleaguered nation. There was no
greater foreign threat than there had
been for the seven preceding years.
The economy was prosperous. The
pilfering which went on in the
Truman regime was not a major scan-
dal. The nation would have survived
even four years of Stevenson.

LOYALTY IGNORED

It was not a draft. Professionals la-
bored mightily to stop Taft. And they
won not because Taft lacked notable
qualifications for the office, but be-
cause some thought the chances bet-
ter with a candidate with only misty
party ties.

With Adams already at the candi-
date's elbow as a Father Joseph, the
Denver headquarters presented a
scene of perplexed inaction. A Mace-
donian call went forth. Chairman
Leonard Hall's office placed on the
general's desk a newly written horn-
book on how to run for office. The
later-to-be-despised "regulars" loyally
responded. Senator Taft rallied the
party into unity.

It adds no luster to the Eisenhower
name for Adams to say that once in-
stalled in the White House the Presi-
dent said: "I owe no one anything for
putting me into this position. I didn't
seek this honor." I hope a kindly and
gracious man never said that. It is
neither true nor fair.

It is with undisguised glee that
Adams claims that former party loy-
alty and service were regarded as a
disqualification for public employ-
ment. Apathy and frustration spread
through Republican ranks. The old
bureaucracy, installed as party re-
wards under Presidents Roosevelt
and Truman, remained secure and
told green department heads what to
do and think. Since Adams substan-
tially controlled the avenue to Presi-
dential favor, only a privileged few
were recognized.

IKE AFTER ADAMS

Four successive Congressional elec-
tions were carried by the Democrats.
And in the election of 1960 the Re-
publican margin of loss was due to the
weakness of several neglected state
Republican organizations.

Those close to the scene have
noted that after the departure of
Adams in 1958 Mr. Eisenhower sud-
denly became aware of his responsi-
bility to the Republican Party. Also,
he discovered that the opposition
party was dedicated to discrediting
his Administration. But six long years
of Adams had taken a fatal toll.

It is ludicrous to read in the Adams
account that the President said: "I'll
be darned if I know how the Repub-
licans ever held a party together all
these years." The answer is that they
didn't, and the loss was greatest while
a Republican sat in the White House.

I am not arguing that everyone
recommended by a party leader
should be appointed to a job. But,
with party life what it is, where al-
ternatives are offered party loyalty
must be weighed in the balance. Not
everyone who has worked in politics
is a crook or an incompetent. But
that seems to have been the Adams
standard of judgment. And for a long
time his estimates generally prevailed.

Newsweek, June 5, 1961