Trickle-Down Welfare

by Raymond Moley

THAT the Federal housing program
reeks with politics is shown by
what happens not only in Congress
but in many of the local communities
where it operates. In the aftermath of
the passage of the watered-down,
“veto-proof” omnibus bill by the Senate, Sen. Joseph S. Clark complained
that in its abbreviated form it would
endanger the prospects of his party in
the 1960 election.
On the side of the Administration
there was realistic frankness by
Norman P. Mason, Federal Housing
Administrator, who said that it was
still “full of bonuses for big people.”
Nothing could more vividly illustrate Mason’s meaning than what is
being revealed in New York City. A
visitor wandering through the streets
of Manhattan, Brooklyn, and the
Bronx might draw the impression that
he was seeing Berlin or London in the
four years after 1945: Vast cleared
areas of rubble, blocks in process of
demolition, or busy workmen raising
new structures. Unwilling tenants are
being ousted from their homes or
stores and moved to new quarters,
usually at a hike in rent. In the mad
rush to rebuild a city, solid burghers
are being tossed about like bricks.

SLUMS AND POLITICS

Much of this is legally being carried out under Title I of the Housing
Act of 1949. Under this title, operations variously named but most commonly known as “slum clearance” are
carried out. The city government designates the area. Then, with money
from the Federal government two
studies are made of the job of clearance and improvement. Then the department of the city vested with the
job goes to Washington and, if the
plans are approved, the Federal government provides two-thirds of the
money necessary to condemn, purchase, tear down the buildings, and
move the tenants somewhere else.
The city pays the other third. Then
there enter the sponsors who will do
the reconstruction. They may be the
same individuals or companies that
did the demolition and relocating. In
New York City several city agencies
are involved in the process: The
Board of Estimate, the Slum Clearance Committee, the City Planning
Commission, and the Law Department. All these are under the mayor
and Robert Moses, who, holding ten
or a dozen offices in city and state, is
a sort of general impresario.
The many projects in public housing in New York City provide considerable fees and profits for owners,
dummy owners, bankers, real-estate
speculators, architects, coordinating
architects, relocation planners, surveyors, map makers, appraisers, lawyers, builders, and contractors. The
political connections of some of these
with the ruling machine in the city is
intimate. Robert Moses is a valued
public servant, personally incorruptible. But obviously with the many jobs
he holds, he cannot know all the connections of those who participate.

JOB FOR THE PRESS

The New York World-Telegram &
Sun has been ripping into the ramifications of all this business, with assists
from The New York Times. Eugene
Gleason of the former has been the
indefatigable reporter who has been the
star in the revelations.
A number of the major Title I projects have been based upon what
Gleason calls the “trickle-down”
theory of helping the poor. Some
of the areas stigmatized as slum-clearance areas have been the finest
sites in the city, especially those with
central locations and views of the
waters around New York. They are
cleared, and big- and middle-income
people move in. The idea is that the
real poor in real slums move into the
places vacated by the more fortunate.
Several real slums are passed over in
the process. They are still there.
The most sensational is what is
called the Soundview project, in the
Bronx on the East River. It is a suburban area of 92 acres, with many
shade trees and modest homes whose
families certainly resent the designation of being slum dwellers. So many
questions have been raised about this
that finally the Federal government
has cut off the money. This is a triumph for the press. Also, it is an indication that only through the fourth
estate can there be an end of the
gigantic hoax perpetrated by Congress under the unctuous, hypocritical
pose of helping the poor and needy.

Newsweek, July 13, 1959