Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  It will be imperfect due to the image quality and column layout.  Manual editing might be necessary for complete accuracy.


NEWSWEEK, MARCH 18, 1946

Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

An Anglo-American Alliance?
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Wendell Willkie might conceiv-
ably have replied to Winston Churchill
that Americans would sharpen their
interest in a common front with Britain
if Mr. Churchill had in his speech
brought something new and fresh into
the concept of empire itself. Over and
over in his lifetime, Mr. Willkie pre-
dicted that the aftermath of war would
be rising ferment among formerly sub-
ject peoples, from Gibraltar
to the Pacific. That predic-
tion has proved true, and
the threat to peace is not
only Russian expansion, but
colonial unrest. The danger
is not Russian strength so
much as British weakness.
The doubtful American re-
action to the Churchill pro-
posal is, no doubt, due to
his omission of any indica-
tion that the ultimate recon-
struction of the empire itself is a
concern of the United States, as well
as of the UNO.

The most unfortunate factor in
Britain's position is not the failure of
Mr. Churchill's Tory party to solve
colonial problems, but the continuing
failure of the Labor government in
the same field.

It is this colonial ferment and this
inability to cope with it that probably
encourage Soviet Russia to fish in
troubled waters. Part of the answer to
Soviet Russia should be not only the
maintenance of the armed power of
the United States and Britain, but a
real effort to win the sympathy of
Middle Eastern and Asiatic people
and to contribute all that we can
toward the rehabilitation of China. We
cannot permit a malignant political
and economic situation to exist in
those great areas which lie between
Russia and the lifeline of the British
Empire.

If Americans could be induced to
believe that they could genuinely help
in this problem through an alliance
with the empire, they could be much
more receptive to Mr. Churchill's pro-
posals. But the initial statesmanship
toward that solution must come from
Britain. To use an old expression, the
status quo is the fix we are in. We
cannot guarantee a situation which we
cannot effectively help to correct.

Since the troubles of the British
Empire are so largely an incentive to
Soviet expansion, they become the
common concern of the world. And

the people of the world have been led
to think that the UNO is the place
where such common problems are to
be solved. Therefore, the essential need
is all speed ahead for the UNO.

Mr. Churchill argued that an Anglo-
American alliance would not retard
the growth of the UNO. But it is hard
to accept his reassurance on that point.
The world organization is a tender
plant, and any evidence by
two great powers of lack of
confidence in it might be fa-
tal. Its continued growth is,
in fact, the most hopeful
means of breaking through
what Mr. Churchill called
the "iron curtain" across
Europe. The cementing of
the ties among all countries
in the UNO may be the fi-
nal consideration which will

Bachrach
deter Russia from a decision
to go it alone. If the Charter is truly
regarded as a standard to which all
peace-loving nations are determined
to repair, even Russia with its new
power cannot stand apart. A success-
ful UNO would, in effect, be a world
alliance against any non-member. And
that would be vastly more impressive
in Moscow than an alliance of two
powers.

If, as may be the case, the threat
envisaged by Mr. Churchill is so im-
mediate that we cannot wait to or-
ganize the world against it, we still
have the close relations with England
and her dominions that were success-
ful in the war. We still have the Com-
bined Chiefs of Staff. And we share
the atomic secret.

If, on the other hand, Mr. Churchill
feels that, once more, there may be
danger of American isolation and that
a formal tie is essential, he has under-
estimated the change in public senti-
ment here. There is no danger of
American withdrawal from its world
interests. Nor is there any appreciable
number of Americans who would not
fight again to save England or Canada
or Australia.

Americans, however they may dis-
agree with the idea of an Anglo-Amer-
ican alliance, owe to the former Prime
Minister admiration for his frankness
and his clear definition of the shadow
which falls across the hopes of all of
us. And Mr. Churchill's words of faith
in the UNO, less noted than more grim
parts of his speech, deserve attention
and support.

Page 839 of 1201