Here's a text version of the article, attempting to preserve the column structure.  Due to the image quality and column layout, some minor inaccuracies might be present.


**What Every Woman Should Know**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Marguerite Le Hand would have been amused and startled, had anyone attributed statesmanship to her. She had little concern with ideologies. She chased no sociological rainbows. Politics, public life and government, to her, were people in their relations with each other. But as she applied this simple formula to great affairs of state, over many years at Albany and Washington, her influence was vastly greater than that of most of those who believe they are statesmen.

She remembered people and was grateful to them for such services as they had rendered her boss. Hundreds of people kept their contacts with the President almost solely through "Missy." But this was not her major service. She knew by intuition that almost everybody favors reform, if the mood in which it is presented is calm and reasonable. Reformers too often present their case as if an embattled world stood against it. Hence, speeches or state papers advocating reforms bristle with so much denunciation that most people resent even reasonable proposals. Her immense influence on those with whom she worked was in the direction of seeing that the "lesson" was "more kindly." Her quiet observation to the President that a sharp passage "doesn't sound like you" smoothed many a ruffled front.

"Missy" well knew the point Ruth Hanna Simms once gave one of my classes of college women. Asked to express briefly what it takes to be successful in politics, Mrs. Simms, a woman whose father was the greatest party leader of his time, whose husband was a United States senator and who, herself, served in Congress, answered, "good manners."

Which suggests a problem which every political candidate faces—the problem of appealing for women's votes. There are two schools of thought on that subject. The first holds that political appeals and speeches must be divided between those addressed to women and those addressed to men. It would separate public questions, like a store, into women's and men's departments. Speeches to women would deal with butter and egg prices, with terrifying sidelights on laws for prenatal care and personality clinics. This theory of politics would have women speakers for women and men speakers for men. The two recent conventions gave expression to this idea. They featured Clare Boothe Luce versus Helen Gahagan Douglas. Glamour versus glamour. Politics, with a fringe on top.

A better theory of politics would appeal to all citizens, on the assumption that both sexes are concerned with the same issues. It is based on the proposition that women want no political appeals directed at them, as women. It holds that neither Mrs. Luce nor Mrs. Douglas won any women's votes for their parties. It rests on the plain fact that political styles know no sex. Mr. Roosevelt has always operated on this principle, and his success in vote-getting is pretty good evidence of its wisdom.

The objection to the first theory is that women, in general, resent a political appeal based on a belief that they are interested only in highly specialized questions. They resent the suggestion that they are concerned solely with the help they can get from government. They don't want to be isolated on a paternalistic island. They work, produce and pay taxes. They, too, are concerned with liberty, law, security, public order, justice and good government.

If, perchance, women seem to be interested in things of little concern to men, it might be well for men to consider that women may thus be showing the results of more education and a livelier sense of values. It may be evidence of concern with more, rather than less of the substance of politics, since politics touches every human interest. This may hurt men's conceit, but it will help their understanding.

Marguerite Le Hand saw no political distinctions between men and women. She dealt with people, as people, revealing amazing skill in understanding them. Nor was her influence of that "indirect" type about which we heard so much when equal suffrage was being debated. Her influence was direct, personal and wholesome. Her principles of politics, which were rooted in eternal verities, deserve a great deal of attention from both men and women.