Now That It's Over

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Apparently, some 26,000,000
people were unwilling to change beds
in the middle of the night, and some
23,000,000 thought otherwise. So be
it, and before new debates arise, let
the usual amenities be uttered. Let us
all strive to win the war. Let us sup-
port a peace structure with a whole-
hearted determination to let no minor
details impair the efforts of the Presi-
dent and Congress to create it. Let us
do what we can to provide the jobs
promised by both candidates in the
late campaign. And let us keep good
humor and fairness in the public dis-
cussion, as well as the criticism which
is indispensable in a free republic.

And now let us see, in long per-
spective, the meaning of this election.
In a century and a half, we have had
fifteen periods of party control in this
country. Six of these were of four
years each, and, because of special
circumstances, we can ignore them.
The remaining nine were for more than
one term. The longest of these periods
was that of the Jeffersonian dynasty,
topped off with John Quincy Adams.
It lasted 28 years. The Republican
regime which began with Lincoln last-
ed 24 years. The revival of Repub-
licanism began with McKinley and
lasted sixteen years. There have been
three twelve-year periods and two
eight-year spells. Now we are assured
of a Roosevelt regime of sixteen years.
Regimes die of old age, intellectual
decay, social change and disunity.
There have been no exceptions to this
rule. Cycles come and go relentlessly.
No eloquence or wit can stay these
changes-no patronage or legal advan-
tage. And the steady decline of Roose-
velt majorities in three reelections is
impressive.

Those who believed in a change
this time will, if the past is any crite-
rion, continue to believe in a change.
They voted for a Republican candi-
date, Governor Dewey. He will remain
the leader of that party. His deputy,
Herbert Brownell Jr., will, if he
chooses, remain the head of the party
organization. It is far more probable
now than it was four years ago that
Messrs. Dewey and Brownell with, it
is to be hoped, the close cooperation
of Governor Bricker, will give primary
and active attention to the building of
that party into a truly national organi-
zation. This will mean active coopera-
tion among the 23 Republican gover-
nors, a close relationship between Mr.
Dewey and his party in Congress, the
reconstruction of party organization in
states and cities where weaknesses
were shown in this campaign. A
further job for Mr. Dewey is to put
into words the principles for which his
party will stand. His speeches make a
good beginning for that, but elabora-
tion through collaboration with other
party leaders will be essential. The
Republican party must have articles of
faith which are neither imitations of
New Deal policies nor mere criticism
of the party in power. Millions of
young voters must be convinced that
the new Republican party is really
new, intelligent and forward-looking.
Mr. Dewey's task is made easier by the
elimination from Congress of indi-
viduals who were serious liabilities in
this campaign.

No such program was possible four
years ago. Mr. Willkie's genius was
not in organization. Mr. Dewey's is.
The head of the party, Joseph W.
Martin Jr., did not want the job and
was overwhelmed by his duties as a
leader in the House. In the years that
followed 1940, the party fell into fatal
inconsistencies. It quarreled within
itself and, in many cities and states, it
ceased to have any organization at all.

Its task now is to reconstruct it-
self. Its membership is immense. Its
losing margin was smaller than any
party has known in 28 years. When a
party loses an election by a figure
which is not much greater than the
number of Federal employes, it need
have few regrets. If, in 1948, it is
called to power, it can and it should
be ready. Meanwhile, the country
needs its constructive and loyal watch-
fulness.

Mr. Dewey has known for two years
that, if the war continued, his chances
of winning were exceedingly doubtful.
His party called him, however, and he
could not refuse the chance. From the
moment, in October, when it became
clear that the war in Europe would go
on and that huge increases in registra-
tion in Northern cities were assured,
his case was lost. But he won for him-
self the leadership of a big and grow-
ing party and he has proved his ca-
pacity to lead it well.