Perspective

Legitimate Propaganda

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The destiny of the State Department's Office of International Information and Cultural Affairs (OIC) rests with an economy-minded Congress. The OIC wants something like $25,000,000. At the present writing, there is a disposition among Republican House leaders to mow it down along with many other publicity agencies. Those are the facts. The common sense of the situation follows:

No one can blame congressmen, especially Republican congressmen, for looking with hostile eyes on the Administration's publicity bureaus and agencies. Over the past fourteen years they have grown like toadstools. Much of their output has been partisan, inept and wasteful. They have often advanced ideological stuff inconsistent not only with the views generally held by Congress, but with those publicly advocated by the Administration. And they have provided soft berths for incompetents, misfits and zanies.

A Republican House leader said recently that his party intends to make a clean sweep of "propaganda" agencies. "We will get them in 1947 or they will try to get us in 1948," he said. The suspicion and indignation of Congress are understandable and, for the most part, justified.

But in the general housecleaning, it would be short-sighted to destroy an agency which is a necessary part of our foreign service. The appropriation for the OIC is a very special case. And it should not be included in the prospective purge.

The purpose of the OIC can be simply stated. The time is past when we as a nation can afford to be unconcerned about what other people think of us. As an integral part of our activities abroad we must furnish complete and accurate information about our policies, our outlook and our national disposition.

This is a valid purpose. We are detested and misunderstood in many parts of the globe. It is to our interest that we should at least be understood. There is an important channel for such understanding, and that is propaganda about ourselves.

It seems to be assumed that propaganda is something which is not true, that it is a sinister effort to deceive.  The word itself is innocent. It simply means an effort to diffuse and spread knowledge. It can and should be true knowledge.

The OIC operates information centers and libraries in 41 countries. It sponsors the exchange of students, teachers and specialists. It provides for the exchange of cultural and scientific information of the highest value.

It publishes a daily news bulletin, which is distributed by wireless to its missions abroad. These bulletins are given to foreign editors, writers, radio commentators and others.

It distributes documentary motion pictures showing everyday aspects of American life. The OIC cannot, for obvious reasons, argue the best case for such a service. Since such an inhibition does not rest on me, I can point out that a deep and recurring criticism of commercial American movies is that they continually represent abroad the more frivolous or sordid aspects of our life. Foreign criticism has grown rapidly in the past months.

There is, finally, the OIC program of international broadcasting. A number of features, well known to American listeners, are used. There are also features created by the OIC itself. To a considerable extent, the immense short-wave facilities developed in wartime are used in the distribution of such programs.

But, ask some people, why should the government be in the news business? What of our magazines and press services? A good answer to that is the endorsement of the OIC by a committee of the American Society of Newspaper Editors headed by Nat Howard. This committee strongly pointed up the need of the OIC, cautioned that its output should be objective and suggested that from time to time the society should review and check its work.

This makes sense. The agency is needed. It is merely doing on a modest scale what every other country is doing. The quality of its work should equal its task. Congress should insist upon evidence of competent direction. And the Administration should realize that it cannot afford to staff the agency with anything but first-rate ability.