Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

The RFC That Came to Dinner

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Two years ago I wrote a piece for
this space entitled "Freeze the
RFC." The argument then presented
is even more pertinent today. The RFC
lingers on, although none of the circumstances that gave it birth prevail
today, and everything it now does either should not be done at all or could
be done better by some other agency.
The reasons why the Reconstruction Finance Corp. lingers
on are not wholly happy or
wholesome. Because Congress loves the devious and
indirect, it has repeatedly
found excuses for continuing
the institution. On at
least five occasions in the
past two years new legislation has been enacted,
either extending its life
or expanding its powers.
It was created at the suggestion of
President Hoover "to furnish credits
otherwise unobtainable... in order to
give confidence to agriculture, industry, and labor against further paralyzing
influences." Today, confidence is not
"otherwise unobtainable," confidence
is not missing, and the only "paralyzing influence" that threatens is the
paralysis of the taxpayers.

The RFC operates under a loan ceiling of $2,000,000,000. Its main
operations are in small business loans,
which should be the concern of banks
and other private credit agencies. The
extent to which this once mighty supporter of the nation's credit has gone
in for small stuff is shown by a select
list of loans, revealed in the report of
the Hoover commission task force, to
such enterprises as soft-drink establishments, candy stores, snack bars,
dry cleaners, shoe repair shops, flying
clubs, juke-box operators, night clubs,
phonograph shops, "a tax collector," a
dentist, an optician, and a pet hospital.

Federal loan agencies often operate
directly in conflict with the efforts of
the Federal Reserve System to combat inflation. Thus, the Federal Reserve forces banks to restrict credit.
Rejected borrowers then get loans
from the government.
A similar conflict is present in home-
mortgage finance. The Federal Reserve and the Treasury have indicated
that labor and construction materials are at the peak. Nevertheless, through
government home-mortgage financing,
new money is being pumped into the
market.
The most serious factor in the operation of the RFC and other lending
agencies is the fact that they bypass
the constitutional power of Congress
over appropriations. It is a basic and
traditional principle that Congress
should appropriate all
money used or spent by
government. Congress carries out this responsibility
through its appropriations
committees. Public hearings
are held which should provide full light upon all expenditures of taxpayers'
money.
But all money now used
by the RFC is obtained by
borrowing from the Treasury. This
borrowing is not the official concern
of an appropriations committee. Such
by-passing has resulted in the advancing of $12,500,000,000, with no opportunity afforded to appropriations
committees to pass on its wisdom. No
technical illegality is involved in this,
nor is there any suggestion of dishonesty. The fault is lack of public accountability and the grave danger of
abuse.
This practice grew up in the Roosevelt regime, largely because Congress
had unbounded and justified confidence in Jesse Jones. But you cannot
build sound government principle
upon faith in one man. For officials
are mortal and fleeting.
A final reason points to the need of
freezing the RFC until another depression or war requires its activity.
The personnel at the head of such an
agency slowly declines in years of
routine. It is not unfair to point out
that the present directors of the RFC
are honorable but run-of-the-mill appointments.

The very able report of the Hoover
task force on lending agencies
recommends a complete reorganization of lending and related activities
under a national monetary council. It
would discontinue the activities of
the RFC and several related agencies.
Finally, it recommends that no direct
loans be made by government except
in cases of crisis or demonstrated need.

Newsweek, March 7, 1949