Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Factors in Republican Unity

As the Republicans meet next
week, we all might add to our prayers a
plea that wisdom and prudence may reign
in Philadelphia. We don't have to remind
ourselves why that is true, why the people
of this country are entitled to a suitable
alternative to the Administration now in
office—an informed and patriotic opposition
party.

Last week on this page appeared a personal
appraisal of the leading aspirants for the
Republican nomination. The most important
point in that judgment was the strength of
the group as a whole. The Republicans
have a team this year, no matter who is
nominated. I don't believe in supermen. I
don't believe that there are supermen. And
I believe a party is weak even if it has an
unusual leader, if that leader is surrounded
by a sea of inadequacy. The Republican high
command will do well, in this campaign, to
stress the high quality of its leaders as a
group and to send through the country not
only the candidates who are selected, but
those who have not been selected. That
would demonstrate that the party possesses
unity, coherence, competence. And the
greatest of these is unity.

The party cannot be one thing in the East
and another in the West. It must be truly
national, offering, in a moment of intensified
patriotism, a standard for all classes,
sections and factions of Americans. The
party statement of policy will have to say
something—say it simply, clearly and
briefly. Fortunately, there were never so
many issues on which the leaders of a party
could honestly agree. Let us consider some
of these elements of unity. The party’s
position on war and defense, for instance,
ought to be expressible in less than a
hundred words. Circumstances beyond our
control are answering the question of
whether we shall get into it. There may be
no war to get into when autumn comes. But
if there is, all Republican candidates have
announced that our boys should not be sent
into it. A real mobilization of our industrial
power to produce aircraft, ships and
mechanized equipment is the best way not
only to help the Allies but to prepare for our
own defense. Republicans can certainly take
the stand that if our present government had
been as diligent in providing for such a
mobilization as it has been in uttering words
of sympathy, the Allies would not be so badly
off now. The immediate issue of sending
over a thimbleful of "reserve" planes,
"surplus" guns and "obsolete" destroyers
will not be an issue in two months. What we
are proposing to send is not enough to make
much difference, it seems. But vast amounts
of military material can be available if we get
organized for the effort. Such organization
has not yet been provided. Our so-called
defense council does not possess the legal
powers it will need. Here is issue number
one, and Mr. Roosevelt’s willingness to
muddle along with what failed to work in
1917 has provided that issue.


To make the United States the world’s
greatest arsenal and machine shop requires
the kind of executive setup empowered to
get things done—practical things like fixing
priorities, coordinating the training of skilled
workers. The organizers of such an effort
must not only have power but knowledge of
industry. In this sense the war issue and the
preparedness issue are one. That can and
does unite those who believe we should stop
Hitler in Europe and those who want to be
ready here to meet any possible attack.

On foreign policy, the Republicans can
well unite on the principle that our
international commitments should be succinctly
defined, better known to the public and more
practically implemented. This means,
specifically, that when we commit ourselves
to such a principle as the Monroe Doctrine,
we should be prepared to carry out our
commitment. It means that we must state
our interests in the Pacific in terms of our
ability to protect them. It means that we
must send abroad only diplomatic
representatives of the highest competence,
regardless of party affiliations or party
contributions.

On foreign trade, the issue can be stated
this year with less danger of splitting low-tariff
from high-tariff Republicans than ever
before. No matter who wins this war, foreign
trade is going to be conducted throughout
the world by new methods. Shaving a rate
here and raising a rate there will not begin
to enable us to meet those methods. There
must be international merchandising of a new
kind, and government must help to devise it.
The New Deal has completely missed this
boat. The Republicans cannot afford to fail.

NEWSWEEK JUNE 24, 1940

Logan Bill has presented a first-class issue to
the opposition.

There can be no disagreement on the
principle that government has a duty to
protect labor in its right to bargain
collectively. But few would defend
government’s superseding organized labor in
the fields of bargaining and organizing. The
National Labor Relations Act has almost no
friends left except those who hold jobs in its
administration. It is perhaps Roosevelt’s
greatest political liability. His failure to
revise it has given his opponents another
major issue.

There will not be much of an unemployment
problem left if the country gets into a
Spartan mood on defense preparations and
military training. But what is left of the
problem should be turned back to the states
with provision for Federal grants where the
states can demonstrate a genuine need for
help. This country will either go to work or
go under. The days of the WPA are
numbered. It is, as Falstaff said, the product
of a “calm world and a long peace.” It can
have no place in our strenuous, resolute
future.

A large part of the present farm program
as developed by Secretary Wallace will have
to be endorsed. The problem of the surplus
is likely to be much less important as the
world grows hungry.

The silly philosophy that our economy is
stagnant, that government must tax and
spend to set in motion the savings of the
people, is now an open target. Here again
the New Deal has made its own case
against itself.

Above all, the Republican party must
present itself as the party of national unity,
of reconciliation with business, of harmony
within labor and between labor and
management. Our national defense effort can
be likened to football. The Army and Navy
carry the ball. The President—and he
chose the figure—is the quarterback. Industry
is the line, opening the way to attack,
protecting the men who carry the ball. But
if the linesmen have no confidence in the
quarterback, the team can win no games. We
can get another quarterback. We can’t get
another line.

No one ever remembers what a party says
about such details as immigration, silver
purchases, the Youth Administration, or
prenatal care. The Republican platform
ought certainly not go into such issues. It
ought to cover just the big ones—national
defense, foreign policy, industrial recovery,
sane and workable social reform, justice for
labor, integrity in government, faith in our
ever-expanding future and unity among the
interests and sections of this country. The
people may like it. If they don’t, on their own
heads, in their own hands “the sin and the
saving lies.”