Here's the text from the provided image, extracted and formatted to avoid overlapping columns:


**Political Roundup**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

DENVER—For four weeks I have been on endless highways marked with the names of nineteen states. Sufficient time was taken out in seven of these states to look around and talk with people, mostly about politics. The seven states were Wisconsin, Minnesota, Montana, Washington, Oregon, California and Colorado.

There is no monotony about such a survey, for there is only superficial uniformity in American life. On the political side this year there isn't even the common interest of a Presidential contest. Every contest, whether for a state office, a United States senatorship or a House seat, has issues of its own. And the remarkable thing is that these issues have so little connection with the prevailing national parties.

Another impression is the growing importance of just plain good government as an issue, especially in contests for governorships. Social justice, share-the-wealth and political corruption are strangely absent in state campaigns. It is significant that in the two key states of California and New York Governors Warren and Dewey are enjoying increased popularity because they are thought to have worked hard at the routine but essential business of running state government. Here in Colorado, the Republican party denied a renomination for Gov. George C. Vivian, for no reason except that he was regarded as incompetent.

Still another impression is that national leaders in New York and Washington are all wrong in regarding the control of the House of Representatives as the dominant fact in this election. That question is interesting only because it presents a statistical issue. The major fact in 1946 is not whether Republicans or Democrats elect the next Speaker. It is far more important to note the character and quality of the new blood we shall get in both Houses of Congress, especially in the Senate. The prospect is that there will be about twenty new faces when the Senate meets in January. The going is hard in the North and West for Senate veterans. The announcement here in Colorado of the prospective retirement, two years hence, of Sen. Ed Johnson means more than the desire of a man in his 60s for peace and quiet.

It is, no doubt, the shrewd conclusion of a man who has enjoyed 24 years in politics. There is talk in Denver that even a stout pitcher can go too often to the well. Senatorial togas this year cover many a quaking heart.

In all these states, national party discipline and loyalty are not substantial. What there is of a Democratic party centers largely in Federal jobs and other patronage. Everywhere there is a sharp cleavage between the New Deal and the old Democrats. The Republican organizations are mainly centered in control of the states. There is little interest among Republicans in any of the leading Presidential aspirants, except Stassen. People in both parties seem to be groping about for leadership.

Dissatisfaction with the old is expressing itself in the presence in many campaigns of young, vigorous and politically unsophisticated, candidates, most of whom have war records. There is no uniformity in their philosophy, except in a protest against the past. This new spirit knows no party labels.

It is my impression, after this survey, that Republicans in the seven states mentioned may possibly gain nine or ten House seats, but more likely five or six. Four or five Republican seats will be involved in serious contests. There is nothing to indicate a big swing to the Republican side. Republicans stand a fair chance to pick up Senate seats in Montana and Washington, but they will have to struggle for seats now held in Wisconsin and California. Anyone would be foolish to predict the party control of the House on the basis of present evidence.

While no clean-cut domestic issues seem to be emerging, there is no question about foreign policy. In all the West and Northwest, there has developed strong support for an active American role abroad. This is a significant change out here. It should be remembered that Woodrow Wilson's last crusade for the League was in these states. He was battling the isolationism of the people and the senators of this section. The light finally went out after the Pueblo speech. This year, Wilson would have succeeded far beyond his dreams. For the West now knows that we are in the international show for keeps.