Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

Mr. Dillon's Education

by Raymond Moley

ONE of the most frequently asked
questions I have encountered
over the past months is: "What has
happened to Douglas Dillon?"
The answer is in one item among the
mass of written propaganda by the
academicians who have entered
politics in this Administration. The
item is a naively self-revealing book
by Seymour E. Harris, Littauer Pro-
fessor of Political Economy at Har-
vard, "The Economic Policies of the
Political Parties," published this year.
Harris writes that when the time
came to select Mr. Kennedy's Secre-
tary of the Treasury, "Messrs. Samuel-
son, Galbraith, Schlesinger, and I
spent several hours trying to come up
with a good name." Dillon was later
selected, no doubt because his past
associations in Wall Street and in the
Eisenhower Administration would be
a good orthodox screen for unorthodox
fiscal policies.
But to make sure that the appointee
could be rid of any embedded germs
of orthodoxy carried over from the
past, scrubbing and disinfecting were
provided by making Harris Senior
Consultant to the Secretary to supply
on-the-job retraining. "I can say,"
writes Harris, "that I have never
known a high official who was so anx-
ious to learn." The new Secretary
read the homework supplied by his
tutor and reported favorably thereon.

STATISTICAL TRICKERY

Harris's progress report is: "Dillon
promises to become the Alexander
Hamilton of the twentieth century."
This is a dangerous comparison. For
Hamilton studied no economics at the
King's College of his day. He learned
his economics from the businessmen
whom he later so ably supported.
Harris shows an aptitude for dema-
gogic downgrading of businessmen in
public office which might be envied
by a Kefauver or Morse. Academic
men are more "disinterested."
To promote his concept that deficit
spending promotes economic growth,
Harris resorts to a statistical trick. In
answering the arguments of Senators
Goldwater and Proxmire that deficit
spending did not promote economic
growth in the 1930s Harris says: "In
fact, GNP rose from $56 billion in
1933 to $91 billion in 1939, unem-

ployment declined by 3 million..."
The facts are these:
In 1933, 1934, 1935, and 1936,
Roosevelt followed orthodox budget
policies. He struggled to keep spend-
ing down and twice vetoed a sol-
diers' bonus. In those years the GNP
rose from $56 billion to $82.7 billion,
or more than 47 per cent. Unemploy-
ment fell 3.8 million.
In the mid-'30s, John Maynard
Keynes came over with his silk hat
and white rabbits. He had a long ses-
sion with FDR. Subsequently Keynes
said, according to Harris, that Roose-
velt was "an economic illiterate." But
slowly the Keynes infection set in, with
plenty of help from Harry Hopkins.
After 1936 the GNP rose to $91 bil-
lion, which was only 10 per cent more
than in 1936. Unemployment in-
creased 450,000. The deficit in 1939
was higher than in the depth of the
depression. In constant dollars, the
contrast is almost equally striking.

CONFIDENCE DID IT

Harris might reply that the im-
provement in the first period was due
to the recovery from the depression
and that after 1936 there was a level-
ing off. But recovery was accompa-
nied by a rise in public confidence
after the saving of the banks and
the Economy Act of 1933 which
slashed government expenses across
the board. This was not merely busi-
nessmen's confidence. It was reflected
in immense Democratic majorities in
the elections of 1934 and 1936.
In 1936 Roosevelt began to make
harsh attacks on business. Even Rex-
ford Tugwell has said of his "princes
of privilege" speech that it "was a
speech that Bryan might have made."
After FDR's great triumph in the 1936
election, two events marked a shatter-
ing of confidence. One was the attack
on the Supreme Court; the other was
his criticism of copper and other
prices. Recession set in and, with it,
a great loss of House seats in 1938.
Republicans had only 103 House
members in 1935-36. But after the
1938 election they had 164.
There is no recognition in the
Harris book of the part played by
public confidence in economic growth.
His concern is to use mathematics to
prove a bad case.

Newsweek, August 20, 1962

Page 729 of 1197