Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

**The CIO's Stake in Ohio**

by Raymond Moley

WALTER REUTHER made the happy boast last spring that the "UAW-CIO have won the guaranteed wage in the automobile industry," and hailed it as a historic event. Harlow H. Curtice of General Motors later offered the understatement of the year. He said that the plan to which his company had agreed would "require some time to appraise fully." Now a debate in Ohio is bringing out some of that appraisal, which must be agonizing to the CIO.

In the first place, it is getting over to the public, including Reuther's union members, that what was won is not a guaranteed wage at all. It is merely an amount paid into a trust fund by the companies to supplement the unemployment compensation paid by the states under certain very onerous conditions.

The first of those conditions is that it must be made lawful to pay such supplemental compensation. But the contracts provide that before the plan becomes operative it must be legal to make the payments in states in which two thirds of the workers affected are located. Michigan can supply only 56 per cent of that number. Ohio, ranking next, has an indispensable 11 per cent more. Legal provision in Michigan has been possible by executive action. But the law must be changed in Ohio, and the legislature flatly refused to pass a bill proposed by the CIO in its last session.

The CIO has managed through the Ohio Initiative and Referendum procedure to put the measure on the ballot at the election next week. If that fails, it will be necessary to win over two other states, a dim prospect, which would take time and immense effort. And time is running out. Unless the legal way can be cleared, the agreements with the companies die in June 1957.

Among UAW members are many with highly developed skills and high seniority who are always the last to be laid off. They are not viewing with any enthusiasm a plan in which they must work and pay dues during other workers' idle and compensated weeks. It is also dawning upon all UAW workers that if the 5 cents an hour had not been exacted for payments into the unemployment fund, it would probably have been given to everybody as increased pay.

A million workers in Ohio are learning that all this hullaballoo is about a plan to provide unemployment compensation at a rate higher than the established minimum wage, and that they are not beneficiaries but will be required to pay through the higher prices created by stiff payroll taxes.

It has also aroused all industries to a united effort. For this is a matter affecting not merely the automobile business, but practically all businesses which must contribute. It should be added that, despite the short-term advantage to Ford and GM in raising the state rate of compensation, those companies, recognizing the long-term consequences, are contributing substantially to the opposition.

The memory of 1950 is still fresh in Ohio, when the massed force of the labor bosses invaded the state in an effort to defeat Senator Taft. No small part of the Taft victory that year was due to the resentment of voters toward outside interference with their elections. The CIO this year is quite aware of this fact and, at any rate up to this time, has refrained from bringing in "public relations" people from the Detroit office of the UAW. Leaders of the CIO also claim that the finances for this drive come from their members in the state. But it is not clear that this will not be balanced by payments withheld later from the national union. Moreover, the strategy and inspiration are Reuther's.


REUTHER, with his back to a wall of his own construction, has already been handicapped in Cleveland, where most of his majority must be found. For in the primary a popular mayor won so large a vote that there is no contest for that office in this election. That will no doubt mean a light vote. Moreover, the perennially popular Governor Lausche has reiterated his opposition to the bill. It may well be that Reuther will find his so-called GAW victory, like Byron's Dead Sea apples, "all ashes to the taste."

Newsweek, November 7, 1955