Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


The Cargo Plane Question

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—The decision of
Donald Nelson to authorize Henry J.
Kaiser to build three giant cargo planes
in collaboration with Howard Hughes
seems to make a good deal of sense.
The interest aroused by this news and
by the long and informative discussions
that preceded it has done a great deal
to make people appreciate the value
of large cargo-flying ships. The experi-
mental work now authorized will teach
us all much that will be useful in the
war effort and in transportation after
the war.

It is obvious that when an entirely
new design is contemplated it takes
time to produce even experimental
models. It is estimated by Mr. Kaiser
and Mr. Hughes that the three will not
be finished for two years—the first in
15 months, the second in 20 months and
the third in 25 months. If it is then
decided to put them into production,
some months must elapse before they
roll off the line.

The public has been informed from
time to time of quite understandable
differences of opinion about the feasi-
bility and desirability of building this
type of plane at this time. One of the
reasons for misunderstanding has been
the fact that ideas as well as specific
plans have been continually changing
throughout the period of discussion. At
all times, many complicated technical
problems of management and engineer-
ing have been involved.

After wide discussion in Washington
and elsewhere, a meeting was held here
about four weeks ago between Mr.
Kaiser, a WPB representative and a
committee of three leaders in the air-
plane industry. This committee was
acting upon a suggestion of the WPB
to talk the matter over with Mr. Kaiser
and to report on their findings and con-
clusions. No specific plan came out of
the meeting. This was not because the
industry itself was lacking in a desire
to cooperate. It is the settled rule in
the industry that any manufacturer will
make available any plans, engineering
ideas, advice and technical personnel at
his disposal to any other manufacturer
who actually has an order from the
government to build planes. At that
time Mr. Kaiser had no such order, and
there was a good deal of uncertainty
as to the plane that was to be built and
the organization which was to do the
building.

In these circumstances, it was urged
that Mr. Kaiser give his unquestioned
manufacturing ability to the mass pro-
duction of some model already designed.
But it seems that Mr. Kaiser thought
it best to build a new plane. Leaders
of the industry pointed out the great
outlay of time and the requirements of
critical materials, engineering personnel
and labor needed for the development
of an entirely new model. It is said that
in the automobile industry a new model
takes close to three years from the
original idea to mass production. Something
of the same effort is required in
the case of a new plane. To undertake
mass production of a new plane would
draw heavily upon the strained re-
sources of an already overburdened in-
dustry. This apparently became clear
not only to the industry but to the
various authorities in the government.

There is no disposition to deny
that vastly bigger planes can be built
than any that now exist, or to deny that
they will fly and that they will carry a
lot of stuff. When a certain manufacturer
was asked how big a cargo plane could
be built, his answer was: "Just tell me
how much land or water is available to
take off from or to land in." Such questions
as this, as well as the number and
type of cargo planes that will be needed,
are matters of strategy to be decided
by the Army and the Navy.

There is no reason now to assume
that this war will have to be fought
with the exact types of plane already
in production. But it does seem likely
that whatever is new or startling in the
planes that will come off the production
line for some time to come will be a
modification and improvement of basic
designs that now exist.

Leaders in the industry here and
elsewhere have been stressing the importance
of carriers for a long time, and
point to the number of excellent cargo
planes already in production. The campaign
of Mr. Kaiser has heavily underscored
their importance. He can have
the immense satisfaction of knowing
that he has directed the nation's attention
to the value of large carriers.
Everyone will wish him well in his
new project.