Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


How to Carry Whose Flag?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Long after the Barkley incident
is filed away with the season's best
stories, the constitutional background
will be something for Americans to
ponder. And this is the year to ponder,
if we want decisions to follow cogita-
tion.

That this explosion should take place
over a tax bill is symbolic. For the
very beginnings of constitutional
government lie in disputes over taxes.
That is how Parliament originated in
England. That is why we are not now
a part of the British Empire. In the
provisions of the Constitution, the
power to tax provides the most care-
fully drawn definition of our Federal
system.

Partly by inadvertence—for Mr.
Roosevelt has never thought very
seriously about background—partly be-
cause of the urging of certain Con-
gress-hating stooges in his official fami-
ly, the President, in his tax veto, ran
squarely into the almost-forgotten and
deep-lying foundations of representa-
tive government. He did not plan it so,
because he no doubt conceived this to
be just another incident in a campaign
which has been under way a long
time—a campaign to weaken and un-
dermine the constitutional position of
Congress.

For nearly two years, inflation con-
trol has moved from veto to veto.
Labor and agricultural policies have
been strangled in a pincers movement
between the ends of Pennsylvania
Avenue. And now taxation becomes
the subject of difference. This is
government by veto—tolerable for a
while, but, ultimately, intolerable. For a
dynamic country cannot be con-
tained in a ring of negation. Some-
thing has to break, although it is too
early to predict what that will be.

their government ever dreamed they
could. Whether they can save their
Constitution as they have saved their
money remains to be seen. But they
are pretty wise.

Nothing so troubles the calm
reader of Barkley’s impassioned
speech as his statement that “for the
past seven years I have carried the
flag of the Administration as majority
leader of the Senate.” This is not what
the Constitution conceives to be the
duty of the officers of the Senate or
of the House. They are members of
Congress, elected by members of Con-
gress, responsible to Congress—and
not to the President.

For some 30 years since the begin-
ning of the Wilson terms, the theory
of government by Presidential leader-
ship has prevailed. The President,
said Wilson, should exercise all the
power that his capacities and his posi-
tion permit. That is bad doctrine and,
in Wilson’s case, it had a bad end. He
persistently ignored Congress, as Con-
gress, and dealt, in the main, with his
party leaders in Congress. In 1918, he
asked for an obedient Congress. The
people said “no.” He ignored the Sen-
ate in the delegation he took to Ver-
sailles. And the peace failed.

This notion of executive direction
is not a workable principle in our
form of government. The American
people, for some reason, will not stand
for it. Mr. Roosevelt has not been able
to make it work. He lost in 1937 in
the Supreme Court fight. And he lost
in 1938 in the purge. He has lost
ground in Congress ever since, and he
has lost more than half the state
governments. To persist stubbornly
now will endanger the peace after
this war. The issue is illustrated in the
very practice, confessed by Barkley, of
carrying the President’s flag in Con-
gress. The time has come to carry one
flag—the American flag—in all branches
of government. It is a well-worn flag,
but it has the durability of the best
tradition that any constitutional
government has established in many
centuries. This is hardly a propitious
moment for a new modish Betsy Ross.

But the issue is out in the open now.
Of course, unless this revolt is more
than it seems, Senator Barkley and
many who cheered his speech will be
out supporting the fourth term, which
really embodies the very principle they
have long opposed in private and
which, when Barkley spoke, they ap-
plauded in public. The issue is not
for them to resolve, however, nor for
the Republicans to make. It must be
decided by the people who, despite
the failure of government to find a
way to prevent inflation, have them-
selves prevented inflation by saving
more and producing more goods than

This is a poor time to demand a
referendum on the principle of ex-
ecutive domination of policy. Policy is
for Congress; its execution is for the
President.