Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've done my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns and to exclude the advertisement.  However, due to the image quality and column layout, some minor imperfections may remain.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Management Shortage

All through the recent discussion of labor disputes we have been hearing of the possibility that the government would take over and operate industrial plants. That course is frankly one of last resort. And there are many reasons why it is. But the chief and most immediate of them is the shortage of capable industrial managers.

There is no particular mystery about why it should have taken officialdom so long to admit publicly that there is such a shortage. Actually, it was recognized in effect, months ago—in the discussion that arose late last year over Sidney Hillman’s insistence that defense contracts go to no manufacturers held in violation of the law by the NLRB, even though appeals from the Board’s rulings were pending in the courts. William S. Knudsen and a number of his associates were opposed to such a decision. Though Mr. Hillman appeared to win his point in one or another instance, it eventually became obvious that the OPM was exceedingly reluctant to be confronted with any new emergencies brought on by the necessity of finding management for an enterprise where the executives familiar with it had been removed.

From that point on, public recognition of the situation was sooner or later bound to come. Now at last we are beginning to be told that the “bottleneck” in management is really the most dangerous one we have. Robert L. Mehornay, chief of the defense contract service of the OPM, has been telling bankers and government men and industrialists that there is no shortage comparable with the shortage of management. In his new book, “Arsenal of Democracy,” the editor of American Machinist, Burnham Finney, says that “of all the problems facing our defense authorities, the one least talked about, yet one of the most serious, is the shortage of highly experienced management.”

Doubtless we would have been told all this sooner if we and the Administration had been a little more certain of what we were talking about when we spoke of management. For many years the Administration apparently assumed that the chief function of the industrial manager was that of an employer. The manager was regulated as financier, as accountant, as advertiser and as salesman. But it was in his function as employer that his activities have been most rigidly curbed and channeled. The ideal manager, if one were to have believed the Labor Department and the NLRB, was the man with his “feet under the table,” discussing the problems of the business with the salaried representatives of his employees. Seldom was it recognized that the manager was primarily engaged in production and that while he sat with his feet under the table he might be compelled to neglect other important aspects of his job as manager. If he was thought of as a producer at all, it was usually in connection with threats to regulate him as an operator of “labor-saving” machinery, or in the course of public scoldings for “overproduction.”

Characteristically, then, when the Administration high command was faced with an especially perplexing administrative problem—a problem of management—it turned not to the available industrial managers but to Army or Navy men. A colonel was put in charge of the WPA, for instance. Another was appointed to unravel the tangled Wage-Hour Administration. A rear admiral was put in charge of the Procurement Division of the Treasury.

A vast change has been taking place in the Administration’s concept of management during the present emergency. To begin with, the Army and Navy themselves have turned to private industry. But, far more significant, the Army and Navy appear to have their own definition of management. In the sense that they understand it, management consists not of the individually capable manager, of whom there are many, but of groups of men who work together successfully—men who know one another’s capacities, who respect one another and who know what to expect of one another in any situation. No clearer recognition has ever been given to this essential value of experienced and successful management than the policy of the War Department in selecting the managerial staffs for the scores of new arsenals and other munitions plants it has been erecting. The Army did not go out and recruit individually successful men to head these giant enterprises. It staffs none of these works with stars from many teams. It hires whole teams. Most of them so far come from the big leagues. But there is every evidence that the Department would rather call in a sand-lot team which has a good record than try to build up its own team.

To Under Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson is being given the credit for originating this policy of inducing experienced groups of managers in private industry  NEWSWEEK APRIL 21, 1941 try to devote their services, for a fixed fee—not a percentage—to the direction of the new government-owned plants. A whole series of such groups has been called upon to furnish the management in industrial fields in which they had little or no previous experience, in fields, as a matter of fact, which scarcely existed in industry until now. Yet they are proceeding with amazing success because they have mastered the fundamentals of management.

Much the same practical reasons that have dictated this policy of recruiting management are responsible for the enormous size of the new defense plants. The explanation is the scarcity of enough managers known to be capable of managing a sufficient number of smaller plants.

Experts point out that the shortage of management is partly the product of the long depression. Of course the defense job is so huge that we should have experienced a shortage in capable direction if it had been imposed upon the pattern of management as it existed in 1928 or 1929. But since then the whole number of business establishments has declined by 5 per cent, despite an increase in our general population. The winnowing which many a staff has gone through in the lean years has probably reduced the number of capable executives by more than that. Besides, fewer managers have been trained in the last dozen years. Charge this up as one of the shortcomings of private enterprise, if you will, or call it the result of governmental policies which, by discouraging enterprise, prolonged the depression. In either case the facts remain.

This alone is not likely to explain why government is not likely to embark on any career of “seizing” industrial plants—not to speak of removing many managers. The seizure of plants might conceivably be undertaken in a few conspicuous instances. The government might, it is true, furnish its own management to a few concerns in which the executives and the employees had pretty well proved they were unable to get along together, the purpose of such seizures being to warn other establishments to do their utmost to achieve tranquillity in their labor relations. But it is obvious that changes made in such plants could neither be numerous nor go very deeply into the personnel. And certainly it is obvious that the changes could not take place in many plants.

It will do little good to debate the question whether managers or labor union heads can be scared into better relations by plant seizures. No matter what the answer, some remedy other than the expropriation of management will plainly have to be found for the great majority of labor disputes.

There is just not enough management to go around as it is. Perhaps that is the principal reason why, in a mechanized war, you cannot afford a revolution.