Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Things That Are Caesar's

When democracy becomes the
rage of Broadway, it's pretty safe to con-
clude that the rest of the country has
been thinking about it seriously for some
time. Broadway thinks that things start
there. They don't. They just come there.
People who deal in entertainment or
quasi-entertainment, quick to sense a pub-
lic demand, are turning out material on
democracy in quantities—in movies, on
the radio and in plays. "The American
Way" is running at the Center Theater in
New York, and, while as a piece of dra-
matic workmanship it is hardly the best
of the season, it is democratic propaganda
that may carry on at least long enough to
reach World's Fair days. "Abe Lincoln in
Illinois" is immensely popular. Platform
artists and columnists are spouting demo-
cratic doctrine. The President, with an eye
to the changing tastes of his audience,
finds ringing pronouncements about de-
mocracy better pabulum than talk of the
neglected one-third. We are committing
ourselves, it seems, rather noisily to de-
mocracy, just as we have so often in the
past under the impact of a domestic crisis
or a foreign danger.

Without in the least deprecating this
wholesome trend, I'd like to suggest that
democratic principles are perhaps better
served by alert understanding and vigor-
ous opposition to their subtle impairment
than by sentimental words and songs. Two
or three incidents recently in the news are
examples as good as any of the fact
that a democratic republic is as apt to be
undermined by the careless neglect of its
tenets as it is to be overwhelmed by some
horrid ideology. The prospect is less ex-
citing, to be sure. It is harder to get het
up about the minutiae of administering a
democracy than it is about the raging
paynim abroad. But it is no less impor-
tant. For instance:

Everyone has known for a long
time that the Federal Communications
Commission has made pretty much of a
mess of things. The President has at last
gotten around to doing something about
it. He has called for a thorough revamping
of the Federal laws and governmental
machinery relating to the radio, telegraph
and so forth. The Federal Communications
Commission, we are told, is to be extir-
pated and a new committee of three
created. But the trouble with the operation
of the present radio commission cannot be
traced back to the provisions of the law,


imperfect though they may be; it has
sprung from the apparent inability of the
President to select men of sufficiently large
caliber to carry out properly the immense
responsibility that rests upon them. And
what assurance is there that, once Con-
gress authorizes a new commission, the
appointments to it will be any better than
they have been in the past?

It is needless to point out that the
power these men wield will be a factor
in the history of the liberty of this coun-
try. And it is equally needless to point out
that a government of human beings is
necessarily fallible. But is it too much to
ask that Congress recognize the human
situation involved here and limit the pow-
ers of the commission so that the radio
companies aren't continuously hamstrung
—as they have been—by fear of bureau-
cratic and essentially political interference?
The most learned conclusions about the
role of a democratic government can be
reduced to meaninglessness by the hard
facts of individual personality and be-
havior. And it is on just such hidden rocks
that democracy springs leaks—to the utter
indifference, seemingly, of most of its citi-
zens.

Take another situation. We have
in this country a rising tide of Congres-
sional power challenging a too powerful
President, which is an expression of our
traditional beliefs that legislatures are
our protection against one-man power,
that democracy and even the most benevo-
lent of autocracies are mutually exclusive.
Part of the struggle has taken the form of
a battle over the relief deficiency fund—
a battle whose real significance lay in the
determination of some of the members of
Congress to reassert the control of the leg-
islature over government finances and to
demonstrate its independence of Executive
orders. But where was the public support
for these men? As Arthur Krock pointed
out, the very persons and groups from
whom they had the most right to expect
support wavered. And inarticulateness of
the public generally gave the impression
that it was uninterested, unmoved.

Another phase of the large struggle
centers in the case of Thomas R. Amlie
of Wisconsin, whose nomination for a
place in the Interstate Commerce Com-
mission is now pending. The ICC, in a
very peculiar way, is an arm of the legis-
lative, rather than the executive, side of
the government. Its functions are es-
sentially quasi-legislative. The ICC makes
its reports to Congress rather than to the
President. Its duties are, in the main, to
give exact definition, through its decisions,
to broad principles that Congress has an-
nounced. The Executive has practically no
control over the ICC after its members are
appointed. That is as it should be, for its
work requires a high degree of freedom
from political or partisan considerations
of every kind.

Along comes the Amlie nomination,
made almost at the same moment that the
President had expressed his hope that rail-
roads will be put into a position where
they can serve the public and at the
same time make a reasonable profit for
themselves. Mr. Amlie is to be appointed
to supervise them, despite the fact that his
views contemplate a form of control over
business that would deny it any sort of
profits at all and despite the fact that his
chief claim to fame is his sponsorship of
a proposed "human rights" amendment to
the Constitution which, if ratified, would
give the Federal government the right to
take over and operate any business of any
kind throughout the land. Those members
of Congress aware of the paramount re-
sponsibility of Congress in this case, pick
up the gauntlet thus flung down.

And do the folks back home rush
to their support? They do not. They can't
be bothered. I am reminded of an old
Irish priest whom I once heard say to his
parishioners: "Sure, you'll stand up for
your faith. But you won't kneel down for
it!"

The issues raised by the FCC affair and
by the Amlie appointment to the ICC go
back to a question of fundamental im-
portance in appraising this Administra-
tion. It is my belief that fair-minded peo-
ple who have become critical of things in
Washington have not objected so much to
the character of the laws the President has
forced through Congress as they have to
the quality of the men who have been
chosen to administer them. For the most
part, the President has shown a singular
inability to appoint men to the great in-
dependent commissions who are of suffi-
cient stature to be entrusted with the dis-
cretion that the law gives them. The evi-
dences run all the way through the FTC,
the TVA, the ICC and, notably, the
NLRB.

Democratic government demands the
enlistment of unusual men in the public
service. But it cannot get them unless
there is a vigilant and articulate citizenship
on guard. It is to be hoped that all the
fine emotion that we see enlisted in the
interest of abstract democracy may come
down to earth in a closer surveillance of
the kind of government that we are get-
ting.

A good appointment speaks more elo-
quently than a good speech.