Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

Time and Space for Reason to Grow

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The seeds of the late conflict in
Europe were in civil war in Spain, and
now the harvest is in civil conflicts
everywhere.

In China, the Near East, Iran, the
East Indies, Malaya, Venezuela, Ar-
gentina and elsewhere, factional strife
has developed in varying degrees of
violence. One thing that is common to
all these appeals to violence or non-
legal methods of adjust-
ment is the difficulty of ad-
justing one or more minori-
ties within a state controlled
by a well-defined majority.

It can serve no useful
purpose to assume that all
minorities are right and all
majorities, wrong. The issue
is not a simple moral one.
Even the Pilgrims, accord-
ing to the latest research,
were very difficult people to
get on with, and in the issue between
them and the majority in Britain, they
were only partly in the right. For
many reasons they and the rest of the
British just didn't like one another
and didn't want to live together.

The issue always has religious or
political implications, but is basically
economic. As the population of a coun-
try presses on its resources, people
want more for themselves and less for
others. A minority distinctly defined
by race or religious belief or what-not
is easy to single out and provides a tar-
get for a majority. Then there is set in
motion a series of persecutions in-
tended to drive the minority out.

Reasonable adjustments plus sci-
entific progress can solve the difficulty
over the long pull, because reason can
breed tolerance, and science can pro-
vide more food, goods and employ-
ment. But reason and science are slow
growths, and passion and prejudice
are fast-growing weeds. In every phase
of history there has had to be a means
of relieving pressures quickly. That re-
lief has been open and available land
for migration. America was the great-
est of those spaces for relief.

Our geographical frontier provided
room for migration and for the easing
of closely packed populations. And
with that relief from pressures on
nerves, there was time for reason,
optimism and tolerance to grow. The
geographical frontier now finds an al-
liance with the scientific frontier, in
which invention and new knowledge
provide more things for more people.
But there are no more Americas.
The world is losing its great unpeo-
pled spaces. And the race we must wit-
ness is between the final end of the
world's available open spots and the
development of that reason and science
which will enable people to live to-
gether without conflict. We must find
what spaces we can and use
them intelligently through
international action.

East-Central Africa is one
area which has been the
basis of much speculation as
a home for millions of mem-
bers of uncomfortable mi-
norities. The suggestion has
often been made that this
be used as another home-
land for Jews now desirous
of moving from Europe. This
has met with the violent opposition of
Zionists. But the problem is not lim-
ited to the finding of another Jewish
homeland. This great space, stretching
2,000 miles between two oceans and
at least 1,500 miles from north to
south, could accommodate many new
states and tens of millions of people.
It could, in fact, become a federation
of nations, with natural resources suf-
ficient to support a civilization equal
to that of the United States.

Herbert Hoover's suggestion that
the valleys of the Tigris and Euphrates
eastward from "rose-red Petra, half as
old as time," be restored to productive-
ity follows that line of constructive
statesmanship. The wasting of that
cradleland has been a half-forgotten
tragedy of human ineptitude. Its de-
cline was due, in part, to wars of con-
quest, but chiefly to ignorance. An en-
gineered restoration would enrich the
world and ease the pressure of Arabs
in many places other than Palestine.

The world is crying out for states-
manship capable of using the UNO as
an instrument for such projects. But
statesmen in London, Moscow and
Washington are immersed in mutual
suspicions and are using means to sup-
press civil disorders which have never
proved their utility in the past.

The race is on not only between
atomic war and human intelligence,
but between the receding resources of
the world and man's capacity to use
them.