Here's a text version of the provided article, separating the columns to avoid overlap:


**Monopoly Again**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

THE Senate Joint Committee on the
Economic Report decided by a vote
of 8 to 6 that the increases in steel
prices since December were "un-
timely and unwarranted." This seems
to be a strange way to arrive at an
economic conclusion. A political body
for many reasons substitutes the busi-
ness judgment of politicians for that of
business management. In other words,
there entered into the deci-
sion Senator O'Mahoney's
pet theory that some busi-
nesses, such as public utili-
ties, railroads, radio, and
electric power, should be
incorporated and minutely
regulated by the Federal
government. Others among
the eight senators no doubt
voted their belief that effi-
ciency might be promoted
by bearing down on big business, on
the ground that it is big. These two
points of view are essentially political
and deserve a thorough examination.

the issue of expanded production.
There is a fallacy here which persists
in all political attacks on business.*
It was never more clearly shown
than in the debates in Britain when
the Labor government placed steel
nationalization before Parliament. It
was argued then and in the recent
campaign that whereas Britain was
producing some 15,500,000 tons of
steel, the country needed
19,000,000. The assumption
was that under government
ownership expansion would
be more rapid. That as-
sumption overlooked the
fact that right now, when
expansion is essential, so-
cialism has thrown the in-
dustry into confusion and
paralysis. Moreover, the as-
sumption of more ultimate
efficiency under government is re-
futed by self-evident facts.

That there is a determined effort to
thrust the hand of government into
the steel business through calling it a
public utility is shown by the recom-
mendation of the committee that a
study be made of the "extent" to
which steel has taken on the charac-
teristics of a public utility. Thus, the
committee assumes that it has ac-
quired such characteristics. A major
characteristic of a public utility is
monopoly. But this point has been
answered over and over in perfectly
clear terms. President B. F. Fairless of
U. S. Steel pointed out to Congressman
Celler's monopoly investigating com-
mittee that when his company was
created it produced two-thirds of the
nation's steel. Now it produces one-
third. There are 217 companies in the
steel business now. The proportion of
the business handled by the three big
companies is declining.

It cannot too often be stressed that,
unless we are to have socialism, effi-
ciency is a matter which is not within
the province of government, except in
the sense that government should pre-
serve competition. Under a free mar-
ket the determination of the size that
promotes the greatest efficiency must
be made by people in the business. It
is a matter of business judgment.

If we are to say, as some politicians
do, that bigness promotes inefficiency,
we are saying in substance that busi-
ness management is more concerned
with exploiting labor and with hurting
the public than it is with profits.

PROFITS, of course, are not an infalli-
ble measure of efficiency. In the
short runs big profits can be made by
oppressing labor, restricting produc-
tion and unfair competitive practices.
But the whole history of modern busi-
ness shows that continuous and ample
profits are best assured by efficient
production, large output, good wages,
and declining prices. Most of the com-
panies that are the favorite targets in
these investigations have proved this.
Vigorous and fair enforcement of
laws that already exist for controlling
monopoly is all that government has a
logical or legitimate right to do. To
substitute its business judgment for
that of management is to promote
inefficiency, reduced production, and
a lower standard of living for all.

Newsweek, May 8, 1950