Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

COOL OFF, REPUBLICANS!

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

What Republicans generally, and
especially those who are members
of the National Committee,
should seek in the next few months
is a moderation of the hysteria which
followed the great November defeat.
This is not to be attained by merely
putting Dean Burch on the bloody
sacrificial altar. The opposition to this
young man is not because he grossly
mismanaged his part in the campaign.
As a technician operating and reorganizing the staff of the National
Committee, he seems to have been
effective. And he refrained in his
public utterances from dangerous and
indiscreet talk. The demand for his
removal seems to be based on the
fact that he was selected, in accordance with custom, by the Presidential candidate of the party. Since
nothing can be done to Barry Gold-
water, who has lost even his seat in
the Senate, the complainants are
striking at Burch as a gesture of opposition to the 1964 candidate.
This is not, as in the case of the
Ford-Halleck affair, a contest between two candidates for an office.
For the anti-Burch people have not
yet united on an alternative. Ray Bliss
of Ohio is magnificently qualified for
the national chairmanship. But unless
he has changed his mind, he would
not accept the position except by
unanimous demand. I don't believe
Ray Bliss would accept if a contest
were involved.

OUTCRIES OF FRUSTRATION

In the weeks following the election
a great many hasty and unpremeditated things have been said by many
Republicans. This was a quite human
manifestation of frustration. For the
loss was felt generally and it went
down as deep as the county-court-
house level.
First, there was the premature
gathering of Republican governors at
Denver. This ended, after a lot of
talk, with a meaningless formula to
the effect that the GOP should follow a policy of "inclusion" rather than
"exclusion." Even the governors who
were devoted to Goldwater accepted
that generality. But others, like
Robert Smylie of Idaho, the governor
who roared the loudest, denied this
noble principle of inclusion by demanding the purge of Burch.

There were also hasty things said
by Goldwater supporters. There was
bitterness against those who failed to
support the candidates of the party
chosen after a fair fight at San Francisco. There were ominous suggestions, certainly not endorsed by
Goldwater himself, of creating a third
party. A small group has launched an
effort to create a Conservative Union
to operate outside the Republican
Party. This is premature and presumptuous and, if carried out, will
create even greater disunity among
conservative people who should seek
their objectives through the means
of a major political party.
But there is always an overriding
sentiment in a defeated party to "do
something," even to the extent of
chopping off heads. And so what
seemed a month ago to be a solid
majority for Burch in the National
Committee has declined, and Burch
has proposed that he be retained as
chairman on trial, as it were, for a
period of six or nine months.

A PARTY CONFERENCE

Whether this plea is granted or not,
the National Committee should dedicate its efforts to the real business at
hand, which is to prepare for the
1966 Congressional elections. It is also
necessary to determine whether the
turmoil of the past year was due to
the clashing personal ambitions of
leaders or to genuine differences in
ideology and policies.
As a contribution to this end, in
April or May a party conference
might well be called, similar to the
annual meetings of the parties in
Britain. Representatives of all elements of the GOP in such a conference should explore means of
agreement on some common objectives. I believe that there could be
general agreement on at least 75 percent of the issues which face the
country and that on these a clear line
of opposition to the Democrats could
be drawn. On the remaining minority
of issues, there could be frank recognition that state parties and leaders
will, of necessity, respond to the interests which vary from state to state.
What is most needed now is the
initiation of a period during which
tempers may subside and wiser counsels prevail.

Newsweek, January 18, 1965