Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure.  I've omitted the advertisement on the left.


PERSPECTIVE

The Unsinkable REA

by Raymond Moley

In a discursive speech attacking critics of some of the Kennedy spending policies, Sen. J.W. Fulbright reveals the essential demagogue beneath his academic and official credentials. Critics of the Rural Electrification Administration are, he implies, supporting the "freedom of the farmer to live in poverty and deprivation-by candlelight." I suggest that we hold the candle up to the facts.

No doubt, the Arkansas senator had in mind identical bills introduced recently by Senators Lausche and Bennett and by Rep. Charles M. Teague. These bills would not destroy the REA. They would require the government to charge interest on loans to cooperatives for electrifying farms at the same rate the Treasury is paying for the money it borrows. Money for purposes other than those originally contemplated in the law creating the REA would have to be raised in the open market.

When the REA was created by Congress in 1936, only 11 per cent of our farms had electric service. It was uneconomical for private power companies to extend their lines to the other 89 per cent. The plan for government loans to cooperatives to service those farms was to be limited to ten years. The interest charged during those ten years was more than the Treasury was paying for its money. But in 1946 the interest charged to cooperatives was 2 per cent, where it has remained. The annual interest rate paid by the Treasury rose from that level to 3.29 in 1962. The average REA loans outstanding rose to $3,568,000,000.

PURPOSE ACHIEVED

Meanwhile, the original purpose of the REA has been achieved. By 1962 nearly 98 per cent of the farms had electric service—about half from the co-ops and half from private power companies.

But with the subsidized money still available, the co-ops have moved into areas already supplied by private companies, constructing generating plants and transmission lines for that purpose. They have also used their funds for purposes not even remotely related to supplying farms with electricity. Moreover, a very powerful lobbying agency, the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, has been built.

In this competition, the co-ops have two advantages: they can borrow money for expansion at a rate far lower than the private companies can get theirs and they pay no Federal income tax.

To illustrate what these advantages mean, I use figures supplied by the Northern Indiana Public Service Co. This company must pay from 6 to 6.5 per cent for the money it must have for growth and maintenance. The difference between this expenditure for capital and that which would be paid by an REA-supplied co-op would amount to $14,543,000 annually. The company pays Federal income taxes amounting to $11,973,000 annually. Thus the subsidy, if enjoyed by the company, would amount to $26,516,000.

DRAG ON GROWTH

The president of the Northern Indiana company says:

"If we had the tax and the 2 per cent money subsidy and applied it to residential and farm use, we could give these customers free electric service all year and the company would be better off than we now are. If we had just the Federal income tax subsidy, we could give free electric service to all residential and rural customers for six months a year."

Consider this effect of subsidizing competition in the light of the professed objectives of the Kennedy Administration. It says it is trying to promote growth of the gross national product and thus have more income to tax. But this competition with tax-paying industry is a brake upon growth. The money for the REA loans to co-ops is a further burden and thus increases the deficit.

The Kennedy Administration also says that it wants to enrich the living standards of the American people. This can be done by cheap electric service, no matter who generates the power. But 85 per cent of Americans are customers of private companies. Subsidized competition is a charge on those companies. REA subsidies are not a stimulant. They are a drag on growth and well-being.

Newsweek, August 19, 1963