Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

TODAY IN AMERICA
By Raymond Moley

The Perils of Purging

WHILE Neo-New Dealers, theorists and a sprinkling of self-serving
state leaders are boldly announcing that the purge is on, veteran Democratic
politicians, except for Senator Guffey, are not even daring to whisper to themselves about it. The distinction is important. The President and Mr. Farley are old hands at the game. They know that party purging is tops on the list of hazardous political occupations.

If the brave young phlebotomists could spare the time to catch up on their homework, they might save themselves and their patient a good deal of pain. The most superficial research into the subject would inform them that there has never yet been a successful party bloodletting in this country. And reading along, they’d come upon mention of a President named Taft, who once thought he’d like to take a fling at the purge business, too.

In 1909 Mr. Taft called a special session of Congress and informed it that there was a mandate to revise the tariff. Party leaders, with his help, wrote a bill which revised the tariff upward. Hell broke loose. The Republican elephant, still rakishly adorned with the flowers of recent victory, began to act as if eczema and a swarm of gargantuan wasps had attacked it at once.

In the final vote on the Payne-Aldrich Tariff, seven Republican Senators and nineteen Republican Congressmen voted “No.” They were called ingrates. They were threatened with all the horrors of party discipline. The high command began to discriminate ruthlessly against them.

NO one has ever described the inside of a party dog house with a grimmer eye for detail than the elder La Follette. In his “Autobiography,” La Follette tells how post-office appointments were delayed during the struggle over the Payne-Aldrich Bill, and how, a little later, insurgents were threatened with the loss of appointments connected with the taking of the next census. When the reprisals grew brazen La Follette called on the President. He told the President he had heard from Wisconsin Congressmen that patronage was going to be given to those who had voted with the machine and withheld from those who hadn’t. He then insisted, as chairman of the

Committee on the Census, that the President repeat his previous assurances that the Census Board would not be made a political machine. Taft, irritated by the implied charge, looked out of the window and said: “It’s a lie.” La Follette answered: “May I say to them, Mr. President, that they can file their recommendations with the expectation that they will be treated as other Republican Congressmen are treated?” To which Taft replied: “I can’t take this matter up until the Tariff Bill is passed.”

When the appointments were finally made, the recommendations of the insurgents were turned down.

BUT the story ends on another note. Let those who sing of a new party which will continuously purge its ranks of nonconformists observe what subsequently happened to the seven Senators and the nineteen Congressmen who were marked for slaughter by the Republican organization in 1909.

Of the Senators, one, Beveridge, was replaced by a Democrat in the party split in 1912; another, Bristow, stayed in the Senate until 1915 and was replaced by the Republican regular, Charles Curtis; a third, Dolliver, died. The remaining four, Clapp, Nelson, La Follette and Cummins, were returned to the Senate when their terms expired.

Of the nineteen nonconformists in the House, no less than seventeen successfully defied the high command. Two were elevated to the Senate. Fifteen, including such notables as Murdock, Lenroot and Lindbergh Sr. were returned to office.

In short, 21 out of 26 who were condemned survived to thumb their noses at the executioner.

Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Farley know their business. There has been no indication that they intend to wield the old steel broom, despite the talk of the politically naive among their followers. But there have been hints from the more sophisticated of a newfangled machine for party house cleaning, of a kind of automatic political vacuum cleaner, which saves wear and tear on the user. Why should there be reprisals, it is asked, when the public itself will purge from the party those nonconformists who dared to oppose the Court-packing plan?

That is the significance of reports, now current in the newspapers, that Senators who actively opposed the Court Bill are getting “cold receptions” in their home districts. I have made some effort to verify these statements by checking with reliable and disinterested observers on the spot, and this is what I find:

Adams: his stand on Court plan had little or no effect on the attitude toward him; Colorado Democrats seem indifferent on Court; main sources of opposition are the Farm Bureau Federation and organized labor, but opposition has not shaped up into a movement against his renomination.

Clark: from the present outlook, he will have no opposition next year in Democratic primaries; if anyone is put in the race, it is a three-to-one shot Clark will beat him.

George: may have opposition in the primary, but likely to win renomination against any or all candidates unless the improbable happens and he has to run against the present Governor, E. D. Rivers.

Lonergan: renomination assured; he has, if anything, won friends in Connecticut by showing independence.

McCarran: still markedly popular in Nevada—especially with labor; no perceptible movement to discipline him for Court stand.

Smith: for four years has had considerable opposition from New Dealers in South Carolina because of his general anti-Administration stand; since Court fight and his denunciation of C.I.O., there has been a noticeable increase in his popularity.

Tydings: in danger, not because he opposed the Court Bill, but because he has opposed the New Deal generally.

Van Nuys: was scheduled for retirement by dominant wing of the Democratic party in Indiana before the President sprang his Court plan; his Court stand merely provides the excuse; has made many friends, but is weak because he lacks an organization of his own.

MY informants are unanimous in reporting that Roosevelt is still exceedingly popular in each of these states. But they agree, too, that Court packing is his weakest issue. There will be no general destruction, no people’s purge, of those who opposed him on the Court scheme. In fact, there is every indication that independence on the Court issue has tended to strengthen rather than weaken the position of most Democratic Senators. The tradition of Senatorial independence is strong in this country, and few men who have already been successful at the polls have ever been defeated by the high command’s withholding of census takers’ jobs, Federal appropriations, social favors and public compliments.

Attempted purges are not signs of strength; they are signs of weakness.

NEWS-WEEK September 13, 1937