Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

Official Integrity

by Raymond Moley

The very special standard of integrity by which official conduct should be judged has always had a fascination for every serious student of politics. I should like to write a book about it sometime; not a series of tales about rogues and roguery, but an examination of the valid reasons why there should be a quite different and higher standard of integrity in public office than that which prevails in private transactions. My interest in this was quickened when in 1930 and 1931 I served as a staff member when Judge Samuel Seabury was exposing political and official misconduct in New York. A year later I was associated with Governor Roosevelt when he was seeking the Presidential nomination. His first important public expression in that campaign came when Seabury sent Sheriff Thomas A. Farley to Albany under charges. Roosevelt removed Farley from office under a new and very special interpretation of ethical principles. He said that when it appears that a public official enjoys a scale of living, or has bank deposits far exceeding the public salary he is known to receive, "he owes a positive public duty to the community to give a reasonable or credible explanation of the sources" thereof.

FDR's DEFINITION

Roosevelt then asked me to elaborate and explain this principle in his order removing Farley. This is what appeared in that document: "Passive acquiescence by unthinking people in the actions of those who shrewdly turn to personal advantage the opportunities offered by public office is out of step with modern ideals of government and with political morality . . . "The stewardship of public officers is a serious and sacred trust. They are so close to the means for private gain that in a sense not at all true of private citizens their personal possessions are invested with a public importance in the event that their stewardship is questioned. One of their deep obligations is to recognize this, not reluctantly or with resistance, but freely. It is in the true spirit of a public trust to give, when personally called upon, public proof of the nature, source, and extent of their financial affairs. "It is true that this is not always pleasant. Public service makes many exacting demands. It does not offer large material compensation; often it takes more than it gives. But the truly worthy steward of the public is not affected by this. His ultimate satisfaction always must be a personal sense of a service well done, and done in a spirit of unselfishness. Standards of public service must be measured in this way. The state must expect compliance with these standards because if popular government is to continue to exist it must ... hold its stewards to a stern and uncompromising rectitude. It must be a just but a jealous master. "Public office means serving the public and nobody else."

READING FOR LBJ

This definition of the trust of public office received widespread approval at the time and set a new standard of public service. It is a pity that it has now been forgotten in Washington. Lyndon B. Johnson as Majority Leader was, as he now admits, Bobby Baker's employer. His power to inquire into Baker's affairs and to remove him paralleled that of the governor of New York in 1932 to remove Farley. But as President he has attributed the uproar about the Baker affair to Republican criticism which, he says, he has enjoyed for 32 years. It is unfortunate that while he can remember Republican criticism in 1932 he fails to remember Roosevelt's position in that year in the Farley case. In the many laudatory stories about the new President it has been noted that there are two pictures of Roosevelt in the room where he works. He might glance at these and then send to the new White House library for Volume I of "The Public Papers and Addresses of Franklin D. Roosevelt." The Farley order appears on pages 580-584.

Newsweek, February 10, 1964