PERSPECTIVE

FARCE AT CLEVELAND

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It's a great pity that the Governors
Conference at Cleveland turned
away from the cause of improving
state government and degenerated
into a squalid, rancorous and, as it
proved, useless brawl among Republicans. The Democratic governors
who were there outnumbered their
Republican colleagues by more than
two to one because of the decline of
the Republican Party during the
Eisenhower years. They could not be
blamed for enjoying the show.

The Republican ex-President and
the ex-Vice President and titular
leader of the GOP were far from
helpful in their professed efforts to
unify the party. The former was
packing a shillelagh in Gettysburg
along with his golf clubs, but something or somebody changed his mind
and he came to Cleveland bearing
tidings of peace. The latter left New
York with the expressed intention of
seeking party unity, but something
happened to him in Michigan which
changed him into a somber angel of
discord. The emergence of this new,
new Nixon astounded and mystified
his friends. He has substantially diminished his role as a party leader.

I would not poke about among
these dead embers except to point to
the decline in influence and usefulness of these Governors Conferences
during the postwar years. They were
established for a very useful purpose,
devoid of partisanship since all governors face the same knotty problems
in their states.

PRACTICAL NEEDS

In the years immediately following
World War I, strong governors like
Alfred E. Smith of New York and
Frank O. Lowden of Illinois recognized that the states were facing a
grave crisis. State activities had increased enormously and, with them,
state responsibility. It was necessary
to streamline state administration so
that new services might be provided.
This meant more efficiency and economy. Lowden carried through the
first comprehensive reorganization of
state government. Smith, with the
technical aid of Bob (World's Fair)
Moses, did the same in New York. I
remember this Ph.D. thesis, written in
1918, concerned itself with this problem. But the challenge of a new civilization kept up pressure on the states.
The coming of the automobile demanded new highways. These highways required more police. Dozens
of new examining and licensing
boards were created. New methods
of caring for the unfortunate and
wayward emerged. This meant many
new and expensive institutions. Problems of interstate and Federal-state
relations developed. In the great
spaces of the West there were water
problems. State educational institutions and facilities expanded enormously. Growing urban communities,
running short of revenues, looked to
the states for help. All this laid a
heavy hand upon the states' sources
of revenue. And at the same time,
the great suction pump of the Federal income tax was drying up those
sources almost as fast as the states
could find them.

FUTILE HOMILIES

It is futile for Republicans to utter
fine homilies about the danger of
Federal centralized government and
the necessity for preserving state and
local authority unless they show how
state responsibilities can be carried.
Liberal Democrats have long since
glorified Federal assumption of these
responsibilities through direct control
or grants-in-aid. But the Republicans
must make good on their pretensions.
That is where the Governors Conferences have a real function to perform. In past years they offered a
fine opportunity to discuss jointly
specific problems such as are mentioned above. Also there developed
the Council of State Governments,
which is a continuing research and
publishing agency. There are regional governors' meetings to consider special problems.

But in the past fifteen years politics, especially Republican politics,
has reared its head at these annual
meetings. In 1952 Governor Dewey
used the Governors Conference to
promote the Eisenhower candidacy.
In 1959 Governor Rockefeller used
the conference to further his ambitions. But this affair in Cleveland was
the lowest point yet in the decline of
a fine institution. The more's the pity
that the Republicans should have
been responsible for this perversion.

□ Newsweek, June 29, 1964