Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Reckoning

by Raymond Moley

WE ARE now told that the Administration plans this year to spend
$700 million more on "civilian" items
than last year, or $1.4 billion more
than the President's January estimate.
The Administration attributes a rise in
the deficit estimate to tax cuts. That
is only half the story. It is due also to
increases in nondefense spending.
Republican campaign orators are
saying in classic phrase that
"we have scotched the
snake" of spending; there
are those sincere believers
in economy who can con-
tinue the quotation—"but
not killed it."

Almost any Congress and
Administration could have
improved upon the financial
picture when the man from
Independence cleared out
of a seat of government which was
crawling with waste, incompetence,
and shoddy management. The record
after two years is nothing to
brag about.

As was the case last year, Congress
this year did better than the Administration in cutting appropriations, and
the House did better than the Senate.
The total of the final appropriations
this year was $44,686,000,000 or
$7,059,000,000 below the final appropriations for the same purposes last
year and $2,645,000,000 below the
President's requests. The House bills
approved $44,118,000,000; those of
the Senate, $45,534,000,000. The result was a compromise in which the
House got a bit the better of
the Senate.

The major part of this saving over
last year and over the President's requests, was in the Defense Department. The next big saving was for
mutual security. Congress this year,
as last year, increased the requests of
the President for agriculture. It also
raised his figure for social security. In
all other cases Congress reduced the
President's estimates.

But the fiscal story never ends with
the reckoning of appropriations. The
spending story only begins there.
Authorizations are not apparent in
spending figures, and they satisfy the
many special interests that clamor for
this or that. The total of new spending
authority provided in legislation by
this session was $5,110,000,000, which
was approximately $600 million above
the budget requests. Not included in
this figure is the tremendous omnibus
rivers and harbors authorization of
nearly a billion dollars. This bill is a
sort of catch-all passed about once in
three or four years. In it there is
something for almost everybody,
every community, and every state.
Back in the early days of the twentieth century there was
much press criticism of the
pork in the rivers and harbors bills. But those were
the days when the entire
budget was not more than
the rivers and harbors bill is
now. And it passes with
scarcely a comment.

An examination of the
votes this year shows this
Congress to have been afflicted with a virulent attack of
logrolling fever. Perhaps the Administration, by keeping such a close rein
on jobs for Republican senators and
congressmen, has greatly encouraged
this much more expensive form of
political patronage. For the nourishment of political life has to come
from somewhere.

Meanwhile, Congress did nothing
of importance in reforming its own
and the Administration's fiscal methods. The Coudert bill, which would
have compelled a balanced budget
except in times of emergency, was
smothered in the House Rules Committee. The McClellan-Colmer joint
budget committee bills got nowhere.
The Byrd single-package appropriation proposal passed the Senate but
failed in the House to be referred to
a committee. It is obvious that the
spending habits of a number of generations are not easy to change.

BUT the sole blame for these conditions should not be laid upon
members of Congress. Behind those
members are selfish local interests
which insist upon their share of the
Federal cake. Businessmen who prate
of economy and high taxes in general
terms have their share in blocking the
road to economy by their local demands. Education in economy must
begin at the grass roots. For the misguided people who ask for local
projects are also the people who must
shoulder the burden of taxation.

Newsweek, September 27, 1954