Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

From the Governor of Arizona

by Raymond Moley

SANTA BARBARA—Since the publica-
tion in this space, two months ago,
of two articles on the proposed Central
Arizona Project of the U.S. Govern-
ment, I have received a number of
letters from Arizona disagreeing with
my views, including a very friendly
and reasonable one from the gover-
nor, Howard Pyle. The great interest
in this subject to Arizona and Califor-
nia as well as to the tax-
payers of the nation, and
also the interests of free dis-
cussion suggest that I pre-
sent, within the limits of my
space, the substance of the
governor's letter:
“Not only are our histori-
cally cultivated acreages
threatened by drought and
by diminishing ground water
supplies, but within the past
few days it has become evident that
restrictions and perhaps rationing will
be necessary for domestic users in
several of the state’s larger communi-
ties… As you no doubt know, Ari-
zona has people just as California has,
and we are now at the point where
some of our people have already
turned the faucet and found no water.

CALIFORNIA propagandists have
charged… that the Central Ari-
zona Project will cost the nation’s tax-
payers more than $2,000,000,000. This
figure was arrived at by asking the
Secretary of the Interior a loaded
question… We Arizonans find it pe-
culiar indeed that California should
claim that an Arizona project is a tax
liability when it is patterned along the
same lines as the great California proj-
ects which everyone in the West, with
any knowledge of reclamation benefits,
freely admits are eminently sound…
[The governor here cites figures by
True D. Morse of St. Louis.]… Even
on the basis of the outlandish Califor-
nia propaganda, the Central Arizona
Project would show a net profit of at
least $3,500,000,000 to the Federal
Treasury in the first 75 years of the
project’s life.

“Judge Clifford H. Stone of Denver,
Colo., obtained from Federal records
the total expenditure on water con-
servation and control projects from
1924 through June 30, 1948, and ana-
lyzed these expenditures on the basis
of the proportion reimbursable to the
Treasury… Judge Stone found that
Arizona had received $168,255,285,
of which it had pledged itself to repay
to the Federal Treasury $165,931,174.
The nonrepayable contribution was
only $2,324,111… California received
$520,176,489, of which $258,181,795
was repayable and $261,994,694 was
the nonrepayable gift of the Federal
Treasury. This figure has been greatly
enlarged by the Central
Valley of California devel-
opments since 1948.

“California has used al-
most equally effectively the
propaganda slogan ‘Let the
Supreme Court decide.’ This
slogan totally ignores the
fact that California has been
the dog in the manger pre-
venting Supreme Court ac-
tion and that Arizona has not
only made three endeavors to obtain
adjudication of Colorado River lower
basin rights, but would go back into
the Supreme Court now if a justiciable
issue could be established… Califor-
nia has stood not only against Arizona’s
use of the Colorado River water, but
now has asserted herself through si-
lence concerning the vast upper basin
development program… If the or-
derly development of the Colorado
River can be defeated, California, and
California alone, will profit because
there will be only one place for the
waters of the Colorado River to go
and that will be to California’s door.

I ENTERED the governor’s office in
January as the first Republican to
occupy it since 1930. I feel as a Re-
publican and an American that mo-
rality and justice must be reinstated
in American public affairs, or our na-
tion will risk the fate of those dead
and well-nigh forgotten societies
which ignored fundamental truths. I
have been appalled by the lengths to
which certain California interests, far
better financed than underdog Ari-
zona ever can be, have used their
immoral and iniquitous influence to
beleaguer our small state and to be-
tray the solemn word of the State of
California itself when California ac-
cepted its responsibilities under the
law of the river.”

Next week I shall have some further
comment in this space on this most
serious and important controversy.

Newsweek, September 3, 1951