Before The Hurricane
by Raymond Moley

BEFORE the hurricane in Congress begins and Democratic Presidential hopefuls move into the storm, let us look at a subject which will live long after our contemporary statesmen are forgotten. The two conflicting attitudes toward what is being taught and what should be taught in our schools depend on a concept of man’s nature, his capacity, and his reason for existence.

That point is made in the introduction to an important new book, “The Case for Basic Education.”* The individual’s concept of man is the root of the argument between traditional and “progressive” teaching.

The concept behind “progressive” education is adaptation. The individual is assumed to be a piece of soft putty to be fitted into the pattern of life. Competitive marking becomes irrelevant. Counselors determine the niche in which the putty will be least contorted and the environment least disturbed. The subject is moved from the undisciplined home, through the “progressive” school, to a life with a minimum of competition.

TRADITIONAL DISCIPLINES

“Progressive” subjects deal with terminal information. When the pupil is taught square dancing in school time, some other, traditional subject must be omitted. The soft courses crowd out the hard ones.

While square dancing may in certain situations make for social “adjustment,” it cannot be a tool for a rational understanding of the innumerable problems to be faced or help the individual satisfy with discrimination his inherent desire to know. Traditional education has designed certain disciplines which lay a foundation for the house of intellect and character. These are languages, mathematics, science, and history.

As an offshoot of history, there appeared toward the end of the nineteenth century “civil government” or “civics.” I can with some personal knowledge describe the deterioration of this item in the curriculum. In the tenth grade I was taught the Constitution, article by article, section by section, and the amendments; and

government—county, city, state, and nation. It was dry and dull. But afterward I was never to feel lost as a citizen. I knew how freedom came, and how it was supposed to be kept.

In the 1910s, educators, already getting “progressive,” jazzed up plain “civics” under such names as “community civics” or, later, just “social science.” This was a hodgepodge of public health, sanitation, and “social problems,” with class visits by really “progressive” schools to the city hall, hospitals, prisons, and lunatic asylums. A good time was had by all except the lunatics and the politicians.

‘LOST HE WILL REMAIN’

The decay in high-school teaching was apparent when I began teaching students in Columbia University in 1923. Preliminary tests of my students revealed that, while their brains were gorged with big, undigested lumps of misinformation about underprivileged people, bad politicians, and the rapacious capitalists, they knew precious little about American history, the Constitution, and the Anglo-American conflicts out of which were derived the principles we live by. And so I had to begin by teaching what the high school had omitted.

Since government, politics, and citizenship were elective, these had to compete with courses in sociology luridly embellished with Freudianism, with psychology, and with oversimplified Keynesian economics. I met the competition for registration by savoring politics and government with the personalities of statesmen who stood for constitutional principles. I assured myself that my students were to have a compass of principle in the jungle of superficial, contemporary events. They were not to be lost.

In Clifton Fadiman’s fine introduction to the book mentioned above, he writes: “The average high-school graduate does not know who he is, where he is, or how he got there . . . In accordance with his luck and his temperament he may become happily lost or unhappily lost. But lost he will become. Lost he will remain. Lost he will die. And if we allow those lost ones to multiply indefinitely, they will see to it that our country will be lost also.”

*J.D. Koerner. 256 pages. Little, Brown. $4.

Newsweek, January 4, 1960