Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible:


**Political Strategy in 1944**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Political, unlike military campaigns have never been directed with a nice sense of order. Pictures of political field marshals never show them poring over maps and figures. There are maps and figures around national headquarters, of course, but they are left to professorial people whom the big shots never regard as being quite right in the head.

One reason for the seeming disorder in politics is that political generals are not, by nature and training, as orderly as military men. Another is that politicians are dealing with imponderables. A third is that military science is vastly older than popular government. But there is intelligent direction in politics, as in military campaigns. And, as in military science, there is a difference between political strategy and political tactics. Real political leaders observe general principles of action, although they use rule-of-thumb methods. National chairmen, like Farley, Flynn or Will Hays, knew what they were doing, although they kept their strategy to themselves. It is also clear that the new chairmen, Hannegan and Brownell, have a general idea of strategy this year. Their tactics will be easy to follow, for tactics are surface stuff. But strategy is what they have in their heads.

The citizen who follows the campaign will do well to keep in mind this distinction between strategy and tactics. The military distinction has been described by von Clausewitz. He said that tactics consists of using armed forces to win battles, while strategy is the use of battles to win a war.

On the Democratic side, the strategy of this campaign will be to concentrate on piling up sufficiently large majorities in northern, eastern and Pacific Coast cities to carry the states in which these cities are located, thereby carrying enough states to win the election. The strategy of Republicans will be to extend their preponderance in rural regions, in small cities and towns, while they keep the Democratic vote as low as they can in the big cities.

This concentration of Democratic interest in the cities goes back as far as 1935, when the New Deal turned its concern primarily to the big groups of voters in the cities. In 1936 and 1940, the strategy was to carry the cities by majorities large enough to overwhelm the states. Having followed this line so long, there is no choice this year.

This was shown in the tactics—not the strategy—of the Democratic convention. Had Mr. Roosevelt been a wholly free agent, he probably would have preferred Byrnes as a running mate. Hillman and Flynn vetoed that, while the bosses vetoed Wallace. Truman emerged as the choice of the cities.

The make-up of Congress confirms the trend. The relative party strength in the House, except for the members from the city districts, is about what it was twenty years ago, after the 1924 election. But whereas the city districts then were evenly divided between the parties, they now show a three-to-one Democratic advantage. The Democrats hold their House majority only because of the big-city members.

Since it is apparent that the Democrats must depend upon the northern cities to win, Governor Dewey has concentrated his strength on the vast population in rural areas, in smaller cities and towns. The enlisting of the Republican governors was in line with this strategy. Of these 26 Republican governors, only three, Warren, Edge, and Wills, were born in large cities. Only eight lived in large cities when they were elected governor. And two of these, Bricker and Saltonstall, are certainly not city-minded.

The South, in this campaign, is an unhappy factor in a party which, in its concentration of power and economic interest, is quite foreign to it. Except for the racial issue that holds it prisoner, it would find common ground with the new non-urban Republican party. The alliance that keeps the Democratic party together is synthetic and probably impermanent. That is why, even though the Democrats may win this time, they may not win again for many years. And it is why, regardless of the result of the Presidential election, Congress will be anti-New Deal.

The general strategy of the campaign is thus very clear. Tactics will be shaped in line with this strategy.