Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

THE WITHERED ARM—I

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

We've got the ships, we've got the men, we've got the money too." This jingle in the music halls touched off mad cheering and stomping from belligerent Britons in 1878. And the word "Jingo" has condemned preparedness ever since.

We Americans have, as President Johnson told us, a war on our hands. What have we got?

Plenty of money. The stuff can be wheeled out of the banks in truck-loads. We have a sizable Army and Marine force and large reserves of men. We have an incomparable Air Force. We have an overabundance of missile strength and a most sophisticated weapon "mix." Our Navy has nuclear energy, and its units are on station around the globe.

But when the British spoke of ships, they meant more than the Royal Navy. There were also the ships to supply their armies. Here we are deficient. This is our withered "fourth arm of defense."

The First Cavalry Division has been ordered to Vietnam. It must go by sea. Its thousands of trucks, its heavy guns, its shoes and socks and pots and pans, 400 helicopters and 15,000 men—all will be shipped by the hard-working Military Sea Transportation Service. But MSTS has only a small fleet, mainly of a specialized nature, and must rely for support on a civilian merchant marine. MSTS has an emergency role to play. After that, it must maintain the flow of supplies by sea, not only to Vietnam but to our military services all over the world. Those supplies must come in the holds and on the decks of those plodding beasts of burden, the cargo ships.

DECADES OF NEGLECT

Since World War II this country has built only a harborful of general-cargo ships. No other industrialized nation can claim so little. And so the First Cavalry Division will go to Vietnam in a traveling exhibit of the desiccated result of decades of Cabinet-level ignorance and neglect.

There is no substitute for ocean transport. During the Dominican crisis the Military Air Transport Service carried out the biggest airlift in history. But this taxed it to the utmost. Even in the spectacular Big Lift of troops to Europe in 1963, the men went by air with light equipment; the heavier stuff, such as 12,000 vehicles, went ahead by sea.

Talk about "hawks" and "doves" is simply silly unless we consider shipping requirements. We cannot sustain power unless we have the means of supply. And we cannot negotiate away our nuclear strength unless we have the transport for non-nuclear wars.

THE VANISHING FLEET

In large part today's weakness is due to varying policies which our government has followed since World War II. There was at first the nuclear hypnosis. The next war, we were told, would be over in days, even hours. Surely, no slow transport would be needed, for cities and nations would be blotted out overnight. Besides, we still had a vast merchant fleet built with great wartime efficiency and at incredible cost. Some of those ships were sold to domestic companies and some abroad. The rest were stashed away in quiet waters. All too soon, they were needed again in the Korean conflict, and 825 came out of the government reserve. In the Suez crisis, more than 200, older and wearier, came out of the mothballs to serve again.

The subsidized replacement program was neglected by defense planners bemused by the atom. Congresses festooned the industry with restrictions along with special privileges, dimly hopeful that obsolescence is another name for productivity. The unsubsidized dry-cargo services could not replace their ships.

When the concept of limited wars dawned on our planners, they made no move to halt the erosion of the "fourth arm of defense." So once more old Victory ships are moving from their anchorages.

By now, the reserve fleet, like the active merchant marine, is smaller. Hundreds of its units have been marked for scrap. Others are still seaworthy. But they are slow and they lack gear for rapid handling of cargo. MSTS has these ancient war horses to count on, along with a few modern ships and the commercial leftovers of World War II. American know-how is shackled by have-not.

Newsweek, August 23, 1965