Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure:

**Political Speculations**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Since politics, of all human concerns, is most dependent upon time and
chance, speculation looking to 1944 is
speculation based upon speculation. But
it is the business of this writer to report
what people are saying, which consists
chiefly of asking questions these days,
and to summarize the multitudinous
answers they are getting—answers of
politicians, in office and out, as well
as those of other mariners who sail
the choppy seas of politics. The questions
today differ somewhat from those
heard in 1939, our nearest parallel.
Then, one question led all the others:
“Will he run?” This year the jackpot
question is: “Will he be elected?” The
assumption is general that the President
will run.

The second question concerns Mr.
Willkie. Will he be nominated?
Those who favor Willkie’s nomination
speak of his great popularity, his skillful
use of the instruments of publicity,
notably the radio, friendly magazines,
and newspapers. Those factors, they
say, will overwhelm the political organization
and result in another landslide
for him at the convention. Those who
oppose him argue that he was once
defeated, that he has offended many
people, has lost much business support
and has gained little labor or farm
support.

Turning from the talk of the pro-
and anti-Willkie people, let us appraise
his problem on the basis of known facts
and the calendar. In only thirteen states
are delegates for the Republican convention
selected by direct primaries. In
four others, the choice is “optional,” but
three of these are Southern states. The
other “optional” state is Michigan,
where Vandenberg prefers MacArthur.
Roughly, this means that the delegates
from 35 states will be party men, selected
by party men and bound by the traditional
rules of party practice. If Willkie
succeeds next year in establishing a
competent, well-financed national political
organization, he can have a share of
those delegates. But no such organization
now exists.

The timing of the direct primaries
does not favor Willkie. Even with his
great popularity, the going would be
hard. He cannot sweep through the
direct-primary states as T. R. did in
1912 because he lacks what T. R. had—
powerful organization support everywhere.
The direct primaries begin on March
14 in New Hampshire. Whether Willkie
could carry that state is by no means
clear. Senator Bridges took it before
and can get it again. Then come Wisconsin
and New York. Wisconsin would
be hard for Willkie. The La Follette
organization, as well as most of
the regular Republicans, would oppose
him. It was an isolationist state when,
in 1941, Willkie was denouncing isolationism.
In New York, although Willkie
might carry a very few districts, Dewey
and his well-knit organization will oppose
him fiercely. Nebraska and Illinois
are next. Governor Griswold has been
leaning slightly toward Willkie, and
Willkie might carry the state. But he
hasn’t a chance in Illinois.

In Massachusetts, reports indicate
that Governor Saltonstall, who is said
to be not unfriendly to Willkie, wants
the delegates, but he would be unlikely
to surrender them at the outset. While
Pennsylvania might give Willkie a few
delegates, Governor Martin and the
powerful Republican organization now
intend either to support Bricker or to
give the delegates to Martin. The California
delegation will be for Warren.
Willkie may get South Dakota. Ohio,
the next primary, will be solidly for
Bricker. Of New Jersey and West Virginia,
nothing is clear now. Oregon,
where the last of the primaries comes,
on May 19, would probably go for
Willkie.

Thus, at this writing Willkie stands
to gather only about 125 delegates from
a two-month grueling campaign in thirteen
states. The other strength he needs
must come through organizations. So his
chance for the nomination must be
calculated on his ability to persuade,
intimidate or overwhelm organizations
throughout the country which, at this
time, are certainly not in favor of renominating
him. What is more, if he
gains strength in the next year, other
candidates will most certainly unite
against him. That is the way of politics
and of human life.

This is based upon conditions as they
exist now. If, by next spring, it looks
as if a Republican is sure to win, the
Republican convention will unquestionably
turn to the safest and most regular
Republican in sight, which will assuredly
not be Willkie. In any event, there
can be no last-minute miracle this time.
If he wins, Willkie must win the hard
way.