Here's a text extraction of the provided magazine article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

THE BRACERO BLUNDER

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—The scarcity of farm workers is a hotter subject in California this summer than the weather in the Imperial Valley. This crisis in agriculture, California’s largest industry, was caused by the termination of the bracero program on Jan. 1. The program was adopted in 1951 as a means of regulating the movement of Mexican farm workers, braceros, into the United States in the summer and fall. Under the plan, administered by the U.S. Department of Labor and validated by the governments of the United States and Mexico, large numbers of such workers were admitted for a period of six to twelve weeks, were paid wages equal to those of Americans and were required to return after the harvest to their homes below the border. Most of the same workers returned year after year to the same employers. It was mutually profitable.

The pressure for the termination of the bracero program came from the AFL-CIO, largely because of its desire to unionize farm workers. Liberals in Congress supported the termination of the program because of their deluded belief that it would reduce unemployment in the large industrial centers. Union labor has not been able to supply workers necessary to the harvest. And no unemployed worker now enjoying government benefits is willing to migrate to another state for a temporary job.

HEADACHE FOR HOUSEWIVES

The impact upon California agriculture has been most severe. Many millions have been lost because of unharvested, rotting produce. And the flow of money into the state from exports to the East and abroad has been drastically curtailed.

As a result of this debacle, housewives elsewhere in the nation have been confronted with rising prices for the many products imported from California and other states in the Southwest. In New York one purchaser of a head of lettuce after hearing the price asked that it be “gift wrapped.” This rise in prices will continue as the various crops ripen on into September and October. And after that, the prices of canned goods will rise during the winter.

As the crops ripened this spring, the Department of Labor attempted to supply the need for workers by recruiting high-school students in the states west of the Mississippi into what are called A-teams. Indians were bestirred from their abodes to the east and north and transported to the fields. But the high-school boys—athletes back home—found the work too hard and the sun too hot, and the teams melted away. College students who a few months ago were “standing up for their rights” found stooping over in the fields to earn a few dollars quite another matter. Of 300 Indians recruited in the Dakotas who were flown in at a cost of $6,400 to Salinas growers, all but twenty vanished within a few days.

THE HUMAN SIDE

The cream of the comedy is a notice that the war-on-poverty program is spending $106,000 in Oxnard to educate and train twelve community advisers and leaders to train seasonal workers. According to the person doing the organizing, there isn’t any teaching material ready, but that will be developed in time. It will take more uplifters to develop techniques. If workers were available, growers could easily enough tell them what to do.

A lasting loss to California is the trend of large growers to lease lands in Mexico and develop them along with Mexicans under more tolerable conditions in a country which has no Secretary Wirtz to “help” with their problems. California can ill afford this strain on its economy at this time because in several communities I have visited there are signs of declining business.

There is a human element in the termination of the bracero program. While the bleeding hearts in the Washington regime are spending billions to help the poor in Egypt, India and elsewhere abroad, and while there is much talk about the Alliance for Progress, the Federal government has visited a cruel hardship on the people of our nearest neighbor to the south. The termination of the bracero program has hacked away the livelihood of tens of thousands of Mexican workers, for this visit to the north had come to be their way of life. Their feelings can well be imagined.

Newsweek, July 19, 1965