Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

AN OLD WIVES' TALE

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

n an incredibly unorganized, gossipy
and under-researched book on the
1920s and 1930s, the author, Jonathan
Daniels, links the names of Franklin
D. Roosevelt and a lady in "one of
the great love stories of American
history." Zealously promoted, the
brief reference in the Daniels book
has hit many headlines recently.
Daniels has been a North Carolina
editor for many years. He was em-
ployed in the White House in 1943-
1945. According to a friend of
Daniels', this "romance" has been a
Daniels obsession for a long time. He
wrote about it in another book in
1954, but apparently that book was
not so well promoted. Also, the sharp
tongue of a woman enemy of FDR's in
Washington has wagged incessantly.
The few facts out of which this story
has grown are that Lucy Mercer was
Mrs. Roosevelt's secretary when FDR
was Wilson's Assistant Secretary of the
Navy. There are letters vaguely sug-
gesting a marital strain in 1917. Any
connection between these tensions
and Miss Mercer is not spelled out
but left to inference. In 1920 Miss
Mercer married Winthrop Ruther-
furd, a man who had ridden "after
the hounds" with TR before she was
born. While in the Navy Department,
Roosevelt had taken a group on a
yacht on a weekend, and Miss
Mercer was one of those invited.

FLIMSY FACTS

At this point Daniels wanders off
into comments about Huey Long and
Sinclair Lewis (no connection).
Someone has said that FDR sent
Mrs. Rutherfurd tickets to the inau-
guration in 1933. If so, she was one
of hundreds.
Then we jump twelve years to the
day he died at Warm Springs, April
12, 1945. Mrs. Rutherfurd was there
on that day. She had used her ac-
quaintance with Roosevelt to secure
a sitting for a portrait by Mrs.
Shoumatoff, who was sketching her
subject when he complained of a
headache. Mrs. Rutherfurd and the
artist left and were in South Carolina
when they heard of FDR's death.
Mrs. Rutherfurd was not, as has been
inferred, alone with FDR when he
died. The "Little White House" was
swarming with people, including at
least three women-one a secretary,
the others old family friends-and
Bill Hassett, assistant press secretary.
That's all there is to the story-ex-
cept the febrile and unwarranted
inferences.
The major biographer of FDR,
Prof. Frank Freidel, in the first of
three volumes already published,
mentions the Wilson days' incidents
only in a footnote without naming
Miss Mercer and labels the subse-
quent stories "preposterous." In writ-
ing this piece I have talked with
Freidel twice, and the foregoing is all
there is to the story.

INNOCENT PASTIMES

I add my own testimony. For the
five years 1932-1936 I was on inti-
mate and cordial terms with FDR. In
the first two of those years I was with
him almost constantly. I was then and
have been since quite familiar with
frivolous and malicious Washington
gossip. But I never heard of Mrs.
Rutherfurd until two weeks ago.
One must realize the friendly, gre-
garious nature of Franklin Roosevelt.
He had a very limited family life ex-
cept at such rituals as Christmas.
Roosevelt needed restoration from
squabblings of the Ickeses, from the
importunities of politics and the mak-
ing of great decisions. His relaxation
was found with the people who
worked with him. This included dur-
ing his Presidency several of the
women in the secretarial staff as well
as old friends. It was probably that
way in the Wilson years. Occasionally
there were weekends on the Potomac
and Chesapeake Bay. All these peo-
ple went along, and I was included on
a number of occasions. There was
light chatter and games and fun. To
attach romantic inferences to such
pastimes is utterly ridiculous. Roose-
velt was just not that kind of man.
As the children grew up they had
their own occupations and preoccu-
pations. And Eleanor had a multitude
of most serious-to her-concerns
which occupied her great energies.
In the years after 1936 no one was
more critical of Roosevelt's public poli-
cies than I was. But I have always
remembered him as a warm, gen-
erous friend. Except in politics, he
was never complex or secretive. He
was a man who loved his friends and
his friends loved him.

Newsweek, August 29, 1966