PERSPECTIVE

GOLDWATER'S STAFF—II

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

noted in last week's article that
candidate Goldwater's working
staff is divided into two distinct
groups. One of these I have called
the "political" group, which before
the convention was concerned with
maintaining state-by-state contacts
and gathering pledged delegates and
which from now on is concerned
with gathering votes. The other,
called the "policy" group, gathers
material on the issues, and prepares
it for the candidate.

The general director of the latter
group is Edward A. McCabe, who
with one or two associates mobilizes
the necessary material from a large
pool of available talent and processes
it for the use of the candidate as he
faces the nation's audiences. (Mc-
Cabe has recently been attached to
the National Committee.)

The necessity for such a group
arose about 40 years ago when radio
and other new media of communica-
tion began to provide nationwide au-
diences for a Presidential candidate.
In earlier days a candidate could
repeat much the same speech, with
some variations, to many local au-
diences. But when national audiences
became available and, as in this year,
the issues became more numerous
and complicated, the necessity for
teamwork appeared. And a vast
amount of material and facts were
necessary which had to be sifted and
worked over for the candidate's
speeches and public statements.

THE SPECIALISTS

This is not what is crudely called
"ghostwriting" or even "speechwrit-
ing" by anonymous helpers. In col-
laboration with the candidate it is
organized effort by 100 or more spe-
cialists in every field in which issues
are drawn with the opposition.

These specialists are not all
gathered together in one place.
There may be professors in their
studies in many universities, scientists
in their laboratories; retired military
men, former Foreign Service officers,
and also certain members of the
House and Senate. But no complete
consensus is demanded among these
specialists. What is essential is that
they believe in the candidate and
generally support his cause.

There have been several articles
about Goldwater's helpers which
have stressed the presence of pro-
fessors in his staff work. There are,
as I have noted, many others out-
side academic life. But the professors
who have been mentioned are fore-
most authorities in their fields. Among
them, Columbia, Chicago, Harvard,
Michigan, Stanford, Notre Dame,
Pennsylvania, and Virginia are repre-
sented. In past years, notably during
the Kennedy Administration, the im-
pression has been created that all
"eggheads" are Democratic and lib-
eral. But while most academic men in
the social sciences are liberal, there
are outstanding exceptions, many of
whom are among Goldwater's ad-
visers. Since they are a minority in
their faculties, they are essentially
individualistic and are attracted to
Goldwater because he has stressed in-
dividualism as the basic American
principle of life and progress.

THE END PRODUCT

Since a major issue of the cam-
paign will be our defense strength
and foreign policy, Goldwater's own
expert knowledge and acquaintances
will be largely drawn upon. Among
them are several who have made a
specialty of the scientific and prac-
tical aspects of defense. There are
some who have made a reputation in
the study of Communism and its im-
pact upon our foreign policy;

With these specialists, McCabe
and his associates maintain contact
personally by telephone or mail or
by occasional gatherings in Washing-
ton. After Goldwater passes upon the
material which McCabe has gathered
and summarized for his use, one or
two writers prepare preliminary
drafts for speeches. This is a major
task, for there is a vast difference in
style and composition between what
is to be heard and what is to be
read by the public.

Finally, Goldwater himself works
over the product, impressing upon it
his personal speech characteristics
and style. The end product in the
last analysis must reflect his own per-
sonality, and its major theme must
be his own belief of what must be
decided by the voters in this cam-
paign. Only in this way does any
speech carry the conviction so essen-
tial to winning an election.

Newsweek, August 31, 1964