Here's a text extraction of the provided image, respecting the column layout:


PERSPECTIVE
INCOME WITH FREEDOM
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In this campaign, as in the Republican fight for the nomination,
Barry Goldwater will be assailed as an enemy of the social-security system.
An appraisal of the facts will show that Lyndon Johnson is the one
who presents a real threat to a system which is the keystone of the material
lives of millions of Americans.
The President, with the intensity of a child demanding a new toy, has
forced a tired Congress at the weary end of a long session and in the purple
emotion of a national campaign to act upon medicare. This is not an
emergent and critical need. It is a decision which perverts and substantially
destroys an institution which has stood for almost 30 years.
I cannot in this short space reiterate the countless arguments against this plan.
Rather, I shall limit myself to the origins of this system, its purpose, and its
place in our Federal government.
In the spring of 1934 President Roosevelt told me of his decision to
launch an insurance plan for old-age pensions and unemployment compensation.
After outlining his plan, he asked me to write a message to Congress on the
subject. I did so, and the message with some minor changes went to Congress
on June 8, 1934.

ROOSEVELT'S PLAN

The plan was to provide, through contributions from employees and employers,
pensions to provide security against the "hazards and vicissitudes" of old age and
unemployment. This plan, according to the message, should be administered
through cooperation between the states and the Federal government (a concept now
embodied in the Kerr-Mills Act). The President also told me that the reserves of
the system should be invested in municipal, state, and high-grade corporate bonds.
(Congress decreed instead that the "trust fund" should contain only Federal IOU's.)
In later legislation unemployment compensation has followed the state-Federal pattern,
but old-age pensions are wholly Federal.
Subsequent to the submission of this preliminary message to Congress, President
Roosevelt appointed an advisory committee, on which I served and which worked on a
plan during the year which followed. In the years since the passage of the original
act, the base of support has been progressively broadened, the tax increased, and the
pensions lifted to keep pace with inflation. In 1956 disability support was added for
people over 50, and in 1960 that age limit was lowered to 24. In 1958 children of the
disabled were provided for. Many other welfare measures have been set up, but payments
for these are from general taxation and they are administered separately from the pension
system.

SERVICES, NOT MONEY

Thus, the essential nature of the OASDI is that elderly people receive an income. It is
most important to note that the recipients of these pensions are free to dispose of what
they receive to meet their varied wants and needs, including insurance payments of
various kinds.
I believe in this system and also believe that as costs rise the pensions should be
increased. But the essence is that those receiving this income should be free to choose
what they will buy with what they receive. Through this freedom the recipients retain
their individuality and, most important, their human dignity.
The principle projected by medicare attached to social security is that old people cannot
be trusted to make their own decisions in spending their income. Government would tell
them that they should have a specified service. Beyond this, there may well be additions to
social security for many other living needs and in the end the payments will not be real
income at all, but an array of free services. The elderly will be in a straitjacket in which
individual discretion is lost. And the pension-income system will vanish in a vast welfarism.
Thus, the President, the 44 Democrats, and the five anti-Goldwater Republicans who
provided the necessary majority in the Senate have supported this basic change. They are the
ones, not Senator Goldwater, who would destroy the social-security system as we have
known it since its origins. If social security is to be destroyed, it will be because it has been
overloaded with purposes which it was never intended to serve.

Newsweek, September 21, 1964