Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and layout.


**Maybe Gompers Was Right**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

During the past two or three months, both New Dealers and organization Democrats who don't care a hoot about ideology have been saying that President Truman had better not be deluded by praise from Republicans and conservative Democrats. They say that the late President Roosevelt won so handsomely in 1936, 1940 and 1944 because his political calculations were roughly as follows: There are more regular Republicans than regular Democrats in the United States—about 20,000,000 of the former to about 18,000,000 of the latter. Both of these need no special appeal. The Republicans will not vote for a Democrat. The regular Democrats will vote for any Democrat. The appeal must be to the remaining 7,000,000-or-so voters who have no fixed party allegiance. That group includes politically organized labor, notably the CIO-PAC, the Northern Negroes and the leftist independents. Hence, the Roosevelt concern was never to lose this marginal vote on domestic issues. This policy yielded handsome results.

The people who say this are now adding that Mr. Truman must follow this policy, if he is to win in 1948. And hence these politicos wince every time a conservative praises Mr. Truman, not because they fail to appreciate praise for their leader, but because they fear that he will be seduced by the siren call of conservatives and will awake in November 1948 to find that Republicans are Republicans, after all.

In short, the Roosevelt supremacy was based on a coalition. And if we are to get any basic idea of trends out of recent local elections, we ought to see what is happening to coalitions between Democrats and labor and other minorities.

In New York, William O'Dwyer was elected by a coalition between the Democrats and the American Labor party. There were about 840,000 Democratic votes out of 2,000,000 cast. The ALP 260,000 gave him a majority.

The ALP in the New York election polled only 65 per cent of its average in six preceding city, state and national elections. Of course, it had an internal fight, and a rump affair called the Liberal party ran on its own. And Mr. Morris, the La Guardia candidate, got some of the former ALP vote. But all in all, this is a poor demonstration of the solidarity of a labor vote. In Syracuse, labor failed to repeat its 1944 success when, in a normally Republican city, Roosevelt ran ahead.

In Detroit, the CIO threw boots and saddles, gold and horses into the Frankenstein gamble. They had a colorful, virile candidate. They had the Democratic machine with them. Also, they had the silent blessing of the national organization. All this and a not-too-attractive opponent! Yet it wasn't enough.

The day of a Labor party of major proportions has not been hastened by these elections. In fact, there is plenty of evidence that American labor is more likely to follow the AFL policy than that of the CIO on political action. There are certain advantages in labor's setting up a party with candidates and everything; but the disadvantages are becoming increasingly clear. The ownership of a party is luxury. It diverts union funds into channels which only indirectly serve to raise wages and shorten hours. Political experts who are novices in collective bargaining have to be hired. Political compromises must be made which are hard to explain to rank-and-file union workers. Thousands and thousands of dues-paying members would rather keep their politics, like their religion, separate from their labor interests. They know their district captains and, over the years, have developed a habit of working with them. Precinct politics —which they thoroughly enjoy—a game to them is a form of recreation. The PAC has made it a serious matter connected with work. It has taken much of the color out of elections.

Perhaps, after all, the wisdom of Samuel Gompers and the AFL will prevail. Get the best deal from the two regular parties. Bargain with them. Browbeat them, if you will. But don't go into business with them. This detachment may be the ultimate destiny of American labor