Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Enter, the Professionals
by RAYMOND MOLEY

PORTLAND, ORE.—This trip, with stops
at Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Sacramento and now on the battle-
front of Oregon, has reinforced a somewhat
sad impression created in the East.
The fight for the Republican nomination
will, from now on, be pretty much in
the dark. A well-informed public, which
this magazine correctly says is America's
greatest security, should add to its
information the fact that the
public is going to have
precious little to do about
choosing its next President.
The public will elect, but it
will not select. That responsibility
will fall upon the
2,000-odd delegates to the
two conventions, their political
associates, bosses and a
good many men of “means and
influence” who like to
play with politics. Altogether, this sovereign
band will comprise perhaps less
than 10,000 souls.
It is not the fault of this body that
such an undemocratic prospect exists.
Nobody planned it that way. The
convention is no more the architect of
its heavy destiny than was the vagabond
poet Villon who, according to romance,
awakened in the bed of the
Grand Marshal of France. Our predicament
is caused by a defective system of
choice. The people of the United States
will, for the present at least, have to
bear with their own impotence.

The public will, moreover, see only
sketchy glimpses of what is going on,
despite the labors of reporters and commentators. On the Democratic side, the
picture is not so difficult to make out.
The politicians of that party face almost
certain defeat. All they have is a
hope that something will turn up. Their
talk of Eisenhower is the wail of a child
crying for the moon. It is certain he
would not take the nomination.
On the Republican side, the answer
is locked in the complex mass of a
thousand mysteries. In the inner minds
of most delegate-elects, leaders and
others there is one major concern: to
join the winner soon enough to seem
like a pioneer, not a me-too. Leaders
in great states like Illinois and Pennsylvania are in contact with all the
candidacies. One Eastern governor
seems to be particularly busy. I have
heard “authoritatively” that he is positively for at least five candidates.
Where truth cannot grow, rumor
breaks out all over. The citizen must
now expect to hear all sorts of “inside
dope,” about deals; plenty of dirty
stories about candidates, their sisters
and brothers and cousins and aunts;
suggestions that this or that candidate
will trade his delegates for a Cabinet
job, and so forth. The citizen will be
well advised to ignore most
of what he hears. The calculations, permutations and
combinations which will take
place are well guarded and are
not as simple as they seem.
However, a few things are
quite clear in California.
Warren and his chief supporters
think they have a
real chance to land the nomination
that cannot take place in
the convention until a great many ballots
have been taken and until several
other elimination heats have been run.
Therefore, they are not considering
turning to another candidate as a
second choice. Warren has firm control
over the delegation. It was selected
either personally by him or with his
knowledge and approval. It will follow
his wishes.

It can be said, further, that the sympathies of Warren and his most influential
supporters are not directed toward
Stassen. The Minnesota candidate made
a serious mistake out here by even suggesting that he was considering entering
the primary. California is extremely
sensitive about such matters. Dewey
probably rates better than Taft among
California politicians, simply because it
is believed he has a better chance of
winning. Vandenberg and Martin are
mentioned here and there. But it will be
Warren all the way at Philadelphia, or
almost all the way. And it can be added
with great emphasis that there is no
deal with any other candidate. Warren
is not that kind of man.

The Warren strategy is to hold the
California delegation until a possible
deadlock and to emerge as a real compromise. His detached position, administrative capacity and attractive personality may finally prevail. That is why
California will be voting for Warren
long after other favorite sons have
given up the ghost.

Newsweek, May 24, 1948