PERSPECTIVE

NIXON'S ROLE IN 1964

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

If the acclaim now given by conservative people to Richard Nixon for his campaign over the nation in support of the Goldwater-Miller ticket had been accorded him by those same people in 1960, he would now be running for re-election as President, and John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson would be senators from their respective states.

In 1960 there were altogether too many conservative people who were dampening Nixon's chances by complaints that he was not conservative enough, or that he should say this or that which he did not say, or that his campaign was badly managed, or that he did badly in his debates with his opponent. I have no doubt that this halfhearted support or nonsupport of Nixon in that year lost him the margin of victory.

It was useless then to argue with those conservatives. They did not seem to realize that the choice in 1960 was real and vital and important to the future of the nation. It was not realized then that while his relationship with the Eisenhower Administration was something of an asset, it was also a great liability. For he could not then state frankly that it was a State Department "clique" that helped Castro attain power in Cuba.

Nor could he respond when candidate Kennedy suggested that an invasion of Cuba by refugees would be desirable, for such an invasion plan was already under way and was top secret. Nor could he respond to the conservatives' complaint about President Eisenhower's neglect of his party's welfare.

RECORD OF LOYALTY

Now, however, he is under no such restraints. The old clichés about the "old" or the "new" Nixon are irrelevant now. He has always been the same, essentially conservative, and a supporter of the Republican Party in victory and defeat.

In the Congressional campaigns in 1954 and 1958 he battled in many states in the very teeth of defeat. I remember well how hard he tried to stem a crushing defeat for the Republican ticket in California in 1958, because I was out there and witnessed his efforts. He battled in Ohio and in many other states for losing causes. Those efforts are well remembered by hard-pressed Republican state leaders, and that is why Nixon's campaigning now is such a boost to their morale. The sharp contrast between the attitude of Nixon now and that of the neutralism of the Romneys and the restraint of the Rockefellers will not be forgotten. Nixon's role in the future of the Republican Party and his image before the nation as a statesman of the first rank will be assured.

FIGHTING FOR UNITY

The wisdom of his move from California to New York is now apparent. For he can speak not merely from one state but on a national platform. Even more than General Eisenhower, he is able to heal the wounds in the GOP inflicted at San Francisco and before. He is not, as it were, getting into the fight "to pick up the pieces." He is convinced that Goldwater can win if the issues are vigorously exploited. Nor is he moved by the possibility of his own nomination in 1968. For Nixon is a realist. If Goldwater wins, that nomination will be foreclosed, and if Goldwater loses, no one can tell now what the unpredictable course of public and party preference will be.

In his campaigning Nixon has already effectively blunted the sharpest issue of the opponents of Goldwater: irresponsibility and recklessness in suggesting the delegation of authority to use atomic weapons. Nixon bears testimony as one who, as a member of the Eisenhower inner circle, was privy to a plan for such delegation in certain contingencies, as reassurance to our NATO allies and for the protection of our slim forces in Europe against attack by overwhelming Soviet hordes. His challenge to the President to say whether that plan has been abandoned cannot be said to violate security, for the matter is now an unkept "secret."

It is well for this great debate that Nixon has not chosen, as other former Republican candidates for President and Vice President have chosen, to vanish behind the green shades of a law office, or to remain silent or to advocate splitting the ticket in favor of Johnson-Humphrey. He has raised a standard of unity and hope for a beleaguered GOP.

Newsweek, October 26, 1964