Here's the text from the provided image, avoiding overlap between columns and excluding the advertisement:

UNDERLYING the wretched disclosures in Washington are two basic political facts: Responsible party government has been supplanted by personalized machine rule, and the policies of government have become wholly pervaded by materialistic concerns. These evil circumstances cannot be removed by the punishment of a lot of rascals or by creating new laws and rules. Judge Murphy can’t correct them, and even if we concede complete sincerity, the President can’t correct them. They lie in the character of the President and in the conditions which he inherited from his predecessor.

In real party government there is collective responsibility not to a mere leader but to the party and the nation. No one acts as if he knew everything or could decide everything. We have for generations witnessed the best example of party government in all history in Great Britain. From time to time, we have had it here.

The rules and ethical concepts of a political machine are quite unlike those of a political party. Authority is arbitrary, personally exercised, ruthlessly disciplinary. It is, in fact, feudal in the sense that the minor henchmen, heelers, and workers owe complete, slavish loyalty to the boss. They trade their liberty for protection. In place of the party there are only the boss and these groveling underlings. Their mutual welfare is above and quite independent of the public interest and national welfare. A code of ethics prevails which is quite unlike the copybook maxims of patriotism, public service, and love of every neighbor. There is only one neighbor in the life of a machine member—his boss-benefactor. One rule prevails over all: Don’t let down your machine pal.

WHEN Harry S. Truman humbly bowed before the awesome post to which Franklin D. Roosevelt’s death had advanced him, he was regarded as a mediocre man. But it was not appreciated that the job he had inherited was not that of leading a party but of running a machine. Carlyle observed that a dwarf behind a steam engine can move mountains. A political machine has a certain momentum. A new master can manage it if he understands political mechanics. And among Truman’s meager collection of talents that understanding was notable. He learned it in Kansas City.

His supreme confidence in machine methods has been openly proclaimed. He uses those methods to perpetuate his power. His Fair Deal program is regarded by him not as a pattern for a nation’s destiny, but as a well-baited snare for gathering votes.

Note what he said in his recent “clean-up” press conference. The official rogues who had got into trouble had “let him down.” This is in the true pattern of machine ethics. Not “they let the nation down” or “the party down.” They let Truman down.

Note also a remark attributed to the machine associate whom the President elevated to the Supreme Court, Tom Clark. According to a former FBI agent who investigated Caudle before he was appointed, Clark was well warned about the nature of his prospective assistant. Clark’s questions were: “Will he embarrass me?” “Does he know his way around?” Not, it should be noted: “Has he the character to administer a position of great trust?” or “Will he embarrass the United States?” Presumably, whatever Caudle’s deficiencies as a public official, Clark felt that if he “knew his way around,” all would be well. And presumably knowing one’s way around is to give maximum service to the machine without stirring up any righteous people. The tragedy of Caudle, in the ethics of the machine, was not his indiscretions but his stupidity.

THIS substitution of personal political allegiance for party responsibility began long before Truman became President. It was under way in early 1936, when Roosevelt said: “There’s one issue in this campaign. It’s myself.” Meanwhile, the materialistic nature of the machine colored the entire appeal to the electorate. The promise of benefits was the watchword, not the clear call of duty and patriotism. But Truman has done well with what he found for himself and his strange collection of friends.

Newsweek, December 31, 1951