Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:

**Can Capitalism Survive Victory?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Messrs. Hull, Hoover, Landon,
Willkie, Bricker, Dewey and many
other leaders have now agreed that
some form of cooperative organiza-
tion of nations should follow the war.
That is good, but it also needs to be
said that any form of political and
military cooperation will fall to bits
unless some intelligent way is found
to make Germany pay damages.

It was not Wilson or the Repub-
licans or the League that failed after
the last war. It was the fatal ignorance
of economic forces on the part of the
victorious nations in their handling of
reparations that brought world depres-
sion, chaos, totalitarianism and a new
war into the world.

Let us look at the highlights of that
great failure. The fierce cry of 1919
was that "the Hun must pay." So a bill
of damages was drawn up by France
and Belgium. The exact amount was
not fixed at Versailles, but a Repara-
tions Commission was set up to deter-
mine how payment should be made.
From that day to this, the question of
"how" has remained unanswered.

Germany stopped paying in Jan-
uary 1923. Then came the occupation
of the Ruhr. New war was threatened,
and a group of Nazis, who knew noth-
ing of economics but plenty about
war, appeared in the Munich putsch
in 1923. Then came Dawes and his
plan. This limited German payments
to coal and gold for one year, and
Uncle Sam began to lend money to
Germany. Actually it was those loans
that really paid the reparations for a
time. Whenever under the "plan" Ger-
many had to pay more, the United
States made more loans. Finally, there
came the Young "plan." "This," said
the sardonic Keynes, "will fail accord-
ing to plan." It did. When depression
hit Uncle Sam, he stopped lending
and tried to collect. The European
financial structure fell over like a
house of cards. Germany, through the
whole period of a dozen years, had
given up scarcely a dollar's worth of
real wealth.

The reason for the failure to col-
lect from Germany lies in the essen-
tial unity of the world's economic life.
If a nation must pay damages to an-
other in money, she can make the
money worthless. If she is made to pay
in certain kinds of goods and services,
friction abroad may develop. Thus,
Germany was required in 1919 to de-
liver coal to Italy and France to make
up for the destruction of coal mines.
Since there was a world shortage of
coal for a year and a half, nobody
complained. But when Britain had
coal to sell, her miners and operators
found German coal flowing into her
normal markets. So, while Germans
delivered free coal to France and Italy,
Britain had to pay doles to unem-
ployed miners.

If payment in gold is required, one
of two things can happen. If, as in
France in 1871, there is gold, it can
be paid. If, as in Germany in 1919,
there is no gold and paper money is
refused, the debtor nation can get gold
or good dollars only by selling goods
abroad. That means horning into other
nations' markets, and that, in turn,
means unemployment and losses-
sometimes in the very nations receiv-
ing reparations payments. This vicious
circle is the consequence of the finan-
cial unity of the world. International
financial tides are in a sea that wins
every battle against man. It is a fan-
tastic witches' brew of contradictions.
Unless a better way of handling inter-
national payments comes of this war,
people may decide that international
capitalism can never work.

That is what Russia thinks now.
Hence she is insisting upon payment
in kind or in labor. Her terms to Fin-
land illustrate that. Russia claims
$600,000,000 worth of goods payable
over five years. But-and note this well
-she claims only goods that Finland
can produce without importing any-
thing, such as pulp, paper and ma-
chinery. From Germany, Russia will
probably demand things that Germany
can produce from her own resources.
And, in addition, Russia will claim
large amounts of manpower. This Rus-
sian plan looks to a straight two-sided
transaction. The goods received must
compete neither with goods produced
by labor in the receiving country nor
with an existing market in that coun-
try for the goods of another country.
This avoids international complica-
tions.

Perhaps Russia is nearer the reali-
ties than any of the rest of the United
Nations. Certainly, Russia is wiser
than we were after Versailles. We may
be able to learn something from her.
Surely, unless we do, it will be diffi-
cult to save traditional capitalism any-
where.