Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Businessmen in Politics-I
by Raymond Moley

A MAJOR subject of interest in the
press and elsewhere since 1958
has been the reawakening of interest
in politics among businessmen and
business associations. Because some
of the comment has been based upon
misconceptions of what is happening,
a bit of clarification is in order.

In the March-April Harvard Busi-
ness Review there is a lengthy piece,
"The Seven Fallacies of Business in
Politics," by Michael D. Reagan, de-
scribed as a lecturer at Williams Col-
lege and contributor to The Nation,
New Republic, and Dissent.

In the quarterly Digest of the AFL-
CIO Industrial Union Department, of
which Walter Reuther is president,
there is an article "Business Returns
to the Polls."

Only deplorable editing could have
given space to the first named of
these in "The Magazine of Thought-
ful Businessmen." Most of the seven
alleged "fallacies" are legitimate prop-
ositions. The author's comments,
however, are uninformed, misleading,
smart-alecky, and prejudiced. The
many pages of text and clumsy car-
toons (for "thoughtful businessmen")
boil down to the astonishing assertion
that corporations should limit their
interest in politics to "appearances be-
fore legislative committees and plat-
form committees, personal meetings
with individual legislators ... and
campaign contributions."

DO-IT-YOURSELF

It is assumed in the article that
corporations are proposing to enter
"partisan electoral activity," which is
not true. That has been forbidden
by Federal law since 1907. The
Reagan way would reduce a great
many American citizens to suppliants
before bodies elected by someone
else and to writing checks for candi-
dates in whose selection they have
no choice. But popular government is
a do-it-yourself affair. Everybody joins
or should join in the political process.
That is democracy. If students at
Williams College are taught the
Reagan way, I pity them.

It is refreshing to turn to Reuther's
magazine. The article is fair, factual,
and informative, except for a quite
natural dig here and there at the
opponents at the bargaining table. It
tells what corporations are doing,
without blaming them for it. It may
seem like a response to flattery to say
that the IUD article states that the
corporation programs to date have fol-
lowed "guide lines" specified in my
booklet "The Political Responsibility
of Businessmen." The article accu-
rately states these "guide lines." Un-
der them, a corporation can and
should disseminate information con-
cerning the methods and activities by
which the individual employe (at the
management level) can exercise in-
fluence in politics and civic affairs,
remove all company restrictions on
such activities, make known either to
its employes or the public its views
on public issues, and provide some-
one in management to encourage and
instruct individual management em-
ployes in politics at the local level.

EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS

The corporation should not inter-
mingle politics with bargaining issues,
or engage in partisan politics. It
should generally leave lobbying to its
trade associations. The Digest quotes
my suggestion that the corporation
should tell a management employe "to
go see people in their homes and dis-
cuss politics ... not as a representative
of business but as a fellow member of
the great, conservative, unorganized
middle majority."

That is a good statement of what
corporations are doing. I appreciate
this fair statement of my views. I
have, in fact, never been attacked for
those views in union publications,
perhaps because I have also said that
the unions have been right in exercis-
ing their rights as citizens and that
their methods are very efficient. I
wish all Americans would show a simi-
lar interest. My only complaint is
when they use the general funds of
the unions in partisan politics. That is
wrong for them, just as it is for corpo-
rations. It is contrary to Federal law.

The soundness of our representa-
tive government and the civilization
which it guards depend upon the
greatest possible participation in po-
litical affairs. Wage earners, union
members, members of management,
doctors, lawyers, merchants, every-
body should get into the act with
what they have, where they are.

Newsweek, March 14, 1960