Here's a text version of the provided article, preserving the column structure as best as possible.  I've attempted to minimize overlap between columns, but some minor adjustments might still be needed for perfect alignment depending on the original formatting.


**Resistance in Texas**

by Raymond Moley

THERE is every reason to believe that the outcome of this year's election will be determined not by anything that party officials may do, but by down-to-earth, spontaneously organized movements by citizens who have hitherto manifested little interest in politics. Certainly such non-party but not anti-party movements can decide which party controls the next Congress, because enough House and Senate seats will swing one way or another by a handful of votes. The Presidency can likewise be won by the candidate who gets those small margins in the right states, which can be mobilized by public-spirited citizens who are not now active in political life.

What is that opposition? It is certainly not an inchoate force called public opinion. It is clear that the New and Fair Deals have been unpopular in Texas for years. Public opinion is not in itself effective opposition until it is mobilized. The opposition is not Governor Shivers alone, because the plans for what is happening now were laid before Shivers became governor. Nor is it the old Texas Regulars, for that group as an organized body dissolved after 1944.

The possibility of such citizen activity is well shown by what is now coming to public attention in Texas. When an administration wheel horse like Senator Connally begins to scream against the President's demands for new taxes, it can be assumed that something deep in Texas is frightening him. Gov. Allan Shivers has declared war on the Truman wing of the party. He has decided to run for governor again, to head an anti-Truman movement in Chicago in July, and possibly to be the spearhead of a general Southern revolt. Price Daniel, Attorney General of the state and a very popular figure, is going to run against Connally.

What has happened is that a few individuals decided a few years ago to do something besides bewailing the socialistic trends in government. They decided to do something about it. They felt that their efforts would be more effective if they did not create an organization with a name. Instead, they arrived among themselves at a decision about what they wanted to accomplish. They then widened their influence by establishing contacts with people of like minds all over the state. They encouraged their members and sympathizers to stay within the Democratic Party but to become active at the bottom levels of the party, to go into caucuses, to reach out for influence in county conventions, and to vote in primaries. They believed that one vote in a precinct convention carries more real power than 2,000 votes in a general election. The top leaders in this group became more and more influential in picking candidates. As their power increased, the conservatism of Texas congressmen became more and more pronounced. Ultimately, as we now see, the new spirit reached the two senators. It was this group that really put through the new election laws.

It will be remembered that in 1944 a group called the Texas Regulars almost seized the party machinery. Had this revolt been successful, the electoral vote of Texas might have been taken from President Roosevelt. This revolution was lost because, owing to antique election laws, the Federal machine ultimately prevailed. Now the election laws have been drastically changed. The 1944 story cannot be repeated. The new laws, passed last year, provide for more responsible primaries and conventions and for cross-filing after the California pattern. This legislation was approved by Governor Shivers despite the fierce opposition of the Federal machine. With the way thus smoothed, the opposition to Truman's renomination and reelection can move relentlessly toward its objective.

This group, which is now very large and very influential will presently become the dominant political power in Texas. It is in essence a group that started as a sort of resistance movement which promises to end as the authentic Democratic Party of the state. This could happen in many states and congressional districts if citizens of stature and influence would devote themselves to the task. What is needed is work, skill, and patience.

Newsweek. February 4, 1952