Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


**Politics and the National Income**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

We are now witnessing a kind of
warming-up process in fourth-term
politics. The formula will be simple.
There will be no elaborate plan for
proposed social reform. The New Deal
label, with all its liabilities, will be
dropped. The Win-the-War slogan
proposed by the President will be only
incidental. Once in the campaign, the
Presidential supporters will interpret
winning the war as winning the peace,
with full employment and with a general passing of the biscuits to all. Generally, the domestic program will be simple. It will promise full employment and a national income of some out-of-the-hat figure.

The CIO and Mr. Henry Wallace seem to be the early birds in this political barnyard. Their shrill cackling already signals the dawn. We may pass, for the moment, the real question whether their figures of national income mean anything. Surely, the whole concept contains a big amount of hokum. Economists know how unreliable are such figures as an exact measure of national well-being. About all that can be said is that, in a depression, the national income figures as now computed are low and, in a period of great activity, they are high. But obviously this time, they will be used by supporters of a fourth term to set a goal which will make voters tingle with anticipation.

Recently, Mr. Wallace played the political Chanticleer to a sizable flock of CIO officials. The slogan of full employment was tossed about with abandon. To make employment full, he reasoned, you must put the national income at a high figure. The simple fact that employment does not come from income but income from employment was glossed over.

Mr. Wallace sets $200 billions as an attainable national income. In any event, we need an income "in excess of $130 billions," he observed. This, he said, means $170 billions in production. (Incidentally, Mr. Roosevelt, in his budget message, suggests $125 billions as a national income which means over $162 billions in production.) Wallace attacks Alfred Sloan's goal of $100 billions net income as not enough to give full employment. He implies that people like Mr. Sloan do not want to think in terms of a "maximum output of the best quality at the lowest price." This is, of course, absurd, for way back when labor was thinking in terms of union monopoly, it was the leaders like Mr. Sloan who introduced the idea of a big output of better quality at lower prices. That policy is exactly what made Mr. Sloan what he is.

What are the facts and the common sense about national production and employment? In 1929, the highest pre-war figure for national income was $83 billion, with 48 million employed and less than a million unemployed. In 1939, the last normal year, national income was $71 billion, with 45 million employed and 8 to 10-million unemployed. In 1943, estimated income was $142 billion, with 54 million workers employed. These were, on average, less skilled workers.

To illustrate the inconsistency of Administration figures, note that three years ago Dr. Alvin Hansen of the Federal Reserve Board, high priest of spend-lend economists, put the postwar figure of national income at $100 billions. But when a responsible businessman seems to agree to that figure, the New Deal raises the ante.

What does this mean politically? Either or both of two things. The advocates of a fourth term propose to set an irresponsible figure to delude the people this year or they are hedging against defeat by heralding a production figure which cannot be reached under a succeeding Republican administration in order to blast such an administration in 1948.

In Mr. Wallace's case, circumstances point to the latter. It may also be that the CIO has that in mind. Mr. Wallace is probably going to be dropped from the Democratic ticket. He has grown strong with the CIO. Like Mr. Roosevelt nine years ago, he is passing up farm support in return for masses of labor and city votes. In case of a Democratic defeat this year, the remaining Democratic strongholds will be the big cities and the South. Mr. Wallace, it should be added, has strengthened himself with Southern politicians by his speeches on railroad rates.

Can it be that defeatism has crept into the CIO. Just at the moment when its membership is at the top and its coffers are bulging with money? Or is this the pattern of 1944 promises? Or is this the anticipation of inflation, in which case, relative values vanish entirely.