Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Strange Roads to Freedom

Two rakings-over of the press—its
freedom, its responsibilities, its sins, and
what ought to be done about them—have
appeared in recent weeks.

The first is a book by Harold Ickes, Secretary of the Interior.  Mr. Ickes makes
the familiar charges that newspapers are
“Big Business with an upper-stratum interest and outlook” and that they are,
with some “honorable exceptions,” unfair,
misrepresentative, self-interested. This he
winds up with a lumbering defi to the
press. If there is no substance to his
charges, they will fall of their own weight.
So, presumably, there need be no direct
answer to them. But if there should be
criticism of his analysis (here Mr. Ickes
does not use the word “criticism,” but
substitutes its equivalent in the Ickesian
lexicon—“a barrage of vituperation, of
smearing insinuation and misrepresentation”), it will persuade people that he has
“hit the target not far from the bull’s-eye.”
The press, therefore, is to be damned if it
answers and damned if it doesn’t answer.
Meanwhile, it stands accused of failure to
work for the preservation and strengthening of “democracy”—a term which bears
a haunting resemblance to “Roosevelt Administration” throughout Mr. Ickes’ argument.

The second critique of the press is embodied in two articles in *The Nation* by
Max Lerner, former editor of that journal
and now professor in Williams College.
Mr. Lerner’s presentation is much more
tidy than Mr. Ickes’. He is more frank in
expressing conclusions. His observations,
because they stem from a point of view
divorced from immediate political considerations, are free of the twists and dodges
that must characterize the arguments of
anyone currently holding public office. Finally, Mr. Lerner speaks in terms of a
clearly defined economic philosophy—the
philosophy described in his recent book,
“It Is Later Than You Think.” He believes that we must establish a militant
democracy in this country. And it develops
that his militant democracy consists of a
vast extension of government ownership
and government control over private enterprise.

Mr. Lerner takes an extremely melancholy view of the “opinion industry”—
the radio and the press. It appears that
the country is going conservative because
of a sinister monopoly of the “channels
and sources of opinion.” He is disappointed in the Roosevelt government because
while, he says, it has “weakened the hold
of the big-money group and has even succeeded in undermining the blind faith we
once had in the barons of opinion…it
has not succeeded in controlling or dis-
placing either group.”

Mr. Lerner then takes up a concept
that’s been knocking around in Leftist
circles for a long time. Mr. Ickes ever so
faintly hints at it but doesn’t embrace it.
Mr. Lerner frankly adopts it. He would
make newspapers and the radio public utilities and “extend the principles of the TVA
‘yardstick’ and the SEC ‘truth in securities’
into the opinion industries.” He would reserve two major airways for the government. A Federal Radio Chain, run by
“the guild of radio artists,” would operate
noncompetitively and without advertising,
setting a standard for private chains to
live up to and serving “to broadcast the
merciless truth about our social conditions.” In the newspaper field, wherever
there is “no competition of ideas,” he
would induce “socially conscious money”
to create competition, and “it would be a
legitimate function of the government to
subsidize individuals and cooperatives that
want to start such newspapers” which, in
the hands of “good working newspaper
men and women,” would “pay for themselves financially and more than pay for
themselves in cultural enrichment.” So
much for the “yardstick.”

Then, in order to prevent propaganda from creeping into the enslaved stations
and newspapers left under private control,
a new SEC of air opinion would be created
—a board empowered to “require complete
information about the provenience and
financing of political radio statements, to see
that all inflammatory radio statements
are backed up by a bill of particulars, to
allow for the answering of controversial
material—and, if necessary, to ban material that is poisonous and spurious.” Mr.
Lerner takes pains to avoid the horrid
word “censor.” The board would be a
“monitor.” And its members would be
people Mr. Lerner thinks are not only tolerant but endowed with a miraculous ability to spot “the spurious and dishonest.”
They would be such men as Lloyd Garrison, Alexander Meiklejohn, Alvin Johnson, and William Allen White.

Thus would we “organize our freedom
of opinion in such a way as to make it
usable and not academic.”

Among the dozens of points Mr. Lerner
misses, is the small item that organized freedom is a contradiction of terms. You
cannot organize freedom. You can only
protect freedom. Even Mr. Ickes recognizes that. Yet he shares other illusions
with Mr. Lerner and similar critics.

It seems that there are good men
equipped to pass judgment upon what is
“spurious and dishonest” in every day’s
news, though the nature of goodness is
somewhat obscured by Mr. Ickes’ clear
belief that “dependable news and legitimate comment” are dished up only by pro-
Administration reporters and commentators. It seems that the Administration is
inarticulate, repressed, prohibited from
putting its case to the public. It seems
that the business of getting news is not
one of the most fiercely competitive activities in American life. It appears that
the newspaper men in Washington are not
hounding public officials for news, lending
a ready ear to the innermost confidences
of members of the Administration and
even, according to the claims of some,
reading and publishing the unspoken
thoughts of these officials. It appears that
Administration members can find no publishers for their books and articles, no time
for their radio addresses. It appears, in
short, that this is not, directly and indirectly, the talkingest, writingest government in the history of this country.

Inevitably, the question arises whether
Mr. Ickes and Mr. Lerner do not fundamentally join in Mr. Heywood Broun’s
complaint of some two years ago in *The Nation*: “I am getting a little sick of *The Nation’s* policy of fair play, and everybody must be heard whether or not he has
anything to say. This isn’t an amateur tennis match. It’s a fight, and the well-being
of masses of men and women depends upon
the result. So I am not for the principle
of bowing to your adversary and remarking, ‘After you, sir.’ Even an open mind
needs to pull down the windows at certain
times or it becomes less a mind than a
cave of the winds.”

Perhaps, in the end, it is not a completely, an ideally free and fair press or
radio that is wanted at all. Perhaps what
is wanted is merely control over the instruments of public education.

Since 1932, conservatives have consistently argued that government regulation of economic life cannot be extended
without the impairment and ultimate destruction of our civil liberties. I have always denied that. I believe from the bottom
of my heart that it is untrue. But it is
ironic to find such champions of economic
reform as Messrs. Ickes and Lerner implying that whether or not free enterprise
and civil rights are inseparable, the modest curtailment of one is immediately accompanied by demands that the other
go too.