Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Dark-Horse Feathers

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Let’s get clearly before us the meaning
of this dark-horse business, before a
lot more intelligent Americans jump into
something which could (about 1950)
land us in another Harding mess. Many
people become enchanted with a device
or procedure, well known to the politi-
cally sophisticated, but new to them.
Like children fooling around with a
pinwheel, they want to see it operate.
Wherever you go, you hear
people talking about a
Republican dark horse. In
columns and news stories
emanating from Washington
and written with something
less than political expertness
you read the same cliché. It
goes like this:

None of the three leading
candidates, Dewey, Taft or
Stassen, can be nominated.
They will jam themselves in a deadlock.
Then the convention will “turn” to
somebody else, probably Vandenberg
or Martin. At this point, eager and
bright-eyed advocacy appears, especial-
ly in the case of Vandenberg.

The prevalence of this line in stories
written in Washington is easy to
explain. Vandenberg and Martin are
deservedly popular in the press galleries.
They are pleasant, affable men who
have done unnumbered favors for news-
men. Martin has managed his Republi-
can flock in the House with patience
and skill. Vandenberg has, since his
conversion, been a loyal cooperator with
the Administration on foreign policy.
All this reflects itself in the writings sent
out from Washington, and some readers
have eagerly accepted it.

But the choosing of a Republican
candidate is or should be a great and
solemn occasion. The man who sits in
the White House for the next four
years can largely determine the safety
and stability of our nation and the
world. And the whole nation as far as
is possible should have a voice.

In the Books department of this
magazine is a review of “This Was
Normalcy,” by our book editor, Karl
Schriftgiesser. The author has de-
scribed the selection of a very dark
horse, Warren G. Harding. The in-
trigue, callous selfishness, secrecy and
contempt for the public then revealed
arises in every deadlocked convention.
Those forces are present now and they

will prowl in Philadelphia in June, if
those who have legitimately sought this
nomination lay each other low.

The argument against a dark-horse
nomination rests on two clear consider-
ations. The first is experience; the sec-
ond is the principle of popular choice.

A dark-horse nomination has not
produced a single outstanding Presi-
dent. Eleven Presidents have been
elected twice. Not one was
a dark horse when first nomi-
nated. Since 1860, four Pres-
idents have been nominated
who were not among the two
leaders on the first ballot.
They were Hayes, Garfield,
Harrison and Harding. Hayes
was a good, not a great,
President who did not seek a
second term. Garfield served
only a few months. Harrison
was defeated for reelection, and Hard-
ing was the least of them all.

On the other hand, the towering fig-
ures of our time—Lincoln, Cleveland,
T. R., Wilson and F. D. R.—were, at
the first conventions at which they were
nominated, either first or second in dele-
gate strength.

Our method of nominating candidates
is not a perfect instrument of popular
government. But in Dewey, Taft and
Stassen, we have three men who have
openly sought the nomination and who
have stated their views on the issues
which must confront the next President.
As far as our system permits, they are
the popular choices.

In Nebraska, where Republican voters
have had a whack at all candidates, Van-
denberg received less than 5 per cent of
the vote: Martin less than one-half of
one per cent. This substantiates what I
found in 50,000 miles of traveling over
the past year. There is admiration but
no demand for these estimable men.

Moreover, to the millions of young
voters they represent the old Re-
publican party. Both were regulars
when Hoover left the White House.
Both, for instance, voted for the Haw-
ley-Smoot tariff, along with Grundy,
Watson and Fess. There is nothing in
the record to suggest that they would
stand for anything new in domestic
affairs. They deserve respect, even
admiration, but the nation needs a
President who is not a living link with
an unhappy past.

Newsweek, April 26, 1948