Here's a text extraction from the provided image.  I've tried my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns, but perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and column layout.  Some minor errors may remain.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Congressional Dividends

When President Roosevelt issued
a call for a special session of Congress, the
wisdom of his decision was widely doubted.
Certainly, in mid-October, there was no
audible popular demand for one. Nor did
Mr. Roosevelt have any assurance that
his unfinished program would be enacted
by a Congress many of whose influential
members he had provoked to grim revolt
by his Court-packing plan, his appoint-
ment of Senator Black and his internation-
alist Chicago speech.

Now the special session is about to end
—probably without completing action on
any important bill. Yet, despite talk of
its “do nothing” record, I believe it has
been serviceable to the country and, inci-
dentally, to Mr. Roosevelt.

Certainly Congress has talked a lot. But
then it usually does, when its members are
fresh from canvassing their constituencies.
The editorial writers have an elegant name
for this phenomenon: they say “Congress
is acting as a sounding board for the coun-
try.” The Senate and House leaders don’t
call it anything. They simply know that
a quantity of idle speechmaking is a neces-
sary preliminary in each session and ex-
pect, so far as this session is concerned,
that the time consumed in talk during
November and December will be saved in
January and February.

But while Congress has talked, work has
progressed in committees. In both houses
committees are preparing tax-revision
measures for speedy action next session,
and business has received the heartening
assurance, meanwhile, that the capital-
gains and undistributed-profits taxes will
be modified. When the special session ends,
if the amendments to the Federal Housing
Act have not been passed, they will be well
on their way through the mill. Likewise the
Wage-Hour Bill. There is now a reasonable
expectation that a farm bill will be sealed
and delivered before February 1, when
cotton planting begins in the deep South.

Clearly apparent, in all this, is the de-
termination of Congress to let nothing be
rammed down its throat—a mood easily
predictable last October. But the bitter
hostility of many powerful members of
Congress toward the President at that
time has been considerably tempered by
Mr. Roosevelt’s conciliatory gestures to-
ward business and by his avoidance of any
attempt to put his control of Congress to
a severe test. His influence in Congress has
grown, too, because he has actually asked
for the advice and help of some of those
moderates whom his own lieutenants were
threatening with party expulsion as re-
cently as last summer.

There is irony in that fact. But, infinitely
more important, there is reason for reassur-
ance. Since Mr. Roosevelt is to be the pilot
of the ship for three more years, it is en-
couraging to know that he has taken
aboard some sorely needed ballast.

Trojan Horse Trading

Scarcely noticed in the accounts of
the endless trading that continues over the
Wage and Hour Bill, is the importance of
the appeal which nine Southern states have
laid before the ICC for revision of South-
ern freight rates on a variety of manu-
factured articles. Yet, in its ultimate
implications, this appeal is one of the most
significant that has ever been initiated. It
is more than a protest against rail charges
of the sort that have become routine to
the Commission. It is more than an at-
tempt to offset the effects upon the South
of a wages and hours bill. The movement
the Southern states have started, with the
strong support if not at the instigation of
the TVA, calls for economic and social re-
adjustments on an audacious scale. It is a
straight-out attempt to change the indus-
trial map of the United States.

To understand what it is all about, we
shall have to look at the background. Last
spring, nine Southern states united to seek
readjustment of freight rates and voted to
raise $100,000 for the campaign. A few
weeks later a TVA report on the subject
was submitted to the President. Following
this, a petition was brought to the ICC,
where the case is now pending.

The TVA report is the logical product
of an agency whose job seems to be, in
part, to attract into the Tennessee Valley
region industries which have not yet
yielded to the call of cheap wages and
cheap power. It points out that the United
States is not one country on a railroad rate
map, but five separate countries. They are:
Eastern Territory; Southern; Western;
Southwestern; and Mountain-Pacific. The
boundaries of these five countries have not
been changed for decades. There is some
logic to their configuration, but there is
more of “happen-so.” Rates are different
in each territory; they are hodgepodge, with
thick incrustations of surviving custom,
somewhat mitigated by the ICC’s attempts
in the last decade to rationalize them.

Southern rates are high. If we take East-
ern rates as 100, Southern rates are 139.
But that disturbs the South less than the
NEWSWEEK
fact that the rates are so fixed that the
Northern manufacturer has all the advan-
tage. He can ship his goods to points within
his own rate territory much cheaper than
the Southern manufacturer can reach the
same points, even when they are no further
away. And he can frequently ship goods
into the South cheaper than the Southern
manufacturer can reach the same Southern
points.

The immediate answer to these com-
plaints is that traffic is not heavy enough
to warrant reductions. Relatively few car-
loads are moved in proportion to invest-
ment in trackage and equipment. Each
unit, therefore, must bear a greater propor-
tion of cost than in the North. And any
violent cut in rates at this time is likely to
throw a number of Southern roads into
bankruptcy.

It may be true, as the TVA survey in-
sists, that the present rate structure acts
as a protective tariff for the manufacturers
of the Eastern Territory. It may be true
that “If we continue a heavy concentra-
tion of manufacturing in one region with
… drainage of raw materials from the
others, we may expect eventually to have
an exhaustion of natural resources in many
areas without leaving to [them] … any
tangible means to represent the … wealth
which they will have shipped away… A
wider and more even division of manufac-
turing and processing industries is badly
needed in order that the benefits … may
fall to the present low income regions. A
nationalized freight rate structure would
then permit the widest possible distribu-
tion of goods flowing from these decentral-
ized industries…”

But the fact remains that changing the
economic geography of a nation between
now and next Tuesday is a vastly expen-
sive and dangerous undertaking. It would
soon require that the Southern roads be
subsidized by the pooling of freight re-
ceipts at the expense of the North—or
even that they be subsidized by the gov-
ernment at the expense of the taxpayer—
just as the production of cheap power is
being subsidized now. It would involve, not
long after, national planning on a grand
scale to cope with the problems resulting
from the wholesale transplanting of indus-
tries from the North to the South. It would
produce, finally, national control of eco-
nomic life to a degree undreamed of by the
individualist Governors of the Jeffersonian
South even in their most imaginative mo-
ments.

Will support of the present attack on
territorial rates be a trading point on the
Wage-Hour Bill? There would be the
makings of a deal here, if the South failed
to recognize the implications of its cam-
paign and if the Administration controlled
the ICC. Fortunately, whatever the im-
probability of a Southern change of heart
on the subject of freight rates, the ICC is
still an independent and quasijudicial body.