Here's the extracted text from the right-hand column of the provided image.  I've attempted to preserve the original formatting as much as possible:

Perspective

Rich Resources and Poor Rulers

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The importance of United Nations' attacks on the oil fields of Rumania underlines a special distinction of that sinister country. The richness of its resources is exceeded only by the worthlessness of its rulers.

Perhaps these two things have something to do with each other. Rumania has what it takes to make war—plenty of it—and in a war-ridden Europe it has been the scene of dark intrigue and brutal oppression. For Hitler it provided a mobilization ground for his attack upon Russia. It has also provided him with the oil and wheat without which he might never have dared to go to war.

In 1938 Hitler made a most unusual agreement with Rumania. He leased its most important oil fields and, at the same time, arranged for a series of "working camps" for German engineers and laborers all over the country. This amounted to the economic occupation of an independent country in time of peace. Then, by way of manifesting authentic Hitlerian gratitude, he sliced off pieces of his ally to buy two other allies—Hungary and Bulgaria. Later, after invading Russia, he compensated Rumania with a piece of Russia.

Each year Hitler has taken more and more oil from Rumania, ranging from something over a million tons the first year to five million tons in 1942. Antonescu, "dictator" and "field marshal" by grace of Hitler, has piled up the money acquired from the oil leases in the Berlin Reichsbank, and his economists have already made learned plans for spending it. He has shrewdly augmented this sum, moreover, by levying a "tax," amounting in some cases to 100 per cent, on petroleum products bought by Germany. It should be added that Antonescu, according to good reports, has also tucked away a tidy personal fortune for himself.

The rise of a bandit like Antonescu was made possible by the progressive deterioration of the legitimate ruling family. Rumania achieved full independence by 1880, as the result of the Russo-Turkish war and the Congress of Berlin. Germany, the traditional spawning ground of European rulers, chipped in a Hohenzollern prince, Carol, who became the first king. The tradition of feminine influence in Rumania was established by Carol's wife, Carmen Sylvia. Both had a bent for atrocities. Hers expressed itself in corny German verses; his, in savage anti-Semitic laws. Next came the warlike Ferdinand and his pulchritudinous wife, Marie. Then came Carol II, and, after his flight with Lupescu, the neglected wife, Helen, and the boy-king, Michael, became the absurd façade for Antonescu's blood-and-boodle shop.

At this point it may be asked of Guglielmo Ferrero and Walter Lippmann, who have held that the way to stabilize Europe is to dig up "legitimate" rulers, how they would use the sorry royalty of Rumania.

Antonescu, of course, cannot survive the collapse of his country, which may not be far off. Incessant troubles with his "ally," Hungary, have actually required mobilization against that country. Guns never rest in the mountain forests of Siebenburgen. Antonescu's troops in Russia have been riddled with mutinies. Finally, when Hitler recently said that if Rumanian troops would not fight Russians they might at least replace Italian garrisons in Yugoslavia and Greece, Antonescu had to reply that this demand was impossible.

After victory, Russia will doubtless have some very definite ideas with respect to Rumania. It is not likely that, beyond recovering Bessarabia, Stalin would care to introduce an indigestible lump like Rumania into the U.S.S.R. But he would have justice as well as the tradition of his hero, Peter the Great, on his side if he determined that never again would Rumania and Bulgaria provide the means to attack Russia's underside through the Black Sea. Peter wanted security in the Black Sea and he labored as a carpenter with his men to build a fleet for that purpose. He also wanted the Bosporus, but European diplomacy never permitted Russia to get it. With the emergence of air power a practical substitute might be found, however.

The Axis, partly by sneaking small ships through the Bosporus and partly by assembling ships at Bulgarian and Rumanian ports, put threatening naval strength into the Black Sea. Russia may demand control of that menacing coast and of the air and naval bases upon it. She may well feel herself entitled to that security.

Dealing with Rumania should be no sentimental matter. It has been ruled by crooks and weaklings so long that it has become a dangerous cesspool. It should get no suspended sentence.