Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  Note that some formatting and column separation is lost in the process:

60
Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY
What Is a Minority?
As Wendell Willkie spoke of the
function of the opposition on Armistice
night, it was hard to imagine his receiving
anything but the most generous and sym-
pathetic response to his own calm and
reasonable statements. With great good
sense he outlined the job of a patriotic,
constructive opposition, and the American
public, in its great good sense, seems to
have accepted his outline enthusiastically.
But a few learned observers have taken
exception to it. The business of the oppo-
sition, some of them suggest, is purely and
simply to function in Congress. There is
really no recognized and useful role for a
defeated Presidential candidate, they say,
since the opposition is neither more nor
less than the Republican representation in
Congress. In fact, Mr. Willkie is not the
spokesman of a minority of 22,000,000
citizens at all, they tell us, because, for-
sooth, the people who voted the Repub-
lican ticket are not a minority. Oh, yes,
there is a minority party—the Republican
party. It’s a minority party because it did
not elect a President or as many members
of Congress as the Democratic party. But
there’s no minority. There are just in-
distinguishable American citizens.
Thus tangled in their own mental fly-
paper, Mr. Willkie’s critics invite us to
contemplate the functions of the oppo-
sition.
Most of us, Mr. Willkie included,
approach the question more simply. Take
the argument that the opposition is mere-
ly the Republican representation in Con-
gress, for instance. That never occurred to
us, any more than the defeated-candidate-
for-the-Presidency-has-no-recognized-and-
useful-role notion occurred to us, because
we happen to remember our American his-
tory.
Millions of us remember William Jen-
nings Bryan and Theodore Roosevelt,
among others. We know that in the 29
years during which Bryan was a national
figure he held public office only once: he
served a short time as Secretary of State.
But, by his effective advocacy of certain
ideas, he wielded a power almost as great
as that of any President. Surely his in-
fluence was as lasting as that of any Presi-
dent of his time. Much the same can be
said of T.R., who, as ex-President, exer-
cised great influence for eleven years.
We need not agree with the principles
which either of these men advocated. But
we cannot deny their influence upon their
time. Their very freedom from the onerous
responsibilities of public office during many
of the years of their careers, far from di-
minishing, served to enhance their use-
fulness. Each devoted his time, when out
of office, to written and spoken expression
of views on public affairs. Mr. Willkie pro-
poses to do likewise. In so doing, his own
abilities will be the measure of his in-
fluence.
Certainly, even before Mr. Willkie’s
speech, there was a demand that the prin-
ciples for which Mr. Willkie stood in the
campaign be defended in the days to come.
That demand made Mr. Willkie’s decision
inevitable. His function is properly that
of elaborating principles endorsed by a
vast portion of the American voters. It is
not the job of innocuous silence. It is not
the job of abdicating in favor of a minority
in Congress. And it is assuredly not the
duty to accept a Cabinet post in the Ad-
ministration.
As Mr. Willkie himself pointed out,
the position of a Cabinet officer in this
government is not like that of a Cabinet
officer in England. The President is the
Cabinet here. He can and does make de-
cisions—and important ones—without con-
sulting his Cabinet or the leaders of his
party in Congress. If Mr. Willkie were Mr.
Knudsen—a man who had specific and
expert knowledge of the mechanics of pro-
duction—the question of his indispensa-
bility in the defense effort might be raised.
But Mr. Willkie, like Mr. Roosevelt, has
no specialized qualification for a special-
ized subordinate task. Each, as it happens,
is the symbol and spokesman of a political
point of view. A pro forma merger would
invite frustration. Men working together
who differ profoundly on basic policies
must end either in tragic incompatibility
or unstable compromise.
If, then, it is Mr. Willkie’s job to serve
as chief advocate of the opposition, what
is the opposition for which he speaks? Is
it, as he believes, the 22,000,000 people
who voted for him? Or is it, as his critics
would have us believe, merely the Re-
publican representation in Congress?
To say that the 22,000,000 people who
voted for Mr. Willkie are not a political
minority because they are all American
citizens is like saying that native-born red-
headed people are not a physiological
minority because they are all American
citizens. Of course the 22,000,000 Willkie
voters are American citizens. Who said
they were not? What is said is that, by
their own free votes, these men and wom-
en declared that they favored the political
views represented by Mr. Willkie. The
other millions who voted approval of the
views represented by Mr. Roosevelt consti-
tute the majority of American political
opinion. The millions whose candidate was
not elected constitute the minority.
This concept of the majority and
the minority is not new in America. We
accept it instinctively. It is part of the
concept of American party government.
True, it is not like party government in
England, where the terms “majority” and
“minority” refer to a division in Parlia-
ment. But why should we think it is? In
England parties are an integral part of the
fabric of government: parties work inside
the regular political institutions. In the
United States parties exist outside the
framework of the government. All the
means by which a party formulates and
presents its policies and selects its candi-
dates for high office have grown up by
custom, removed from the official organi-
zation of the state. The influence of a
leader—a majority or a minority leader—
is rooted in that custom and thrives ac-
cording to his own force and capacity.
The political minority in the United
States is not just the people who happen
to serve in government positions and who
were nominated by the party temporarily
out of power. Under our system, those like
the Republicans now in Congress are not
completely representative of the national
minority. They are, in fact, representative
of the majorities that elected them in the
states and districts. Only in a most in-
direct way can they and do they speak for
the millions who live in states and dis-
tricts which have elected Democrats.
Our Constitution was expressly designed
to hold in check the excesses of a power-
ful majority. That is why we have had our
balance among the three coordinate
branches of the national government. That
is largely why we set up the two-term tra-
dition. These restraints are now in large
part destroyed or nullified. The courts,
Congress and the Executive may be ex-
pected to move to the tempo of a single
philosophy of government. The two-term
tradition is as dead as the dinosaur. But
out of its infinite capacity for self-preser-
vation, democracy can shape a new check—
the check of a self-conscious minority
party.
This may somehow reestablish that bal-
ance whose need every observer of gov-
ernment has recognized for centuries. Our
capacity for statesmanship may yet be as
great as that of the Fathers who, having
given us a balanced government, thought,
mistakenly, we now see, that they had per-
manently solved the problem of limiting
power.
Just as parties once provided the means
for operating a stiff and disjointed con-
stitutional system, so may they now pro-
vide the means of protecting the people
against a too closely integrated govern-
ment.