Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column structure:


**What Is the British Empire?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Since a preliminary to any peace
settlement must be a clearer under-
standing between two major prospective
makers of that peace, it is regrettable
that so many voices have arisen in this
country to deplore Prime Minister
Churchill's statement that he did not
become Prime Minister "to preside
over the liquidation of the British
Empire." Such criticism fully justifies
the familiar complaint of Englishmen
that Americans do not define the words
"British Empire" in the same way
they do. Plainly, if Americans under-
stood what Churchill—what any Eng-
lishman, for that matter—conceives the
British Empire to be, they would bless
rather than condemn such a comment
as Churchill's.

Perhaps the best way to approach a
unity of thought on this subject is to
see it in constitutional terms, because
Americans, like the British, are consti-
tutionalists. A constitution is not made
in a day, whether it is written or un-
written. It grows through generations.
It defines, by custom and tradition, the
rights of individuals and the powers of
government. The constitutional tradi-
tions of all English-speaking people go
back to decisions and principles evolved
in the British Isles over centuries of
conflict.

Ultimately, Parliament became the
spokesman for those constitutional
principles, and the Crown became their
symbol. As people migrated from the
British Isles to find homes in the far
corners of the earth, they retained
citizenship under their constitution and
continued their allegiance to it. But by
that time Parliament was performing a
double function. It ruled the tight little
Isle and it supervised a scattered group
of people abroad—people whose forms
of government differed widely. Thus
there grew up distinctions in detail be-
tween government in England and
government in English-speaking colo-
nies abroad. In fact, there grew two
constitutions. Both were rooted in the
same basic liberties, but each differed
in its methods of application.

This distinction between the Consti-
tution of England and the Constitution
of the British Empire is not new. It
is not of this generation. In 1775, less
than a month before the guns blazed
at Lexington and Concord, Edmund
Burke, in his final appeal for peace in
America, argued the distinction at
length. "Such, Sir," he said, "is my
idea of the Constitution of the British

Empire, as distinguished from the
Constitution of Britain; and on these
grounds I think subordination and
liberty may be sufficiently reconciled
through the whole . . . enough surely
for the ease and happiness of man."

Never, in all the years since Burke
spoke, has it been more important than
it is in 1943 to see this constitutional
distinction, as well as this constitutional
unity. In these years, the United States
declared and enforced its independence
from the Crown. It made its own
constitution. But in doing so, it caught,
enlarged, and put into words the very
principles of freedom that it had in-
herited from the older unity.

Meantime, as the scattered units of
the British Empire progressively moved
toward greater self-government, the
unity of constitutional liberty held
them together. As a symbol of that
unity, they all retained the Crown.
But to claim that the permanent as-
sociation of free men over the world,
with varying degrees of independent
action, is of less importance than the
symbol of unity is to claim that a flag
is more important than a nation, a
whistle more important than a loco-
motive, a hymn more important than
a church. For more than a hundred
years the sovereigns of England have
not only acquiesced in their limited role,
but have, with dignity and fidelity,
strengthened its constitutional basis.

There is no surrender of our own
identity as a nation in recognizing the
great constitutional fabric of freedom
that resides in the British Empire. Nor
is there the slightest surrender of our
national independence in seeing how
similar to it are the deed traditions in
our own Constitution. We share with
the members of the British Empire joint
authorship of the largest and the most
recent chapter in the history of liberty.
Americans and English alike are too
civilized to crave domination over each
other or over others. Experience, most
of it bitter experience, has taught both
peoples the necessity of ever-increasing
self-government everywhere.

But now that the working of fate
has given the United States and the
British Commonwealth of Nations, or
British Empire, if you will, a worldwide
duty to perform together, the more we
can find of unity between our ideals
and principles, the better we can do
that task. The first step is that we
understand each other.