Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Uncle Sam's Businesses

by Raymond Moley

INTERIOR Secretary-designate McKay
says that if there is any good plan
to get the Federal government out of
the electric-power business, he favors
it. Also, since election, Congressman
Frederic R. Coudert Jr. has been plan-
ning a drive in Congress to get govern-
ment out of as many businesses as
possible. These expressions of opinion
gain added importance on the back-
ground of Gen. Dwight D.
Eisenhower's selections for
so many important posts.
For it may be assumed that
the more businessmen there
are in government, the less
the government will push
into business.
Businessmen know by ex-
perience how ineffective
and wasteful Uncle Sam
proves to be when he tries
to run a business enterprise. Govern-
ment by tradition and practice is
equipped to regulate, but not to ad-
minister business. For the indispensa-
ble ingredient in business is judgment,
and a successful enterprise is built
upon thousands of decisions guided
by the sound lessons of experience.
Nevertheless, politicians eager for
power and over two decades abetted
by socialistic economics thrust the
Federal government deeper and
deeper into business. The Hoover
commission four years ago thus por-
trayed the extent of these enterprises:
"There are 40 agencies in the Fed-
eral government engaged in lending,
guaranteeing, and insuring (other
than social-security and pension agen-
cies). Nine of these agencies, with
loans outstanding, have either ceased
lending or are in liquidation.
"There are about 100 important
business enterprises which the Fed-
eral government owns or in which it is
financially interested. These concerns
engage directly or indirectly in lending
money; guaranteeing loans and depos-
its; writing life insurance; the produc-
ing, distributing, and selling of electric
power and fertilizers; the operation of
railways and ships; the purchasing
and selling of farm products; and the
smelting and sale of metals.
"The government's direct invest-
ment in these enterprises is in excess
of $20,000,000,000, and there are fur-
ther authorized commitments to sup-
ply about $14,000,000,000 to them.
In addition, the government guaran-
tees directly and indirectly about
$90,000,000,000 of deposits or mort-
gages, and the life insurance written
by government agencies approaches
$40,000,000,000."
The phony bookkeeping so common
in government can probably make out
a profit on much of this business. But
it could probably be established by a
Congressional investigation
such as Coudert suggests,
that the taxpayer is meet-
ing large deficits.
The Hoover commission
could not dig to the bottom
of this question. It was
limited by law to an exami-
nation of the administration
of government agencies. It
was not authorized to ques-
tion their necessity. Also, the
commission itself was split down the
middle on its report on Federal busi-
ness enterprises. Four conservative
members joined Hoover in the main
report. Three New Dealers dissented.
The four others differed on details.
From here on, the major direction
of policy should be to get the Federal
government out of businesses.
One of the most unfortunate fea-
tures of running government busi-
nesses by political judgments has to
do with geography. A given state or
region will raise a loud outcry because
it has a shortage of electric power.
This demand is articulated by mem-
bers of Congress, and by business, la-
bor, farm, and other organizations. A
plausible case is made for that state or
region. But two important factors are
also involved-first, that properly en-
couraged, private power companies
can supply the need; the second, that
drawing industries to that state or re-
gion may be at the expense of another
state or region. The ultimate decision
is made by sheer political power, in
which logrolling has a vital part.

IF SUCH needs were supplied by pri-
vate businesses, a much more
wholesome and natural process would
prevail. The element of profit and loss
would have a part. Also, the cost to
the taxpayer would be less.
Government-in-business, except in a
limited number of common services
and in rare emergencies, is expensive,
inefficient, and unnecessary.

Newsweek, January 5, 1953