PERSPECTIVE
GUNS AND BUTTER PLUS
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Inflation is no longer a threat. It is
a fact. The most practical way to
lessen its impact is to cut Federal
spending. But our President says we
must have guns and butter too.
Even if we concede that Congress
should continue military and welfare
outlays at the present rate, however,
there is plenty of fat in LBJ's 1967
budget of demands. And a lot of it is
in that vast pork-barrel authorization
in the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1965
—a miscellany of handouts for local
interests.
A good example is the Dickey-
Lincoln hydroelectric dams proposed
to be built on the St. John River, far
up in northern Maine.
This project was once included in
the famous Passamaquoddy dream
child of FDR which over the years
since 1935 has had several deaths
and resurrections. In 1935 Congress
provided $7 million for preliminary
plans. In 1936 Senator Vandenberg
induced the Senate to deny funds for
construction. In 1941 the Federal
Power Commission said the project
could not economically compete with
other sources of electric power. In
1948 the governments of the United
States and Canada asked the Interna-
tional Joint Commission to investigate
the plan. In 1956 the IJC reported
that "Quoddy" was not feasible.

THE DICKEY-LINCOLN SCHEME
In 1961 Interior Secretary Udall,
flushed with the power of his new
job, induced President Kennedy to
restudy the scheme, and in 1963 he
recommended it to the President. In
1965 he decided that harnessing the
tides of the Bay of Fundy was not
feasible, but at his suggestion Presi-
dent Johnson permitted the Dickey-
Lincoln project to be included in the
Rivers and Harbors bill with $800,000
to make engineering studies.
The idea is to build a large dam at
Dickey and a smaller, "reregulatory"
one at Lincoln School. The St. John
River rises in northwestern Maine,
flows north and for a short distance
forms the international boundary.
Then it turns into New Brunswick and
flows on to the sea. The bureaucrats'
estimate of cost is $321 million, which
would include 421 miles of transmis-
sion lines to Bangor, Augusta, Port-
land and Boston.

The annual operating cost esti-
mated by Jackson & Moreland, a con-
sulting firm, would be $19 million
rather than the Interior Department's
guess of $11 million. There would be
a deficit of $4,618,000 to be paid by
the Federal government.
Since New England needs plenty
of electric power, nineteen private
companies have joined in a plan
which will cost $1.5 billion to increase
their plant capacity during the next
seven years. This group would add
6,250,000 kilowatts to its production
from four nuclear, five steam and one
hydro plant and join all these by
transmission lines. Dickey-Lincoln's
capacity would be less than 1 per
cent to add to the total New England
capacity.

HYDRO WHITE ELEPHANT
These companies would provide
large sources of tax revenues for the
state, local and Federal governments.
That is the plus side, while the
Dickey-Lincoln plan would be a fur-
ther drain on Federal funds.
Moreover, the production cost per
kilowatt in such a Federal project
would be much higher than the costs
in the nuclear, steam and hydro
plants of the private companies. It is
quite probable that even before, or at
any rate shortly after Dickey-Lincoln
is built and operating, the lower costs
of nuclear and steam production
would make such a Federal project
with its transmission lines so costly as
to be wholly impracticable.
Thus, the Federal government
would have an expensive and unnec-
essary white elephant on its hands.
This project, with many others in the
United States, would stand as a grim
monument to the follies of this and
earlier generations.
The influences behind the building
of Dickey-Lincoln are the demand of
Maine for Federal spending the pub-
lic-power zealots in and out of the
Federal government, and the bu-
reaucracy of the Interior Department
and Army Corps of Engineers, always
intent on having bigger and more ex-
pensive projects to construct.
Here and in many other parts of the
Johnson budget are projects which
should be eliminated. If there is to be
economy, such proposals are where
Congress should apply the ax.

Newsweek, February 28, 1966