Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure:

**The Taft Tradition**

by Raymond Moley

SANTA BARBARA, CALIF.—When Robert A. Taft lost the nomination in 1940 to Wendell Willkie, a friend wrote to him saying that it was not in the Taft tradition to find frustration in defeat. His father had suffered the misfortune to occupy the Presidency at a moment when profound social and economic change made a split in the Republican Party inevitable. But William H. Taft rose above the men and circumstances which accomplished his defeat to be an enlightened and deeply respected Chief Justice.

Some who have written since the death of the son have overstressed the usefulness of his service since the convention a year ago. True, that demonstration was magnanimity and high patriotism. But it was the natural conduct of the same Taft who sought the nomination. It was no surprise to his friends. Like his father, the son contemptuously rejected the arts of the demagogue and by the simple force of character confounded his detractors. The comments since his death stress quite properly his superb intelligence, his indefatigable labors, his rugged honesty, and his grim courage. But these are but the trappings and the tools of greatness. What counts is the use to which so fine a mind is given, the purposes to which such labor is devoted, the matters in which honesty is shown, and the capacity to know when courage is needed. As a friend remarked in the Senate, Taft's constancy suggested Paul's admonition, "having done all, to stand." But there are different ways of identifying "the whole armor of God."

It was the lavish giving of all these priceless qualities to massive ideals that measured Taft's eminence. And the fact that those ideals were shared by so many of his countrymen explains the passionate devotion which they gave him. His supreme faith was in a system which guaranteed every individual's political and economic liberty and in the moral order behind and beyond that constitutional system. He saw the essential rightness of our constitutional order and his faith found its way into every cause that he espoused, every piece of legislation that he helped to frame, and every stricture that made up his criticisms of his opposition during the long years when he was the most authentic voice of the minority. His faith, like that of his father, was in liberty guarded by "the long still grasp of law."

He shared the fear of innumerable Americans that foreign entanglements unwisely entered into might dissipate our strength and impair our liberty at home. This his opponents called isolationism. But he lived to know the frustration of some of our foreign adventures and to see the stark reality of isolationism under the gentle name of neutrality become the policy of France and other European nations. He lived to see the irony in having his own country come to be known in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia as the archinterventionist. Taft fiercely defended two of the indispensable agencies of constitutionalism, the division of power between the President and the Congress and the two-party system.

Early in his campaign for the Senate in 1950 it was made known to him that he could have the practical certainty of success in the election if he would make an agreement across party lines. He grimly rejected the suggestion and chose to fight it out with every other man on his ticket. He realized that to destroy party responsibility is to invite chaos or even dictatorship.

IN NOTING the growing affection and confidence between the President and Taft it is only fair to say that the keen mind and uncompromising honesty of the senator could not have permitted the rapprochement had it not been clear that they shared a devotion to the rights of Congress and the two-party system. There could be no greater assurance of the President's fundamental ideals to those followers of Taft who must now share the task of unifying the party.

The finest, most generous, and most accurate epitaph was the statement of Herbert Hoover that Taft was the most nearly irreplaceable man in three generations.

Newsweek, August 17, 1953