Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


The Fruits Of Nonpartisanship

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—The only things
that will not grow in this fertile state
are two good and edible political parties. People accumulate, but parties
decay.

That is why it is so hard to appraise
the Dewey-Roosevelt campaign here.
The situation now can be made a little
clearer by describing what happened
in 1942, when Earl Warren ran for
Governor. It looked, at first, as if Mr.
Warren had no chance to beat Governor Culbert Olson, in the face of a
two-to-one preponderance of Democratic registered voters. But Mr. Warren, who had strong nonpartisan sentiments, entered both primaries. So did
Governor Olson, who lost the Republican nomination and almost lost that
of his own party. Mr. Warren then
made a campaign as a nonpartisan, although the Republican party loyally
supported him. Nonpartisan organizations helped get out the vote. He carried every county, including Los Angeles, but one. If Governor Warren, who will have to be the actual head of
the Republican campaign this year, can do for Mr. Dewey what he did for
himself, the state can go Republican.
But that will be true only if he succeeds in selling the Dewey candidacy
to vast numbers of persons who are
registered Democrats.

Mr. Dewey made a good impression
in California, although his Los Angeles speech was not as good as the
magnificent reception he received
here. People liked the Dewey Oklahoma speech better and have been re-broadcasting it ever since. Those who
labor at the job of collecting campaign contributions say that there was a
sharp pick-up after the Oklahoma
speech. Reports both in the San Francisco Bay region and in Los Angeles
are that it is not hard to get financial
support for the Dewey cause, which makes it hard to put much dependence
on some of the defeatist talk among
Republicans here.

The size and distribution of the
registration of voters is the only basis
for a judgment of the effectiveness of
Sidney Hillman's PAC here. The general picture of registration in the state
reveals that the PAC has not lived up
to advance billing.

Back in May, left-wing people
throughout the nation were cheering loudly over the success of the PAC in
defeating the able and experienced
Democratic congressman, John M. Costello, in his Hollywood district. But
Hollywood joy over this job has turned
to embarrassed silence, since the
charge has been made that Hollywood's gift to the Four Freedoms
was, in an earlier period of his crusading career, a member of the Ku
Klux Klan.

Serious people here regret the confusion that prevails in the political atmosphere. The reason for the trouble
is, in part, the rapidly changing character of the population. But, for the
most part, the cause has been the
deliberate destruction of responsible
party governments by laws providing
for all sorts of nonpartisan methods of
nomination and election. Mr. Costello's
defeat offers a good example of the
fact that nonpartisanship does not, in
reality, promote democracy. He ran
in both primaries in May. He won in
the Republican, but lost in the Democratic primary. So he could not get on
the ticket, although the number of
people who preferred him greatly exceeded those who voted for the man
who displaced him on the ticket. Mr.
Costello was a registered Democrat
and, under the law, could have had the
Republican nomination only if he had
also prevailed in the Democratic primary. In short, neither the voters nor
Mr. Costello could put him on the Republican ticket, although the law was
intended to promote perfect freedom
to move from one party to another or
to practice complete independence.

But political or intellectual independence cannot be created by legislation. The sins of the political parties
of a generation ago, which created the
nonpartisan movement that grew so
strong in states like California, were
often scarlet. But when parties are
destroyed, independence does not
necessarily grow in their place. Instead, there may spring up an infinite
variety of other forms of association.
Many of the groups that appear are
not political at all, but provide convenient screens for political ambition.

The result may be government by
class groups and minorities of all
sorts, whose accession to power may
be the open road to their ultimate
destruction.