Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:


**Tammany's Indian Summer**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The retirement of New York City's reform mayor, Fiorello H. La Guardia, and the remarkable strength of the regular Democratic candidate in the campaign for the succession bring to the fore, once again, the problem of Tammany as an institution and an issue. People distant from New York need to be reminded, from time to time, that Tammany is the Democratic machine neither of New York City nor of New York County (Borough of Manhattan), where it has its home. It is a private society, but it serves as a sort of clubhouse and rendezvous for the official Democratic organization in New York County.

For a good many years, the proportion of New York City's population resident in New York County has been declining. But this shift of population is only a minor factor in the decline of New York County's influence in the city's Democratic politics. For Tammany still supplies a larger Democratic vote in proportion to its population than any other county in the city. In 1944, its Roosevelt majority was not only relatively, but absolutely the largest in the city.

But its relative importance in the city has disastrously declined. Edward J. Flynn of the Bronx and Frank Kelly of Kings (Brooklyn) practically dictate the personnel of citywide tickets. New York County is consulted, but it cannot prevail. The explanation of this is in the quality of leadership and in a great change in the sources of party strength.

For twelve years, Mr. Flynn has been the most influential New York City figure in Washington. He was a close friend of President Roosevelt. He did more, in Chicago, to put Mr. Truman on the ticket than any other leader. Since 1933 his influence over Federal patronage in New York has been dominant. He has had, in addition, the great prestige of having served as National Democratic Chairman in the third-term campaign. What is more, he is a more astute tactician than any other New York Democrat.

In the old days, the district leaders carried on a crude social-democracy of their own. They levied an unofficial tax on many businesses which were vulnerable to official action—saloons, stores, shipping, utilities, landlords and others. This tax was paid in political contributions and in favors. These were passed on to the consumer or general public. The leader, out of the means thus provided, did favors for voters. The poor were fed, the unfortunate succored, the jobless employed, the sick cared for, the wayward paroled or let off, and even the indigent dead given a decent burial. In return, the recipients of the leaders' bounty voted as directed.

Most of this is gone. Government, labor organizations and employers do these services through innumerable helping agencies. The consumer still pays in taxes and in prices. Ministering angels are no longer in the clubhouse, but in the White House, the Albany Executive Chamber and in the Mayor's Office, and the people vote for them.

Leaders like Messrs. Flynn and Kelly act as clearinghouses for government benefits. The business goes with more precision and possibly more efficiency, albeit with less color, romance and hypocrisy.

The leaders in New York County, since the days of Charles F. Murphy, have been a fairly weak lot. They have been subject to factional fights among the district leaders. Things have got out of hand. They have not appreciated the changes described above, as have Messrs. Flynn and Kelly. As a result, some district leaders in the years of slim city patronage have fallen under the influence of contributions from figures who conduct businesses with cloudy implications. They have also depended too largely on contributions from those who have sought nominations to offices still controlled by Democratic votes. The result is continuing distrust of the New York County organization. It remains to be seen whether the influence of Messrs. Flynn and Kelly can prevent New York County from falling into bad ways when new sources of patronage are opened. If that does not happen, New York County and Tammany will, once more, be the millstones around the neck of New York Democracy.