Here's the extracted text from the right-hand column of the provided image.  I've tried to maintain the original formatting as much as possible, including paragraph breaks and the use of bold text where it appears in the original.

Who'll Be Who in 1948?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It must be a terrible job, since only one man in the world says he wants it. Harold Stassen is our only avowed candidate for President. Other eligibles have devised nice formulas of limited renunciation. Some are silent.

But nobody else is silent. As a topic of conversation, the subject is worn as smooth as a schoolmaster's breeches. Everybody asks about it. Last week in New York it ranked with the newsprint shortage among the folks at the meeting of the American Newspaper Publishers Association.

It is easier to state categorically why no one can name the Republican candidate than to attempt to predict the choice. A mass of influences will bear on the contest—influences which are not made by the plans or will of any man. Our relations with Russia and the world, domestic prosperity or depression, the fortunes of Truman, the attitudes of candidates toward each other, the mood of the country—all these are unpredictable, and all will affect the choice.


**M**ost talked about of the possibilities is Thomas E. Dewey. He has a good many detractors. Sometimes it seems as if nobody wants him but the people who vote in polls. But even those who do not like him admit that, as Governor of New York, he has marked up the most remarkable administrative success of recent years. Wise observers note that Dewey has had a genius for coming back to win after defeat. Others say no Republican has been renominated after a defeat. So what? Two fellows named Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson came back after lickings by the Adams family. If only a doubtful tradition stood against Dewey, he could be nominated now. For Dewey is stronger than a superstition.

There are, of course, solid opponents of Dewey in the Republican party. In state after state, particularly in the Midwest, powerful leaders are against him. In the West and Far West there are Republicans who disagree with this or that speech made by Dewey in 1944. There are others who don't relish the prospect of John Foster Dulles as Secretary of State.

But nominations are made by politicians, and politicians favor people who can get votes, whether they like them or not. If polls continue to show Dewey as the overwhelming choice of the man in the street, he may run away with the nomination, as he did in 1944.

The national political magazine, *The Republican*, has published the results of a poll of 3,500 GOP county chairmen. These grass-roots politicians said they understood and approved the domestic policies of five leading Republicans in this order: Dewey, Vandenberg, Bricker, Taft, Warren. On foreign issues they put their choices in this order: Vandenberg, Dewey, Taft, Bricker, and Stassen.

This confirms a belief that Taft is not strong enough to get the nomination. More surprising to the uninitiated is the strength of Bricker among rank-and-file political leaders. Probably, if the election seemed to be in the bag at convention time, the delegates would take Bricker.

Stassen is popular among those people who call themselves liberal, read a great deal and have a generally wide outlook. He is dreadfully handicapped by the fact that he is out of office and has no access to the news columns except through his travels and speeches.

In calculating chances, it must not be forgotten that all the prospects and possibilities have their own special attitudes toward all the other hopefuls. Warren and Dewey are not unfriendly. Taft and Bricker are opposed to Dewey, and Dewey is opposed to them. Vandenberg enjoys a fair degree of good will from all—a feeling which may change if, in 1948, he seems to be a threat. Stassen realizes that Dewey may hold Senator Ball's 1944 defection against him and hopes he can convince Dewey that he did not approve of Ball's action.

**A**s things look now, most primary states, such as California, Illinois, Ohio and possibly Pennsylvania, will have favorite sons. This will be a handicap for Dewey, as it was for Willkie, unless he wants to carry the fight to his opponents in their own states. Another important factor is the popularity of Vandenberg among senators, especially the younger Republican senators.

In all this speculation, however, do not overlook Sen. Ray Baldwin of Connecticut.