Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


**A Way to World Order**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Governor Dewey's warning to the
Dumbarton Oaks conference, President
Roosevelt's Puget Sound speech and
the Walter Lippmann-Sumner Welles
debate in this magazine last week,
taken together, all show how
difficult it is to hold a debate or
conduct a political campaign on the
issue of the future organization of the
world to promote peace. I feel certain
that peace can be reasonably assured
for at least a generation to come and I
believe that it will be. But before the
public becomes utterly confused and
completely skeptical of any peace plan
during the ensuing ten weeks of this
campaign, a few rules for following the
debate might well be kept in mind.
These rules should include the following
points:

1-When we talk about a peace-
preserving organization, let us make a
distinction as to time. The organization
to clear up the mess left by the war
and the business of policing Germany
and Japan is to do a two to five years'
job. The organization to carry on
after that is something else again.

2-Let us also make distinctions as
to space. The Pacific and East Asiatic
problem is not the same as the European
and Mediterranean, or the Pan
American jobs.

3-In talking about world organization,
it is well to keep the specific people-
nation problems closer to the discussion.
When we talk about leagues and councils,
we are apt to forget that these are not
ends in themselves, but merely ways of
reaching ends. Some of the talk we hear
reminds me of a college teacher of city
government who spends so much time
making charts of departmental organization
that his students go away thinking that a
city is something chalked on a blackboard,
rather than a conglomerate of people,
streets, water, garbage, fire, crime, music
and schools.

4-When we talk of small nations, let
us think of what they are. There is no
small-nation problem, as such; there are
dozens of small nations, each with its own
special problems. Most of them are forever
fixed in territory, interests and population.
Their common concern is to live safely where
they are. This is not met merely by giving
them small votes in a big league. The problem
of Denmark is not solved by doing something
about Denmark, but by doing something
about Germany. The small nations will take
care of themselves, if we prevent aggression
by the major powers.

5-Finally, we must decide what the
relation of the United States is to be to the
specific problems of various regions in the
world. Most of us would agree that our
interest in Pan America is greater than in
the Western Pacific or in Europe. American
commitments in each region should be specified
in treaties with the nations which also have
interests in that region.

Most of those who have most realistically
studied the problem of postwar peace have come
to believe that it must be solved by first thinking
of world problems in terms of a series of regional
problems. Three years ago, on this page, at the
time of the Atlantic Charter, I wrote:

"The trouble with a single formula for world
peace is that there are several regional problems
of world disorder. Each needs special treatment,
and the relation of the United States to each must
be different in emphasis and method." Later, I said
that this meant at least three regional councils, perhaps
one for the Pacific and East Asia, one for Europe and
the Mediterranean, and one for Pan America. After
these three councils are built, with considerable
interlocking of the directorates of each, the proposal
ran, a world league of all nations for consultation
and the constructive making of world law could be
created.

Since that time, the same conclusion has been
expressed by a good many people, including Winston
Churchill and Herbert Hoover. It is gratifying to see
Mr. Lippmann and Mr. Welles, who, apparently, in
1941 believed the Atlantic Charter an adequate formula
for peace, now come to the regional view.

The President's disposition to treat the Pacific as a
special series of problems shows how those who have to
come to grips with the realities are compelled to break
down the question of world peace into compartments.
The world is a big place, and no single slogan or charter
or formula can answer its diversified questions. When
we stabilize each of the great regions, we have stabilized
the world.