Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column structure and avoiding overlap:


NEWSWEEK DECEMBER 21, 1942

Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Budgeting the Future

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It is natural that, as the year ends,
talking and thinking about American
industry should focus on its fabulous
war production. But there is an equally
important development in the industrial
scene that should not be overlooked.
While management intensifies its war
efforts, it is also quietly planning for
peacetime prosperity.

A preliminary inquiry recently made
to a selected list of corporations indi-
cates that an astonishing proportion
have already created special depart-
ments or assigned special groups of their
managerial officers to study and develop
postwar plans. These studies involve
plans for plant reconversion and the re-
designing of previous lines of manu-
facture. But, beyond this, they have to
do with the creation of new products
and completely new processes of manu-
facture. New competitive situations are
being examined. New marketing meth-
ods and new channels of distribution
are under consideration.

Industrial leaders are not doing a lot
of talking about these postwar plans for
a very simple reason. They do not want
to be subjected to criticism for seeming
to be thinking of peace when the war
has yet to be won. But because of this
reticence on their part, some com-
mentators have undertaken to criticize
management for lack of vision.

That's one thing the professional
viewers-with-alarm can well forget
about. American management needs no
prodding from them on the subject of
vision. Without their vision and the
gigantic plant it built, the contribution
this country has made to the United
Nations would have been impossible.
Without it, our production record could
never have been attained.

Our industrial plant was built over
the past generation almost wholly by
private money. It was built in anticipa-
tion of public demands for more and
better goods. The same plant, now vast-
ly enlarged for war needs, will serve an
enormously sharpened demand after the
war. And the vision that created it, in
the first place, will not limit itself mere-
ly to meeting a deferred demand. It
looks to a postwar America that will
want far more than the things it went
without during the war.

But there must be vision in those who
consume as well as in those who pro-
duce in order to provide the revolution-
ary expansion that will save us from
want, depression and catastrophe. There
has never been any doubt about the
capacity to produce in this country. Yet
unless there is vision in consumers,
there will be no market for what is pro-
duced.

Even now industrial managers are
not concerned about how new private
financing of billions is to be drawn out
of dammed up reservoirs of savings.
They believe that is not impossible of
achievement. Nor are they concerned
with any lack of confidence in their own
capacity to produce better and more
interesting things. Their laboratories
and blueprints are full of such things-
from light metals and plastics to tele-
vision devices and food products. But
what are consumers going to want
most? What will they replace first-
their car or their house? Where will the
tourists go after their long enforced stay
at home? Will the zest for fine feathers
be lost forever after the privations of
war?

The complete answer is that con-
sumers will not want the things that
they have not heard about. Though
they are already budgeting their future,
the items in that budget are limited
to the things they have seen. They
have no gift of seeing into closed labo-
ratories. They are human, and they
have to be told.

It is not too soon to begin to tell peo-
ple soberly and realistically about the
potentialities of the future. It will take
no edge off the war effort to begin pic-
turing for them the possibilities ahead.
Business is willing to tell these things,
but hesitates, for understandable rea-
sons, to do all the telling itself. It is a
job for those who deal directly with the
public-those who reach it through
lectures, magazines, newspapers and
radio. It can no more divert energies
from the war effort than the production
of fiction or plays. And it will not only
provide a lift for Americans, but, on the
solid, material side, store up the de-
mand for things upon which the future
will depend.