Perspective

After Japan's Election

by Raymond Moley

THE expectations of Prime Minister
Ikeda's Liberal-Democratic Party
in Japan were substantially attained
in the November election. The
strength of the party in the new Diet
will be 296 seats which together with
a few independents will provide a
few more than 300. The Socialist
groups, in the unlikely event that they
vote together, will have not more than
162. The mandate in the popular vote
was more impressive, for the ratio
there was greater.

The results indicate that the elec-
torate was genuinely sophisticated. It
resisted mass, emotional appeals as
well as the leftist slant of the writers
in the mass-circulation Japanese press.
Japanese women accounted for half
the vote cast. This is, no doubt, their
response to the privilege of exercising
their rights at the polls in the face of a
tradition of masculine supremacy.

The Socialists, while still consider-
able in numbers, are far weaker in
their capacity to present a real pro-
gram of opposition. They have relied
too heavily on anti-Kishi and anti-
American gestures. When they at-
tempt to put together a positive
program of their own, they find them-
selves divided, confused, and intellec-
tually bankrupt. The right wing of the
Socialists talks Marxism, but they
would shrink from any real socialist
issues. The leftists merely attack.

EXPERIENCE AND AIM

Prime Minister Hayato Ikeda, after
he succeeded Nobusuke Kishi, moved
with caution, and it has been noted
that in his campaign he spoke with a
certain humility. But there is strong
fiber in the man, a fine intelligence,
and great experience in those eco-
nomic affairs which will determine the
place of Japan in the world. While
he stands firmly for close relations
with the United States, he will un-
derstand and give greater attention
to domestic economic affairs than any
other leader who might have been
selected. He will have the problem
of reconciling the factions in his party
for, like Vice President Nixon here,
he will have his Rockefellers and
Goldwaters to assimilate.

Greater industrial expansion is his
aim. He promised to double Japan's
gross national product by 1970. Con-
sidering the miracle of the past four-
teen years, that is not unattainable.
His formula for growth is not, as is
that of the victorious liberal Demo-
crats here, by more government in
business but by sympathetic govern-
ment encouragement of the im-
mensely energetic and creative
business interests. This prospective in-
dustrial and trade expansion will be
carried outward over the seven seas
to the markets of the world. This will
not be an invasion of the United
States, but German, British, and
other European producers and also
Soviet Russia will find Japanese com-
petition keen in Southeast Asia, the
Middle East, Africa, Latin America,
and even at home.

MANDATE AND TEST

As an expert in industrial and finan-
cial affairs, Prime Minister Ikeda has
no rival in Japan. He has bold and
imaginative policies. He has served in
significant Cabinet positions and was
no accidental and compromise choice
to succeed Kishi. He has none of the
cheap camaraderie of the politician.
His dignity and self-reliant attitude
have often been ascribed by foreign
correspondents to the airs of a "bu-
reaucrat." But these traits are those
of a man who knows well what he
says, who is selective in his utter-
ances, and who wears responsibility
like a well-fitted garment.

The firm texture of his character
will be tested in the task he now faces
in providing what has been Japan's
great need since the governments of
Yoshida: Law and order at home,
forcefulness abroad (especially in the
United Nations in supporting the
cause of the Western world), without
arrogance or humility. For he has a
clear and positive mandate from a
nation that deserves a place among
the great powers, especially in eco-
nomic affairs.

Ikeda's difficulties are not limited
to dealing with a stubborn and some-
times disorderly Socialist opposition.
His own Liberal-Democratic Party has
several elements that will contend for
representation in the Cabinet and in
other issues. The overriding danger
is a frustration of the emerging two-
party system, which would be a
national calamity.

Newsweck, December 19, 1960