Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

TVA After 25 Years

by Raymond Moley

ON MAY 18, no inconsiderable enthusiasm over the entire 80,000 square miles served by the Tennessee Valley Authority marked that agency’s birthday. This commemorative event comes just as legislation is pending in Congress to expand greatly the independence and operations of the institution.

The TVA, like many other agencies of the Federal government, was a child of economic distress. But, unlike many other alphabetical agencies established in 1933, it was a permanent affair. The TVA, however, was not a product of the so-called Brain Trust, as were most of the other agencies started by President Roosevelt. Indeed, the titular head of that group during 1932 was as much astonished as almost everyone else when, sometime before the new President was inaugurated, there burst into the press the revolutionary concept of an immense experiment in planned economy for a great region, to be built around the long-dormant Muscle Shoals installation of World War I.

The idea, as well as the detailed provisions of the act, came from Sen. George Norris, a dedicated battler for public ownership of power. There had never been the slightest suggestion of such a plan in candidate Roosevelt’s campaign. All that he had to say was that the Federal government should develop Muscle Shoals as a “measuring rod” in the regulation of private utilities.

PLENARY POWER

The act itself was unique in several respects. It provided that the directors should be in sympathy with the objectives of the project, which were indeterminate. A director might be removed under the curious charge of “contumacy,” a provision which proved to be something that the President didn’t like. Also, there should be no politics in the selection of personnel, and the working force should not be under civil-service regulations.

The purpose of TVA as defined in the act included unified development of the Tennessee River area under the complete control of a corporation wholly owned by the Federal government; flood control in the entire valley; navigation aid; reforestation and the proper use of marginal lands, and agricultural and industrial development of the valley; operation of government power and chemical properties; and the economic and social well-being of the people of the valley and adjoining territory.

I am not concerned with terminology here. But if this is not Socialism, then Socialists at home and abroad who have hailed it as a great first step to the abundant life are badly fooled. Certainly to call the TVA “democracy in action,” as its adherents hail it, is a misnomer because the directorate responsible only to the President and Congress has plenary power—a power that has grown with the years.

A PROSPEROUS CHILD

According to a report of the Comptroller General of the United States issued less than a year ago, the Federal government from the beginning to June 30, 1957, has made $2,041,500,542 available to the TVA. The TVA has repaid $277,908,515. In the same period TVA has had a net income of $413,430,539 from its power operations and net expenses of $175,818,690 for its other operations. Hence, the equity of the Federal government was a little over $2 billion.

There has been no requirement that the TVA pay interest on this investment. Uncle Sam, says the agency, is not a creditor but a stockholder—in short, is holding the bag.

The Comptroller General has repeatedly recommended that this prosperous child pay interest on this money, but Congress has never required it. Nor does the TVA pay any Federal taxes on its property or operations. It pays local and state governments something “in lieu of taxes,” but private companies point out that while these “in lieu” payments were only 3.88 per cent of gross revenues in 1957, investor-owned companies paid 22.7 per cent of their gross in 1957.

The Kerr bill, which would permit the TVA to finance its own expansion by bonds secured by its very large profits, passed the Senate last August and is now pending in the House. It has been strongly condemned by the Comptroller General. The merits and demerits of that proposal I shall consider later.

Newsweek, May 26, 1958

Page 189 of 1197