Here's the text from the provided image, extracted and formatted to avoid overlapping columns:


Don't Call Them Vandals

by RAYMOND MOLEY

It isn't fair to call the Nazis vandals.
It just isn't fair to the Vandals. For
centuries the world has done those
barbarians a great wrong. From all accounts,
they were a simple lot—a bunch of hicks
who wandered into the china shop of
civilization, pawed over some highly
breakable things in awe and admiration,
accidentally broke a few and were later
themselves broken up and absorbed by
the Western countries into which they
came. They were by origin Germanic.
Their sack of Rome in 455 was not
ferocious. Pope Leo received their leader,
Genseric, more or less peacefully.

Compare this with the sack of Naples.
The Nazis thoroughly soaked with gasoline
the books and buildings of the library of
the Royal Society, the buildings of the
University of Naples, the third oldest in
the world, and applied fire and grenades.
The fury of their attack upon the precious
monuments of Rome is not yet known.
These Nazis are, remember, a disciplined
army drawn from one of the most literate
nations in the world.

In 1527, 1,100 years after Genseric,
Germans again visited Rome. They had
made progress in brutality. According to
the Cambridge Modern History, they
"rejoiced to burn and to defile what all
the world had adored. Churches were
desecrated, women, even the religious,
violated, ambassadors pillaged, cardinals
put to ransom, ecclesiastical dignitaries
and ceremonies made a mockery, and the
soldiers fought among themselves for the
spoil."

Pope Clement VII, a member of the
Medici clan, refused the "protection" of
the invaders, donned his robes, mounted
his throne and prepared to meet his
fate. The fury passed, and he survived.
In the face of this history, can Hitler
really believe that Pius XII, an abler and
more widely experienced man than
Clement, will flinch? Pius is no stranger
to Germans. Some 30,000,000 German
Catholics know of his courage and
superlative diplomacy in Germany during
and after the last war. He has faced
German guns before. His role in this
emergency is to confront Hitler with the
most serious crisis of the Führer's black
career. If harm comes to the Pope, if he
is removed by force—and force would be
necessary—the loyalty of 30,000,000
German Catholics may explode in wrath.

But the desecration of Rome and other
great centers of artistic, intellectual and
religious interest is inevitable, since war is
war and Hitler has chosen to make Italy a
battleground. With money, some restoration
is possible, though no one can ever really
reconstruct the past.

The calculated and deliberate destruction
of precious things by the Nazis, however,
will enable the United Nations to press
home to Germans and Germanic satellites
the singular nature of the Nazi party. It
has had no parallel in history.

Destruction of cultural monuments in the
past has had four forms. First, the
inevitable wrecking which is not calculated.
Next, the thoughtless souvenir hunting
which is characteristic of all soldiers of all
nations. Then, the theft of valuable
objects. Finally, the calculated destruction
of symbols of a hated religion or culture.

The theft of treasure can be rectified, to
some degree, after a war. But the
calculated erasure of religious and cultural
symbols is another cup of tea. Modern
research shows that even the most flagrant
historic examples of that sort of thing have
been less willful than tradition has indicated.
Titus wanted to save the Temple in
Jerusalem, but a soldier with a firebrand
frustrated his caution. The Arabs used the
Alexandrian library to heat their bath water,
but most of its treasures had been scattered
long before the Arabs came. The Turks
destroyed churches, but the wrecking of
the Parthenon was the result of its stupid
use as a powder magazine.

The Nazi terror, on the other hand, is a
deliberate extension of Goebbels's prewar
book-burning. The Nazis believe they have
a creed and a culture to supplant all others.
In the insane pattern of zealotry, they think
that means destroying the symbols of their
enemies. Their present barbaric behavior
shrieks that this war is more than a clash of
nations: It is a religious and cultural struggle
as well.

Bear in mind, as this sack of Rome
proceeds, the progression of the Germanic
conquerors from 453 to 1527 to 1943.
Which is not to conclude that the veneer of
civilization is thin, but that civilization has
the capacity to create evil as well as good.