Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Civil Rights—The Right Way
by Raymond Moley

IN THE days immediately following
the election I found in Texas a de-
termination by leading citizens to end
the long contention over civil rights.
One of those citizens, Neville Penrose
of Fort Worth, told me of his intention
to carry to this week’s Southern Gov-
ernors’ Conference a proposal for
practical action by the South to re-
solve this issue once and for all.
Mr. Penrose, it should be
noted, is no mere visionary.
A successful businessman,
he has labored for ten years
in the movement in Texas to
rid the Texas Democratic
Party of the yoke of
the Federal machine. On
Nov. 4 this was finally
achieved. Now he and other
Texans want to eliminate
from American politics the
malignant issue of racial relations.
It is recognized by reasonable peo-
ple, North and South, that several of
the measures repeatedly urged upon
Congress and perennially brought into
campaigns by Northern politicians are
wholly unnecessary.
The first of these phonies is Federal
anti-lynching legislation. The number
of lynchings of Negroes has dropped
from 130 in 1901 to one in 1951.
There would be much more point in
proposing Federal legislation to
prevent or punish gang murders
in New York or violence in labor
disputes in Illinois.
Progress toward granting everyone
the right to vote in primaries and elec-
tions has been equally marked. Fed-
eral interference there is unnecessary.
The requirement of equal educa-
tional facilities is now up to the courts.
That brings us to the final and most
hotly disputed proposal for Federal
laws: to enforce equality in employ-
ment opportunities.
Both parties backed away from this
issue in their platform, and both can-
didates seemed to favor action—if any
—by the states. Both seemed to be-
lieve that advisory boards or com-
missions could best promote “fair”
employment practices.
It is recognized in the South that
the initiative on this question should
come from the Southern States. To
that end, Mr. Penrose proposes an ex-
tension of an idea that has worked
wonders in eliminating long-standing
conflicts and abuses in the relations
between the 1,500,000 Spanish-
speaking people in Texas and the rest
of the state’s population. The Texas
legislature created an agency called
“The Good Neighbor Commission,” of
which Mr. Penrose has been chairman
for several years. Owing to the good
offices of this body and to the active
work of Governor Shivers, a wholly
new spirit of friendliness
and cooperation has grown
up in Mexican-American
relations. This is in large
part due to the improve-
ment in the status of Mexi-
can-born residents of Texas.
It has been recognized
by Governor Shivers, Mr.
Penrose, and others that
what can work so well in ad-
justing the relations of one
minority group can be successfully
applied in another—the Negro popula-
tion. Mr. Penrose attempted to fur-
ther this purpose by presenting to the
Resolutions Committee of the Demo-
cratic convention in July a platform
plank proposing that all governors try
to have all communities set up “hu-
man-relations councils” to further
equality, especially in the field of em-
ployment. This, it was hoped, would
extend the good work started in Texas
in the field of Mexican-American re-
lations to all minority relations all over
the nation. The proposal was not adopt-
ed, but Mr. Penrose has taken it to
the Southern Governors’ Conference.

WE IN the North must get into our
heads a realization that dominant
opinion in the South is just as en-
lightened, just as humane, and just as
progressive as opinion up here. The
leaders of Southern opinion are just as
determined to end race frictions as we
are. Their progress, without Federal
force, in eliminating mob violence and
voting discrimination proves it. They
know the Negro employment problem
better than we do, and they know it
cannot be solved by Federal force.
It is time for reasonable people,
North and South, to push aside the
politicians who have so viciously pro-
moted racialism to get votes and to
solve this problem by peaceful, vol-
untary efforts. Neville Penrose is one
of those reasonable people, and his
proposal deserves widespread support.

Newsweek, November 24, 1952