Here's the text from the provided image, avoiding the advertisement columns:

The Faith of Harold Stassen
by RAYMOND MOLEY

ST. PAUL, MINN.—Three years ago this spring, there appeared in this column an account of a conversation with Harold E. Stassen. He was then 36 and in his third term as Governor of Minnesota, clearing his desk and preparing to resign and go into the Navy. Stassen knew his state and he knew how to govern it. But his views on national and international problems were a bit tentative and academic.

The measure of a man, however, is not what he is, but how much he is growing. Last week, another visit with Mr. Stassen cleared up my earlier doubts. Three years in active service in the Navy, in the San Francisco Conference and in travel throughout his country have matured him. His mind is going places and, I believe, it is going to the right places. He has worked out a rounded attitude toward his personal destiny.

Stassen's faith is in the essential value of public education, whatever may be the fate of the man who does the educating. In his travels and speeches and conferences, he is talking and thinking with people about the country's problems. He believes that if thinking people can move toward rational solutions of their problems, somehow his personal future will be a happy one, wherever chance may call him for public service.

As a part of his program of cooperative education, he is giving his approval to the creation throughout the country of Republican forum organizations. The objective of these groups is to clarify and mobilize the views of young people, especially of veterans, on public questions. There will be thousands of such forums, and much of Stassen's energy will be given to personal appearances before these groups.

These are not like the Willkie Clubs of 1940. The latter were formed in the heat of a campaign. In many cases, serious friction developed between them and the party organization. But Stassen, unlike Willkie, believes in the Republican party. The groups he will form will enlarge and fortify the party and provide it with the youthful approach which will enable it to broaden its appeal and to freshen its policies.

Deep in the Stassen personality is a belief in education as such. His roots are in the enlightened educational system of a great state. His alma mater, the University of Minnesota, is an integral part of every aspect of the state's life. University graduates go out and dominate its political, economic and social life. Stassen the governor was the outgrowth of Stassen the undergraduate, the law student and the district attorney. His university friends are the nucleus of his political support. Minnesota was saved from the nihilism of radicals by these educated young men. They proved that a state can be prosperous, just and sane. If such a faith in justice and clear thinking can help the Republican party and the nation, Stassen will have his reward, whatever his political destiny may be.

We didn't mince matters about the fact that he is generally believed to be a Presidential possibility. On that subject Stassen has calmly grasped the realities. He is not fooling himself about the risks which attend his aspirations in political life. Wherever you go in this country, people say of Stassen, "Don't you think he is starting out too early? Nineteen forty-eight is a long way off." It is a tradition in American politics that the early bird becomes a prey to the hawks. Another tradition is that a candidate must do something and say little. Didn't Coolidge stop a police strike, and the two Roosevelts crack Tammany?

History is against Stassen, too. Since 1860, fourteen different men have been nominated and elected President. Two of these T. R. and Coolidge, first became President by an act of God. Of the remaining twelve, only one made an organized effort for the Presidency more than two years before he was elected. That was McKinley, and he had Mark Hanna. Grant had a colossal military reputation. Four were not recognized as candidates until they were elected governors one or two years before. Six of the fourteen came to light months or days or hours before their nomination.

But Stassen believes that what he is doing is worth-while per se. His faith is that America must learn to live with its power. And that education is the means to that end.