Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**Punishing War Criminals**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The publication of plans for punishing Axis war criminals might be one of the most potent means of weakening Germany's desperate resistance. For Germans have been told that everyone will be punished, and German soldiers act as if they believed that falsehood. But, beyond a few generalities, such plans have not been announced and, apparently, they have not been made. Hence, critical and bloody time is being lost.

That such plans can be wholly feasible and practical is now proved by a respected expert on crime and punishment, Sheldon Glueck, professor of criminal law and criminology at Harvard. His new book, "War Criminals," should have profound influence in accelerating Allied plans.

The layman should be reminded that every wrong or every act of violence is not necessarily a crime. A crime is an offense against law and is punishable by law through constituted authority. Glueck points out the law that exists. He also gives moving and horrible examples of types of crimes and specifies the types of criminals. He points out the machinery that exists and suggests the new machinery which should be created by international action.

"War criminals," Glueck says, "are persons—regardless of military or political rank—who, in connection with the military, political, economic or industrial preparation for or waging of war, have, in their official capacity, committed acts contrary to (a) the laws and customs of legitimate warfare or (b) the principles of criminal law generally observed in civilized states; or who have incited, ordered, procured, counseled, or conspired in the commission of such acts; or, having knowledge that such acts were about to be committed, and possessing the duty and power to prevent them, have failed to do so."

Available law includes international common (unwritten) law, international conventional (written) law and the domestic criminal law of the civilized nations of the world.

The kinds of criminals who should be punished include the heads of states and leading military figures, responsible politicians, industrialists, bankers and others who have participated in lawless acts. I believe, perhaps more strongly than Glueck, that all members of the Nazi party, the SS and other organizations which have freely participated in the mass persecutions in Germany, in satellite countries and in temporarily conquered territories should be subject to trial. Members of the equivalents of these organizations in Japan should also be liable. People joined such groups voluntarily and share in the guilt of their fellow members. This inclusion would go far toward avoiding the defense based on lack of guilt in those who act under orders of a military superior.

The problem of jurisdiction can be met, in part, by the principle of the Moscow Declaration of Nov. 1, 1943, which said violators should be turned over to the countries where the crimes were committed. That declaration also stated generally that German criminals whose offenses had "no particular geographical localization" would be punished by some "joint decision of the governments of the Allies." This, of course, means some new machinery of international law and justice.

It may be that the difficulty in making plans is the reconciliation of the legal principles of Soviet Russia, of Continental criminal law and of Anglo-American law. Russia, quite justifiably, is suspicious of Anglo-American law, with its protections for accused persons, and is proceeding with trials in her own territories in her own way. In setting up international machinery, we shall have to cut through a good deal of our own juristic tradition, but this is a case where new conditions must make new law. Heads of states, as well as other Germans and Japanese who committed their crimes at home, must be dealt with by international machinery.

The Allies, 25 years ago, failed to carry out their brave war resolutions. The Leipzig trials were a travesty. The Kaiser was not hanged, despite Lloyd George's mandate from the voters of England. The feeble machinery created then was not ready until the year after the war. This time, plans should not wait.