Here's the text from the provided image, carefully separated to avoid overlapping columns:


**Attacking the Jap Mentality**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The desirability of clarifying our
aims in the Japanese war was brought
to the attention of President Truman
a month ago by a well-known American,
who is thoroughly familiar with
the Far East. It was suggested then
that unconditional surrender be defined
as applying to the army and navy,
that the Japanese people be told that,
if relieved of their war lords and a
crushing military burden,
they would be able to attain a
peaceful life on a higher standard than
ever before and that, in the postwar
era, they might continue to enjoy the
paternal rule of the emperor. The
purpose of this new statement
defining our aims would be to make it
clear that this country recognizes a
distinction between the emperor and
the malignant people who plunged Japan
into war. Its obvious aim was to have
the Japanese people recognize that these
people betrayed the emperor with their
lies and bad advice and to persuade the
Japanese people to rescue their emperor
from his bad ministers, generals and
admirals.

On two occasions President Truman
has told the Japanese people that we do
not intend to destroy them. This was a
decided advance over the Cairo
Declaration. It was also an improvement
over some of the public comments by
high officers of the armed service. An
effort to drive a wedge between the
emperor and the people on one side, and
the military class on the other, is
justified by what informed people are
telling us of the extraordinary
psychology of the Japanese. NEWSWEEK
has started the publication of a series of
articles (June 11, 25) by one of its
editors, Maj. Compton Pakenham, whose
views on this subject are based on many
years of firsthand observation in the Far
East.

Major Pakenham makes the point that
the profound devotion of the Japanese
people to the emperor is the root of the
suicidal trend, which Americans are
seeing in the current war. This Japanese
devotion to the emperor has been built up
over the past century by leaders—chiefly
military leaders—who sought in that way
to control the nation. Their success in
deluding the people has been so complete
that there can be no hope now of breaking
the tie between the people and the
emperor through outside pressure or
propaganda. The most helpful approach
would be an effort to tell the Japanese
people that the calamity that is
descending upon them is due to the
vicious and stupid advice of the army
leaders.

Major Pakenham makes the further
important points that, under the crust of
fanatical emperor-worship and military
discipline, the Jap has a rough and ready
humor, that he is no instinctive hero and—
what is most important—that he has a
tendency to become panicky. In 1923, for
instance, he completely lost his wits in the
earthquake. It may possibly happen
again. Here is another suggestion of what
might happen. The army shows no signs
of cracking first, but a civilian panic
might well react on the army. The terrific
resistance on Okinawa and the refusal of
the last 15,000 troops to heed the call for
surrender are foretastes of what the
conquest of the armies in Japan and
Manchuria may involve.

The importance of using every possible
means to crack into the Jap mind is
underlined by what may happen in this
country if, as is likely, things go more
slowly and more bitterly in our war effort
over there. Mutterings of appeasement are
already audible. Suggestions will be
made—they have already been made—that
we assure Japan of a part of her ill-gotten
conquests. We will be told that we should
leave a strong Japan to stand against
Russia. Such proposals of appeasement
are, of course, exactly what Japanese
leaders want to inspire. Such a trend
would lengthen the war and soften our
morale.

The suggestion that the Jap army and
navy be surrendered is not appeasement.
It is a rough statement of our war aims
against Japan, which conform to what has
actually happened in Germany.
Meanwhile, let us hope that through
intensified bombing the panicky streak in
the Jap mentality may be set off.