Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Sowing the Windfalls
by Raymond Moley

THE Republican Party, in pursuing
its policy of ridding itself of the
tag of "the party of the rich and big
business," might reveal the extent to
which "liberal" legislation provides
rich windfalls, in the name of "the lit-
tle fellow," for a new rich and big
business class. Consider the unfolding
picture of public housing, slum clear-
ance, and urban renewal in which
windfalls are created for promoters,
political lawyers and bankers, inves-
tors, contractors, and others. Or note
that the chief beneficiaries of the soil
bank are large corporations whose ma-
jor profit is not in selling the product
of their thousands of acres, but in
government benefits. Many other ave-
nues to riches might be cited for a
few individuals and organizations who
certainly are not "needy" or "little"—
all in the name of general welfare.

The Humphrey-Price bill, which
failed to pass over the President's
veto, would have taken the Rural
Electrification Administration away
from the watchful eye of a fine public
servant, Secretary Benson. The Wash-
ington lobby for rural electrification,
many members of Congress, and zeal-
ots for a government power monopoly
want to push "rural" electrification be-
yond the remote farmers, who are
now supplied, to the suburbs and the
cities. This would be deadly competi-
tion with investor-owned companies
because the government is lending
money to the rural electrical coopera-
tives at 2 per cent—half or less what
the government must pay for it.

SPECTACULAR GROWTH

No one questions the validity of
the original purpose of the REA, nor
the wholesome character of most of
the 900 cooperatives. Most of them
are content with sticking to their field
with modest returns. But since they
are associated in a sort of trade as-
sociation-pressure lobby called the
National Rural Electric Cooperative
Association, they are being led col-
lectively into a vast scheme which
promises illimitable profits not in the
production and sale of electricity, but
in banking and investment. That is, so
long as the present 2 per cent rate of
borrowing from the government and
tax-free status can be retained.

The head of the NRECA, Clyde C.
Ellis, is a man of vast imagination
coupled with incredible political in-
fluence. At the last meeting of his
organization he unfolded the plan.

It involves the brimming financial
position of the cooperatives. The latest
reports show a spectacular growth in
their "investments and savings" ac-
count. In 1953 this was $43.7 million,
in 1957 it was $192 million. The total
earned surplus rose from $153 million
in 1953 to $382 million in 1957.

Ellis proposed that the investment
account be put into his NRECA in
trusteeship—an unusual function for
a trade association-pressure organiza-
tion. Then he proposed that this pool
be placed with a New York bank for
investment opportunities. It is ironical
that Ellis has always denounced the
"Wall Street" financing of the private,
investor-owned companies.

BLUE-CHIP POOL

"A pool," he said, "would be able to
invest a reasonable portion of its funds
quite soundly in the highest grade
'blue chip' industrial bonds and most
of the balance in the highest-yield
long-term governments... The pool
would have a constant inflow from
maturing investments and from new
investments and, therefore, would
have to keep on hand only a rela-
tively small amount of short-term low-
yield governments. This fact alone
could appreciably increase the return
over that of a single system's program
with the same flexibility."

It would, indeed, if the cooperatives
choose to relinquish their independ-
ence and give over to this sort of vast
investment operation, made profitable
by borrowing from the government at
half or less than half the price which
government must pay for its money.
For this "pool" might become the
biggest thing in Wall Street.

Space permits only a mention of
another Ellis dream, recently pro-
posed. It would have the Federal gov-
ernment build a big Potomac River
project on the TVA model. It would
provide boating, swimming, picnick-
ing for bureaucrats and employees of
pressure groups, as well as Federal
hydroelectric for the capital commu-
nity. This Potomac paradise would be
a monument to that deathless fourth
branch, the pressure group.

Newsweek, July 6, 1959