Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


NEWSWEEK DECEMBER 28, 1942

Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Second War Christmas

by RAYMOND MOLEY

For the second time Christmas which are of eternal obligation, and
comes to Americans at war. Last year arise from our common dependence up-
it came so soon after Pearl Harbor that on our Creator."
the reality of war was hard to compre-
hend. Now it may be harder to com- At the end of. this war the United
prehend the reality of Christmas. States may well lend its influence
But while we are a year deeper in toward, while not seeking to dictate,
war, we are a year nearer the peace. the establishment of a peace upon those
A year ago incomparably stern voices, principles which are the basis of our
like that of Mr. Churchill, told us of own government and law. For when
the long arduous toil ahead. Now we this war ends we may find shattered
are assured by these same voices that beyond recognition nearly all of our
the fortunes of war are favorable to us. older forms of legitimate sovereignty.
So it is not too soon to explore the task We cannot, as Talleyrand did in 1815,
of making a peace worthy of the un- pick from the ruins a scattering of so-
paralleled sacrifices and efforts that called legitimate rulers. The sovereign-
have gone into this unparalleled war. ty of states must be based upon the
Whatever the length of the war, the consent of the governed. The actuality
creation of a workable peace structure or the possibility of representative in-
will take longer. It will take less blood stitutions must be recognized. Under no
but no less intelligence and devotion. other condition can any personal free-
And if it is to be a firmly grounded doms ultimately be possible.
peace, it must rest upon principles
brought into the world by religion. Which brings us to a second prin-
First of these is the principle, if not ciple of modern statecraft that is also
the forms, of democracy. rooted in religion. It is the principle of
Democracy, as the expression of the the perfectibility of men. Basic in the
voice of authority in a state, is an eter- democratic revolution of the eighteenth
nal paradox. Men are equal neither in century, this principle of the capacity
goodness nor in mental nor physical of men for endless development was
endowments. But the principle of de- the answer to the cynical cliché that
mocracy teaches us that we must as- some men could never govern them-
sume an equality which our material selves. It held that men are capable
measurements tell us cannot exist. Un- of an endless betterment. Because of
der the principle of democracy we build this, they could achieve many things
authority on this apparent contradic- -even self-government and grow
tion, and, from Aristotle to Jefferson worthy of that greatest of personal pos-
and Lincoln, the wisest observers of sessions-freedom. That is why expo-
human affairs have said that a state nents of democracy laid so much stress
based upon this principle is most stable upon education. They saw, as the mod-
and just. ern philosopher George Santayana has
Only in the teachings of religion is put it, that the ideal of democracy re-
this paradox resolved. For religion tells quires a citizen who is "half seer and
us that in the scales of God all men are half saint." They saw further, as the
equal. That equality is in the soul, world has so well learned since, that
which alone is permanent and inde- education must be free of control by
structible. political, dynastic or economic special
It is noteworthy that Jefferson in the interests.
Declaration of Independence found au- But while eighteenth-century demo-
thority in religion for the democratic crats were right in these assumptions,
state. He did not say that all men were they were wrong in their claim that
equal. He said they were created equal. perfection could come through cold rea-
He said that the Creator had endowed son alone. They failed to see that the
men with certain inalienable rights. doctrine of the perfectibility of men
In law, as well as in political theory, was inseparable from a spiritual striv-
this dependence upon religious princi- ing for perfection. The religious idea
ples has been recognized. The princi- of perfectibility kept civilization alive
ples of justice, said Chief Justice Mar- through centuries of darkness. It
shall from the bench, have been im- taught the pursuit of perfection in spite
pressed upon the mind of man by "the of endless failure. "Be ye therefore
Creator of all things." Justice Story in perfect, as your Heavenly Father is
1828 said: "In ascending to the great perfect."
principles upon which all society rests, There is statesmanship as well as
it must be admitted that there are some deep morality in the old Christmas
message of peace on earth.