Here's an extraction of the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Improved Campaign Methods

by RAYMOND MOLEY

This is going to be a good year
for the two parties to reconsider their
campaign methods. Politicians are su-
perstitious. Even as great an innovator
as Mr. Roosevelt observes such a cus-
tom as wearing the same hat through-
out a campaign. I'm not sure that he
used the same hat in every Presiden-
tial campaign, but if that be true also,
the hat must be a veritable antique by
now, in view of the long succession of
rings into which it has been tossed. But
while old hats may be safely kept, there
are a lot of other old campaign items
that ought to be discarded this year.
The campaign train, for example, is
an anachronism. Its vote-getting uses
are doubtful, and riding up and down
the country this year would ruin any
candidate. I have known the trains of
Presidential candidates in more or less
intimate ways. The limitations of this
vote-snaring gadget, even in normal
times, are quite apparent. I sincerely
believe that had Mr. Willkie discarded
it in 1940, he might have been elected;
for his train represented the apogee
of ineptitude.

The usual campaign train has
from fifteen to twenty cars. In these
some scores of people may live in ex-
citement and confusion for weeks.
There are several cars for newspaper
men, for the newsreel people, for
photographers and radio commenta-
tors. Two or three cars are cluttered
with a miscellaneous clerical staff,
with transportation experts, with radio
technicians and others. Then there are
always cars for "visiting firemen"
politicians in various states who ride
along a while, people attached to the
national committee, senators and con-
gressmen. Finally, there is the car for
the candidate and a number of his
personal friends and relatives. The
Willkie train also had a car or two of
real or alleged intellectuals-experts on
the Far East, on poetry, on agricul-
ture, on labor and on elocution. Those
particular pundits loaded the cars with
enormous collections of filing cabinets,
stuffed with data in such profusion
that no one could find anything until
the need for it had passed.

No candidate can think or plan in
the midst of such confusion. Bryan
loved it, of course, but then he never
bothered to think much. For all nor-
mal purposes, it is obvious that the
strain of gadding about in such cir-
cumstances would shatter the consti-
tution of a Hercules.

Somehow, through this nerve-shat-
tering cavalcade, more political ene-
mies than friends have a way of be-
ing made. Every state has factions,
and the representatives thereof scram-
ble for recognition. Each must see the
candidate, talk to him and paw him
over. Politicians think that they make
a better impression on onlookers if
they whisper things and then add the
commas, dashes and periods to their
muted communications by thumping
backs. All this satisfies no one. The
wake of the train is strewn with bleed-
ing hearts and bruised egos.

This year, two considerations be-
yond the general objections mentioned
above ought to be conclusive. The
railroad stations of this country are
crowded day and night with tired, un-
comfortable people, for trains are late
and space is hard to get. Consider the
feelings of those people when they
see the Pullman circus described above
roll by. Also consider the time lost
from useful work by those who come
to the stations to see and hear the
show.

There are other changes in cam-
paign technique which could be use-
fully made, no doubt. But let this be
a starter. Let the candidates stay
home. There is the radio and there are
airplanes for such occasional trips as
may be necessary for the candidates.
The theme and tone of the cam-
paign ought to fit the mood of the peo-
ple. It scarcely requires saying that the
public mood is quite unlike that of
any Presidential year in our time. It
is neither piping with well-being, as
in 1928, nor depressed, as in 1932.
There is confidence in victory, but
there is also anxiety about individuals
in the war. A desire to win quickly
will be dominant. Concern about post-
war matters will be secondary. Peo-
ple will be pretty tired of hearing
about government and of reading
about government. Elaborate propos-
als for reform such as caught the in-
terest of people in 1932 will be bor-
ing to most.

All this should underscore the need
of a crisp, simple and short campaign.