Here's a text version of the provided article, aiming to preserve the column structure:


**After Kefauver—What? (III)**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

UPROAR over foreign policy seems already to have caused our so-called moral indignation to turn from conditions revealed by the Kefauver committee to global concerns. That was to have been expected. If MacArthur had not caused the diversion, something else would have done so. Revelations concerning crime, the neglect of control thereof, the insidious relations between crooks and politicians, and public indignation occasioned thereby are staples always available to nourish growing or under-nourished political reputations or to fill space when news of other sorts is scarce. I once made a crime-news study for the New York Crime Commission which clearly showed that crime waves were generally not waves of crime at all, but waves of news about crime. They occurred at slack times of the year newspaperwise, such as the weeks after election and before Christmas. Any good newspaperman knows that. Perhaps there is no more virulent cause of cynicism in that profession.

Meanwhile, the jackals emerge from the jungle and the brush and the rats from their holes. Sheriffs settle back on well-upholstered haunches; the oil cloth is taken off the green-covered tables and the one-armed bandits; the back door is unlocked, and politicians resume old friendships.

AS THIS recent flood of moral indignation subsides, however, there will remain in some cities and counties, thank Heaven, small pools of civic pride, moral determination, and public spirit. That is where we may turn for some sort of action, to the end that as the years pass we may register some progress in the quest for betterment. It is to those hopeful spots that I would like to address my remaining remarks on this subject. For while I am in the news business myself, I am not yet reduced to cynicism on this subject. I have seen improvement made, and I know how it can be made.

We are certainly not going to find a lasting cure for the disease that the Kefauver people have revealed. Not so long as there are fools and their money, low-living punks and sharpers, and also hypocritical scoundrels on the payroll of the government. Wherever there are money and chance and profitable games, there will be drawn to them a scummy lot. Some kinds of entertainment, quite harmless in themselves, are objectionable only because of the human types which drift along with them. The racing of horses is an example. Another is prizefighting, which after all is a fairly safe occupation for a lusty young man with a thick skull and what the sportswriters call "good reflexes." No one has portrayed this with more informative detail and grim humor than has my colleague John Lardner in his new book, "White Hopes and Other Tigers," a story of the traumatic art from the heavy fall of Jeffries to the revival of learning under Tunney. The men who wore gloves in that dark but lush era were, considering their dim business judgment and preoccupations, morally like you and me. But there gathered in their orbit an eerie brood of felons and chiselers.

THE problem is not to deny the human race the harmless exhilaration of seeing somebody else hurt or the thrill of throwing money away. The problem is to keep the vicinage of these diversions reasonably clear of larcenous collaborators.

Something like that is the answer to the question presented as the title of this essay. We are going to have as standard quality of public officials a fairly fallible type of human being. And so we must, so far as possible, keep official anterooms clear of underworld characters. The best way to do that is identification and surveillance. Identify, watch, and incessantly hound the criminal element which corrupts public officials, and at the same time maintain a continuous scrutiny of official life, its workers, and its operations. Create some sort of citizen mechanism to accomplish both these functions. For if good citizens make themselves as indispensable to public officials as some of them have hitherto supposed criminal associations to be, official life will toil in the interest of righteousness. That is what local crime commissions can do and what some of them have done.

Newsweek, April 30, 1951