Here's the text from the provided image, extracted and formatted to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

A Welfare Plum Tree

by Raymond Moley

CERTAIN incontestable facts which
apply to President Kennedy and
his brother Robert should go a long
way in explaining their proposal to
establish a "national service corps."
While neither has ever directly confronted the realities of life with
which less fortunate boys contend in
their youth, both are, from what
they say, exceedingly warmhearted.
Furthermore, except in the tumult of
political campaigns, neither has ever
been engaged in the local life of the
great cities, grappling, as local authorities must, with community problems.
Both are dedicated politicians whose
success in 1960 shows that they overlook no opportunity to build a
following among the less fortunate
denizens of our nation. Finally, both
are determined to expand Federal
power far beyond its present limits.
The antennas of warmhearted people who have had little experience in
social problems vibrate violently because some people are poor, wayless,
and often wayward. They want to do
something without delay and with little consideration of the practical
limitations which confront general social amelioration. If these considerations are joined to a thrust for
political power, the way becomes clear, just as it appeared to Harry
Hopkins 25 years ago, to use social welfare as a means to that end.

FIRST BLOOM

The proposal for a "national service corps" found a chance to run an acknowledged "pilot operation" when the Juvenile Delinquency and Youth
Offenses Act was passed in 1961 with an appropriation of $30 million
to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
No doubt, this plum tree caught the eye of the Rev. Adam Clayton Powell, whose heart throbs with compassion for his flock and its offspring. A "nonprofit" outfit in New York City with $9,000 of local funds was allocated $250,000 of Federal money for a so-called domestic peace corps operation. Now there is evidence upon which we may be able to judge what will happen if the nationwide plan is adopted.
Sen. Frank Lausche has detailed this example of Federal irresponsibility and extravagance. In the organizational budget, salaries include: project director, $14,000; peace corps program coordinator, $13,000; senior research director, $13,000; recruitment coordinator, $10,000; chief of training program, $13,000, and numerous other high-salaried positions. As Senator Lausche says, if such salaries are applied to units throughout the country, they "will work havoc with local and state salary schedules." He adds: "The proposed nonprofit corporation would rent what is supposed to be office space in a church. The owner of the church is the Adam Clayton Powell Community Center, Inc. The rental to be paid is $17,000 a year for a space that has been unoccupied."

IMPLICATIONS

Two days before, Sen. John J. Williams complained that Federal agencies are competing to see who can "shovel" the most money out to Powell's activities and by doing so "curry favor" with the political power in Harlem and chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee. Senator Williams documented other activities of the congressman which have drawn national attention.
The implications of the New York project are clear. It outlines the intent of building up a Federal political machine through Federal patronage and intervention into state and local welfare concerns. Senator Lausche makes the solid point that in the field of delinquency the work of more than 2 million citizens touches the problem directly—social and welfare work, teaching, recreational-welfare work, and law enforcement. "Thus, without the parents, we have one worker to every thirteen juveniles."
Robert Kennedy's staff study shows clearly not only that there could be indoctrination of "volunteers" but that an important aspect of the program involves Federal participation, through the corps, in the educational system of the country.
Judging by the multitude of his proposals and his many delineations of gruesome conditions across the nation, John F. Kennedy looks upon the United States, to borrow a phrase, as his "personal slum project."

Newsweek, February 25, 1963

Page 648 of 1197