Could F.D.R. Clear Hiss?

by Raymond Moley

IT SEEMS likely that the not inconsiderable number of Americans who still believe Alger Hiss to be innocent of treasonable conduct will promote the hypothesis that he was a secret agent of President Roosevelt. An early version of this hypothesis was written in a newspaper piece in 1948 by Max Lerner. Lerner dramatized it by saying that the concept came to him in a dream. Possible color to the idea was offered later in a statement by Hiss to a fellow prisoner at Lewisburg, that if F.D.R. were alive, "I would not be here."

This hypothesis would contend that during the life of F.D.R., Hiss suffered in silence the suspicions that surrounded him for years and that after the President's death he perjured himself and went to prison to protect F.D.R.'s memory. This tale of adventure and martyrdom is about all that the irreconcilable Hiss defenders have left. For they cannot now pretend that Hiss was truthful, because in defending himself he entangled himself in a mass of inconsistencies. It would be impossible to prove Chambers to be a fabricator, because of incontestable corroborative evidence.

There were traits in F.D.R. that provide superficial plausibility for the story. Roosevelt was incorrigibly romantic. He loved mystery. He had a habit of avoiding channels of command and vesting subordinates with confidential missions and messages. Unfortunately for those who choose to believe this idea, however, the laws of probability forbid its acceptance.

In the first place, Hiss's membership in the Communist conspiracy is placed by Nathaniel Weyl in 1934. If he now admits the prosecution's story, he will have to place his first association with Communists in 1934.

It is ridiculous to believe that in 1934 Roosevelt knew Hiss well enough to entrust him with such a mission. I was in the Administration in 1933 and had close and continuous contacts with F.D.R. in 1934. Felix Frankfurter who, according to Hiss, promoted the Hiss appointment to the AAA, generally carried out such operations through Thomas Corcoran. The latter did not have the run of the White House until 1935. According to my knowledge, Corcoran had no direct contact with the President until late in 1934. Hiss was inferior to Corcoran in Presidential influence at that time and for years later. In fact, I never knew or saw Hiss in those years.

In 1933 and 1934, F.D.R. could see or think no evil concerning Soviet Russia. The great reconciliation with the Soviet took place in late 1933.

In 1939 the coils of suspicion began to wind around Hiss, and apparently, from that time on, the FBI continuously investigated him. Seven years later, after Hiss had risen high in the government, Secretary Byrnes called him in and told him that, since there was much talk about his possible Communist affiliations, he should go to the FBI and clear himself. Roosevelt was dead; the FBI investigation was secret and confidential; Hiss had a brilliant career before him (he was already under consideration for the Carnegie job), which could be assured if he made known the alleged Roosevelt connection. But he offered no such explanation at that time. Finally, there is strong evidence that Hiss was still serving the Communist cause after Roosevelt died.

Ralph de Toledano, of this magazine, whose "Seeds of Treason" is standard reading on the case, scoffs at the secret-agent hypothesis. In the preparation of the case against Hiss no one in the government labored harder or more efficiently than Thomas J. Donegan, who left the FBI to become Special Assistant to the Attorney General. I have asked him for an opinion concerning the F.D.R. secret-agent idea. He says positively that at no time in the years of the investigation and trials was such an idea suggested. He also says that surely, since the case was the subject of FBI interest, some intimation of this relationship would have appeared.

NOR in the desperately planned defense was there such a hint. The idea, according to Max Lerner, was a dream in the beginning. It is still a dream, immaterial because unbelievable by rational people.

Newsweek, December 13, 1954