Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

What's Right With Us?

by Raymond Moley

THAT most articulate maestro,
Leonard Bernstein, tells us that
Beethoven's Ninth Symphony is a
mighty amalgam of profound gloom,
pierced with occasional shooting pains
which, after an adagio of sweet res-
ignation, ends in a mighty "Ode to
Joy." It takes transcendent genius to
weld together such contradictions.
The symphony is long, and while the
cognoscenti are enraptured, there are
those who find it boring.

It remains to be seen whether Can-
didate Kennedy can achieve what
Beethoven attempted with such
mixed acceptance. His major theme
is that our fine economy, saved for
us in those good twenty years after
1932, is disintegrating before our
eyes. This theme is pursued with
many variations. One is that we are
second class and slipping during ev-
ery Republican year. Another is that
the economy looks good, but it is an
illusion or, as that Democratic seer
Leon Keyserling says, only "ostensi-
ble." In short, that while there is a
serviceable carpet on the floor, the
planks beneath are rotting and the
beams are full of termites.

The next version is that things may
be pretty good, but "I can get it for
you wholesale." In terms of the great
argument over couturiers: "You have
a warm, woolly Republican coat, but
we Kennedys will get you something
from Dior, Balenciaga, or Givenchy."

FALSE AND HARMFUL

Let us consider the merits of this
economic argument. Is its premise
true? Do people believe it? Is it harm-
ful to the United States?

It is harmful because it eats away
that confidence upon which the life
of an economy must rest. This is es-
pecially true since in business circles
in Western Europe there is great con-
cern about our economy. And if they
are frightened, we can expect a fur-
ther withdrawal of investment money
here. There are $21 billion of foreign
investment over here, a considerable
amount of which might be affected.

If the people who hear Kennedy's
tragic symphony do not believe it, it
is a major political blunder. Accord-
ing to such a reliable observer of
Kennedy crowds as NEWSWEEK'S
Ernest Lindley, people not only do

not believe it, but they don't like to
hear the United States downgraded.
Not only is it bad politics; it is not
true. The indices show that our econ-
omy is at this time on a plateau, with
some indications of a slow rise.
Some hesitation is merely a recur-
rence of a familiar condition which
has prevailed in many elections-a
hesitation in any year which has a
Presidential election.

The cold facts indicate that we
are vastly better off than we were
in 1952. Personal consumption figures
show a 50 per cent gain from 1952
to 1960. Solid investments for plant,
capital goods, homes, etc., are up
nearly 50 per cent. That means more
jobs, more days' work per year. Gross
personal income is up 49 per cent.
Per capita disposable income (after
taxes) up 30 per cent.

THE NUMBERS GAME

If the Democrats' 1952 slogan-
"You never had it so good"-was true,
we are a whale of a lot better now.
And, unlike the Truman years, in-
flation has been moderate. The con-
sumer price index is up 11 per cent;
wholesale prices, 7 per cent.

But Kennedy takes from Galbraith
the complaint that the "rate of
growth" is not high enough. In De-
troit, Kennedy played a round of the
"numbers game." As Henry Hazlitt
indicated in last week's NEWSWEEK,
the rate of growth depends upon
what years are selected for its calcu-
lation. If one takes the last six years
of the Truman Administration, which
ended in the Korean-war spending,
the rate is higher than it has been in
the Eisenhower years, which began
in the high Korean spending. But if
we take the first six years of Truman,
the rate is lower than that of the
Eisenhower years. And if all the
Truman years are compared with all
the Eisenhower years, the latter rate
is higher. From war to peace, the
rate goes down. From peace to war,
the rate goes up.

As for differences between our rate
and Russia's, the comparison is non-
sensical. A baby grows faster than a
boy, and a boy faster than a man.
Anyone should see that, even those
who, to catch votes, are willing to
malign their own country.

Newsweek, October 3, 1960