Here's the text extracted from the provided image, respecting the column structure.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality and OCR process.

**Postwar Foreign Lending**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Though international investments may not cause war, they have, over the years, provided plenty of international irritation. But if the full benefits of capitalistic enterprise are to be attained, they must go on in some form. International investment, tied in too closely to the government of the country from which the loans go forth, can be the handmaiden of imperialism, and the road of imperialism for the United States is not a road, I believe, that most of us want to travel.

How, then, in the postwar period can we protect the legitimate investment of American private savings, avoid too much governmental control and direction of such savings, and, at the same time, avoid the rise of American imperialism? Here is a promising field for international effort. Perhaps we can best discover what ought to be done by re-examining the original purpose of our own SEC. Its original purpose was sound, and it may yet be judged as the most successful of the agencies created in the past ten years.

When the President asked Congress for the Securities Act in 1933, he said: "there is . . . an obligation upon us to insist that every issue of new securities to be sold in interstate commerce shall be accompanied by full publicity and information, and that no essentially important element attending the issue shall be concealed from the buying public. This proposal adds to the ancient rule of caveat emptor, the further doctrine 'let the seller also beware.' It puts the burden of telling the whole truth on the seller."

Here is the principle of the SEC in a nutshell. It is of no significance here to review the mistakes that followed, which included not only the passage of an act so stiff that investment was radically restricted for years, but the appointment of several SEC members who sought social reform rather than "full publicity and information." Let us go back to the principle and speculate on how it might be incorporated in international transactions.

As has been suggested in this column before, there may emerge from this war regional organizations, in addition to some worldwide international body to deal with non-political questions which have a vastly important bearing upon international stability and welfare.

An extremely useful function of some such organization might well be the setting up of an international board, council or commission to require, in the case of international investments, the "full information" contemplated in the original plans for our SEC. Such a body should not be wholly governmental. It should perhaps have members of our Foreign Bond Holders' Protective Council, the Council of Foreign Bond Holders of Great Britain, the main stock exchange of each of the major lending countries, and members appointed by the various governments.

It might be wise, in selecting proper fields for safe foreign investment, to distinguish between those purposes which create foreign exchange and those which do not. For example, a water-works in Graustark should be built with Graustark money. Such a public work would be unlikely to create foreign exchange: it is not a profitable enterprise. But a steelworks, or an oil well, or a copper mine, or a chemical plant should yield returns which create foreign exchange, service loans and provide safety and returns from investment.

Lenders, in making foreign loans, should be able to recognize that they are long-time things. When emphasis has been laid upon the need of getting the principal back because of fear or instability, the efforts to withdraw have shaken the economy on the basis of which the security of the whole debt rested. Such loans cannot be handled as balances among current assets. They should be accounted as a long-term investment.

No small amount of international friction in the past has risen from competition among lending nations, such as the American, the British and the Dutch. These rivalries have afforded borrowing nations the opportunity to escape responsibility, and all-too-frequently to seize property. Moreover, there are cartel troubles, in which groups have, by secret agreements and secret investments, restricted production in vital materials. Such difficulties might have been remedied by the requirement of full information to a responsible international body.

Such a body, always assuming that it had no sociological or political axes to grind, could provide dignity, responsibility and safety to international investment. Full information is a great curative. It is well worth a trial.