PERSPECTIVE

Lasky's Estimate of JFK

by Raymond Moley

NEW Presidents in their first term
have been the subject of such a
considerable literature as John F.
Kennedy. This is explained in part
by the eager cooperation provided
for writers by the Kennedy brothers.
There is always time out from affairs
of state to sit for verbal portraits.
Much of this literature is ephem-
eral. It will be forgotten as the Ken-
nedy bibliography lengthens. And no
one expects a definitive biography to
appear for many years. I have been
asked many times what the verdict
of history will be about Franklin D.
Roosevelt. My answer has been that
what he did was so good for so many
and so bad for so many that the jury
will be out for a century or more.
Two weeks ago I discussed a new
book about Julius Caesar. This eval-
uation takes sharp issue with the
bright image created a century ago
by Theodor Mommsen, who wrote
under the shadow of the emerging
German Empire and the Kaisers.
(The Caesar debate has been going
on for centuries.)
History is never wholly objective.
Every written account must be read
with reservations based upon the pe-
riod in which the author wrote. The
reader should consider what was
happening in the world around the
author and the relationship of the
author to the issues of his time.

SCHLESINGER-INSPIRED

Arthur Schlesinger's massive three-
volume "Age of Roosevelt" reflects
the enthusiasm of a young man who
came of age when Roosevelt was in
the fifth year of his reforms. It is the
sort of history which Parson Weems
might have written about the age of
George Washington had he, Weems,
been a Harvard professor.
Schlesinger's influence, however,
took a turn which he could not have
anticipated In the heat of the 1960
campaign he published a small and
highly partisan volume, "Kennedy or
Nixon, Does It Make Any Differ-
ence?" Victor Lasky replied in a small
book, "John F. Kennedy," which was
written in two weeks.
After the election Lasky decided
to expand this beginning into a com-
prehensive Kennedy record, together
with a consideration of Joseph


P. Kennedy and other relevant ma-
terial. It has just been published as
"J.F.K., the Man & the Myth" (653
pages. Macmillan. $7.95).
This book represents the fruits of
two years of prodigious research. One
of the features of the book consists
of innumerable quotations from col-
umnists and other current writers
who generally favor the Kennedy
regime but who on occasion have
leveled sharp thrusts at the President.

WELL DOCUMENTED

Statesmen, past and present, fall
into two classes. Some use political
eminence and power to promote
basic and predetermined principles.
Others shape their positions on issues
to seek eminence and authority.
It is the basic thesis of Lasky that
Mr. Kennedy belongs to the latter
category. This he supports through-
out the book with innumerable Ken-
nedy statements and votes from the
public record. Lasky's documentation
shows a wavering and capricious line
of positions on domestic affairs and
international relations.
Occasional inconsistencies mark the
expressions and actions of all states-
men, past and present, even such a
giant as Winston Churchill. But a con-
firmed habit of inconsistency reveals
the absence of any political philos-
ophy at all. Lasky's argument is that
the many and varied Kennedy ex-
pressions reveal only a man who
seeks to gain and retain public of-
fice and power.
There are at least two sorts of re-
buttal open to the defense against
a book of criticism. One is to attack
the author ad hominem. The other is
to attack the accuracy of the book.
But Lasky has not been a political
figure who can be accused of frustra-
tion or disappointment because of the
Kennedys. And the effort to deny the
quoted material in the book will have
hard going because of its careful cita-
tions of sources. With these fore-
closed, another tactic is available.
The object of criticism can simply
ignore the book and the author. In
short, a silent plea of nolo conten-
dere. In any event, this book will not
find a place in the new White House
library nor among the Americana dis-
tributed by the USIA.

Newsweek, September 16, 1963