Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


PERSPECTIVE

MONEY FOR TOURISTS

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

James W. Fulbright's twenty years
in the Senate have given him rare
distinction in political, economic, and
educational quackery. This talent was
well established on March 4 when
he was discussing foreign aid. He
joined enthusiastically in the Admin-
istration's nonsensical crusade against
the plans of thousands of Ameri-
cans to vacation abroad, on the
ground that tourism worsens the bal-
ance-of-payments problem. He said:
"It does seem to me that the Amer-
ican people could bring themselves
to travel within the United States
and spare themselves the sophisti-
cated debauchery and the artistic
pocket-picking of Paris, at least for a
year or so ... I can assure them of
a cordial, friendly, and reasonably
priced reception if they should visit
the lovely lakes and rivers of the
Ozarks..."

I have heard of people who were
debauched in the Ozarks. But that
is not the issue here.

This is the same Fulbright who, as
soon as it appeared that U.S.-owned
foreign currencies would accumulate
in foreign countries because of our
export of surplus farm commodities,
gave his name to legislation which
would sop up generous portions of
this "free" money for a fantastic vari-
ety of government-sponsored cultural
enterprises abroad.

CULTURAL UPLIFT

Under Section 104 of Public Law
480, 21 spending plans are author-
ized under agreements with the coun-
tries concerned. Nine of these
provide for Fulbright methods of
cultural uplift. They include interna-
tional exchange of persons; distribu-
tion of U.S.-related textbooks; schools
and community centers; dissemination
of publications; participation in fairs;
dissemination of foreign publications;
expansion of U.S. educational studies;
workshops and chairs in U.S. studies;
and audio-visual materials. Included
in these are the well-known Ful-
bright scholarships.

Congress later added to this list
of purposes the "sale for dollars to
American tourists." It then became
clear that, because of restrictive
agreements, this method of keeping
dollars at home was an illusion.
Under vigorous proddings, some

agreements were revised to permit
the sale of foreign currencies to tour-
ists in the United Arab Republic,
Israel, and, with limitations, Yugo-
slavia. India and Pakistan will be
included next. But there, apparently,
these revisions will stop.

According to the President's budget,
the United States in 1965 owns in
"U.S. uses" currencies the dollar
equivalent of $1,775,000,000. The
budget divides these currencies into
two classes, "excess currency" and
"non-excess." The excess-currency
countries are Brazil, Burma, India,
Israel, Pakistan, Poland, Egypt, and
Yugoslavia. In many of the other
countries these funds have to a con-
siderable degree been reduced by
U.S. Government spending.

A RISING FLOOD

Our export of surplus commodities
goes on at flood proportions, and
"U.S. uses" currencies rise year
after year. In 1964 there were
$1,655,000,000 and by 1966, an esti-
mated $1,982,000,000. Perhaps Ful-
bright is worried lest purchases of
these funds by tourists will hamper
his cultural affairs abroad. But since
the supply is rising so fast, there
should be enough for tourists, too.
And note that such money for tourists
is paid to the United States in good
dollars. Culture, like Lowell's "lavish
summer," is given away.

The simplest method of curbing a
dollar drain by tourists would be to
permit them to go to a Treasury
office and buy a draft on these funds
to be cashed at our embassies abroad.
But government sources confront me
with two difficulties.

They point to the agreements that
need renegotiation. But if these were
revised in the cases of the U.A.R.
and Israel, why not everywhere?
Also, they say that the biggest
piles of this money are in Poland,
India, etc., and that it cannot be
exchanged for the currencies of coun-
tries where tourists are more likely
to go. I feel sure that such currencies
can be exchanged and I suspect and
have some proof that such exchanges
have been made. It is not my job to
tell the U.S. Government how to
make this money available. I am
merely asking what I believe to be
the right questions.

Newsweek, March 22, 1965