Here's the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

TODAY IN AMERICA
By Raymond Moley

Reform Grows Cautious

WHEN Senator Black commits himself to a "cautious" approach to anything it is news. Moreover, the news grows in importance when he sponsors a wages and hours bill as moderate as the amended bill which bears his name. The caution that has, in Senator Black's cosmos, supplanted slashing, punitive attacks upon industry may indicate the approaching end of the long era in which the Administration claimed that its efforts were "saving" business from a great popular "wave" of radicalism. Bug-bear politics may be over for the time. Let us hope so. The country wants time to ruminate the cud of four years' legislation, and smart politicians like Black have learned it.

Foremost among the signs of this change is the fact that the great labor insurrection of the spring is now only a melancholy, long, withdrawing roar. Industrial strife continues to abate. Few new strikes have been called. Older deadlocks are being broken, either by formal settlement or by the collapse of union resistance.

The public, which always has the final word, is largely responsible for the dying down of hostilities. There is no doubting the public revulsion against the long-continued state of disturbance. It is plain that the C.I.O. has lost much of the public sympathy it enjoyed in the early days of its major offensive.

THE failure of the C.I.O. to enforce sufficient discipline to make its members live up to agreements with the automobile manufacturers hurt its cause as much as any one thing, and properly so. The frivolous strike at Saginaw which cut off electric power in a wide industrial area cost organized labor many friends. Attacks on returning steelworkers and the dynamiting of the Johnstown aqueduct turned sentiment against strikers.

Jurisdictional disputes, as in Philadelphia and Seattle, are manifestations of unionism with which the public has never had patience. And, finally, the strength and genuineness of the back-to-work movement has reinforced the public's feeling that the C.I.O. was racing with a slipping clutch.

Where do we stand as the campaign to organize American industry slows down? The C.I.O. has won recognition in the motor industry, with the notable exception of the Ford plants. It has signed up the U. S. Steel Corp. in itself 38 per cent of the whole steel industry. It has won recognition from Jones & Laughlin. It has organized dozens of smaller units in the steel industry. And it has organized scores of lesser industries without much fuss or struggle.

Against this, set C.I.O. failures. It has made no perceptible dent at Dearborn. It has been unable to make headway with Bethlehem Steel. For twenty years, with every evidence of sincerity, Bethlehem has been developing a system of employe representation to which, when the test came, the employes chose to remain loyal. C.I.O. did not make any serious effort to tackle the American Rolling Mill Co., another pioneer in developing good employe relationships. It has lost its first battle with Republic Steel, where it made its most spectacular fight.

AS WE reach this pause, there is time to look around and take stock. Both sides have important lessons to learn and grave faults to cure. Mr. Lewis has serious problems of discipline within his own ranks that he must conquer. He cannot much longer give the excuse that strikes in the motor industry, for example, are the unauthorized mistakes of inexperienced minor lieutenants. He must develop competent lieutenants. Speaking broadly, his whole organization must manifest a sense of responsibility. Tactically, C.I.O. must not again make the mistake of launching strikes in plants where it has a trivial minority of workers as members, and it must learn that violence costs more than it gains because it alienates the public, without whose support no strike is won.

But Mr. Lewis is in no more danger of misreading the signs of the times than are many employers. The employer who permits his managers and foremen to "rub it into" men who have returned to work after an unsuccessful strike is making an investment in future trouble which will assuredly yield painful dividends. The employer who does not seize this opportunity to show magnanimity and to build better relations with his men is simply short-sighted. There has been a revulsion of public opinion toward the excessive number and bitterness of industrial disputes, but there is no reason to believe that the public has grown any less sympathetic toward labor's primary demand for a recognized and regularized relation with employers.

The wise employer will beware of the assumption that the movement to organize American labor has reached its crest and broken. Even if this were true, it would not be a sound foundation for a labor policy. And it is not true; this is not the end of a war. It is at most the close of one phase of a campaign.

THE reasonableness resulting from this lull in industrial warfare is happily reflected in Senator Black's revised effort to regulate labor standards. So many people have been calling so long for Federal action on wages and hours that it is surprising so few are now satisfied. Although opposition to the bill was not active and determined enough to stop it in the Senate, neither the big labor unions nor the ordinarily liberal groups have shown any enthusiasm. It is almost as though only the President and a few members of Congress were sincerely interested.

As recast by the Senate, the Black bill falls into the category of reasonable, experimental legislation. The first draft smacked of the theory repudiated by most sound economists that the only way to cure technological unemployment is to spread work more and more thinly. The new draft avoids that fallacy and simply attempts to outlaw patently degrading conditions in major industries. It is simple social legislation as opposed to an economic panacea.

This is not to say that nothing vital can be accomplished under the plan. If the proper sort of board is appointed, it will clearly recognize what the Black bill seems to suggest: that there is no use trying to solve all the problems of life and work in this country by legislation. But much can be done to delete the grossest violations of ordinary decency in wage payments and work schedules. Substantial employers and well-integrated communities can have little or nothing to fear. They may have much to gain from the elimination of unfair, sweatshop competitors and from the removal of the abnormalities which always fuel the inspirations of extremists.

In the end, the value of the Labor Standards Bill depends on the President, who must appoint the new board, and on the Senate, which must confirm the appointees. If a board of competent, judicious and fair-minded men is named—as has been the case with Federal boards on countless occasions—the legislation can prove of tremendous value to the country. But if the character of the new group is like that of the present NLRB, with its blatant partiality and drumhead hearings, the Black bill, as an experiment, may prove a dismal, shocking failure.

NEWS-WEEK August 7, 1937