Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Last of the Jongleurs

Boys who grew up in the small
towns of the Middle West will remember,
as I do, the perennial practical joke
achieved through what was known as the
“rosin” (resin, to you) string. When solid
citizens were comfortably at home, in car-
pet slippers or in bed, prowling urchins
would insert a thin piece of wood under a
clapboard on the side of a house. To this
wedge they would tie a string whose other
end they carried a safe distance away.
Then they would rub the string with resin.
The resultant vibration of the wedge would
produce a sound so shattering, so excru-
ciating, that those inside the house, if they
had never heard it before, would be con-
vinced the house was being torn apart. In
any event, rest was impossible.
And so, to the joy of the urchins, a wild
chase always ensued.

When the urchins grew up and sat com-
fortably by their own firesides, a genera-
tion of new urchins appeared to disturb
them with horrifying noises. They, too,
gave chase. Thus the flotsam of human
mischief on the river of time.

Not so long ago, sweaty, worried and
not altogether coherent men were running
our business and our government. They
were easy targets for prankish satire. Men
with heavy responsibilities always are. And
economic jongleurs composed a sour laugh-
provoking tune at their expense. Veblen
was the greatest of the jongleurs. His hu-
mor was so subtle, his wit so sophisticated
that only a few could understand. But to
those who did, it was rich fare. More pre-
cious than his philosophic message was his
acidulous satire, his ironic use of the very
jargon of contemporary high-brow eco-
nomic writing to puncture the flabby de-
fense of contemporary capitalism. He hid
behind a dead pan. He was the Buster
Keaton of economics.

When the harp fell from his hands there
were many disciples to carry on. But most
of them spoke his economics: only a few
essayed his humor, caring, like Chaucer’s
learned clerk, more for “philosophie” than
“sautrie.”

Now comes a pretender to the role of
the maestro. The Veblen harp of satire is
down from the wall, dusted off with the
brush of psychology and anthropology and
plucked, this time, by a lawyer-economist
—Thurman Arnold.

Professor Arnold’s “The Folklore of
Capitalism” seeks, for the most part, to
show that human affairs are governed by
ideas with more relation to inherited myth-
ical fact-situations than to cold reality and
that these idea-myths are clothed in the
language of a vague and irrelevant sym-
bolism. Thus, much of law and economic
theory is dubbed “theology” and its ex-
ponents, “priests.” The use of such ter-
minology is, of course, by now so familiar
a refrain in critical and ironic writing on
economics that Mr. Arnold can scarcely lay
claim to originality. Veblen himself over-
looked no points a generation ago in ex-
patiating on his idea of an economic world
governed by mythology. And the essential
meaninglessness of symbolic words was
brilliantly described in Walter Lippmann’s
“Public Opinion,” which appeared in 1922.

But Mr. Arnold brings up the rear,
so to speak, for another reason. The cold-
est of hands is staying the playful urchins
these days. They are no longer urchins.
They are inside the house of authority,
carrying burdens, ruling the people. The
late Admiral Grayson told a delightful
story of a Pullman porter who, shortly
after Mr. Roosevelt’s election, showered
unusual attentions upon him. When asked
the reason, the porter grinned and said:
“We Democrats, we’s in powah now.” The
economic jongleurs are in power now. They
are the ruling class. Mr. Arnold’s seems to
be the somewhat anticlimactic last lay of
the Veblen minstrelsy. And when songmak-
ers become lawmakers, it might be added,
they may not only stop whistling while we
work, but they may make it impossible for
us to work at all.

Unless! Unless the new rulers, as
someone has said of Falstaff, should prove
to be not so much the makers of, as the
materials for humor. A careful perusal of
Mr. Arnold’s book reveals that such a
thing is far from impossible. Mr. Arnold
shows once again that the old society had
its mythology. But he speaks of the new
society in terms equally redolent with
verbal mermaids and ideological kelpies.
This is apparently what is meant by the
“anthropological approach” to society.
Presumably the new society is not to be
governed by symbols. It is to be governed
not by “theology,” but by a “creed.” True,
when Mr. Arnold comes to the end of his
joyous song, he is put to it to define the
new “creed.” But as a social obstetrician
he knows that one is “about to be born.”
As yet, says he, it has no formulas. “It

NEWSWEEK

is represented vaguely by the personality
of Roosevelt who has become a symbol for
a political attitude which cannot yet be
put into words. The fact that Roosevelt
has become the symbol of a new attitude
is shown by the fact that so many of those
who support him are hostile or else indif-
ferent to the particular measures he ad-
vocates.”

To see Mr. Arnold, after 390 pages of
spoofing capitalism for its vague use of
words and its dependence upon symbols,
set forth his idea of a new dispensation by
seizing upon Mr. Roosevelt as a symbol of
something that has nothing to do with the
measures he advocates, is to watch a proc-
ess with exquisite comic implications. Mr.
Arnold substitutes one deity for another.
He discards one “religion” only to adopt
another.

A single example of the technique of
Mr. Arnold is all that I can put into this
space, although dozens of similar examples
stud his pages. He says: “The answer to
the problem of Roosevelt’s popular support
in spite of the defeat of so many of his
plans has little to do with his personal
characteristics. Institutions which express
in concrete form the vague aspirations of
any group always arouse that kind of
allegiance. Never has this been expressed
in a more striking way than by the parade
of intellectuals who testified against the
Roosevelt Supreme Court plan before the
Senate Committee. These individuals stat-
ed that they disapproved of the majority
decisions of the Court on national affairs,
yet they considered it essential to the na-
tion that the Court continue in power over
national affairs. For these persons, com-
posed of radicals and conservatives alike,
the Court represented the supremacy of
intellect and reason. Hence they were for
it, no matter what it did.”

I appeared in that “parade” before the
Senate Committee. I, for one, disagreed
with many decisions of the Court, but op-
posed the President’s plan for packing it
as a method of meeting the problem. I will
forestall Mr. Arnold’s answer that he did
not mean to include me among the “intel-
lectuals,” by saying it first. But if he will
read what many of us said, he will find that
he has simply misrepresented us. I cer-
tainly did not say or imply that the Court
represented the “supremacy of intellect and
wisdom.” On the contrary! Apparently
words are used in the new theology even
more carelessly than in the old.

There used to be a term to describe
such misrepresentation as Mr. Arnold in-
dulges in and, while it did not refer to
theology, it did involve sacred collateral
reference. That is why I cannot answer
Mr. Arnold adequately in a family journal.