Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlap between columns:

```text
52
Perspective
Bigger and Better Judges
The fight over Floyd H. Roberts,
the surprise appointments of Robert P.
Patterson, Francis Biddle and Herschel W.
Arant, and the imminence of another siz-
able batch of judicial nominations by the
White House have all thrown the question
of judicial appointments and Presidential
power into sharp relief. No one can deny
that there has been a great deal of criticism
in informed circles of the general quality
of Roosevelt's appointments to the Fed-
eral District and the Circuit Courts. Oc-
casionally excellent men have been selected.
But it's fair to say that, on the whole, the
appointments have been mediocre. And
this, obviously, has partly been the fault
of the senators—for not making better
recommendations—and partly the fault of
the President and the Department of Jus-
tice—for not insisting upon getting bet-
ter recommendations.
Now we're being given, as a follow-up
to the Roosevelt-Glass clash over the Rob-
erts appointment, a confession of sin and
repentance. Hereafter, the President will
have nothing to do with the sordid Sena-
torial politics that produces mediocre Fed-
eral judges. He is going to pick first-rate,
high-minded men for the numerous places
still open, even if he has to override the
senators.
An admirable resolution! No stu-
dent of judicial administration can fail to
applaud it. It is possible to recognize the
virtues of the political judge and be con-
scious, at the same time, that politics can
produce some pretty indefensible appoint-
ments. To be sure, the political mind is
highly sensitive to currents in opinion
which are evidence of new social attitudes.
It is less likely to identify its own ideas
and beliefs as part of eternal truth. The
give and take of political life has taught
the politician the fallibility of human ideas
and human purposes. In matters affecting
changes in economic life, which so often
become involved in an outworn legalism,
the political judge is usually able to make
wiser, more skillful adjustments than a
judge of a more independent mold. Yet,
when all this has been said, the fact re-
mains that the hand of politics (usually
exemplified in the sitting senator from the
state) has often impaired the high stand-
ard that the Federal courts have set.
True, there are always two parties to the
transaction of appointing Federal judges—
the Senate and the President—and it is a
little late in Mr. Roosevelt's day for a
hue and cry about the unsatisfactory rec-
ommendations the senators make. But the
senators will nevertheless be poorly ad-
vised if they fail to accept the President’s
laudable intentions at face value and fail
to offer the fullest cooperation in improv-
ing the quality of their recommendations.
The country will not give a hoot about
“Senatorial courtesy” and the rest if it is
convinced that all the good intentions are
on the President’s side.
But the situation is not so simple
as this suggests. Honest men differ about
the essential qualities of a good judge. So
far as I’ve observed him, Mr. Roosevelt
tends, on the whole, to give more weight
to the social and economic philosophy of
a candidate than to his legal knowledge,
education and experience. This doesn’t
mean that he doesn’t consider knowledge,
experience and education at all. But it
means that he’s usually inclined to regard
“progressivism” as indispensable. And
progressivism is interpreted as general
sympathy for the ideology of the New
Deal.
On the other hand, the average con-
servative bar association would place ex-
perience, a conspicuous respect for the
bar—particularly the more conservative
members of the bar—legal learning and
personal integrity ahead of adherence to
any social or economic philosophy. In fact,
the conservative would deny that the so-
cial and economic views of a candidate
should be considered at all in the making
of appointments.
If the President is intent upon getting
people of his broad point of view on the
bench, if he holds, with Cardozo, that it is
the duty of a judge to objectify in law not
the judge’s own aspirations and convictions
and philosophies, but the aspirations and
convictions and philosophies of his time,
his position can be defended. Presumably
he expects to leave the Presidency in a
short time. He has brought about the
enactment of a good deal of progressive
legislation and he would like to feel that
those laws will be interpreted by judges
who will bridge the gap between public
opinion and legal precedent.
If, however, it should develop that his
appointments are designed to strengthen
those elements in the political machines
in the various states which, in a test, will
support him rather than the senators from
the states, his course will raise an entirely
different question. In other words, if his
purpose is political rather than ideological,
if he wants his own political machine
rather than a more enlightened Federal
bench, the whole picture changes. Then
the good intentions are a shield behind
which a kind of politics no less unlovely
than the politics he deplores is carried on.
It looks seriously like the purge that Sena-
tor Glass suggested it was. It is part and
parcel of an attempt to build up political
opposition to independent senators. It is
an effort to perpetuate not a body of ideas,
but personal power. And if such an effort
is made, considerations of competence and
integrity in judges will certainly be sub-
ordinated to the question of their adher-
ence to this or that political machine.
It should be remembered that, by a
slow, patient process of adjustment be-
tween the political objectives of senators
and the President and the public interest
in better appointments, fine appointments
can result. Three or four years ago, Robert
N. Pollard, the brother of a former Gov-
ernor of Virginia, was brought to the at-
tention of the President. The same strained
relations existed then as now between the
President and the two senators. But by a
careful process of persuasion, both the
President and the senators were brought to
agreement that Robert Pollard would be
an excellent judge. His appointment went
through without a ripple of disagreement,
and Virginia is now reaping the benefit of
Pollard’s fine judicial service. Such adjust-
ment can be made in all states if the Presi-
dent and the senators are patient, forbear-
ing and sincere.
It won’t be long before the country
discovers whether they are. The test of
whether the President’s drive is a genuine
effort to force good appointments or an
attempt to build up political power is sim-
ple enough. If, in the appointments made
in states where the senators are strong
New Dealers, we find political considera-
tions overweighing merit, we shall know
that the talk of improving the Federal
judiciary is an excuse and not a reason.
If the senators who are thoroughly sub-
servient to the President’s wishes proceed,
in the old way, to push mediocre (or worse)
appointments through and the question of
merit is raised only in the case of rec-
ommendations by independent senators, we
shall know the gesture is an empty one. And
finally if, as in the Amlie case, men whose
ideas are admittedly wholly at variance
with prevailing American thought are ap-
pointed as a reward for past political loy-
alty, we shall know that we have simply
been tossed from the frying pan into the
fire. There is little enough to choose be-
tween Senatorial and Presidential politics.
What the judiciary needs is less of both.

NEWSWEEK. FEBRUARY 20, 1939
```