PERSPECTIVE

IT WAS NO MONOLITH

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

A great deal of unhappiness is pouring out of the typewriters of commentators about the sad state of the image of LBJ. If everything we read is true, something is happening in real life that Oscar Wilde imagined in “The Picture of Dorian Gray.” The infection seems to have reached the world of art, because the President says that the official portrait by Peter Hurd is “the ugliest thing I ever saw.”

Except for the public-opinion polls and the election, I would be inclined to believe that it is the Washington press corps rather than the American people who have been making an agonizing reappraisal of the President.

I witness this disillusionment with equanimity. For in 1964 I did not join the cult of LBJ. I remind these estranged admirers that this LBJ is the same man that he was in 1964-except for the loss of his gall bladder and his polyp. They conceived him then to be a “gentil parfit knight” only because they were frightened by a horribly distorted image of Barry Goldwater. The contest of 1964 was not a trial of real issues. It was between two false images that were sold to the voters by the same people who are now attacking LBJ.

DISSIMILAR ELEMENTS

My own estimate of the President is better than it was. I admire his courage in the Dominican affair and in Vietnam-decisions for which his former admirers now condemn him.

So far as the crumbling of the Democratic Party is concerned, LBJ is only partly to blame. He inherited the leadership of a political party which, despite its many victories, had within it the elements of decay.

The history of American parties is a long tale of birth, growth, electoral successes and disintegration. There were the Federalists, the Jeffersonian Republicans and the Whigs, sustained for a while by some principle or by popular leaders or both. Their lifespans averaged 25 years. The Federalists died because of their opposition to “Mr. Madison’s war.” (Doves please take note.) The end of Jefferson’s party came with his death. And the Whigs broke up in the year that Webster and Clay died.

For 30 years the Democratic Party has been a loose aggregation of dissimilar elements. It has never been a true monolith bound together by lasting principles.

In 1936 President Roosevelt and his strategist, Edward J. Flynn, decided to reconstruct the Democratic Party. The elements they brought together were: the political labor unions then concentrated in the CIO; the old socialists, won by a policy of public ownership of electric power; as war approached, nationality groups attracted by opposition to Nazi Germany; farmers brought into line by subsidies; the unhappy poor in the cities who were given welfare benefits; and the so-called intellectuals who were dazzled by FDR’s “bold experimentation.” The South, locked in its one-party system, was taken for granted. And the big urban machines were helped by Federal handouts.

THE CRACKUP

At that time, in 1936 and thereafter, many Democrats who were of the old tradition of Cleveland and Wilson left the party. Alfred E. Smith was free in his protests. Some of the Progressives returned to the Republican Party. Stalwarts like Byrd, Farley, Byrnes and Garner distrusted the new alignment but remained in the party.

The Democratic coalition was held together for the remaining years of FDR’s life by his great personal popularity. After his death it was sustained by the extension and enlargement of the programs he initiated.

But the cement has dried up and broken in the 1960s. A new generation of union members has appeared. It is less willing to follow the political dictation of the old leaders. Radicals and liberals are divided. They have no issues left, because most of their proposals have been made the law of the land. Farmers are a far smaller proportion of the population. The city machines have been weakened because of the invasion of the Federal welfare bureaucracy. The espousal by the Kennedy-Johnson Administrations of civil-rights measures has broken up the South’s one-party system. And a large number of intellectuals not only are unhappy about Vietnam but have never accepted LBJ as they did FDR, JFK and Adlai Stevenson.

Republican prospects grow as the Democratic fissures widen.

。 Newsweek, January 23, 1967