Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

What Liberties Are We Losing?—IV
by RAYMOND MOLEY

WHILE President Truman and his
Fair Deal supporters have studi-
ously avoided saying that they are
seeking to put into effect a planned
economy for the nation, if they suc-
ceed in electing a Congress that will
enact their program, the fact is that
we shall have an economy as planned
as the British Socialists were able to
achieve in five years of power. This
can easily be shown by add-
ing together the major items
of the Fair Deal.

Space cannot permit a
complete description of
these items, but it will be
sufficient briefly to list a few
of the major proposals and
to note the limitations on
individual liberty and en-
terprise involved.

Let us begin with com-
pulsory health insurance. Here the
government collects a tax, sets up the
machinery for providing services, pays
the doctors, directs patient participa-
tion, and foots the bills for all services,
including drugs, hospitalization, eye-
glasses, and so forth. The spurious
claim is made that the patient may,
among other things, select his doctor,
and the doctor his patient. In practice,
this choice would be very limited, and
in the end, as Britain is learning, there
could be no freedom of choice at all.

Innumerable proposals have been
made to provide easy credit for small
businesses through government loans.
Careful analysis makes it plain that
this plan to set up government-
financed businesses in competition
with privately financed businesses will
strike at the very heart of a free econ-
omy. For it will support inefficient
businesses and burden the efficient.
And as one of its sponsors has admit-
ted, much of the productive plant of
the country will under foreclosure ulti-
mately be owned by the government.

The current drive against bigness in
business means telling enterprise
how large it can be.
Tax exemption for cooperatives
puts private enterprise at a deadly
disadvantage against government-
supported socialized enterprise.
The FEPC bill, presently in deep
freeze awaiting a new Congress,
places an obligation, under severe
penalties, on a minority of employers
to hire those the government decrees
to be proper employes. It would deny
some employers the liberty that it
accords to others.

Administrative absolutism in many
regulatory commissions and agencies
has the effect of denying citizens
access to the courts.
Repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act pro-
poses to deny employers rights freely
granted to and protected in
labor unions.

The operation of a great
Federal political machine,
with hundreds of thousands
of jobholders and vast pa-
tronage, impairs free elec-
tions in every state.
The trend of pension and
welfare legislation takes
from the individual the re-
sponsibility and power of
providing for himself.
The Brannan plan for agriculture
pushes still farther a limitation upon
the farmer in a free market. It penal-
izes larger farms. And in its provisions
for perishables, it subsidizes every
grocery basket at the taxpayer's ex-
pense and in effect tells the farmer
what he shall receive for his product.

The most gigantic example of plan-
ning, however, is the proposal for
a series of river-valley authorities
which would ultimately cover the na-
tion. These are to follow the pattern
of the TVA. The Columbia Valley
Administration is first on the list, and
President Truman vigorously argued
for it on his recent Western trip. Under
the Columbia plan, there would be
three board members, virtually irre-
movable during a six-year term, with
vast powers over electric-power pro-
duction, navigation, irrigation, and
many related activities. States would
be denied their traditional control
over their rivers, their land, and their
resources generally. Local communi-
ties would be compelled to accept
grants from the CVA in lieu of taxes.
Almost every business and individual
enterprise, from the small farm to the
vast lumber industry, would be sub-
jected through the control of electric
energy. As a major spokesman for the
plan has said: "He who controls
electric power controls people."
These are a few of the aspects of
the American grand plan.

Newsweek, June 19, 1950