Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

After Kefauver—What? (II)

by RAYMOND MOLEY

SINCE it will be very difficult to maintain lasting public interest in the
questions raised by the Kefauver investigation, it might be well to trim
our expectations of reform to those which are practical and possible. Indeed,
one can already feel the brief fever of last month ebbing rapidly. When
international Communist gangsters are on the prowl, public concern about slot
machines and tin-horn gamblers can hardly be expected to continue. Very
soon the rats will emerge from hiding, and things may be as they were.

In any event, there is small reason on the political level to expect Democrats
to investigate themselves. For Kefauver, like Fulbright, had reached the point
where further probing would really show a connection between indiscriminate
larceny and high politics, and that is where they seem to be willing to let the
matter drop. A real disclosure of the tie between crime and politics must
come through the operation of the two-party system. Democrats should
investigate Republicans, as in the Harding and Coolidge regimes. And in this
regime Republicans should investigate Democrats with the zestful incentive of
attaining office.

Perhaps that can happen yet through some coalition vote in the Senate. But it
will not come through Senators Kefauver and Fulbright. The Truman machine
is too strong to allow that. There should, of course, be some new Federal
legislation governing the traffic in slot machines, the use of the mails and wire
services in race-track betting, and a few other items.

ABOVE all, it is to be hoped that the Treasury will respond to Kefauver’s
accusation that the tax returns of gamblers are not examined with the care
bestowed upon the returns of ordinary folks. Such ordinary folks bitterly resent
the escape of lush gambling incomes from just taxes, while hard and honestly
earned incomes are cut to the quick.

Beyond this, there is little that the Federal government can or should do. A
further intrusion of the Federal government into the province of local affairs will
only result in further laxness and indifference by state and local authorities.
Whenever Federal authorities enter a criminal case, local police and prosecuting
agencies take the attitude of letting “George do it.” The suppression of these
evils is primarily a local and state responsibility.

The idea of a national crime commission, which Kefauver suggests, or a morals
commission, which Fulbright has described, is interesting but hardly practical.
It is not new, either. Twenty-five years ago, after several local communities had
engaged in crime surveys, a national crime commission was formed, with a great
hullabaloo. Charles Evans Hughes was the central figure in a group of distinguished
directors. Franklin D. Roosevelt was a member, and his friend, Louis Howe was the
directing head of the organization. I saw a good deal of the organization and
noted that as time passed Howe devoted himself more and more to the task of
promoting the Presidential candidacy of his boss. Crime faded into the background,
and the organization died.

THERE is no satisfactory way to set up a national body outside the Federal
government, and we cannot expect the government to police itself. There is no
good way to finance such an enterprise, either, for public money could not be used
unless the President makes the appointments. The Fulbright suggestion about a
morals commission is equally impractical. It does not require a commission to
discover and define morals. Legislative bodies act, in fact, as morals commissions
when they make improper acts illegal. The way to create higher moral standards in
government is to elect better Presidents and members of Congress. And to that
end, the press, the pulpit, and the school should sharply impress upon government
the moral principles which should guide those in high office.

Last week I suggested the enlargement of the powers of state police systems and
the relegation of sheriffs to mere routine duties. There is also a real need for state
and local crime commissions, and I shall discuss their practicability next week.

Newsweek, April 16, 1951