Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

Perspective
Retreat From Utopia

The Supply, Priorities, and Allocations Board, said the first writers to comment on the new board, was controlled by New Dealers. It had as members, they pointed out, such New Deal pillars as Vice President Wallace, Harry Hopkins, Leon Henderson and Sidney Hillman or, in other words, a majority of the board. But unless it can be said that the New Deal in every possible change must ever remain the same, then it is difficult to follow this particular deal among many deals now springing up in Washington. Certainly it is difficult to describe what has happened in terms of the old labels.

What is recognizably New Deal about SPAB's policies in the economic equivalent of war? Its members, in their first press statement, are preparing to restore the economy of scarcity. "This means cutting off the fat," said Mr. Wallace. So it appears that we were actually being fatted in the eight years of emergency. Some of Mr. Wallace's naïve ideas about American industry, as set forth in his various books, compel us to examine this statement with more than casual interest. If memory still serves, the New Deal was launched on a program of raising prices all around, restoring parity to the farmer by a scarcity economy, lifting wages, shortening hours, building up labor's rights and spreading the income, if not the wealth. A rapid look at this program, in the light of the melancholy duties of the new board, makes it doubtful whether the SPAB members would like to dwell upon it.

Much of that program—the old New Deal program—is accomplished fact, of course. Some of it has been achieved so completely as to give the SPAB and other agencies of defense excruciating headaches. Agricultural prices have been upped: the chore the defense agencies face is to keep them from kiting way out of sight. Hours have been shortened: yet, since productive output must be increased, they may have to be lengthened. Wages have been lifted: but, if hours are to be lengthened, wages will go still higher and these and other expenses will have to be collected back, by government, from the now well-distributed incomes unless headlong inflation is to be our course. So recollections about the New Deal program are somewhat less than illuminating at this juncture.

Consider, for instance, the matter of gold and silver. We bought gold when we should have been buying copper; silver, when we should have been buying tin. In all the recent talk of our failure to accumulate stockpiles, the fact usually escapes us that we did accumulate stockpiles. Unfortunately, they were stockpiles of the wrong metals. In the midst of scarcities, we can look back wistfully to the time when we could have been buying up not only copper and tin, but chromium, manganese, silk and rubber against the time when the ocean lanes might be cut. We can muse about the shipping for which some of us pleaded in 1934 and 1935, and which Mr. Wallace and others did little to create: some New Dealers said then that if we shipped in foreign bottoms, we could more easily correct our trade balance.

Now we have our gold—some twenty billions of it—plus a vast tonnage of silver that currently has next to no use. England, surely, would not want us to offer Lend-Lease gold. Gold helps to maintain the public's estimates of value, but is it discomforting to suggest that its real uses are of the past and the future, rather than of the present? Still we go on buying these metals. We are maintaining thousands of gold miners in their occupations in North America and South Africa at the same time we are dislocating thousands of workmen from the refrigerator and automobile plants in this country. The net of it all is to prove that copper and steel are more valuable than gold. If it is anti-New Deal to believe that, how many of what is called the New Deal majority on the SPAB would be compelled to answer that they are, then, anti-New Dealers?

The accumulation of gold in the United States was in part responsible for a cheapness of money unheard of anywhere. The customary inflation under such circumstances was long delayed, but finally most of the requirements were present—super-abundant credit, commodity scarcities and general public awareness of these facts. The Administration asked for it and got it. Not only did we lack many of the things industry needed, but we had actually shipped away considerable quantities of what we had. Steel scrap, for example. Nations which had gold traded it for scrap. We now have the gold: they have the scrap and by now they have probably transformed it into guns and ships and shells. Came the commodity scarcity, and the abundance of credit made it possible for manufacturers to rush in and buy. With interest rates under 2 per cent a year, they could accumulate supplies of materials that everybody knew would be scarce and that the government itself was proclaiming would be higher priced eventually. Is it anti-New Deal to recognize just what the effects of all this would be and to consider dealing with them? Because if it is, then the so-called New Deal majority on the SPAB must be compelled by circumstance to admit that it is anti-New Deal.

So it goes with one policy after another. The results for which the New Deal strove must clearly be either abandoned or reversed by any body of men responsible for the organization of our defense effort. No other course is possible if that effort is to succeed. It makes no difference by what name the majority of the SPAB is called. Say they are New Dealers or, more accurately, say they are Old Friends of the President. In any case, they will either fail to do their job, or they will have to act as pallbearers at the interment of their own economic philosophy. And at those obsequies, it is appropriate that the shiniest black silk hat should adorn the devoted head of the Vice President of the United States.

The Facts Win

The tax bill passed by the Senate will not be the law of the land until the House and the President concur. So, in a world of the unforeseen, we should not cheer too soon. But the chances are good that the substance of the bill will survive. And that will mark the biggest move yet to bring the cost of government home to all of us. The income tax, for the first time since there has been an income tax, will be something more than a class tax levied by all the people upon a little over 8 per cent of the people.

But the most important thing about the Senate's action is not economic. It has to do with the way we are governed. Selfishness, it seems, is not the sole key to political action in a democracy.  Why? Because, when all the facts are gathered, it can be shown that by more widely distributing the tax load, the whole nation will be better able to weather the storms ahead. Some people have seen that for a long time. In the face of every discouragement, they have continued to say it. Some of these people are citizens who have written to their congressmen. Some have written to their newspapers. Some have talked of it to their friends. Other people, whose business it is to write and speak, have written and spoken about it. So what started as a small minority movement became a strong, forcible voice. Which is something to remember when it seems as if the efforts of simple citizens in the minority are ineffective and futile. The facts—and a persistent expression of the facts—are irresistible.