Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


**Making History at Nuremberg**
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Indifference may greet the end of the Nuremberg trial, for a large section of American opinion is slipping into a swamp of cynicism. Voices are already heard to the effect that we fought against the wrong nation, that Germany should have been appeased and that now it should become the fortress of the West. But to argue this is to say that humanity is eternally pursuing phantoms and that millions of lives were wasted in a delusion. A calm examination of what Nuremberg revealed provides an answer to that view.

The purpose of the Nuremberg trial was to provide a sanction for international morality as revealed in international law, treaties and conventions. The defendants were 24 leaders, charged individually and as members of six organizations.

The four counts in the indictment were (1) conspiracy to wage aggressive and illegal wars; (2) crimes against peace in violation of international treaties, agreement and assurances; (3) crimes in the course of war in violation of international conventions, internal penal laws and of the general principles of the criminal law of all nations; and (4) crimes against humanity, as defined by the Charter of the Tribunal. The counts are related and constitute a sequence of responsibility. A vast amount of specific evidence was presented to prove that the very people who conspired in bringing about war were likewise responsible for what happened in the war. The whole case was a mosaic—millions of individual crimes creating a general picture of conspiracy against half the world.

The trial was not being conducted under American law. It cannot fairly be placed against the background of the American Constitution. The law under which the trial proceeded derived from the Charter of the Tribunal, created by eighteen governments which at the moment constitute the effective rulers of most of the civilized world. The Charter is organic law and, in the nature of things and because its purpose was to apply basic justice, it could not embody all the protections enjoyed by Americans or British under their constitutional law. But behind the Charter was plenty of substantive law in the form of treaties, conventions and recognized principles to which Germany was subject. All the conditions of a fair trial were guaranteed by the Charter and were, in my judgment, observed by the Tribunal in the proceedings. The only *post facto* element was the Tribunal itself. The law which the defendants were charged with violating existed before the crimes were committed.

A reading of the immense record of the trial does not sustain those who claim that some of the defendants, notably Göring, made a good showing, especially in their passages with Prosecutor Jackson. Göring is no fool, despite the ineffable vanities, comic mein, and bizarre tastes of his glory days. But the role he sought to play in the trial—that of an innocent dupe of Hitler and Himmler and an indefatigable friend of peace—did not fit the mountain of evidence arrayed against him.

The British prosecutor, Sir David Maxwell-Fyffe, made the sharpest impression, not only because of his personality and experience, but because his task was limited to specific crimes, such as the murder of captured airmen. Soviet prosecution also limited itself to particular violations of the laws of war, mostly in Russia. The French prosecutor made only a slight contribution to the trial. Prosecutor Jackson carried the heaviest burden. His task was to put together a vast amount of detail into the portrayal of a gigantic conspiracy extending over many years. Such a performance dulls the patience of spectators. In the trial of Warren Hastings, Burke wearied his listeners, while Sheridan enthralled them. But Burke’s contribution lives, while Sheridan’s is forgotten.

Jackson labored under another handicap. He is not a great and experienced prosecutor in the American sense of the term. He grew up in civil practice. He lacks the capacity for lucid and dramatic analysis which characterized Tilden, Hughes or Tom Walsh. But with dogged determination he built up a history of Nazism which will live a long time. For this trial at Nuremberg is a decisive step forward in human progress.