Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap. Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the image's quality and column layout:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Time to Pipe Down

The breath of hope of European
peace, so faint last September, becomes
unmistakably stronger as spring approaches.
The axis has passed the zenith of its
supremacy. Germany has internal cramps;
France is starting her stalled industrial
machine and British financial power is
showing the capacity to forge a strong
defense. These facts are giving the lie to
those who predicted, after September, that
Germany would grow stronger as she grew
bigger and that appeasement would not
make the democracies safer, but Germany
irresistible. Austria has brought Germany
new liabilities rather than new resources,
and the Sudeten has brought her new
problems of "discipline." Germany cannot
make bricks without straw. Italy shows a
lessening tendency to destroy herself.

So the old-fashioned man with an umbrella
is not so foolish after all. His retreat at
Munich was like that of Gene Tunney, who,
after falling under Dempsey's blows in
Chicago, ran backward or "bicycled" away.
Neither retreat was graceful, but both
afforded precious moments for the clearing
of wits and the marshaling of strength. The
British policy of bicycling leaves Germany,
not England, showing weakness as a new
round begins. England breathes easier.

Not so, however, with our fire-eaters
here. Senator Pittman unwisely calls the
Chamberlain policy "immoral" and "destructive."
We are expected to believe that the
trustee of British blood and treasure is
"immoral" if he, and not Senator Pittman,
decides where that blood and treasure will
be spent. It is wholly in order for American
citizens to express critical views of European
statesmen if they hold such views. But some
of those Americans who have been so sure
that England was blundering should consider
the case for a revision of their earlier judgments.

Reforming Reform

As the American people begin to grow
dimly conscious of the fact that neither
Franklin Roosevelt nor anyone else of his
general philosophy has a permanent lease on
the White House, several curious shifts are
taking place in public sentiment. The most
spectacular of these, to my mind, is
occurring among the country's labor leaders.

Remembering, no doubt, the President's
references to those "new instruments of


NEWSWEEK, MARCH 6, 1939

public power" that might some day in the
hands of a reactionary government "provide
shackles for the liberties of the people," the
A.F.L. is moving toward a firm stand
against further Federal regulation of working
conditions in the immediate future. More, it
has already indicated grave dissatisfaction
with the Wagner Labor Relations Act. The
dawning realization that the Wagner Act is
an instrument that might, under an ultra-
conservative administration, become a pretty
ruthless check upon labor has reinforced the
knowledge that 1940 and 1944 are not so far
off. Together they spell awareness that the
theory of a biased board might well prove to
be organized labor's undoing.

Hence labor's desire to make the Act fair
to all parties before it is too late. Senator
Burke has introduced a series of amendments
to the present Act—amendments which, while
they go somewhat beyond the A.F.L.
amendments, are not inconsistent with them.
The Burke amendments provide, among other
things, for a recreated Board consisting of one
representative of employers, one of employees
and one of the public. They would limit the
Board's discretion by requiring certain
procedural changes. They provide changes in
election procedure calculated to remove the
present possibility of bias in favor of one or
another labor organization. They would
protect employees against intimidation "from
any source" and against closed-shop
discrimination or a checkoff of dues. They
would rewrite the first section of the present
law to provide that all industrial strife,
"however caused," is against public policy.
It's going to be difficult for Congress to
avoid the clear implication of these
amendments, particularly at a moment when
real friends of organized labor recognize
clearly the danger—to labor itself—of
government partisanship in the labor field.

But equally important is the fact that the
farsighted friends of organized labor are
beginning to show signs of nervousness
about the expansion of wage regulation.
Wages are being regulated in two ways now—
by the Wages-Hours Act and the Walsh-Healey
Act. Under the latter, by steadily expanding
the "locality," it is possible to make uniform
the wages in plants which sell to the
government the country over. For example, 29
small independents in the steel and fabricating
industries through the Eastern States complain
they have been bracketed with the big steel
industries between Pittsburgh and Chicago—a
territory where wages have been higher than
in the East for a generation or more. The
"locality" was expanded by the Walsh-Healey
board. The next expansion could well be to
take in Kentucky. After that Alabama. Always
a majority of the plants in a given region
would be paying the higher rates.

The question that must inevitably arise,
then, on the part of workers is "Why belong
to a labor union at all?" If union wages can
be effected in Alabama, say, without a union,
why pay dues? If the government's taking
over the show, why bother? So are years of
education and organization by labor leaders
being undermined.

In May 1935 I wrote: "So much sincerity
and sacrifice has gone into the upbuilding of
the American labor movement that failure
would be one of the tragedies of our national
history. Yet labor today is maneuvering itself
into a position where it is open to devastating
consequences from a change in the American
political climate...The present liberal
Democratic party, which recognizes the need
of a strong labor movement, ought itself to
take care lest it permit labor to assume a yoke
from which it might never free itself."

Unfortunately the Democratic party
didn't "take care." What we are witnessing
now is labor's moment of awakening, labor's
scramble to get out from under, labor's effort
to escape from its dreadful position of
dependence upon whatever national
administration happens to be in power.

Ground for Hope

It is too much to expect a proud
administration to put on sackcloth in public.
To the extent that Mr. Hopkins fell short of
that, he disappointed in his Des Moines
speech. But it must be remembered that he is
neither President nor in direct charge of any
of the activities of which business has
complained. Hence, he had to be pretty
general.

But he did go as far as any official without
direct power to lighten the fardels of business
could go. He acknowledged that confidence is
essential to business activity. He recognized
that indefiniteness in utility policy has been
holding back recovery; that tax policies must be
designed to encourage the flow of capital; that
recovery is, at the moment, more important
than reform; and finally, that the production
of more wealth should be our concern rather
than a further attempt to redistribute what we
have.

Here are grounds for mild optimism.
Business has reason to feel that, in Hopkins, it
has a representative in court who has learned a
great many things that the leaders of this
Administration have refused for six years to
admit.