Conscription and the Colleges

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Everyone who can remember our
distressing lack of preparation for the
two world wars and who is not entirely
blind to our future position in the
world is in favor of very strong military
and naval establishments after the
war. Yet it is equally clear that such
questions as these cannot be settled
by hasty action while the war is still
going on.

The presidents of twelve leading
colleges and universities (Vanderbilt,
Harvard, Cornell, Princeton, Tulane,
Chicago, Missouri, Kansas, California,
Stanford, Indiana and Brown) have
addressed an open letter to President
Roosevelt asking him to defer a recommendation for a year's compulsory
military training "at least until complete victory over Germany is
achieved."

They point out that the conscription
of young men for a year's military
service in peacetime is only part—and
not the major part—of a program of
military preparedness. "Adequate defense," they say, "under conditions of
modern war involves, for instance, a
satisfactory scheme for basic scientific
development and the training of personnel for this development. It also
calls for a carefully integrated plan
for organization of our industry for
military eventualities. We fear that if
compulsory military training is enacted
under conditions of war tension and
proves to be unwise, the resulting reaction will seriously jeopardize an informed and intelligent defense program for the United States in the postwar world."

They point out also that "no one
can now foresee the international situation when the war is over; it is therefore impossible to determine intelligently the extent of defense measures
which will be needed. It is clearly impossible to debate fairly and intelligently while we are at war the relation
of compulsory military training to future military necessity. No one can
now foresee the strategic problems
which will confront those in command
of the Army and the Navy in the postwar world."

Beyond this, the presidents make
the very important point, at least by
implication, that the use of conscription as a means of achieving educational or social ends such as industrial
training, indoctrination, aid to colleges and relief of unemployment beclouds
the real purpose of military training,
which is to provide a strong peacetime
army and navy. The purpose of an
army is defense and, if necessary, attack. Education, unemployment relief
and what-not are different problems.
To attempt to achieve too many objectives by the simple expedient of
conscription might well make us fall
short of all of our objectives.

While these educational leaders do
not say so, they are probably aware
that the notable success of the Navy's
wartime educational plans, which were
carried out in cooperation with the
colleges, has opened up new lines of
peacetime progress both for the armed
forces and for the educational systems
of the country. Traditional methods
can be revolutionized. People have
discovered that much more can be
taught and learned in a shorter time
than was believed possible before. The
old leisurely college days are, one may
hope, forever gone. What we used to
think was time for thought, reading
and research was, to a great degree,
time for laziness and indirection. Students probably cannot learn in two
years what they used to learn in four.
But they can in three, with no risk
either to health or to educational
values. These new ideas must be
worked out by the people in education.

Obviously the hastily passed GI
Bill of Rights will require much study
and preparation before it can bring to
returned servicemen all that it promises. President Conant of Harvard, in
his annual report, last month pointed
out the many deficiencies in the act.
He predicts that, as a result of a too
broad attempt to provide college education, the veterans with the most
brains and initiative may pass up slow
academic formalities and go directly
into outside work. As a result, the colleges, instead of providing training for
exceptionally able leaders, may be the
refuge of the average or below-average. The major contribution of the
universities to the ambitious veteran
will be in professional training, and the
preliminaries to that training must be
greatly changed.

The colleges have done a remarkable job in the war. But to meet the
changes required for peace, they will
need some time for readjustment.