Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Calm and Determined
by Raymond Moley

CHARLESTON, S.C.—Here, within
sight, is Fort Sumter where the
Civil War began. In Columbia, where
I spent yesterday, Sherman’s army at
the very end of the war inflicted cruel,
ruthless, and unnecessary ruin. Leaders
of this state, from Calhoun to former
Governor Byrnes, have most
cogently and forcefully stressed the
rights and responsibilities of the states
in the Federal union.

Here, as in Columbia, I sought the
opinions and conclusions of high state
officials past and present, of editors
close to the feelings and opinions of
their readers, school-board members,
administrators of elementary schools
and institutions of higher education,
and of lawyers who advised and assisted
lawmakers in creating a means of
meeting the grim problems now
highlighted by events in Little Rock.

There is real leadership here—responsible,
intelligent, and restrained in speech
and action. That leadership is calmly,
legally, and with great determination
going to assert in action as well as in
words its conclusion that South Carolina
is “not prepared” to mix the races in
the schools.

CHANGES IN LAW

To the end that it might meet the
crisis created by the Supreme Court, a
vast school-building program was
started under former Governor Byrnes.
So far, about $175 million for that
purpose has been authorized, of which
$150 million has been spent. Of this,
about 60 per cent has gone into
building schools for Negroes, who
constitute less than 40 per cent of the
population. To assure a continuation of
separate but equal school facilities for
the races, certain legal changes were
adopted by overwhelming vote of the
people—and Negroes participated in the
voting—and by action of the legislature.
All provisions for compulsory school
attendance were repealed, as well as all
references to segregation. It was then
made state law that in case any court,
Federal or state, ordered the transfer of
any pupil, white or Negro, financial
support by state or county of both the
school to which and the school from
which such transfer was directed would
be automatically cut off. This would
close the schools in question. Thus today

there exists “voluntary segregation.”
This is supported by the statement that
the mental aptitudes of the two races
are so different at all levels up to the
top of higher education that integration
would result in bad and inefficient
education of both races.

There can scarcely be imagined a legal
device by which the Federal executive
or the judiciary can compel legislators
to appropriate money for schools. Nor
can military force enter schools and
educate children. Even if Congress
would appropriate and the executive
construct integrated Federal schools, it
would be a fantastic distortion of the
Constitution for the Federal government
to enact and enforce compulsory
attendance.

DELICATE BALANCE

It is believed that the use of Federal
troops to break through this legal
barrier would do inestimable injury to
those people of both races who are
least able to bear it. The races have
lived here in harmony for a long, long
time. Negroes have advanced education-
ally, culturally, and economically at a
rate that is amazing. Because the races
have lived together in such harmony,
any action to create a serious friction
between them would injure the Negro
most of all. For he has, despite his
progress, serious and immediate
problems. Mechanization, as well as crop
restriction and changes in crop types, has
driven many from the farms. Only a few
can go North for industrial employment,
and the development of industry here,
with larger opportunities for employment,
could be disastrously checked by a state
of domestic friction.

The events in Little Rock are viewed
here with intense feeling. Leaders feel it
to be improper to guess, as well as
impossible to judge, the political
consequences. Thurgood Marshall has
rushed into print with a call for all
Negroes to switch to the Republican
Party. This, with inferences drawn from
the actions of the Federal Executive,
causes people here to feel that political
advantage has guided Federal policy.
Criticism centers upon the Attorney
General, but it also has its effect upon
the faith and admiration that has been
bestowed upon the President in the past.

Newsweek, October 14, 1957