Here's the extracted text from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible:


Perspective

Control of Education I

by Raymond Moley

High on the horizon of the New
Frontier is Federal aid for the
public schools—aid for construction
and aid for teachers’ salaries. With an
eager majority of “liberal” Democrats
and also Republicans who have al-
ready committed themselves to school
construction, and with a new Presi-
dent, this new Federal adventure
seems most likely to succeed.
But before that irrevocable step is
taken, citizens everywhere and their
representatives in Congress should so-
berly consider the profoundly serious
implications of such a move.
Despite pious declarations in pro-
posed legislation and in the state-
ments of sponsors that aid does not
mean control, the issue means just
that. No one has more succinctly
stated the objective than Max Lerner:
“The choice is between control by
people who have not given their lives
to education and control by people
who have given their lives to it.”
In the considerable part of my life
which I gave to education, I always
considered myself a public servant. I
was employed to give what skill I had
to the purposes of the parents of the
students and to those who provided
the means for the service. They de-
termined what should be taught and
by whom. That is as it should be
in a free society.


RIGID PATTERN

A writer on this subject has
said, citing a famous aphorism by
Clemenceau: “Just as war is too im-
portant to be left to the generals,
education is too important to be left
to the educators.” Under our consti-
tutional system there is over-all con-
trol by civilians of the military,
scientific research, and all other gov-
ernmental functions which employ ex-
perts and professionals. The civilian
decides what should be done. The
expert devises means to do it.
Under the present system of educa-
tion there can never be professional
control. For there are too many gov-
ernors and too many school boards.
The freedom exercised under our sys-
tem has, in fact, greatly advanced
the cause of education because count-
less experiments can be made which,
when successful, are copied else-
where. Under a nationally centralized
system, like that of France, a single
pattern is frozen everywhere.
Professional associations do not
seem to realize that value of decen-
tralized freedom. If there is to be any
freezing, they want to supply the pat-
tern. This they can accomplish
through a government bureaucracy
in Washington, which they already in-
fluence to a considerable degree. The
Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare with its Office of Educa-
tion even under President Eisenhower
largely echoed the sentiments and
promoted the plans of those associ-
ations. With the great power of Fed-
eral money, that professional influence
would grow immeasurably.

NO CLAMOR

Those who actually support and
control education have not been clam-
oring for Federal aid. This is shown
conclusively in a most significant book,
“Taxes for the Schools.” Its author,
Roger A. Freeman, by long and pains-
taking research and forceful public
utterances and by his earlier book,
“School Needs in the Decade Ahead,”
has already done a great deal in
countering the activity of the pro-
fessional associations and the Office of
Education. He is, in fact, the bête noir
of the National Education Association.
In his new book Freeman points
out that the demands for Federal aid
have not come from “those who are
de lege and de facto responsible for
the schools—the states and the boards
of education. Most governors who
have stated their views have ex-
pressed opposition to expanded or
‘massive’ Federal school aid. The Na-
tional School Boards Association has
repeatedly refused to support the de-
mand, and in fact not one of the
50,000 state and local boards of edu-
cation has, for at least the past
five years, testified in favor of it before
a Congressional committee. Some state
and local board members have ap-
peared to testify against it.”
Next week I shall point out the
worthlessness of any promise by Con-
gress or the sponsoring associations
that Federal aid will not lead to con-
trol; and also how, despite such
promises and pledges, control by pro-
fessionals and their associations would
certainly come about.

Newsweek, February 13, 1961