Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Note that some minor formatting discrepancies may remain due to the complexities of the original layout.


The Faith of a Businessman
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Almost every intelligent leader of
business in this country freely admits
these days that businessmen first opened
the Pandora's Box from which emerged,
among other things, the earliest of our
pressure groups; that the activities of
businessmen in politics have often been
selfish and shortsighted; that business-
men ignored far too long the legitimate
demands of those who worked for them,
and that, by 1932, long-delayed reform
was overripe. All this and more is stated
in no uncertain terms by Edgar M.
Queeny, whose thoughts on the conflict
between business and government now
take shape in a notable and thoughtful
book just published, "The Spirit of En-
terprise."*

The initial impulse behind Mr.
Queeny's decision to write this book
originated, no doubt, in the irritation
with New Deal policies. But Mr.
Queeny's thinking soon led to something
quite unlike a generalized and insensate
denunciation of Mr. Roosevelt and his
works.

As he describes his quest himself, he
found that the phenomenon with which
he was concerned had its origins, first, in
defects in past business practice and,
second, in the New Deal's adoption of
certain assumptions and methods that
had precious little relation to the de-
fects which it was trying to remedy. In
short, Mr. Queeny says, while Dr.
Roosevelt's early diagnosis was correct,
the remedies applied by the interns
working under him will more likely kill
the patient than cure him.

In his search for the sources of con-
temporary New Deal philosophy, Mr.
Queeny has pushed back to the parent
of American radical economics, Thor-
stein Veblen, whose influence upon a
generation of younger men was domi-
nant and overwhelming.

Veblen, as Mr. Queeny proves by ref-
erence to what sympathetic writers had
to say about that singular man, was
born and nurtured in a powerful antip-
athy toward success, particularly busi-
ness success. He was a child of depres-
sion years in a Wisconsin community in
which, says a most friendly biographer,
Old World customs prevailed "in an-
tagonism to the American and Ameri-
canizing influences of town and city."

During a long and unhappy academic
career, Veblen poured out a series of
books filled with bitter, sardonic criti-
cism of business enterprise. This man,
says Mr. Queeny, was the father and
prophet of the New Deal intelligentsia.

The intellectual heirs of Veblen
now in the government share their mas-
ter's lack of practical knowledge of busi-
ness, Queeny points out. He recalls at
some length the Temporary National
Economic Committee's hearings in 1938
and 1939, which were, in effect, a forum
for the exposition of their views. Despite
the advance announcement that this in-
vestigation would be impartial, actually
it was largely ex parte, he demonstrates.
Businessmen prepared to offer factual
evidence at variance with the economic
views of the New Dealers were not
called to testify. Mr. Queeny himself
was called and dismissed without a hear-
ing. Against the mass of testimony in-
cluded in this inquisition and the con-
clusions blithely drawn from it by the
investigators, Mr. Queeny contends in
clear, concise terms.

In the main, Mr. Queeny's thesis is
that less restriction at home and more
cooperation abroad is sorely needed in
the postwar period. He favors a regional
organization of the world, recently sug-
gested by Churchill, Hoover, Landon
and others. He would use international
means to protect the sanctity of inter-
national contracts and outlaw restrictive
international cartel agreements. At
home, he would revise the "antiquated"
antitrust laws, administering them in
interest of free competition, rather than
in furtherance of a planned economy;
rebuild railroads and worn-out industrial
plants and achieve conditions favorable
to the growth of new businesses and in-
dustries; restrict activities of pressure
groups; adopt a national incorporation
act; abolish interlocking directorates
and reform taxation. Above all, he
would clear out of government all who
believe in the doctrines of economic
pessimism and put into office men who
are convinced that America's future
growth still lies with free enterprise.

Mr. Queeny believes profoundly
that freedom is indivisible. "We may
continue the struggle under the lash of
fear wielded by the imperious bureauc-
racies of a coercive state," he says,
"but we can conquer with hope-giving
encouragement to free minds and free
spirits engaged in competitive enter-
prise. To realize the four freedoms,
we need only one freedom-Freedom!"
*267 pages. Scribner. $2.