Here's the extracted text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


were lost in Washington, Oregon, Idaho,
Colorado, and Nevada, and governorships
were lost in Oregon and Washington.
All of this caused the Administration
to put in the hands of Vice President
Richard M. Nixon and Cabinet officers
the task of taking a new, hard look at its
power policies.
In assessing their Congressional losses,
Republicans started with these facts:
►They failed to win the Senate, 47 seats
to 49 for the Democrats, and barely
squeaked through in some races (such as
Sen. Francis Case's, in South Dakota).
►They lost the House, 199 to 233, with
three seats still in doubt.
►They won three new governorships, but
lost five to the Democrats (with one
state, Rhode Island, still in doubt).
At first glance, there seemed to be no
rhyme or reason to the Republican losses.
But close inspection brought some reveal-
ing facts to light. Oddly enough, the
cleavage in Republican strength was
along the geographical line of the Missis-
sippi River, which roughly bisects the
nation. East of the river, Mr. Eisenhower
ran well ahead of his 1952 performance
and his Congressional candidates gen-
erally were strong. West of the river, the
President fell behind 1952 and other
GOP candidates took their biggest
lumps. On the other hand, the Repub-
licans cut deeper into the South than in
1952; they recaptured a good share of
the Negro vote in Northern cities (as
well as in the South), and they seemed
to have snared the Catholic vote.
Motives: GOP strategists felt that
the geographical cleavage was easily
explained. The East voted on record
prosperity and the crisis abroad. West-
erners, they felt, voted their pocket-
books, drought, and antipathy to
Agriculture Secretary Ezra Taft Benson.
In rebuilding for the 1958 mid-term
-Perspective-
Registered U.S. Patent Office
-NATIONAL AFFAIRS
election, therefore, one of the first orders
of business for the GOP was to come to
grips with the problems that influence
the West. Next, it was obvious that the
South was very much worth a new organ-
ization drive. And there certainly was
every advantage to be gained in seeking
a permanent alliance with the Negro voter
through a strong civil-rights program.
Still, any candid look ahead to 1958
foreshadowed a rocky road for the Re-
publicans. Top party strategists are un-
comfortably aware that the Democratic
senators who will be up for re-election at
the mid-term are largely solid officehold-
ers who will be hard to beat. The chief
problem for the GOP may very well be
to hold on to the senators it has. A more
fruitful field may be the House, and here
the feeling of GOP leaders is that some
of its candidates may have become shop-
worn. They are convinced they must
scour the party's ranks for the kind of
The Important Question Now: After Ike—What?
by Raymond Moley
THERE are those Republicans who
are so stimulated by the great
Eisenhower sweep that they are unwill-
ing to face the stark fact that, despite
that victory, the Republican Party in
Congress failed to win back what it
lost in 1954.
This Republican setback was not
because there is a real, united, and dom-
inant Democratic Party, for an examina-
tion of the shifts in Senate and House
membership indicates many, many fac-
tors other than party consistency. Nor
was it because the Republican Party is
something distinct and apart from the
President. There is a strong Republican
Party, of which the President is the pro-
fessed leader and spokesman.
FORMIDABLE TASK
But unless a number of important steps
are taken, there will be more losses in
1958 and 1960. There lies before the
President, the Vice President, the Re-
publican Congressional leaders, the Re-
publican National Committee, and
politically minded citizens a formidable
task of strengthening their party.
In considering that task, it may be well
to state the four essentials of a true and
successful political party. They are a co-
herent philosophy, a solid core of mem-
bers with essentially compatible interests,
leaders who command the respect and
support of those members, and an or-
ganization or organizations capable
of mobilizing voting
strength. On this oc-
casion I can only con-
sider the first and
fourth of these.
Those who tell us
that there was no dif-
ference between the
domestic policies of
the two candidates for President in the
recent campaign are afflicted with ideo-
logical asthenopia. Those who can read
might compare the statement of princi-
ple presented by the President in his San
Francisco acceptance speech with the
hash of collectivist vote-bait offered in
the Stevenson "New America" docu-
ments. Moreover, those who claim that
the Republican Party membership fails to
share the President's ideas should exam-
ine not only the election returns (which
indicated deviation only on the farm is-
sue) and the support by his party in Con-
gress. There are a few intransigents, but
99 per cent of those who followed Taft
are happy to accept the President's
"modernized Republicanism."
So far as organization is concerned,
there are at least two critical needs. In
the South the young people who have
been torn from their traditional party
faith by the attractiveness of President
Eisenhower and their opposition to the
collectivism of Northern Democrats have
a real task. They cannot wait until an-
other Presidential election to act. They
must get into the grass roots and start
the building of a true Republican Party
at the level of the county courthouse and
the State Legislature. The Democratic
Party in the South is built upon thou-
sands of county and state jobholders.
In urban communities in the North, on
the border, and also in the South there
must be developed strong auxiliary
citizens' groups to help the legally con-
stituted party get out the vote. This is
the only way by which the growing
power of the AFL-CIO Committee on
Political Education and the strong but
waning power of the old city machines
and bosses can be neutralized.
PROFESSIONALS
But in both local party organizations
and in auxiliary citizens' groups there
should be more professional direction.
There should be, in a number of urban
Congressional districts, full-time, year-
round, trained and paid organizers. They
might be paid either by local groups, by
the state or national organizations, or by
all together. The Republican National
Committee could help by finding suitable
men and women for such work. And
there might well be a national school for
their training. If there were 50 or 75
such organizers, the cost would not ex-
ceed the cost of two or three national
television broadcasts. They would do a
thousand times as much good.
The Republican Party, confronted as
it is by professionals both in COPE and
in the local machines, cannot afford to
risk its future on amateurism. That is the
most profound lesson that can be drawn
from this election.
63