Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

Southern Republicanism

by Raymond Moley

THE purpose of my visits in April in
Texas, northern Louisiana, Mis-
sissippi, Alabama, and South Carolina
was not to cover the twice-told story
of racial strife. It was to study at first
hand a quite different protest. I
found that countless thousands of
young men and women in the col-
leges and universities and their pred-
ecessors graduated since the war are
fed up with the one-party, nominally
Democratic regime which has domi-
nated public life in Southern states
ever since the Reconstruction. These
young people, mostly centered in the
expanding urban industrial centers,
are impatient to get on with their
lives in the dynamic economy in
which they find themselves. They see
no future in the fading image of what
is called Democratic conservatism.
They are out to build a new Republi-
can Party in their states and cities.
They realize that what is called Dem-
ocratic in those states is, except for
one or two exceptions, no party sys-
tem at all. It is and has been a
congeries of factions and personal fol-
lowings, with nothing common to all
except the name "Democrat."
This is not to say that the Demo-
cratic representatives to Congress
sent by those states have not in-
cluded many useful statesmen. For
many years in coalition with conserv-
ative Republicans they have been
the nation's bastion of moderation
against the liberalism of three Demo-
cratic Presidents.

AGING DEMOCRATS

Three factors are dissipating the
strength of that Congressional coali-
tion. One is the rapidly growing
strength of Republican opposition in
the home states and districts which
Southern Democrats represent. An-
other is the power of the Kennedy
Administration to win them over by
government benefits. But the major
source of their growing weakness
is not the Brothers Kennedy but
Father Time.
For those representatives are of
ripe years. The average age of Sen-
ate committee chairmen from the 11
Southern states is 67; of the House
chairmen, 65. Of the 21 Democratic
senators from the "solid" South, thir-
teen are over 60, ten are over 65,
and four are over 70. Despite the
youth and vigor of its President, the
Democratic Party is growing old.
In sharp contrast, the Republican
Party chairmen of the states I vis-
ited are all under 40. At 38 Peter
O'Donnell Jr. of Texas is the Nestor
of the group. John E. Grenier of Ala-
bama is 32. Successful Texas candi-
date Sen. John G. Tower is 35;
Rep. Bruce Alger when elected in
1954 was 36; Edgar F. Foreman,
elected in 1962 from West Texas,
is 29. Potential candidates are all
young people.

URBAN STRENGTH

The leaders of the new Republican
Party in Texas, Mississippi, Alabama,
and South Carolina are almost all
from the legal profession or from the
business community. They are native
born, not recently removed from the
North. Unlike most Republican lead-
ers in years past, these young people
are well regarded in their communi-
ties. And they belong in and are
operating from the rapidly growing
industrialized areas.
Since the population in all those
states is rapidly being concentrated
in the urban areas, those leaders re-
gard those areas as the potential cen-
ters of Republican strength. Rather
than starting in rural counties, a long
and probably fruitless job, they will
concentrate their efforts where re-
sults will be more immediate and
spectacular. Texas, for example, is
now 75 per cent urban. By compari-
son Michigan is 72 per cent urban.
Election statistics in 1960 and 1962
justify this strategy. For Nixon and
Senatorial and Congressional candi-
dates not only carried most of those
areas, but they ran strongest where
the population and industrial growth
since 1950 have been most marked.
Thus, these Republicans are leading
from urban strength.
In those areas they are creating ac-
tive precinct organizations with vig-
orous and willing volunteer young
men and women.
They seek for the moment only the
big offices, the capture of which will
stir the imagination of voters else-
where. Later, perhaps considerably
later, they will move into the county
and local elections.

Newsweek, May 27, 1963