Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the nature of the OCR process.


**Taking Our Medicine**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Senate had a tantrum toward
last month's end. Confronted by the
question of voting subsidies for industries
caught between fixed price ceilings and
rising production costs, it turned red in
the face and emitted piteous howls. Then,
after two anguished days, it dashed the
castor oil to the floor. It voted to drop
the subsidy proposals.

That doesn't mean that the horrid
dose won't have to be faced again—faced
and, eventually, downed. Repulsive as it
is, it's the only medicine for the politico-
economic bellyache that began when
Congress and Mr. Henderson's OPA
adopted the kind of price control they
did. Congress, by avoiding the logic of
ceilings on wages as well as on prices,
practically guaranteed that labor costs in
manufacturing and trade would rise. The
OPA practically guaranteed that prices
would be maintained. ("One thing should
be clearly understood," said its general
maximum-price order. "Retail prices will
not be increased.") If wages and labor
costs do keep going up, the only way for
OPA to hold retail prices level will
ultimately be subsidies.

For a while we may try other remedies.
We may standardize and simplify products.
We may encourage or force mergers of
small plants to effect economies in
manufacture. We may, as we are now
doing, make wholesalers and retailers bear
the brunt of the shock even though it will
mean ruin for many of them before long.
But in the end, some subsidies will be
inevitable.

Canada has discovered that. Canada is
learning the hard lesson more clearly every
day, as it finds that, in many instances,
commodities simply refuse to move except
at higher prices or subsidies. To a degree,
we have learned it too. For example, the
OPA, which is holding down copper prices
paid to major producers, is subsidizing
marginal high-cost producers. Again, the
RFC is subsidizing some industries in
special situations related to war by selling
them certain domestic and imported
articles at a loss.

Some of the prices farmers receive
elude ceilings. Wage "inequalities" are
removed by upping "substandard wages."
The cost of imports and of moving goods
over unaccustomed routes increases. The
cost of producing goods in thousands of
small plants whose output has been cut by
government order and by materials
scarcities goes up. Yet retail prices must
not rise.

How do we maintain an absolutely
stable price level without coming to grips
with all the forces that are really pushing
it up?

The senators see that. What actually
threw them was the question how to
regulate the regulators—how to see that
the way was not opened to the giving of
subsidies on a gargantuan scale throughout
business and industry. Those senators
who tried to define the conditions under
which the $500,000,000 subsidy fund was
to be used frankly confessed their
inability to do it. They will not succeed in
doing it even to their own satisfaction in
the present circumstances. No words exist
to limit the spread of subsidies if we
guarantee that prices shall not go up
without choking back the factors forcing
them up. No words exist to retain the
substance of free enterprise once a general
subsidy system gains momentum—a system
of subsidies to every producer and
distributor who may be bankrupted by the
politico-economic squeeze. No words exist
to limit the amount of money that will be
spent for subsidies.

No one any longer questions the ability
of the people to understand the realities of
war regimentation. But our government
has made them harder to bear because it
consistently underestimated the public's
ability to take them. As a result we have
had our teeth extracted in slow agonized
half-jerks. Wages are not fixed but
"jellified." Rationing is tried with a series
of false starts. Taxes are levied by fits and
starts.

In Heaven's name, let's have the whole
works and get it over. Then when we
finish the war we can end the regimentation.
But if it is done in devious and piecemeal
ways, it will have to be removed in devious
and piecemeal ways, and it will have to be
a long time.

Whether we might have avoided subsidies
altogether even by forthright and
comprehensive anti-inflation measures is
doubtful. But with faulty and partial
controls, huge subsidies cannot be avoided.
So, like it or not, Congress and the rest of
us are going to have to take our medicine.