Here's a text version of the provided image.  Note that some formatting (like paragraph breaks and column separation) has been preserved to the best of my ability, but perfect reproduction is challenging due to the image quality and column layout.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Congress and the New Year

The year 1941 sets abnormal issues
against the backdrop of a normal Congressional situation. Abnormal issues, because
never in a supposed peacetime have problems so warlike been faced. A normal relationship between the Executive and Congress, because for the first time in eight
years we shall probably return to that uneasy balance of power that has, in the
main, characterized the relations between
the two branches of our government.

It is a fair guess that in the absence of
actual war there will be no complete domination of Congress by the President. There
will be no overwhelmingly large and tractable Administration bloc. True, the Democratic majority is roughly the same as it
was in the 76th Congress, but the issues
now current will cut across party lines with
unpredictable abandon.

Administration leadership will be no
stronger. In the House, Rayburn, as Speaker, will be more powerful than he was as
Majority Leader and more independent.
But McCormack, as Majority Leader, will
be new and untried. Bankhead with his
great influence among his colleagues and
his loyalty to the President, is gone. The
House will be turbulent and difficult to
manage. It is important to note that the
President's most consistent support will be
from members elected by the big-city machines. They will lean more to regularity,
to the support of labor measures and ultra-
New Deal proposals. It was these members
who rallied to support the President's veto
of the Walter-Logan Bill. This is the result
of the shift of the New Deal in the past
few years toward urban, labor policies and
of the growing conservatism of rural districts, even in the South.

The Senate will be its old willful
self, prone to debate cosmic questions with
fulsome fervor. Defense and foreign affairs
are subjects made to order for Senatorial
oratory. Neither Barkley nor Wallace can
stem the tide. George, at the head of the
Foreign Relations Committee, is much
abler, more conservative and vastly more
independent than was Pittman. Johnson,
Vandenberg, La Follette, Wheeler and other aggressive members are fresh from reelection. Six new Republican Senators are
untried, but some of them look like strong
men. There will be no new outstanding
New Deal Senators.

For these reasons, if for no others, the
President's job will be exceedingly difficult.
That is why he may move with more cautiousness in foreign affairs than some of those
who supported him in the election will relish. He will be criticized by many who
believed that he would give the British
more help than he is giving. On the other
hand, he will be hammered for neglecting
our own defenses to help England. Both
sides are apt to be unreasonable with him,
and to grow increasingly vociferous as the
foreign situation gets more dangerous.

Such debate both inside and outside
of Congress may hit the President pretty
hard because it can center in an objective
that transcends the consideration that the
President might otherwise claim. The objective is the safety of the country at home
and abroad. The criticism will come in the
name of patriotism, however unjustly that
word may be used.

In the field of defense, large issues will
dominate Congressional debate for the simple reason that the picture in its details
cannot be seen by anyone. Some of the men
at the top are already realizing that the
armament job ramifies so enormously that
no one can understand it. It gets away
from the high command no matter how
you may shuffle the high commanders.
Only the barest technical outlines will be
visible. The economic consequences are beyond prediction. You cannot have a philosophy where the phenomena completely
overwhelm the beholder and inhibit any
sense of wholeness. Philosophy is to see
life steadily and see it whole, to paraphrase
Matthew Arnold. But the absence of a
philosophy never deters orators.

Congress, of necessity, must face most
of the issues that foreign affairs involve.
The leasing of war materials to England
becomes a budget matter. The convoying
of ships would require amendment of the
laws. The lending of money to nations indebted to us would require Congressional
action. So, in all likelihood, would the
seizure of ships belonging to conquered nations that are in our ports. Vast as are the
powers that the President can summon,
most of the measures that will involve new
forms of help must go before Congress.
Still, in the end, the intensification of production is the most immediately important
form of aid the United States can give the
British. And authority for this the President already has.

It does not appear that the opening of
the third term will present any considerable program of domestic reform. But, remembering 1937, it is best not to count on
that absolutely. Labor will have its hands
full holding on to all it has: a few unpopular moves may well result in drastic losses.

As the bureaucracy under stress begins to
pinch people more and more, there may be
additional support for a revised Walter-
Logan Bill. There is talk of reviving the
St. Lawrence project. The more zealous
New Dealers will raise a hue and cry over
the SEC insurance report and try to get
through some sort of Federal regulation of
life insurance. But in the face of the need
for insuring the life of the nation itself,
the Administration may be sufficiently well
advised to avoid a step so controversial.

At the outset, the budget may not include such extraordinary items as the
money required for the procurement of
materials which will be lent or leased to
England if the garden-hose proposal is carried through. Three billions is the best
guess as to the size of this item in the next
year's appropriations. But aside from that,
a budget edging toward $20,000,000,000
will bring much nearer to Americans a new
financial era-an era that is the inevitable
consequence of defense expenditures added
to the national cost of maintaining New
Deal standards. After the shock of the
budget will come the dark day in March
when tax payments fall due, and, later, the
final passage of the big tax bill for the next
year. By that time, the inflationary possibilities in the new era will be squarely before us. Congress will be obliged to consider means to control various kinds of inflation--controls that are not more painful
to the public than inflation itself. In this
critical matter Congress should most certainly move ahead of public opinion, because public opinion, on the subject of inflation, generally means public fear. And
public fear means the essence of inflation.

The customary prayer for divine
guidance that will begin the 77th Congress
cannot help but have a special, poignant
significance. The conviction in a worried
Washington that ninety days may tell the
story in Europe cannot be entirely ascribed
to propaganda designed to hurry our aid.
Clearly, the more we hurry, the more intense will grow the determination of the
Axis to press the war. Whether there will
be a negotiated peace or a prostrate England will measurably be affected by what
the 77th Congress does or does not do. And
whether the British Empire will carry on
the fight to an ultimate victory will also
be profoundly influenced by the action of
Congress.

Finally, whether this year will see us in
the war will, in part, at least, depend upon
Congress. And, as they join their chaplain
in prayer, may its members add their own
plea for tolerance and charitable understanding in the days to come, not only in
their own deliberations, but in the country
that they represent. For if some present
tendencies continue, we shall have lost,
through our own excited arguments, the
democracy that we talk of dying to save.
From intolerance and bigotry may Congress help us to save ourselves.