Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The GOP Farm Program

by Raymond Moley

GLASGOW, Mont.—As might have
been expected, most of the interest
in the new Republican platform
manifesting itself in these Northwest-
ern States is directed toward the
proposals that deal with agriculture.
And since President Truman in 1948
snatched victory from defeat by
misrepresenting Republican farm legislation
in the 80th Congress,
Democratic sources are
already screaming that
the Republican proposals
would, if enacted, be “a
coffin” for Federal farm programs.
The average citizen
who would understand this
coming campaign will do
well to do a bit of reading
and inquiring on this farm
question, because it is likely
to be the decisive element
in November and it presents a number
of technical matters that are not
easy to understand.

The real difference between the
proposals of the Republicans and the
policies that the Truman Administration
has followed and that any Democratic
candidate must endorse centers
in the subject of parity. The radical
elements in the Truman Administration,
as well as radical farm organizations,
have been striving for the
enactment of legislation which will
gradually inch up the basic supports
for agricultural prices toward parity
to a point where the government will
be guaranteeing prices at a fixed level
and, moreover, farm income as well.
This would, of course, end in the
complete socialization of agriculture.
The farmer would enjoy only a sort of
well-heeled serfdom. It would, in the
words of a great agricultural leader,
Allan Kline, president of the American
Farm Bureau Federation, be a
“trap.” Kline continues: “If farmers
should ever succumb to the lure of
government price guarantees at 100
per cent of parity, it is inevitable that
the rest of the population will insist
upon the imposition of price ceilings
at 100 per cent of parity. This means
that the government will indulge in
out-and-out price fixing.”

The farmer, thus caught between a
constantly raised floor ostensibly created
for his protection and a ceiling
ostensibly created for the protection
of consumers, would lose his liberty.
His fate would suggest the horrible
tale in which a prisoner was enclosed
in a constantly shrinking room.

The alternative is a system, not unlike
that created in the Agricultural
Acts of 1948 and 1949—which, incidentally,
had bipartisan support—in
which a floor is created that protects
the farmer against disaster but permits
him to prosper by the operation
of a free market. Price
supports above that floor
should be flexible at some
percentage below 100 per
cent parity.

This desirable alternative
is at least by implication
stated in the Republican
platform. Mention of parity
is enclosed in some tricky
language, but properly interpreted,
it means the alternative which I stated
above. It
says: “We favor a farm program
aimed at full parity prices for all farm
products in the market place.” Note
the words “aimed at.” That means
that the policies followed by a Republican
Administration and Congress
would protect the farmer from
economic disaster but promote the
natural rise of prices to full parity.
Certainly it does not guarantee farm
prices by government action at full
parity. It is unfortunate that the
platform did not make this clearer.
But platforms are never very clear.

THE rest of the items mentioned in
the Republican farm plank are either
presently established policies or are
matters of agreement by both parties.
The nub of the subject is parity policy,
and the Republicans favor a policy of
liberty rather than socialism. This
seems to be clearly consistent with the
programs of the National Grange and
the Farm Bureau Federation. The
best advice ever given to farmers is,
in fact, embodied in a speech by
Kline a year or two ago. “The farm
program,” he said, “never makes farmers
prosperous. It takes a whale of a
lot more than that. It takes efficient
production, high production per man,
the appropriate use of capital, keeping
up with research that goes on, soil
management and animal husbandry
and what have you… It is impossible
to have a high standard of living
unless it is earned.”