Here's a text extraction of the provided image, avoiding overlap between columns and excluding the advertisement:

NEWSWEEK OCTOBER 5, 194

Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

September in California
by RAYMOND MOLEY

SAN DIEGO—"You still have far to
go," OCD Chief Jim Landis told Cali-
fornians recently. "Don't pat yourselves
on the back too much." Thus another
Washingtonian lectured the people of
this state. They didn't need the lecture.
They are taking the war just as seriously
as Washington.

A ten days' stay here after an absence
of five months offers convincing evidence
of Californians' intensity of feeling. Los
Angeles, San Francisco and San Diego
all show it. The dimout makes driving
on the coast roads hazardous. With
gasoline rationing threatened and tires
wearing out, people wonder how they
can carry on, for they are vastly more
dependent on automobiles here than on
the East Coast. Shortages of man- and
woman-power press upon the normal
activities of life from every side. Necessary
services are curtailed because of
labor turnover. Workers and employers
alike worry over the uncertainty of
prospective requirements of working
and fighting forces.

But a visit to the plane plants and
shipyards is good for the morale of the
perplexed Easterner. The change in the
plane plants after five months is immensely
impressive. Efficiency is increasing.
There are still shortages of
materials, but complaints are not so
general as they were. Production is
moving up monthly. In every plant,
standing beside the roaring production
lines of models already in action, are
new models of fighters, bombers, and
carriers just emerging from the realm of
experimentation. They are the pride
and joy of their makers. The war comes
close to Californians when they read of
the exploits of California-made planes
in every battlefield of the world. There
is a thrill when the local plane makes
good in far-off places.

It is a pity that the occasional criticism
of American planes that has filtered
back from abroad could not have been
forestalled by a comprehensive report
of the nature, aptitudes and purposes
of our planes. Such a report should, of
necessity, come from the government.
The OWI promises one. When it appears,
it will be clear that the trouble
has been chiefly in the strategy which
has assigned our planes, rather than in
the planes themselves.

One immensely constructive suggestion
has been made out here that should
be heeded by the high command. This
suggestion is that the manufacturers
of airplanes should be represented on
the boards of strategy of the United
States and the United Nations. Such
representation would serve a double
purpose. It would give the strategists
the benefit of firsthand expert manufacturing knowledge of the aptitudes
and prospective production capacity of
planes—knowledge that they now have
only at second hand. The manufacturers,
for their part, would know well in
advance the transportation and fighting
problems that have to be anticipated.
American manufacturers are producing
planes for every purpose, and they
are producing them in quantity. They
are capable of reasonably rapid modification of those planes to meet unanticipated conditions. The problem is
to get the facts quickly, so that modifications can be made without seriously
interfering with production. With manufacturers closer to strategy, this problem
would be easy to solve, and the effectiveness of our war effort would be greatly
improved.

The building of 10,000-ton Liberty
ships in the shipyards here is a spectacle
to be long remembered. In terms of
days, it is already going five times
faster than in 1918, according to West
Coast records. A number of factors are
responsible. Welding is one; the old din
of the riveters is gone. The superiority
in methods of assembly and subassembly is another. Third is the fact
that the heads of the yards have determined the right number of "ways
per yard"—the maximum and minimum
number of ships that should be under
construction in one yard. In the last
war there were at first too many yards,
and later, yards which were too big.
There are no miracles or mysteries
about the present production of cargo
ships. A standard ship has been put into
production and sound methods have
been intelligently applied. As one engineer said: "Our advantage lies not so
much in our experience in building
ships as in our experience in handling
steel." And, considering American preeminence in handling steel, that remark
makes it easy to see who is going to
win the battle of shipbuilding.

Page 158 of 1087