Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


NEWSWEEK, NOVEMBER 25, 1946

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Three Great Powers of Congress
by RAYMOND MOLEY

As Republican Congressional
leaders stand at the door of their great
adventure, they might well pause for a
bit of orientation. What is their consti-
tutional task? What is their mandate
from the people?
The "ultimate and essential objects"
of constitutional government are, ac-
cording to Woodrow Wilson:
"To bring the active and planning
will of each part of the gov-
ernment into accord with the
prevailing popular thought
and need, in order that gov-
ernment may be the impar-
tial instrument of a symmet-
rical national development;
"To give to the law thus
formulated under the in-
fluence of opinion and ad-
justed to the general in-
terest both stability and an
incorruptible efficacy;
"To put into the hands of every indi-
vidual the means of challenging
every illegal act that touches him."
The voters, in granting legislative
power at this election, made one thing
perfectly plain. They voted for a more
effective and orderly government. They
clearly said that a moment has been
reached in the quest for social and eco-
nomic reform during which some effort
should be made to restore order in
what has already been achieved.
Things-that-ought-to-be must wait,
while we make sure of things-as-they-
are. The best evidence of this is in
the enormous vote given men like
Dewey, Bricker, Martin, Baldwin and
Warren, who are not crusaders, but
highly successful administrators of
state affairs.
"To everything there is a season,"
said the Preacher, "A time to cast
away stones, and a time to gather
stones together." Now, said the voters,
a time has come to pull things together.

Republicans have effective and
workable legislative authority for the
first time in sixteen years. Within that
authority are three distinct constitu-
tional powers: control of the purse, the
formulation of general legislation and
the right to investigate.
The Executive budget this year will
come with little authority. Never be-
fore, since the creation of a Federal
budget system in 1921, has control of
the purse been vested wholly in one
party, while the budget is prepared by
another. It becomes in this situation,
merely a series of estimates. The real

budget must be made in Congress. But
a budget must be made to fit a policy,
and the President still must participate
in making policy. This calls for co-
operation, especially in military expen-
ditures and in foreign lending. It is a
principle as old as statecraft that the
military establishment must conform to
diplomatic policy, and the President
still makes foreign policy.

Bachrach
Less cooperation with the
Executive is demanded in
general domestic legislation.
The aim there, especially in
industrial relations, should
be to bring existing law into
harmony with existing facts.
Most of the basic New Deal
laws were written in light of
the conditions of a decade
or more ago. Progress, not
reaction, calls for revision.
But revision must be based
on facts, and that calls for close co-
operation between Congress and the
private interests concerned.

This means not a mere revival of
such measures as the Case bill. There
should be a comprehensive program
based either on the report of a joint
management-labor-government
committee or by full committee hearings
in the best parliamentary tradition. In
addition, such measures as the Securi-
ties Exchange, Holding Company,
Social Security acts and various other
agricultural and financial laws need
careful modernizing. The test will be
whether, in the course of this revision,
Republican leadership can keep its
head above a flood of detail. Simpli-
fication and more simplification should
be the order of the day.

The Executive has practically no
part in the third field of Congressional
power, which is investigation. There
will be plenty of that, we may be sure.
And it is a proper and necessary exer-
cise of authority. For fourteen years a
regime has audited itself. A vast ex-
penditure of public funds has taken
place under conditions in which ir-
regularities were bound to be common.
Guilt in such cases is individual. The
objective should not be partisan or
merely punitive. The primary purpose
of investigation is to create safeguards
to prevent future waste and wrong-
doing.

This Republican Congress can
clear the way to a better future for
the United States. The past is dead,
even the recent past.

Page 731 of 1201