Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


A Code and a Man
by RAYMOND MOLEY

On one important point relating
to the future organization of peace,
both candidates in the late campaign
were wholly agreed. Both said that
the American member of the security
council of the proposed peace league
should not be compelled to get authorization from Congress every time
the council decided to use force
against a breaker of the peace.

Unquestionably, such power must
be granted, if the new organization is
not to degenerate into a mere debating
society. When breaches of the peace
are threatened, they must be suppressed quickly. Wars must be strangled in the cradle.

Beyond this point, the broad highway of agreement narrows. The pace
of progress in peacemaking will slacken, and men of good will in both parties must not only be patient, but
must labor incessantly to keep moving at all. Already, two of the narrow
turns in the road are visible and will
be lustily discussed in Congress and
in the press.

These two problems concern the
answers to the following questions:
What is to be the definition of
"breaches of the peace," which the
proposed security council will follow
in its decisions? How is the American
representative to be chosen?

The first question arises from the
fact that the security council is an executive agency. Like any executive
agency, it must apply principles of
law given to it by some law-giving
body. Clearly, despite the charts which
illustrate the Dumbarton Oaks proposal, the council is not the creature
of the proposed general assembly. The
"permanent" members of the council
are not chosen by the assembly, but
by the five great powers—the United
States, Great Britain, Russia, China
and France. It cannot be emphasized
too strongly that the proposed assembly and council are not analogous to
the board of directors and the president of a corporation or to a parliament and a cabinet. The directive authority over the council comes from
the five nations which have permanent
seats. Hence, a code of enforceable
law for the guidance of the council
must come from those nations by
agreement among themselves before
the league begins to operate, or their
representatives must get their orders

from their respective governments
when each and every problem arises,
or they must make the law themselves.
And, it must be added, the law that
must guide them is not existing international law. The proposed International Court of Justice will apply existing international law to justiciable
disputes. But these are not the disputes which cause wars. Those disputes really involve matters which
have never been codified or defined
by general agreement. The definition
of the terms under which peace can be
kept constitutes the biggest problem
that statesmen have ever met. "All
else are chores."

The second question suggested
above—how the American representative is to be chosen—presents a purely
American problem. In clothing the
American representative with power to
act, Congress is delegating one of its
greatest prerogatives. It is essential
that a representative chosen for this
purpose be the creature of Congress,
as well as of the President. It is impracticable to have Congress elect the
representative, and it should not be
sufficient to follow the routine method
of nomination by the President, with
the mere majority approval of the Senate. Such a representative should be
confirmed by both Houses on the nomination of the President, and it may
be wise, if constitutionally possible,
to have Congress prescribe a two-
thirds majority as necessary to confirmation. The reason for this would
be to compel the selection of a person
of such eminence, trustworthiness, experience and ability that he would
carry with him the full confidence of
the nation. For the plenary power that
he will exercise will be grave and awe-inspiring. It will be the power of life
or death over his countrymen. No
ordinary diplomatic agent, no personal
agent of the President, no political
officer of the Administration should
make such decisions. The success of
our future efforts toward world
peace will largely depend on the confidence which the nation has in that
one man.

These problems are not insoluble.
But they serve to illustrate how utterly without political consideration the
problems of peace must be approached, and how long and difficult
the job of meeting them will be.