Here's a text extraction from the provided image.  Because of the two-column layout and some image artifacts, perfect accuracy is difficult to guarantee, but this should be a very close representation:

NEWSWEEK OCTOBER 14, 1940

76
Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Poll Cats
Let me hasten to say that in
speaking of "poll cats" I am positively
not characterizing people who take, pub-
lish, answer or read election polls. The
taking of polls is a legitimate part of the
democratic process.

George Gallup, perhaps the best known
of political poll takers, is an intelligent,
honest, sincere man. There are many
others equally honest. In fact, anything
except honesty and intelligence in poll-
taking is self-defeating. Election day in-
variably blows up rigged polls.

My designation of "poll cats" has to
do with quite different people. They are
those faint-hearted creatures whose chief
desire in an election is to get on the win-
ning side. All of us have met them in great
numbers, and these days there are among
them many people who were wearing Will-
kie buttons in June and July.

Here is what they feel in what an elec-
trocardiograph might identify as their
hearts: "Gosh, I thought this was a sure
thing back in June, but these polls show
Willkie hasn't got what it takes. Roose-
velt can't lose now, and I guess I'd better
get on the right side. This is a tough world.
There's my social and business standing
to consider. I don't want people laughing
at me for being on the wrong side. Maybe
I'll just put down a little bet, if the odds
aren't too high."

These men spend their waking hours
softening up their friends with their
"dope" talk. It is the unhappy fact that
few who come in contact with them fail
to lose some of their edge, some of their
conviction. The trouble is that poll cats
beget poll cats. And after a while, man-
to-man discussions of affairs around the
lunch table or in the bar or out in front
after church or in the general store, dis-
cussion which should center in what is
good for the country, becomes pointless
amateur criticism of campaign methods.

Now just a word about the current
Gallup Poll. And understand, I am not
trying to explain it away. But it's im-
portant to note Dr. Gallup's cautions in
presenting it. The European crisis, he says,
is throwing all calculations askew this year,
and international affairs may turn the
tide one way or the other again in the
weeks ahead. The election still lies in a
group of states stretching from Massa-
chusetts to Colorado-states that contain
the balance of power in this country. A
shift of only 4 per cent in eleven states
would throw them in Willkie's column.
Mr. Roosevelt's gains have been halted or


reversed in fifteen vital states-among
them New York, Ohio, Illinois, California,
Michigan and Missouri-in the past two
weeks.

Those who feel that Mr. Willkie's elec-
tion would be preferable to Mr. Roosevelt's
would do well to recognize how much their
candidate has been harassed, how many
votes have been driven away from him by
their petty criticism of his radio delivery
and the like. The basic meaning of Willkie
and what he stands for is being obscured
by such piffling, nonsensical discussions of
his hair, his hoarseness, his smile, his
manner in meeting people.

Seven years of personal acquaintance
with Willkie have shown me that what is
important about Willkie is something that
he cannot talk about. No man can explain
-in words-his own deep sincerity, his
passionate belief in what he is arguing, his
complete indifference to victory, as victory,
except for the cause in which he believes.
That his difficulties are great no one
can deny. There are mix-ups in his party
organization. His campaign lacks funds.
Up to now, he has had no strong seconding
attack by the other big shots of the party.
He is struggling against the most deeply
entrenched machines in our history in
many of our cities. He must fight the faint
hearts in his own ranks-the critics, the
crabbers and the "poll cats." But there
is no faint heart in this man. The next
four weeks will show that. It is a pretty
gallant figure that is going up and down
the country fighting, to date, almost single-
handed for what he believes to be true.

When, three months ago, I had oc-
casion to write an article about Willkie,
I decided to rummage around among his
books to get some idea of his mental
habits and tastes. Among some of his law
books I found a well-thumbed volume of
Rostand's "Cyrano de Bergerac." I guessed
then and I think I know now something of
why he liked that immortal story-the
story of the bravest man, the best swords-
man and the most uncompromised spirit in
all France.

Now when the October leaves are falling
I think of that climactic scene in Cyrano,
when Cyrano, his back to a great tree,
strikes among the falling leaves at the
enemies of the spirit. "Falsehood!
Prejudice... Compromise... Coward-
ice...," he cries, "I fight on! I fight on!"
And then there is a line in that scene
which could have been written of the fight
that Willkie made last spring: "A man
does not fight merely to win."

Such a man's fight rises above tricks,
dope, stratagems, even organization. There
is nothing "smart" about it. If Cyrano
had been smart he might have been a Mar-
shal of France.

But this is not a picture of defeat. It
is a picture of integrity and courage knock-
ing at the door of the American people at
a moment when they need them most.
There is still time for the American people
to open that door.

This campaign is just beginning.

A Threat to Defense
Attorney General Jackson's latest
ruling-that companies judged by the
National Labor Relations Board to be
guilty of unfair labor practices shall be
barred from further government contracts
-is a perfect example of bureaucratic op-
pression. The Attorney General in giving
the ruling cites no law that may be so in-
terpreted. He offers no logic to justify his
conclusion. He simply says: "It seems too
clear to admit of controversy... that the
findings of the National Labor Relations
Board... are binding and conclusive upon
the other agencies of the executive branch
of the government unless and until these
findings are reversed by a court of compe-
tent jurisdiction."

In 1938 Congress refused to pass a bill
that would have given this force to NLRB
findings. And both the War and Navy De-
partments are on record as opposed to such
a policy. Also the Comptroller General.
But all that means nothing to Mr. Jackson.
His ruling really authorizes a black list of
American industry. On that list would be
about 200 firms, some of them very large
and vitally important to the defense
program, which have appeals pending upon
NLRB orders. Under this new ruling, none
of these companies can accept further de-
fense contracts from the government un-
less it knuckles down and accepts the
orders of the NLRB, regardless of how un-
just and ruinous those orders may be.

Anyone who studied the findings of the
NLRB knows that as a matter of simple
honesty and fairness it is necessary in
many cases for companies to insist upon
their day in court. Only in that way can
business sometimes protect not just the
interests of its stockholders, but of its em-
ployes as well. Such a ruling might well
stop our present defense program dead
in its tracks, except for contracts al-
ready let.