Here's a text version of the provided image, carefully separating the columns and omitting the advertisement:


Perspective
Franks for the People
by Raymond Moley

BACK in those sweet, pastoral years
when I was a small boy in Ohio,
there came with lengthening spring
days and the first robin a package of
seed from our congressman. It was a
reminder that Mother Earth was still
fecund, that God was in His heaven,
and that Theodore Elijah Burton still
reigned in Washington as our patron
and representative.

Although Public Law 86-682, Sec-
tion 4163, is still on the books, I am
not sure that the seed ritual still pre-
vails in many constituencies. At any
rate, I have lived in cities so long that
I had almost forgotten it.

But the city folks got something in
the final legislative day of the recent
session. It cannot compare with the
old comforting reminder of the in-
dissoluble union between Congress
and Mother Earth, but with certain
modifications which I shall suggest, it
could loosen some of our emotions.

For years and years it has been
possible under the law for members,
under the Congressional franking
privilege, to send bundles of franked
literature recording their sentiments
to rural routes, without naming spe-
cific addressees, and have them de-
livered to box owners in R.F.D.'s. But
this obviously class legislation has lost
its political value as the farm constitu-
encies have declined in population.

CITY DWELLERS NEXT

In the writing of the supplemental
appropriations bill in the recent ses-
sion, the Senate inserted a provision
designed to help representatives of
cities. Under this, franked material
may be sent without the names of
specific addressees, but addressed
merely to street numbers. Thus the
mailman will put these items in boxes
or deliver them to the door.

When the bill as amended in con-
ference was before the House, this
provision was defended by Congress-
man Albert Thomas as an economy
measure. Perhaps this should remind
us that money meant something even
in a brief moment of the recent
session. He said that a great deal of
the franked material sent to specific
persons in the past had to be returned
to the post office and the senders
because of insufficient addresses.

In the discussion of this item in the
House, Bailey of West Virginia asked
Thomas if there were any way to
restrict the use of the franking privi-
lege by members. Thomas replied
that the new provision would encour-
age the practice. Then Bailey implied
that franking was already a consider-
able expense and that in one case
a number had sent out 840,000 pieces
of mail for free.

In a conversation about this new
law with a NEWSWEEK colleague, the
idea was suggested that there ought
to be some way for the objects of this
solicitude to reply to the congressmen
and senators under the franking privi-
lege. After all, they are sovereign
citizens and, theoretically, the masters
of their government. They are also
voters who have elected their repre-
sentatives. And they pay a good deal
for the postal service.

RIGHT TO TALK BACK

My practical suggestion is that it
be required by law that in every piece
of franked mail thus distributed there
be inserted a large postcard ad-
dressed to the member sender and
mailable under frank. Thereon the
citizen might be able to inscribe his
views concerning the member himself,
the ideas he has promulgated, the
votes he has cast, and other perti-
nent observations.

The citizen might agree with the
member and thus encourage him in
his labors for the commonwealth. He
might be able to describe his attitude
toward public issues for the mem-
ber's guidance. In fact, some members
already take such mail polls of con-
stituents and publish the results in the
Congressional Record.

Or the citizen might disagree. He
might, for example, write on the post-
card something like this: "I opened
your speech in the living room last
evening and shortly afterward we had
to fumigate the house and put the
odious stuff out on the back stoop."
Or: "Never darken my ballot again."

In these parlous days, people need,
more than ever, means for the free
expression of their emotions. I know
because people pay 4 cents to say
even worse things about my opinions.
Why not make it free and easy to
convey what's on the citizens' minds
to their representatives?

Newsweek, October 30, 1961