Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Committees of One
by Raymond Moley

It is a highly significant fact that
the chief managers of the Nixon-
Lodge organization, Leonard Hall and
Robert Finch, are concentrating more
and more on stimulating individuals
who may or may not be regular mem-
bers of the Republican Party to form
small groups of friends in behalf of
their ticket. The Nixon-Lodge head-
quarters are giving away kits of ma-
terial for those individual operations.
This is not in competition or conflict
with chairman Morton’s Republican
National Committee. Rather, it is to
supply that extra margin of votes
needed in addition to those mustered
by the regular Republican organiza-
tions over the country.

This is because the Republican
Party as an organization is out-
registered in several states and on a
showdown could not outvote the
Democratic national ticket, reinforced
as it is by powerful auxiliaries outside
that party. Foremost among such
groups are AFL-CIO’s COPE; public
power groups such as the National
Rural Electric Cooperative Associa-
tion; the NEA, intent upon federaliz-
ing education; the ADA, and other
agencies. No such helpers are availa-
ble to the Nixon-Lodge ticket.

But many hundreds of thousands of
traditional Democrats are not happy
with the Democratic Party’s platform
and its candidates. There are other
millions who are unattached to either
party. If a considerable percentage of
these could be mobilized, they could,
together with the 24 million to 25
million Republicans, win the election
by a large majority. For they are the
solid middle group.

GET TOGETHER

There isn’t time to reorganize the
Republican Party in these few weeks
before election. That will have to
come after success this November.

A tremendous job has been done
by business executives and trade as-
sociations in stimulating employees to
take an active part in politics in the
party of their choice and in training
them how to do it. But there is need
for another sort of operation by
individuals everywhere—an operation
which I have described before in this
space. It is this:

A man or woman who is not a party
member, after surveying the interna-
tional scene and the domestic prob-
lems in this campaign and after an
evaluation of the respective candi-
dates, might form a “Committee of
One” for the Nixon-Lodge ticket.
That individual’s influence might be
limited to a relatively few social or
occupational acquaintances.

You might bring together a few
friends who share the same interests
in life or live in the same community,
for coffee and refreshments after din-
ner, or at tea or cocktail time or
lunch. Talk things over. Don’t spend
too much time on detailed issues or
the personalities of the candidates.
There is enough talk about that al-
ready. But think about how these
few can extend their influence in get-
ting people registered and to the
polls on Election Day. Ask these
friends to gather their friends to-
gether for the same purpose. Thus,
a single individual’s influence can be
proliferated indefinitely.

EVERY VOTE COUNTS

Get material—literature, stickers,
buttons, etc.—from the regular party
headquarters, or from the Nixon-
Lodge headquarters in Washington.
Don’t interfere with the regular or-
ganization. In fact, collect some
money for it or for the national or
state headquarters. But, above all,
see that votes are cast which might
otherwise be lost through indifference
or lack of knowledge. If someone must
be away from town on Election Day,
see that an absentee ballot is cast.
Above all, remember this: Every
vote counts.

Consider that if the hundred thou-
sand who read this or similar sugges-
tions should follow such directions and
get one to six or ten more votes, the
net might well give the margin nec-
essary to carry certain states in which
the election will be close. And it will
be close in many vital states.

I am suggesting a vast mobilization
of individual energies to a rela-
tively simple task. The Republican
Party has always had too many chiefs
and not enough Indians. A million or
more do-it-yourself politicians are
needed. Again I repeat T.R.’s advice:
“Do what you can, with what you
have, where you are.”

Newsweek, October 10, 1960