Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


A New Japanese Policy
by RAYMOND MOLEY

IN URGING the importance of revising
our Japanese policy in this space
during the past several weeks, I have
stressed its military and economic po-
tential. I have not, however, meant to
create the impression that our ap-
proach to the Japanese should be
based solely on our military and eco-
nomic needs. It would be a grave
mistake on our part to regard them
as military mercenaries or
merely efficient workmen.
We are, I hope, trying to
create a new non-Commu-
nist world-a world of friends
and neighbors-bound by
mutual respect and infused
with an abiding sense of
common material, cultural,
political, and spiritual inter-
ests. We must bear in mind
not only what Japan can do
for us, but what we can do for Japan.
The Japanese are a proud and sen-
sitive people who remember their
great past and anticipate a fine future.
A few essentials of our policy should
be the following:
There must be a restoration of legal
peace between us. That means an
immediate end of war by a joint
resolution of Congress. The creation
of a treaty, which is the object of the
present mission of John Foster Dulles,
can come later. The official termina-
tion of war would restore normal dip-
lomatic relations and provide a direct
avenue of contact. At this time, our
only relationship is through General
MacArthur who, with a war on his
hands, can have little time for the
immense problems of restoring proper
contacts between the countries.
Diplomatic relations would enable
the two governments to work out
jointly and with other countries, such
as Australia, Canada, Britain, the
Philippines, Indonesia, and others, the
basis of foreign policy, not only to meet
current threats, but for the long future.
There should also be created a joint
economic commission composed of
genuinely top-flight Japanese and
American business, cultural and gov-
ernment leaders. Such a commission
would enable the Japanese to acquire
firsthand knowledge of American re-
quirements in its present mobilization
effort, to give directly to us informa-
tion concerning their needs and capa-
cities, and to open up profitable trade
between the two nations. Such a com-
mission would also be a very important
expression of partnership and equality.
At the present time, trade with
Japan is sporadic, indirect, and un-
certain. Under these conditions, it is
impossible for the Japanese to plan
production on a long-range basis. To
carry on trade negotiations through
the military occupation is most unsatis-
factory. MacArthur's colo-
nels, hardly competent by
experience to grasp eco-
nomic realities, have proved
over the past five years that
their capacity to retard Jap-
anese economic life has been
notable and unfortunate.
The Japanese, moreover,
need the opportunity to ac-
quaint the people of this
country with their point of
view on many matters and to develop
contacts so essential to the right rela-
tions between two friendly countries.
There must be an ethical and cultural
as well as a material basis for that
friendship. Our approach to Japan
should be such as to encourage the
moral and political forces in that na-
tion in the support of ideals of free-
dom and self-government. We cannot
expect firm cooperation against Com-
munism from a people who labor under
the abnormal conditions of military oc-
cupation and are confused about the
great issues which divide the world.

FINALLY, as I pointed out in the
first of these articles on Japan, we
should revise our naturalization laws
to permit the entry into the United
States of a specified number of Jap-
anese immigrants. The number ad-
mitted might not be large but the
spirit of such an act would be unmis-
takable. The end of discrimination
would be a tremendous stimulant to
permanent friendship.
No one who understands Japan has
any doubt about Japanese opposition
to Communism and to the designs of
her ancient anemy, Russia. For two
centuries the Japanese have watched
with fear, and on occasion have acted
with force, against creeping Russian
power. Resistance to this menace is
ingrained in Japanese character, and
as things now look, they are the only
power over there that can oppose
it successfully.

Newsweek, February 5, 1951