Midnight, Dawn and Foreign Trade

by RAYMOND MOLEY

If the Peace Conference could be
held in the emotional, lyrical somno-
lence of Monterrey, Mexico, good will
would certainly prevail. There in the
mystical shadows of the mountains is
the solvent that melts national ani-
mosities and unlocks the tide of broth-
erhood. And sisterhood, too.

The author of "My Day" in her re-
port from the scene of the meeting be-
tween Presidents Roosevelt and Avila
Camacho says that a Mexican orches-
tra was "playing some of the haunting
Mexican songs which, as the Foreign
Minister murmured in my ear, are
meant for moments of peace and reflec-
tion, such as serenades at midnight."

In his speech the Great White Father
murmured some words which must have
been equally intoxicating in their effect
upon the boys south of the border.
"We know," he said, "that the day of
the exploitation of the resources and
the people of one country for the benefit
of any group in another country is
definitely over."

It seems like a long, long way from
that scene and those sentiments to the
halls of Congress and the forthcoming
debate over the trade treaties. But that
sentence of the President is a challenge
not only to our commercial interests
eager to turn a reasonably honest
penny, but to the trade policies now
being energetically championed by
Messrs. Wallace, Willkie and others.

The very roots of exploitation are in
a world policy that permanently classi-
fies some countries as producers of raw
materials and others as fabricators of
those raw materials into finished prod-
ucts. Equality of living standards has
never arisen and can never arise from a
world in which some nations are as-
signed the job of digging, picking and
selling raw materials, while others are
turning those raw materials into goods
to be enjoyed, sold and traded.

What is even more important, no
amount of treaties or trade laws or good
will can achieve such a world. Every na-
tion now appreciates and sees within
its grasp the possibility of gradual in-
dustrialization, and, since that has hap-
pened, every nation will work to that
end, willy-nilly, for several reasons:

1-Modern science, notably chemis-
try, will make it possible for poor or
backward nations to gather from their
own resources combinations of materials
that can be made into finished products.

2-The means of manufacturing will
depend less and less upon imported for-
eign capital and more and more upon
"know-how," which will be carried in
the heads of educated, experienced, am-
bitious and resourceful people from the
present industrialized nations.

3-It may also be that there will be
more immigration from the crowded,
impoverished European nations to the
wide spaces of the world, resulting in
a falling off of the need for international
trade in foodstuffs. Meantime, more
science and economy in food production
will lessen the pressure to bring food
into industrial countries.

4-Substitutes for rubber, silk, tin
and many other things will be firmly
established in many of the countries
formerly dependent upon raw material,
thus altering the problems and methods
of trade.

So a fundamental overhauling of
our whole foreign trade policy to meet
postwar conditions is in order. Con-
gress faces that problem at this moment
in its consideration of the Trade Agree-
ments Act, which expires on June 12.
In the less than six weeks which remain,
clearly Congress cannot hope to give it
proper attention or to settle the tough
political and economic questions in-
volved. It begins to look as if the whole
existing setup will have to be continued
for some time, certainly until the end of
the war.

But the leaders of both parties must
realize that the tariff issue today ain't
what she used to be. The arguments of
both sides are outworn. It is not essen-
tial to a lasting peace, as the Adminis-
tration says, that the so-called reciprocal
treaties continue. It comes down to the
question of what form of reciprocal
trade will be practicable in a new world
of trade.

Mr. Roosevelt's sentence, quoted
above, opens the vast reaches of the
subject. But the answer may not be
what he thinks. For the exploitation of
our neighbors is not limited to predatory
private investors. Possibly the very
policies in which he believes create ex-
ploitation, especially if we try to go on
being a bountiful manufacturing nation
buying raw materials from our little
friends, and selling them what we make,
with a bit of charity thrown in here and
there. Sometimes the Ladies Bountiful
are the real exploiters.