Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Press Convenes

For the past week the American
Society of Newspaper Editors, the Asso-
ciated Press, the American Newspaper
Publishers Association and the National
Editorial Association have been meeting.
Together, their conferences amount to the
annual national conclave of the fourth
estate in this country. The importance
of these meetings to the people of this
still free America is incalculable, and their
significance to those who participate in
them is probably greater than it has ever
been. For the part the press will play in
the months and years ahead may be a de-
finitive factor in the fight to preserve free-
dom in the United States.

The press is always under fire. That is
essential to its life. The press must give it
and the press must take it. But in the past
five months it has been pretty largely on
the receiving end—and chiefly at the in-
stance of Harold L. Ickes.

Mr. Ickes is officially our competent
Secretary of the Interior. But he is likely
to be remembered as the most vocal of all
critics of the press in an Administration
that has never been sparing of press criti-
cism. Immediately after the election he set
off the attack with a barbed query con-
cerning the press in its relation to the cam-
paign. He pointed out that in 1932, 40 per
cent of the daily press supported Mr.
Roosevelt; in 1936, 36 per cent supported
him; and in 1940, only 23 per cent sup-
ported him. This, declared Mr. Ickes, re-
vealed “an unprecedented and progressive-
ly perilous situation.”

The debate has proceeded inter-
mittently since then. Now there comes
out under the editorship of Mr. Ickes a
volume, “Freedom of the Press Today,”
to which a number of publishers, editors,
staff men, columnists and others have
contributed. Mostly, they are from Mr.
Ickes’ side of the controversy, although
the defenders of the press are ably rep-
resented. The best and most useful criti-
cism of the press has always come from
within.

In this symposium, publishers and work-
ers at the trade are frank to confess their
shortcomings and hopes for improvement
—so frank, in fact, as to raise mischievous
questions in the mind of this reader, at
least. What are the chances of a parallel
volume of comment on the New Deal by
those within as well as by critics without?
Would those, like Mr. Ickes, who are
within the fold be as free to confess their
faults as are the journalists in this pres-
ent volume? I wonder.

I wonder, too, what a newspaper would
look like if it were published by the group
of the non-journalists who, in this volume,
are most violent in their criticism. Some
say the press is too dull; some, that it is
too sensational; some, that it is controlled
by advertisers. Teamed up, they would
presumably turn out a composite of the
World Almanac, the reports of the Federal
departments and bureaus, the Congres-
sional Record and the current majority
opinions of the Supreme Court—all writ-
ten with the wit of a Shaw and the grace
of a Stevenson—devoid of advertising—
possessed of so magical a flexibility as to be
on the winning side in every election.
Imagine that tilted against your sugar
bowl at breakfast!

The criticism of dullness, of course,
has little, if anything, to do with the
broad issues involved in the current de-
bate. Writing can be dull and free. It can
be bright and subservient. It is pointless
to confuse the question of literary style
with the question of honesty, accuracy and
thoroughness. But if we are compelled to,
there is this to be said: It is easy to be ex-
citing at the expense of accuracy. Hardly
a bon mot has ever been coined that is
literally true. The few words that spoil a
sentence as a work of art may save it as a
piece of honest writing.

The charge of advertiser control would
be a more serious one if, in its broad im-
plications, it were true. But the capricious
abandon with which it is made by some
critics is certainly unjustified. In the Ickes
symposium, Mr. Frank B. Noyes contrib-
utes a statement. Mr. Noyes has been in
the newspaper business for sixty years. He
was president of the AP for thirty-eight
years. He says: “My experience may have
been exceptional, but except for one im-
material case, I have in sixty years had no
advertiser or no banker bring any pressure
on me to effect a change in the policies of
the newspapers with which I have been
connected, and I am confident that with
rare exception this is true of the majority
of publishers.” There is no reason why the
opinions of critics whose experience with
newspapers has not extended beyond the
reading of them should be set above Mr.
Noyes’ statement of fact.

Selling goods in a competitive field is a
matter of economic life or death. Adver-
tising is used because it helps to sell goods.

The publishing business also is highly com-
petitive. The advertising agent is usually
the point of contact between these fields.
He cannot play ducks and drakes with
those who are in either. He must get re-
sults for his client, and that, in turn, in-
volves the choice of advertising media
which win and keep the respect of the
public because they themselves are an
honest product. Square shooting is essen-
tial to the agent’s success.

Critics are also apt to forget that the
newspaper is a twofold enterprise. It is a
means by which readers get news, opinion
and entertainment. It is a vehicle by which
sellers of goods reach prospective custom-
ers. Thus two purposes are achieved by
one operation. The economy is obvious.
Readers get news for less and advertisers
reach their market for less. This combina-
tion of purposes has proved over the years
to be sound and practical. But the critics
assert that it impairs the freedom of the
press without, however, explaining what
they would do about it. Would they sever
the tie and compel newspaper readers to
pay the full cost of their paper? And
compel advertisers to reach their market
in some other way? If so, a public twice
nicked by such a severance might have a
good deal to say. And what sort of legal
compulsion would be used for this pur-
pose? Is there any conceivable kind that
would not make a mockery of freedom of
the press?

The point originally made by Mr.
Ickes—that Mr. Roosevelt has been elect-
ed three times despite increasing news-
paper opposition—is one that Mr. Ickes
of all people should not have made. For
years before his appointment he was a
persistent fighter for causes and candidates
which the public just as persistently re-
jected. That he stuck by his guns was
commendable. Perhaps it came a time when
too. In any event, there came a time when
this champion of lost causes prevailed, and
it is ironic to find him now making elec-
tion returns a criterion of the vitality of
the press.

The press will not crumble away be-
cause it does not or will not anticipate
the election returns. It will die only when
it loses its faith—the faith that makes
it try—and try to an ever-increasing de-
gree—to report the news objectively, keep
the public as fully informed as the na-
tional security permits, separate fact from
opinion and propaganda with scrupulous
care, and fight for those ideals essential
to the preservation of a free press and a
free people.

NEWSWEEK APRIL 28, 1941