Here's a text extraction of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure.  Note that perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and column layout.  Some minor errors may remain.


**Mr. Wallace's Hypothetical Man**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The "common man" is the hypothetical hero of Henry A. Wallace, political leader of the Democratic left.  The "small businessman" is an equally hypothetical hero of Henry A. Wallace, Secretary of Commerce. Both these characters are, like Frank Fay's invisible rabbit, Harvey, creatures who are heard about, not seen. They are abstractions for which there is no concrete embodiment. They are the premises of an argument, not the supporting proof. These names lack length, breadth and thickness. Mr. Wallace's heroes are figures of speech.

As a politician, Mr. Wallace told Democrats at the Jackson Day dinner about the "common man" whom the party should serve. It was a bit awkward for him to use Andrew Jackson as an example of the man of the people. The best that can be said is that Jackson was a man for the people rather than of the people. For Jackson was neither plain nor common. He was a natural aristocrat, a disciplinarian, a leader, a fountain of authority. It could be said of him, as Woodrow Wilson said of Jefferson, that he "was a patron of the people...he shared neither their tastes nor their passions."

It is so with Mr. Wallace the politician who, like Jefferson, Jackson and Wilson, would do much for plain people. All these leaders would have been horrified at Mr. Justice Holmes's plain belief that the people must learn from their own mistakes. Mr. Wallace would do only what he decides is good for them, not necessarily what they want to have done for them. In this respect, he is a true New Dealer. Throughout the past thirteen years, intellectual leadership in the Administration has been talking of what "we" must do for "them." "We" are those who know best, the elite. "They" are to have what "we" decide to do. "They" are the "plain people." All this may be the right way to progress and general betterment. But it must not be confused with democracy.

The invisible but omnipresent character in and about Mr. Wallace's Commerce Department is the "small businessman." He is to be helped as only Mr. Wallace and his mental minute men know how to help.  But the Department of Commerce chiefly needs a thorough housecleaning. Ever since Herbert Hoover gave the department great importance two decades ago, it has been ponderous and, to a degree, divided within itself. Under the gentle Dan Roper, it was the object of invasions from stronger secretaries. Administrative aggressors like Mr. Ickes tore great hunks from its flabby sides. For a while, Hugh Johnson's NRA trampled all over it. Jesse Jones regarded the department as a distant protectorate.

Now Mr. Wallace is designing in the chaos patterns which he learned as Secretary of Agriculture. A large field organization is in the making, similar to that created in the Department of Agriculture. In addition to the 26 present branch offices of the Commerce Department, 50 or more will be set up. Much of the material support, as well as the personnel for these will come from the Smaller War Plants Corp. Under the Agricultural Department setup, county agents advised the farmers. The new Commerce offices will advise and help small businesses.

The analogy between farmers and small businessmen cannot be pressed too hard. Farmers raise relatively few commodities—only six major ones. In industry and trade, there are several hundred thousand commodities, and thousands of commercial lines. Many firms are, themselves, split by specialization and division of functions. Advice to such a diversified mass of activities would indeed be hard to organize.

It will be risky business to advise veterans or others how to succeed in retail lines, where the mortality has always been more than 50 per cent within two or three years. It will not help much to give advice on foreign trade, when so few firms even have to do with foreign trade. And it might be suggested that before such advice is in order, it might be well to reconstruct the badly dismantled Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.

Mr. Wallace seems to be starting out to serve a highly conglomerate public before he has a competently functioning department. Business needs dependable facts, not advice. Mr. Wallace may be opening the show before the scenery is ready.