Here's a text extraction from the provided image.  I've done my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns, though minor adjustments might be needed for perfect accuracy due to the image quality and column layout.


TODAY IN AMERICA                                                                        May 22, 1937
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

FORMIDABLE TRIFLES

SCARCELY a day goes by but what some new and
fascinating particular about the wages and hours
legislation being drafted under the direction of James
Roosevelt seeps out through the press. There are hints
that it is to be based on the theory that Congress may
regulate the conditions under which goods, shipped
from one state to another, are produced. There are
whispers of arguments within the Administration
about the wisdom of running smack into the Supreme
Court decision of 1918 which rejected this theory.
There are muted suggestions that the possible uncon-
stitutionality of new legislation based on it will be-
come a powerful argument in the hands of the President
if he makes a renewed drive for his Court plan.

But there has been no indication, to date, that the
wage and hour standards which the Administration
intends to establish have been defined in terms of dol-
lars or hours per week—a minor detail, no doubt, to
the busy planners, but a matter of economic life or
death to the producers and workers involved. We are
only left to surmise that the expert draftsmen at work
on the scheme will arrive at those figures on the basis
of their profound knowledge of economic life and
their intensive study of the government’s experience
in administering the Walsh-Healy Act. And that, un-
der all the circumstances, is pretty cold comfort.

For the Walsh-Healy Act itself is something less
than perfect. It, too, was designed to lift the stand-
ards of industry by giving the Secretary of Labor the
right to set minimum wages on government contracts,
and here is the way it has worked out in one prosaic
case: Miss Perkins set a national minimum of $15 a
week for wages in shoe contracts. That seems to have
suited the Eastern shoe companies. At any rate, there
was no peep out of them. But three weeks ago Congressman
Zimmerman of Missouri emitted a howl of
accumulated anguish. Miss Perkins, he said, was mov-
ing heaven and earth to help New England and the
North. And at whose expense? Missouri’s, of course.
Why had she not set differentials between the sec-
tions? Miss Perkins then properly replied that there
was nothing in the law to require it. But this answer
will hardly silence Mr. Zimmerman or the shoe manu-
facturers of his state.

This may suggest something of the rumpus that is
going to greet the proposals for general minimums for
wages and general maximums for hours when the President
sees fit to unveil them. If such standards are
made national, he will be bitterly accused of trying to
help the North. If they are made regional, he will be
accused of trying to decentralize industry at the expense
of the cities.

Meanwhile, members of Congress must be glad to
know that James Roosevelt and his committee are set-
tling such fine points as these among themselves.

INNOCENCE ABROAD

“MAN,” said Aristotle, “is a political animal.”
But not Ambassador Dodd.

Ambassador Dodd is the gentleman who doesn’t
know (1) that a diplomat is one who never offends—
unintentionally—the country to which he is accredited
and (2) that in public life you don’t hint at the existence
of a malefactor unless you are prepared to
name him.

“Who,” ask the reporters, “is the billionaire who is
plotting to establish a dictatorship in America?”
“Who?” ask the Senators. “Who?” echoes a curious
and skeptical public.

The learned Ambassador answers that one European
and three Americans in 1935 and 1936 said they
thought that some billionaire was thinking about dictatorships.
The stories that were told the historian-
envoy pointed in different directions. (This presumably
means that all the Ambassador’s informants were
thinking of what different billionaires were thinking.)
But in any event, and here the historian turns
prophet, “there will be grave danger” if we have another
depression. True enough: there will be grave
danger to billionaires, if any. Which reminds us
that there really aren’t any billionaires. So Mr. Dodd’s
friends must have meant that some people were thinking
that if they were billionaires they would try to
be dictators. And considering the taxes levied by Mr.
Dodd’s government, any man who thinks he is going
to be a billionaire is crazy enough to think of anything.

“The historian,” someone has said, “is a sort of
talking ghost from out the past.” It must be the Dr.
Wirt in Dr. Dodd.

CAPITAL GAINS

AFTER a devastating attack on the capital gains tax
by Morris Tremaine, Comptroller of the State of
New York, the New York Legislature finally took up
the question in earnest. The lower house voted to repeal
the capital gain and loss provision in New York
State, but the Senate failed to follow. This unsuccessful
local battle against an obviously unwise tax illustrates,
for the dozenth time, the political handicaps
under which the advocates of its repeal labor.

The taxation of capital gains places an obstacle
in the way of profit-taking sales of securities, real
estate and other goods. Thus it reduces the number of
business transactions, freezes many forms of business
activity and, at the same time, accentuates the dangers
of the boom which the Administration in Washington
wants to prevent. The repeal of the tax would do
much more to stabilize things than the issuance of
statements about high prices. It would also, incidentally,
produce more revenue.

All of this is made clear in a letter to The New
York Times (published May 9) from George O. May,
America’s foremost accountant. Mr. May not only
argues powerfully for the repeal of the capital gains
tax, but demolishes the flimsy arguments of the Twentieth
Century Fund experts who advocate a tax on
“unrealized appreciation and depreciation” in the
value of property.

But despite the fact that reason should compel the
repeal of this tax, political expediency will probably
prevail. It’s hard to make people understand that the
repeal of a tax will yield more revenue than the tax
itself. Besides, “Wall Street wants it,” and whatever
Wall Street wants has little chance of success in Washington
nowadays.