Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

The Aircraft Industry Looks Ahead

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LOS ANGELES—A fourth trip to
the Coast aircraft industry makes clear
significant developments in the point of
view of those charged with the direction
of that extraordinary business—develop-
ments they are eager to have the public
understand and support.

Late in 1941 and early 1942 the in-
dustry’s leaders were concentrating on
meeting the rapid changes that the war
was requiring in design, armament and
technical equipment. Planes which are
now in full production were in experi-
mental stages then. Manufacturers,
acutely aware of the time lag between
the idea in an engineer’s mind and the
production line, knew that the war
would be won with planes whose funda-
mental design had been conceived long
before. But changes in power, in details
of equipment and in armament which
are constantly under way spell the dif-
ference between victory and defeat in
combat. So, as the vast laboratory of
the battlefield reveals its secrets, these
men must ceaselessly keep their scien-
tific vigil. As the production line races
faster, their minds must dart back and
forth from the battle to the drawing
board. All that was getting under way
a year ago. It is still in full swing.

By September, the industry was get-
ting a better flow of raw materials and
equipment, and it was beginning to see
which plane was adapted to which
purpose. Properly, its leaders were
proud of their product and prouder still
of the experimental designs that were
getting close to production. But now
the preliminaries have been mastered.
Production is all that could be expected.
Our planes have been tested in the
hottest spots on earth. There is time
today to steal an occasional moment to
look ahead beyond the war. It is an
anxious look, too, for despite the recog-
nition now accorded aircraft as an
instrument of war and peace, the prob-
lems of readjustment will hit this in-
dustry hard.

Interviews with a number of its
leaders here justify six conclusions:
1—It is literally impossible for the
plane companies now to spare the time
or personnel to do any formal or syste-
matic postwar planning. Even if they
were so inclined, it is doubtful if govern-
ment would let them. They are on the
firing line where every moment, every
ounce of energy count.
2—They all take for granted an im-
mense shrinkage in their business the
moment firing stops. There are many
estimates of the prospective decline in
the number of employees, running from
95 per cent down to utter optimism at
80 per cent. This, considering the
hundreds of thousands who have been
added to their payrolls in the last two
years, is not only a serious problem for
management but for government as well.
3—These are new companies—com-
panies with a little past and a big
future. Government should recognize
that in its taxation and renegotiation
policies. Yet government is not ade-
quately recognizing the need for allow-
ing these companies to accumulate a
financial backlog for the future.
4—Another fear which also stems from
government policies besets the heads of
these companies. What is to become of
the great numbers of cargo planes the
government is acquiring for war pur-
poses after they are no longer needed?
Are they to be dumped on the market
for commercial purposes? Cargo and
transport planes are the chief hope of
these manufacturers for the days after
the war. Will the government ruin their
market for years to come?
5—Despite persistent rumors, these
manufacturers do not seem to be con-
templating an attempt to enter the field
of automobile manufacturing or, in fact,
any field unlike their own. They know
the immense handicap under which they
would labor in such an attempt. Con-
verted automobile companies as well as
manufacturers of most other products
would have the advantage of years in
the race to peacetime markets. They
are aircraft men. They have no yen for
far away green hills.
6—They recognize the immense possi-
bilities of air freight. But they see the
limitations, too. All existing calculations
indicate that freight by air will have
a limited place in our time. There will
still be slow-moving railroads and ships
with advantages in economy for trans-
porting heavy goods. But the future of
the cargo plane is undeniable. It may
vastly alter trade routes, methods of
merchandising, and the tastes and habits
of the people.

It may be well for the public, in
its enthusiasm for the aircraft industry’s
job in doing so much to bring victory,
to remember that it is also a business.
It needs an informed and sympathetic
public to help it meet the difficult
problems of its future.