Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Cabinet Is Outdated

by Raymond Moley

IT WAS H.G. Wells, I believe, who
called attention to the fact that
among the great military leaders of
history several of the most notable,
such as Caesar, Cromwell, and
Washington, were not trained soldiers.
The conclusion intended to be drawn
from this was that because a man is
not bound by tradition, he may often
improvise successfully. Perhaps we
shall discover this virtue in
General Eisenhower's lack
of training in civil administration.
There is already evidence of it in his
plans for Cabinet meetings.

To those gatherings of the
heads of the familiar nine
departments, he intends to
add the Vice President, the
Budget Director, the Federal
Security Administrator,
former Governor Adams, and perhaps
others. If the new President will only
continue this multiplication of invitees,
he will soon have a group altogether
too large for a confidential advisory
council. For the larger the group, the
greater the risk—nay, the certainty—of
leakage and the less the opportunity
for real and forthright advice.

Then it is likely that the President
will select from this overgrown Cabinet
a small group, perhaps six or eight,
for consultation on general policies
and include in that inner council people
who are less burdened by the
administration of vast departments.
Perhaps some of them would be free
of all real administrative duties. The
President would then have a Cabinet
for thinking and planning, rather than
an ill-assorted group of administrators
too busy to think, or too political to
think straight, or, because they had
been selected to appease some group
or section, too limited to think at all.

The Cabinet is a product neither of
the Constitution nor of law. In fact,
the only reference in the Constitution
to the President’s contacts with department
heads seems to exclude them as advisers
on general policy. The President may,
according to the Constitution, “require
their opinion, in writing” on subjects
relating to “the duties of their respective
offices.” The only reference to “advice”
puts that responsibility upon the Senate.
But that body’s nature and size preclude
its use as an executive’s council.

Washington, after a few efforts to
meet and advise in person with the
Senate, left in a profane rage, vowing
never to come again.

What is called the Cabinet is a
group of department heads with whom
Presidents over the years have been
in the habit of holding meetings.
Thus, the Cabinet was the misbegotten
child of that careless vagrant, custom,
reared from generation to generation
by that patient drudge, habit. The time
has come not to pry into its legitimacy,
which is cloudy, but to measure its utility,
which is doubtful.

The British Cabinet is likewise without
legal status, but its position in the
framework of government is essential and
authentic. Bagehot called it “a buckle”
that fastens the executive and legislative
together. But it is more than that. It is a
committee of a party or parties in Parliament
which has the responsibility of conducting,
in the name of the sovereign, the administration
of government. Our Cabinet has no such
status or importance.

Woodrow Wilson, before he was burdened
with the Presidency, said quite correctly
that our Cabinet was “an executive, not a
political body … if [the President] seeks
the advice of his executive colleagues, he
seeks it because he relies upon their natural
good sense and experienced judgment.”
They are people he has chosen not as
advisers but “rather for their fitness for
the great business posts to which he has
assigned them.”

With Wilson as President, however,
tradition weighed more heavily, and he
continued the meetings, jealously guarding,
as Secretary Lansing learned to his dismay,
his right as President to control and to call
them himself.

F.D.R., who sought to reform almost
everything else, followed custom and, from
all we can know, his Cabinet meetings
were not important. Some members, we
are told, talked much of little; and others
little of much.

Perhaps, as suggested above, Eisenhower
may grope his way to a council of thinkers
and planners, not a routine meeting of busy
executives.

Newsweek, January 19, 1953