Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Compassion, Organized

by Raymond Moley

A three week's enforced stay in a hospital last month offered me an unusual opportunity to see, experience, and reflect upon the miracles of modern medical science. There was time to read, too, and a doctor gave me a remarkable book published by Longmans, Green two years ago. It is "Lincoln's Fifth Wheel: The Political History of the United States Sanitary Commission." The author is William Quentin Maxwell. Among the many books which deal with the Civil War, it is of surpassing interest and essential value.

For it is not only the story of that great example of organized compassion, the U.S. Sanitary Commission, but a vivid account of the problems of human suffering and health created by that most bloody conflict.

Many of us have read and shuddered at the description, in such accounts as Bruce Catton's fine trilogy on the Army of the Potomac, of the agony of the wounded and ill after such battles as Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Antietam, and Gettysburg. There was an inferno of torture for maimed men, sometimes trapped in burning woods, again in dismal swamps. In those days an abdominal wound meant almost certain death; and a lacerated limb, even when there was a surgeon at hand, meant dangerous amputation. Disease or neglected wounds caused a vast proportion of the hundreds of thousands of deaths in that war.

MERCY'S MISSION

The Union Army had a Medical Bureau, but in the first year or more of the conflict it was the incompetent, broken-down product of a long peace, official neglect, political indifference, and bureaucratic stupidity. The medical and health status of our armies in the first years of the war was lower than that of the fighting forces in the Napoleonic conflicts a half century earlier. No one had even bothered to learn what had been accomplished in the Crimea less than a decade before.

Into this yawning gap moved a group of dedicated civilians who formed the U.S. Sanitary Commission. While the commission retained its private volunteer character throughout, it sought in every way to work with and supplement the Army Medical Bureau. This was no easy task, for the two Secretaries of War with whom it had to work—first, the bumbling Cameron, then the mean, jealous Stanton—hampered and frustrated it every inch of the way. The high command of the Union was responsible for the eternal shame of having systematically prevented the shipment of drugs and medical supplies to stricken Confederates. But the commission finally succeeded, after months of effort, in bringing about the appointment of the gifted William A. Hammond as surgeon general.

THE INFLUENCE

Under the leadership of such patriots as Frederick Law Olmsted, who also lives in history as a great landscape architect and promoter of parks and recreation areas, and Henry W. Bellows, an energetic clergyman, the commission accomplished miracles. It mobilized volunteer aid; it sent inspectors and agents to all the theaters of war with stores of medical supplies, and it developed relief corps for camps, battlefields, and hospitals. It set up lodges for the convalescent; it kept the wounded in touch with their relatives at home, and it helped in the education of army surgeons by bringing them the most recent medical and surgical information and discoveries. Finally, it helped to create a public opinion favorable to greater government efforts to mitigate the horrors of the war. Ultimately, despite the callous opposition of Secretary Stanton, it reformed and reorganized the Army Medical Bureau.

The work of the Sanitary Commission lived long after Appomattox, for its influence greatly contributed to the birth of the Red Cross.

In rescuing this great private humanitarian effort from oblivion, Dr. Maxwell, a new and luminous name among historians, labored indefatigably in the musty records of the war period. His work throws light on many important aspects of the war neglected by writers who have chronicled only the rights and wrongs of strategy, the false glamour of campaigns, and the political causes and consequences of that great tragedy in our national life.

Newsweek, June 9, 1958