Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Indestructible Cities
by RAYMOND MOLEY

CINCINNATI—Recent actions by Congress in establishing local option
in rent control and halting Federal action in civil rights legislation represent
a measurable return of government functions to local authority. It is too
early to predict a general retreat from centralized government. But the demands
of the states and cities to manage their own affairs are unmistakable.
This raises the question of capacity of local communities, especially of cities,
to shoulder their burdens once more. What progress have they made since James
Bryce declared city government to be America’s greatest failure in democracy?
Cincinnati’s experience offers a partial answer to that pertinent question.

Forty-five years ago Lincoln Steffens wrote about Cincinnati in a magazine
piece, “A Tale of Two Cities.” He made the point that Cleveland was the
best governed city in America and Cincinnati the worst. Today Cincinnati is
one of the best governed of American cities and in many respects offers evidence
that with civic spirit, enterprise, and collective citizen action our great
cities can be our best models of free government.

SINCE the surveys of Bryce and Steffens, science has enabled cities to
promote better health, build better streets, offer better police protection,
and provide better living conditions. On the political side, progress has not
been so marked. With a few notable exceptions, the old types of machine
rule have vanished from our cities. But it still remains to be proved that
the sustained energy of good citizens can be counted on to provide lasting
political control of city affairs.

Cincinnati offers an interesting study in municipal politics. Back in the
1920s the city established under a new charter a series of governmental institutions
born of the imagination and agitation of municipal reformers. A small council
was decreed, with a city manager to administer the government. The council
was and is elected by proportional representation. Non-partisanship was to be
the rule, and merit the test for jobs.
I am not willing to accept the view that the continuation of fairly good
government in Cincinnati has been due to the forms of government. A city
manager does not guarantee purity and efficiency. Kansas City learned
that. Nor can it possibly be claimed that proportional representation is a guarantee
of true representative government. Proportional representation had a
brief trial in Cleveland and failed. In New York City its use was
disastrous. Cincinnati, a more homogeneous city, has tolerated it and in successive
elections has refused to cast it out. But in my opinion proportional representation
still stands as a great threat to responsibility in government.

The reasonable stability of Cincinnati’s government over these years has been due
to a real two-party system in municipal affairs. The opponents of the old prevailing
Republican organization, realizing that they themselves must unite as a party,
established a Charter Party or committee. That party has lived through the
vicissitudes of twelve elections. Now, after ten years of Republican control,
the Charter people again hold the balance. The Republican Party has reorganized
itself, is unbossed, and is measurably competent. The Charter Party has good
leaders and has kept its identity.

The technical improvement of city government in Cincinnati and elsewhere and the
reality of cleaner politics are the best answers to those who have told us that the
American city is an anachronism and is doomed. Such gloomy predictions came
first from those who, following Jefferson, claimed that people in the mass could not
maintain free government. More recently, visionary city planners have declaimed
against the ugliness and inutility of cities and have declared the need to scatter
people over the countryside. Most recently, these latter-day prophets have been
augmented by those who fear the atom bomb.

THE city as an institution is indestructible. Its reasons for existence are still valid.
Its defects can be magnificently corrected. It is still a challenge, but a challenge
that can be met.

Newsweek, March 28, 1949