Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, keeping the columns separate:


**Intangible Values**

by Raymond Moley

IN DECIDING the cases on segregation in the schools, the Supreme Court offered a treatise on intangible values. It decreed that those values were decisive.

The court's dependence upon such considerations was not unexpected. For in the Texas and Oklahoma cases in 1949 it gave a sharp warning. There was, however, nothing for the Southern States to do after that but proceed under the old law of "separate but equal" schools, and they have spent and are spending millions to make that ideal a reality. Now they have a new and vastly more difficult condition to meet.

The Texas case five years ago dealt with a law school for Negroes established by the state at Houston. It was designed to offer facilities and training equal to those provided at the state university at Austin. The court said that, regardless of parity in physical equipment and quality of instruction, the Houston school denied Negroes "equal protection of the laws" under the Fourteenth Amendment. This, it said, was so because there were values incapable of "objective" measurement, such as prestige in the community and the opportunity to mingle in school with people with whom a lawyer would later have professional contacts.

In the present instance the court also based its judgment upon values incapable of objective measurement, somewhat broader in scope, it is true. It said that, despite equal facilities and training, segregated children would carry on into life "a feeling of inferiority as to their status in the community that may affect their hearts and minds in a way unlikely ever to be undone." Thus the imposition of segregation by law is a denial of "equal protection."

This course of reasoning is a wide departure from traditional legal exactitude. It leans upon social and psychological factors which can never be exact. The decision swept aside the voluminous legal and historical arguments concerning the Fourteenth Amendment as "inconclusive." Perhaps this reliance upon intangibles is a mark of the times, of progress, and of "keeping up with the world." But it is a guide to public policy which needs watching, for it can too often depend entirely upon the caprice of those who hold responsible office.

In any event, this decision has legally swept away an intangible, subjective inequality. In turn, it cannot offer more than legally to establish a merely intangible or subjective equality. Putting the flesh of reality upon this equality will depend upon a number of circumstances. The first of these will be faced next autumn when two questions propounded by the court will be further argued, presumably by the Attorney General of the United States and the Attorneys General of the states affected. This argument will concern the decrees to make specific this general decision. Such decrees can be made by the court itself, or by a special master, or by lower courts to which the responsibility can be delegated.

There will also be the question of the time to be allowed, for this is a change which cannot be effectuated for a considerable length of time. The practical means to comply with this command to abolish legal segregation should, in the nature of things, be determined by those leaders in the South, both official and unofficial, who are closest to the realities of the problem and who have been grappling with it for a long time. They have been earnestly seeking to improve all schools, especially the Negro schools. They can be trusted now to recognize the realities as well as the intangibles which the Supreme Court stressed.

Since this, as the court said, is a social and psychological, rather than a legal issue, the danger of violent and unreasoning conduct on either side will be present. That danger can be minimized if those of us living in the North refrain from offering gratuitous advice or irritating comment. For the South, not the North, must live with this problem.

REAL equality is not something to be decreed by law. It cannot be given and it cannot be forced. It must be earned. Those who have won this decision must realize this and will labor to that end.

Newsweek, May 31, 1954