Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to avoid column overlap:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Along the Highways
by Raymond Moley

SINCE receiving delivery of a new
automobile last spring, I have in
the pursuit of my trade traveled
16,000 miles on the highways of the
United States and Canada. The final
part of that mileage, from Los Angeles
to New York, was my fourteenth
crossing of the continent on the high-
ways since 1946. A number of obser-
vations might seem worthy of note.

The motel is an amazing
example of domestic indus-
try, an institution over
which economists mistak-
enly pronounced the last
rites years ago. There were
57 nights spent in 31 motels,
and we found only one to
be bad and less than invit-
ing. While certain essentials
are alike everywhere, there
are those individual touches
which only competitive enterprise can
produce and which break the
depressing pattern of standardization.
One had a selection of good books
from the owner's personal library. An-
other started the traveler on his way
with coffee and doughnuts.

The highways of this country,
which General Clay seems to have
induced the President to believe to
be outmoded, overcrowded, and di-
lapidated, are on the contrary some-
thing for which the states can be
proud. To be sure, there are com-
plaints. The average American is so
spoiled that when he is occasionally
compelled to slow down to less than
50 miles an hour because of traffic, he
impatiently cries out for Federal bil-
lions to clear the road.

Our experience this year provides
incontrovertible proof that you can
with any make of car travel over a
selection of a dozen or more routes
from ocean to ocean as fast as any per-
son has a right to travel. The sugges-
tion in the report of the Clay
commission of four-lane Autobahns
over the great stretches in the West is
ridiculous. Those broad and safe high-
ways, technically two-lane, that char-
acterize the through routes west of
the Mississippi should, with periodical
repairs and replacements, be ade-
quate for years to come. Present
methods of Federal-state cooperation
have amply justified themselves.

Over the past ten years the greatest
improvements in highways have been
in California. The best-policed high-
ways and the most sensible drivers are
in Nebraska. Perhaps there is a corre-
lation between the number of police
and the moderation of drivers. Gover-
nor Lausche of Ohio deserves credit
for his veto of a higher maximum
speed rate, thus holding Ohio to its
distinction as a 50-mile state. The
great Pennsylvania Turnpike is the
model for similar roads in
New Jersey, New York, and
Ohio. Indiana will follow.

On the long trip back
from the West Coast the only
real bottleneck is through
the canyon east of Salt Lake
City. When Brigham Young
decided to build his city
west of that defile, he must
have had in mind putting
that barrier between his
people and their persecutors in the
East. The trail through the pass, ex-
cept for rather bad surfacing, is about
as it was in Brigham Young's day.
There are other bad spots where
states have failed to remove through
traffic from city streets, and there are
still perilous mountain roads.

Safety is still the major problem.
For the innocent potential victim,
built-in devices and improvements are
helpful. We felt greatly reassured by
safety belts. They measure the price-
less margin between death and seri-
ous injury. Tiremakers deserve credit
for vast improvements in efficiency. In
all our 16,000 miles there was only
one forced tire change. That was my
fault for ignoring the rules concerning
safe air pressure.

BUT my experience this year rein-
forces my old convictions that
(a) speed is the greatest enemy of
safety, (b) youth is the greatest of-
fender, and (c) there is no substitute
for numerous and able police and for
strict judges. In the City of Seattle
there is a notable traffic judge, Roy
DeGrief, who by energetic public ed-
ucation and a heavy hand for offend-
ers has made a great contribution to
safety. In 1945 Seattle, with a popula-
tion of 350,000, had 110 traffic deaths.
With a population of 475,000 this
year, there were, up to July 1, only
ten. More police everywhere, and
more judges like DeGrief, would do a
lot for this country.

Newsweek, September 26, 1955