Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Heritage of O’Connell
by Raymond Moley

DUBLIN—Here in the capital of the
new Irish Republic, the name
and the memory of Daniel O’Connell
are still dominant. The inanimate re-
minder is the great likeness of the
man which towers over the street and
bridge that bear his name. The living
reality is the spirit, courage, and per-
sistence which finally won Irish inde-
pendence. O’Connell’s 40 years of
agitation, which ended with his death
in 1847, made his country’s ultimate
independence possible.

The Irish people have honored also
other great figures of their long strug-
gle. There are monuments to Grattan,
Burke, Parnell, and Father Matthew.
There is a simple grave of the heroic
Michael Collins in Glasnevin Ceme-
tery. And living quietly in the Presi-
dent’s mansion in Phoenix Park is
Eamon De Valera, serene after many
years of politics.

In the decades after O’Connell’s
death there have been critics of
O’Connell’s methods, but modern re-
liable scholars such as Dennis Gwynn
and Michael Tierney have brought
out the true proportions of O’Connell
the man and statesman.

It was Edmund Burke who, in de-
fending the revolt in the American
colonies, reminded the House of Com-
mons that an Englishman should be
“the last man in the world” to deny
another Englishman his constitutional
liberty. O’Connell made clear to the
liberal British minority that their
neighbors, the Irish, were seeking and
deserved the same English liberties
as their own.

PUBLIC AGITATION

There were young Irish hotheads
then, as always, who would fling away
all gains in futile force. But O’Connell,
like Burke, had seen the horrors of
the French Revolution and the reac-
tion that followed. His basic principles
were that agitation should be public,
not secret, and that there should be
no physical force. His strategy was to
strive first for religious freedom,
which the misery-stricken Irish of that
day could appreciate, and then to
seek political objectives, which he
had to teach them. To create a sense
of nationality was his great design.
After twenty years of prodigious
effort, O’Connell wrested Catholic
emancipation from a hostile Parlia-
ment, despite the opposition of
Wellington, Peel, and the King.
This enabled O’Connell to carry on
his cause as a member of the House
of Commons. There he played no
small part in the passage of the Re-
form Act of 1832. He also supported
enlightened reforms for which Eng-
lish liberals fought.

But constantly he stimulated and
directed peaceful agitation at home,
culminating in the monster meetings
of 1843. In this process, he was edu-
cating the Irish in a political sophis-
tication which is well known to the
world, especially to Americans.

O’Connell the man was a monu-
mental figure, an incomparable ora-
tor, and a brilliant lawyer. Tales of his
victories in courts, where he usually
contended with hostile judges in be-
half of impoverished clients, are a
part of Irish folklore.

O’FAOLÁIN’S TRIBUTE

To appreciate his stature in history,
we must remember the utter horror
of the lives of the Irish people of
the early nineteenth century. Seán
O’Faoláin says that it was “the murder
of the mind, the spiritual chloroform,
the creeping paralysis of the soul.”
These were the debased people in
whom he had to create pride and
political sense and power.

Gladstone, never given to superla-
tives, said that O’Connell was “the
greatest popular leader that the world
has ever seen.”

O’Faoláin sums up a not-too-friendly
biography with this tribute: “He was
the greatest of all Irish realists, who
knew that if he could once define, he
would thereby create. He defined
himself, and his people became him.
He imagined a future and the road
appeared. He left his successors noth-
ing but to follow him. They have
added precision to his definition, but
his definition is not altered. They
have added to his methods, but his
methods remain. The content of Irish
life is the content of Irish character,
the dregs and lees and the pure wine
of this one man’s recipe—to be puri-
fied indeed, to grow more rich in the
wood with time, but never to lose the
flavor of his reality, the composition
of his mind.”

Newsweek, November 2, 1959