Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, respecting the column structure.  I've omitted the advertisement in the left column.

**In the Sweat of Their Brows**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

We come finally in this series on reparations to enforced labor by Germans in Russia and in other countries devastated by Nazi aggression. Since the first of these five articles appeared, two factors which bear upon reparations in labor have become clear. We have seen in the ruins of Cologne evidence that Germany may be so badly crippled that only a small amount of reparations in goods can be expected. And we have heard from President Roosevelt that he thinks reparations in labor are right.

Mr. Roosevelt's statement has brought forth belated and not altogether convincing screams from bitter-end Roosevelt opponents. They are crying out that this plan is slavery, which suggests that they can spare a little sympathy for Germans if thereby they can find material for attacking Roosevelt's foreign policies. This brings to mind Macaulay's immortal crack that the Puritan hated bearbaiting not because it gave pain to the bear, but because it gave pleasure to the spectators.

The American people apparently do not agree with this sympathy. Dr. Gallup found in August 1944 that 61 per cent of those interviewed favored reparations in manpower, with 25 per cent opposed. Today, he finds 71 per cent favorable, with 20 per cent opposed.

The objections of those classical economists who say that reparations in kind, rather than in money promises, are a reversion to primitive barter do not impress me. International trade is barter effectuated by a mechanism called international capitalism. Goods must ultimately be exchanged, even under the elaborate mechanism of credits and balances and the like. None of my critics is willing to deny that those mechanisms failed utterly in making Germany pay before. Why should we again put our faith in them if a more direct and efficient way suggests itself?

The argument for enforced labor by Germans outside Germany rests on sound practical and moral factors. On the practical side, labor is shown to be the only asset which Germany will have in sufficient quantity to offer as even a token of restitution.

On the moral side, a number of forceful considerations can be urged. The Nazi armies destroyed far more than military conditions required. One-third of European Russia was devastated. That meant the homes, workshops, farms and other property of 60,000,000 people. Moreover, Nazi Germany forced about 6,000,000 Russian men and women to work for Germany, many of them over a period of years. It was even longer for millions of Poles, French, Belgians, Dutch, Yugoslavs and Norwegians.

The use of the word "slavery" in this connection is inaccurate. Every definition of slavery I have been able to find sets forth several conditions not applicable to this case. These include treating the workers as salable property in perpetual servitude. In this case, the workers are impressed for a specific task for a specific time. Their families and property remain in Germany awaiting their return as free men.

An adequate measure of justice can be provided by the selection from among Germans of those millions who voluntarily joined the Nazi party or served in the S.S., the S.A. or the Gestapo.

The rank and file of Germans will feel no pangs when they see those people go into temporary servitude. They have inflicted their terrors upon Germans, too, over the years.

International conditions for their support and welfare as well as for their supervision should be agreed upon by the United Nations. The number needed may not be over 3,000,000 in Russia at a time. And the over-all term of the enforced-labor plan will, if Russian practice is followed, be only a few years. For Russia, in its terms of peace with the former satellites of Germany, has insisted on only a short term for the payment of reparations.

Responsibility for this European war rests squarely on Germany and the Nazi party that governed Germany. If there be any justice in the world, Germany in general and the Nazis in particular should pay what they can of the war's awful cost. The wages of their sin should be paid in the sweat of their brows.