Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


NEWSWEEK SEPTEMBER 22, 1941

64

Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

War, Limited

T he policy announced by the President in his speech of Sept. 11 rests upon a simple proposition. It is that a nation can undertake, under certain circumstances, and for good and sufficient reason, a state of belligerency which may conveniently be called a "limited" war. No one but the President himself can know all that is in his mind. The ultimate and half-realized chain of purposes which lies behind such a decision as that which he has announced is difficult even for the man himself to determine. But enough has happened in these past few years to justify a guess now. And that guess is that the President believes he can tip the balance and achieve the defeat of Hitler without taking the United States all the way into this war. He has therefore challenged those who have persistently said that you cannot have a limited war any more than a man can have a limited case of typhoid fever.

The President's ultimate purposes are of the first importance to us all in this instance, since he has such vast power to extend or to limit our participation in the war and since all of us want to know where, in the long run, this policy will lead. For that reason it is profitable to speculate a bit on what those purposes may be at the present writing. So let us look at the evidence.

The first and most important clue is that the idea of limited war conforms with the President's habit of mind in connection with other public policies. Wilson, like the prophets of old, dealt only in great wholesale choices. He did not make piece-meal choices from day to day. He set long straight lines and, in spite of immediate situations, steered along them. Roosevelt does not do that. He has spoken of his Treasury policy in terms of a "twenty-four-hour policy." He has described his methods in the first days of the New Deal as those of a "quarterback." He often has long-time objectives in mind, but changes his method from step to step. Because his method is of this character, he often brings into question the validity of old and established traditions and habits on the ground that, by a cautious step-by-step procedure, he can really determine whether those habits are outworn dogmas or sound principles. And to give him all credit, it must be said that there have been times when this method has been brilliantly successful.

The second reason for believing that the idea of a limited war figures in the President's calculations is that it has been privately supported by many whose nearness to the President suggests most pointedly that they have shaped their views in line with his own. These inner-council witnesses have said a great deal about giving decisive aid in this war without all-out participation. For a year they have been talking about limiting our shooting to an occasional fray in the Atlantic, or a limited use of our Navy, our Air Force and the like.

The third reason is that such a theory makes intelligible the President's promises in the campaign of 1940 to American fathers and mothers that their boys "are not going to be sent into any foreign wars." This promise might be kept in a war in which our participation is limited.

A fourth piece of evidence is the course of our foreign policy, especially since the British-Italian troubles in 1935. Our participation in attempts to keep the peace in Europe was a limited one. We did not join, but we cooperated with the League. We sat in at conferences and committee meetings as "observers." We partook of limited liability for decisions.

Fifth, the sort of participation contemplated by the concept of a limited war approaches the outermost limits of what the President can command under our constitutional system. There is an area of belligerency which, in the nature of things, is the President's. But there is an area which, by constitutional mandate and tradition, belongs to Congress. Public opinion is a powerful factor, too. And entrance into war on an all-out basis might involve a deep and dangerous difference of opinion, it is agreed by both isolationists and interventionists alike. A limited war might prevent that issue from becoming unbearably acute.

The Constitution, that in so many ways admirably anticipated the problems and difficulties in human government, did what it could in this matter of the issue of war and peace. But it fell considerably short of a perfect solution, and it is doubtful if there could be a perfect solution. The President conducts foreign affairs and commands the armed forces. Through these powers, he can create situations in which Congress, in order to save the national honor, must sustain him. But a venturesome President is, to a degree, always restrained by the constitutional power of Congress to declare war. The best that this vague confusion of power can insure is that, in foreign affairs, the President and Congress are encouraged to work fairly closely together. The present situation clearly calls for increased collaboration of that sort.

There is naturally grave concern as to whether we can limit our participation in war; in short, whether a war of limited liability is possible. Limited participation in wars has been attempted throughout history, sometimes successfully, sometimes not. Most recently, Italy, Russia and Germany practiced it in Spain without involving themselves in all-out conflict. But it cannot too often be stressed that arguing from historical precedent is always dangerous and it is especially dangerous in this case. Our situation, our obligations and our interests are things in themselves to be measured. They cannot be measured by past events in other lands or even by precedents in our own history.

A thousand possibilities face us, and no man with honesty can pretend to the role of a prophet. There are involved the ultimate end of Hitler's Russian venture, Hitler's own weighing of the balance between permitting our supplies to reach England and bringing our armed might into the field against him, and the reaction of American public opinion to the events that may be in store in the Atlantic. At the moment opinion is far from being at that white heat that will push the Executive or Congress further than either may wish to go. On the contrary, it is sharply divided as to what our course should be in terms of active military or naval participation. It has been more articulate in expressing its moods, through polls, letters to Congress, the President and the newspapers than it has been at any similar juncture in the past. At this particular point, there can be no question of Executive action and public sentiment reacting upon one another, in immeasurably swift flashes, to produce a crisis. Finally, there is also involved in the attempt to foresee the future the essential question whether the "destruction of Nazi tyranny" means the military defeat of Germany or a change of government there. All we can know is that a momentous choice has been made, and, as Washington once said, "The event is in the hand of God."

Page 308 of 1087