Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Conservatism Is Also Change

by Raymond Moley

THE year draws to a close with news
of a smashing victory for the
Menzies Conservative government in
Australia. In Britain the Conservative
Party has marched forward since its
defeat ten years ago and in May won
substantial assurance of control for five
years. Its opponents, shaken by in-
ternal strife and badly disorganized,
face the reality that socialism has lost
its meaning and its charm.
My visit to Canada last sum-
mer convinces me that both
major parties are well to the
right of the British Conserv-
atives, while Social Credit in
Alberta and British Colum-
bia has completely changed
character and is eagerly cul-
tivating private enterprise.
In the United States, all
perceptive observers have
noted for some years that, despite
Democratic successes, faith in innova-
tion has been fading and the authority
of traditional values is in the ascend-
ant. "Liberals" are even offering such
adjectival reservations as "moderate."
Meanwhile, many Americans emerg-
ing from long years in the political
underground during the Roosevelt
revolution are timidly using the word
"conservative" to describe their faith,
but often with what I believe to be
unnecessary apologies.
College students, following the
eternal pattern of youth, are in revolt
against their professorial elders, who
seem to be stuck with their own com-
mitments to leftist doctrine embraced
in their own youth. Conservative clubs
and societies are springing up in col-
leges and universities.
Almost every week, I hear of new
efforts by adult opponents of statism
and Communism to create fighting na-
tional organizations in support of
their principles.
This conservative revival in Amer-
ica, however heartening it may be for
those who have waited so long for it,
has its disturbing overtones. There is
among conservative college students a
regrettable confusion of methods with
objectives. I heard one intercollegiate
discussion lose itself in an argument
over Universal Military Training. This,
much as it may mean personally to
students, is a matter of method which
must be decided by responsible mili-
tary authority and by Congress.

Some of the conservative move-
ments among older people are already
risking the deadly peril of attracting
to themselves anti-Semites and other
obnoxious fellow-travelers of the right.
Two of the more recent books I have
read on American conservatism are
hopelessly scrambled in their think-
ing, and another bogs down in repeti-
tious dullness. Their authors seem
afflicted with an urge to
write without reflection and
beyond their mental means.
All these manifestations
of conservatism need more
and yet more understanding
of the factual background
upon which American con-
servatism must rest. To be
explicit, the American con-
servative must not only have
a philosophy but be pre-
pared to defend or oppose specific
government policies which conform or
do not conform to that philosophy.
It may be in order to offer one or
two other precautionary suggestions
to the conservative. The conservative,
of course, rejects what is currently
called "liberalism," which is simply
statism masked under a name hal-
lowed in the eighteenth century by
those who resisted state authority
wielded by a king. Nor can he accept
nineteenth-century Gladstonian liber-
alism. In perspective that liberalism
was really a long retreat from Burke,
Madison, James Wilson, and others
who defined and interpreted political
liberty. It consisted of a century of
appeasement of socialism which ulti-
mately ended in dissolution. The
Grand Old Man who, as Bagehot said,
had "moral probity" without "intel-
lectual consistency" left his party in a
state in which its fading garments
were stripped from it by Fabian so-
cialism. Only a fragment of the Lib-
eral Party survived Lloyd George.
Ultimately, the rights of free men had
to be rescued by the Conservatives.

THE American conservative also re-
jects all verbal qualifications such
as "dynamic," "progressive," and
"new," because the very nature of his
faith implies change and growth. The
conservative, while accepting the
past, builds upon it. Culture itself im-
plies a continuity. Liberty is the prod-
uct of long and purposeful growth.

Newsweek, December 26, 1955