Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlaps:

**Tammany's Face Is Lifted**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

A philosopher in a New York college suggested, some years ago, that Ireland had never completed an era of feudalism. The Irish people, he said, had been summarily snatched from their primitive kings and forced into a detested association with the English. Hence, when the Irish came to America, they took up their course again and resumed feudalism. This, our philosopher contended, accounts for the peculiar socio-political institution of Tammany.

I can offer no assurance that this thesis will be accepted by historians. But I do know that Tammany is essentially feudal. The historical feudal lord offered protection, security and succor in time of need to his inferiors. They, in return, consigned to said lord their hand, their sword, their mind, their horse, if they had one, and a generous portion of all they had wrung from the soil. Under Tammany chieftains, the citizen gave his vote, for which he received material help in times of need, guidance through the mazes of government machinery, pull in getting a job and, when trouble with the law appeared, the protective hand of influence.

If the son of one of these pledged citizens showed promise, the boss helped with his education. And if, as often happened, the boy had a calling for the law, he received clients, a nomination for office and, in many cases, advancement to the bench, the mayoralty, the governorship or the United States Senate.

Despite the bad names reformers applied to the Tammany system, it was a comfortable one. Its even tenor was broken only by the misdeeds of those who ventured beyond the dim line which separates the realm of pull from the darker shades of lawbreaking —and who, in their ventures astray, had the misfortune of getting caught.

The Tammany Society is not the New York County or Manhattan Borough official Democratic organization, but the famous name, in practice, applies to both. For many reasons Tammany no longer extends its control to the other four boroughs of the city. The most important of these reasons is the shift of population. When the renowned and powerful Charles F. Murphy died in 1924, 40 per cent of the city's population lived in Manhattan Borough. Now less than 25 per cent live there. Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx have grown immensely.

Moreover, three notable figures loomed up whose fame rested on their opposition to Tammany. President Roosevelt, Mayor La Guardia and, finally, Governor Dewey, pulled the strings tight around the life lines of the Hall. Slow starvation set in. The quality of Tammany leadership declined. And the bitter pinch of need led to strange and sinister alliances. Super gamblers became allies and patrons. In some districts Communists moved in. The old feudalism fell into decay, for Tammany could offer the voters little protection and less material aid.

And then came a Democratic mayor, William O'Dwyer from Brooklyn, who looked for support not to Manhattan but to Brooklyn, to Queens and to Edward J. Flynn's disciplined and efficient Bronx organization.

When O'Dwyer became mayor fourteen months ago, friendly advisers from other boroughs told him to keep in the key administrative posts the old La Guardia appointees. This forestalled any onrush of Tammany leaders to the pie counter. These reform administrators, including the forceful and independent Robert Moses, have found O'Dwyer to be honest, fair and wise. Even La Guardia has found little to criticize.

Thus protected, O'Dwyer set to work to clean out the Hall. He has now achieved a revolution. The old boss is out and a new and reputable boss, Frank J. Sampson, is in. Leaders and officers of the Hall who were a part of the decline are to be ousted. Underworld and Communist connections are to be severed. And when the purge is complete, O'Dwyer will, no doubt, provide enough nourishment through legitimate patronage to keep Tammany alive and honest.

It is an enforced reform and it may not last. But for the moment, the change is real and wholesome. If O'Dwyer proves to be a strong mayor, the Tammany district leaders will become agents of the City Hall, not lords in their domain. Perhaps the age of the feudal lords is coming to an end at last.