Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've done my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns, though some minor adjustments may still be needed depending on the exact layout of the original PDF.


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Fear of Fear

I
t has been a good many months
since, on this page and elsewhere, there
was first published the warning that a tre-
mendous barrage of propaganda was to be
laid down against our traditional Amer-
ican adherence to neutrality. That warn-
ing preceded even the election—at which
time it was already pretty obvious to
political strategists that Mr. Roosevelt
needed what is called in theater parlance a
new “vehicle.” It was sounded last summer
when minor State Department officials
brashly announced in private that a con-
certed effort was to be made to “educate”
the American people on foreign affairs.
From that time on, the policy of business-
baiting began slowly to yield to the policy
of neutrality-baiting until, now, the cam-
paign of “education” seems to be reaching
its climax.

Consider the high lights of this month
of alarms. In the past four weeks, the fol-
lowing nightmarish stories have found
their way to the public:

(1) The Japanese will seize the Dutch
possessions in the East Indies. (2) The
Germans will conquer England, seize the
English Navy, sail it over to our shores
and attack us. (3) The Germans will put
pressure on Denmark and secure air bases
in Greenland, Iceland, and the Faeroes Is-
lands. (4) They will also put pressure on
Portugal and establish German bases in
the Azores and Cape Verde Islands. (5)
They will also induce Belgium and Holland
to let them establish colonies on the west
coast of Africa and in the Far East, and
these colonies will provide threats to the
Western Hemisphere. (6) They will also
join with the Italians in militarizing the
South American states against us. (7)
They will also, as the result of some sort
of deal with the British, be permitted to
build a base at Newfoundland or Labrador.

In addition to these horror stories
—which are obviously intended to fill the
sleep of the average American citizen with
troubled dreams—there has been a series
of coups designed to dramatize them. Am-
bassadors Bullitt and Kennedy, for in-
stance, were resting in Florida. After they
had spent some weeks there, it was sud-
denly discovered that they possessed some
burning secrets. Then, a magnificently pub-
licized dash to Washington. The idea con-
veyed was that only a national emergency
could disturb one ambassador’s holiday
and only a world calamity could disturb
two ambassadors’ holidays.

Then, the hand of fate suddenly drew
the veil from an airplane deal with the
French that mysteriously began in the
Treasury, moved from there to the White
House and from there to the War and
Navy Departments, with the State De-
partment apparently looking on inactively
while that Barnum of diplomacy, Bill Bul-
litt, cracked the whip. Now, either this
whole procedure was proper and regular
or it wasn’t. I am inclined to believe that
it was, in substance, regular enough. But
at any rate, when the lid blew off, the
President, instead of giving out the facts
to the public, called in the Senate Military
Affairs Committee, clamped a gag on them,
harangued them for an hour and a half
and then sent them packing.

He must have known that to talk
to a considerable number of Congressmen
under such circumstances was to invite
not only leaks, but the most unhealthy
speculation. At any rate, stories of a fan-
tastic foreign policy emerged. These were
then heatedly denied by the White House.
But the facts were still not made public.
Instead, the senators and about fourteen
newspaper publishers were given the lie,
and the American citizens were presented
with a vague four-point statement of
American policy. Unfortunately, the state-
ment left both the Senate, the newspapers
and the country cold because it meant
nothing. It did not explain the bungled
plane deal. It did not make clear why
American interests are so endangered that
the facts must remain a secret. It did not
make clear the words in his message which
would have us do something “practical,
peaceful,” but “stronger and more effective
than words.” It certainly did not convince
reasonable people that the Administration
is not engaged in a fundamental shift of
American foreign policy.

But whether or not such a fundamental
shift has actually been taking place, the
fact remains that these weird goings-on
all point to a concerted effort to prepare
public opinion for such a shift and to bring
that public opinion to bear against Con-
gress. Building up arguments for defense
by creating fear is dangerous business.
Panic rules by no half measures. When you
touch off the powder of terror, you get not
illumination but a blinding explosion.
When you have awakened the fears of a
people, you are creating the foreign policy
under which that people is ruled.

That foreign policy, if it prevails, will
come down to something like this:

It will establish for the United States an
area of influence that extends roughly from
Guam, on our west, to the shores of Eu-
rope and Africa on our east. (According to
my map that is something more than
15,000 miles, or three-fifths of the distance
around the world.) It extends from the
North Pole to the South Pole. It will be
our job to turn out the military and naval
equipment necessary to rule over it.

But if we accept the meaning of the
preachments that are being lightly thrown
forth, we have not only this sphere of in-
fluence to defend with steel and blood. We
have a moral sphere of influence. We must
enforce in every part of the world, if not
by military strength, then by economic
pressure, a determination to bring all na-
tions to the democratic form of govern-
ment. Democracy, religion and the main-
tenance of the “economic and social inde-
pendence of all nations in the world” are
to be identified as one. We thus begin what
is, in essence, a holy war, beside which the
spread of Islam will look like one of Fa-
ther Divine’s summer outings.

Let us stop and consider this dispassion-
ately. No such extension of protective
power in practice can ever be enforced by
verbal or economic threats. It is either a
pretentious bluff, easily punctured by the
first skeptic, or it is a move to take the
place of England as a world empire. There
are no other alternatives.

What we have succeeded in doing by
seeming to follow this policy, to date, is
simply: (1) to wangle ourselves into the
position where Chamberlain can act as
though the British might be willing to give
us a little help in our war with Germany,
and (2) to throw ourselves athwart those
belated forces for appeasement whose ear-
lier appearance between 1919 and 1933
would have made the growth of Fascism
impossible, in the first place. But this,
distressing as it is, will be as nothing com-
pared with the chronic war into which we
will plunge ourselves and the rest of the
world if we actually proceed to embrace it.

It is the job of Congress in the pres-
ent situation to force the Executive to
restate the policies upon which its de-
fense plans rest and to hold the whole pro-
ceeding within the common-sense limita-
tions of our obvious destiny. That destiny,
it may be repeated, can best be entrusted
to a powerful navy, strong enough in both
oceans to meet attacks from Japan in the
west and the totalitarian powers in the
east. It ought to fix our defensive frontier
in the west at Hawaii. It ought to take
cognizance of the need for realistic steps to
improve our trade relations with Latin
America. It calls for efforts to minimize the
hardships of the refugees who are being so
cruelly driven out of Germany and Italy.
And finally, it calls for the exercise of our
“moral influence” not to threaten and
bluster, but to bring about an easing of
those world conditions that produced Hit-
ler and Mussolini.