"Stultus Populus Quaerit Romam"

by RAYMOND MOLEY

INSCRIBED on all the pompous insignia
of Imperial Rome were the letters
S.P.Q.R.—meaning "the Senate and
People of Rome." To be sure, the Senate
was a puppet of the Emperor and
the people were without liberty or dignity.
The words were frail reminders
of a ravished republic.

Three centuries ago, Lord Coke,
fighting a similar concentration of authority
in his own country,
ironically offered another
meaning for the Imperial
initials: "Stultus populus
quaerit Romam"—a foolish
people runneth to Rome.

On the first Christmas
Day, all the world looked to
Rome for subsistence, although
the people of that
world were in reality supporting
not only themselves
but their master state. Freedom had
been expended for a Roman peace and
personal security under the Empire.
The early Christian religion moved into
that void with a renewed message
of spiritual dignity, responsibility, and
mutual helpfulness.

I am indebted to Prof. Sheldon
Glueck of the Law School of Harvard
University for the item of history
which provides my introduction. He,
in turn, took it from the capacious
memory of Dean Roscoe Pound and
used it in a powerful address a few
weeks ago at the inauguration of Kenneth
Johnson as Dean of the New
York School of Social Work.

PROFESSOR GLUECK began the preparation
of his address, "Social Work
in a Troubled World," in Europe
earlier this year. He noted the scene
there, darkened by "profound weakness
and physical and moral fatigue"
and by the hopelessness and cynicism
following "disillusionment in the power
of man to govern his fellow men efficiently,
justly and honestly."

On his return to America, Glueck
found an ever-growing alarm about the
future, a disintegration of the bonds of
local and neighborhood authority,
with even the church and private social
agencies losing the power "to define
human values and to control social conduct."
Despite the abundant promises
of security by political agencies, "people
feel a new kind of necessity—
not merely economic but emotional;
not merely emotional but spiritual."
Thus shaken, continued Glueck,
people have turned to two snug harbors
of false security—legislation and a
powerful central government—the
"monster state." These, however, he
points out, lead to "the curse of bigness
in government"—a government that inevitably
eats away not only the fibers
of personal self-reliance but the very
social institutions that rise
by mutual aid. They expose
an enfeebled society to the
invasion of tyranny.

Directly addressing the
social worker, Glueck reminded
him that the only
real alternative to a welfare
state is a "welfare community."
There self-help and
neighborly cohesion should
stoutly resist the concept
of class struggle and recognize a common
interest in increased productivity,
initiative, and responsibility as the
vital agents of the common welfare.

IT seems to be assumed by spokes-
men for the superstate that opposition
to their plans is limited to tough
masters of industry. Glueck's warning,
however, comes from a man who has
given his life to the solution of human
problems and perplexities. It seems to
be forgotten these days that in any outcome
the masters of industry can save
themselves. Those who lose most are
the people who have patiently built up
with their hands and hearts local and
neighborhood welfare institutions.
They are absorbed in the iron uniformity
of legislation and state power.

Implicit in Glueck's warning is the
moral issue. Politics is promises. But
promises are also the threads that hold
together the moral order. Lightly made
and loosely kept, they devitalize the
integrity of all relationships. Fraudulently,
a state which pretends to take
from A, who should give, and benefits
B, who is in need, really takes
from B as well. When we mingle
the concept of welfare with the realities
of politics, the former feels the
infection of the latter. A sort of Gresham's
law intervenes, and the bad
drives out the good. Public cynicism
is the tragic end.

Finally, welfare becomes an instrument
of power, and power corrupts the
giver and the gift.

Newsweek, December 26, 1949