Here's the text extracted from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Vanishing Proletariat
by Raymond Moley

IN A spirited retort to Profs. John K. Galbraith and Arthur Schlesinger Jr., published in The New Republic, Leon Keyserling exclaims: "Evidently, the problem of poverty is not 'massive' in the Widener Library." His target also includes Arthur Smithies of Harvard. The first two named, as well as Keyserling, are members of the National Democratic Advisory Council's Subcommittee on Economic Policy. This disturbance must be confusing to a big Democratic Congressional majority preparing to pave the way with dollars to the White House in 1960. But it is inherent in the muddy waters of current liberalism.

The contentions of Schlesinger, Galbraith, and Smithies to which Keyserling takes such strong exception are that the economic status of Americans has greatly altered since the birth of the theories of Keyserling and others who adhere to "the conventional wisdom"; that the American "proletariat" which they last appraised in the 1930s has vanished; that the Keyserling nostrum of spending ourselves into an increase in the gross national product would help only a selected aristocracy with the power to bargain, and that the small margin of those who stand in the shadow of poverty are unprepared and personally unequipped to better themselves in any sort of boom.

OUTDATED IDEAS

The basic criticism by Galbraith and Schlesinger of Keyserling and others who closed their minds two decades ago is so clearly demonstrated, in fact, that it is one of the great mysteries why so many politicians and economists fail to see it. Things change much, much more rapidly than minds. My revered professor of political theory at Columbia, William A. Dunning, said in a presidential address to the American Historical Association, in effect, that by the time a system of political theory has been thought out, the world on which it was based has passed away. The early New Deal was infested with reformers whose minds were still fixed upon the plutocratic evils of 1900. The zealots for public ownership of electrical power were reacting to the foul conditions in the industry before there was any real state regulation. Indeed, Senator Morse is still railing about a "power trust" that died before he was out of grammar school. The REA is still carrying on about farmers without electricity who have had the stuff these many years. To illustrate how slowly ideas and legislation catch up with things-as-they-are, there is the holding-company act passed in a great tumult in 1935. The Insull affair, which was the origin of the idea, took place in the late '20s and a bit later. F.D. Roosevelt called for reform in 1932. Three years passed before there was a law. More years passed after that before its meaning was made clear in the courts. But long before that, the disease it was created to cure had passed.

POVERTY NOT PROVED

In Keyserling's attack on the Harvard professors he would have us believe that poverty is the basic problem in American public affairs. He uses an aged, worm-eaten statistical stick. There are, he says, "almost 17 million American families above $1,000 but below $4,000, most of whom certainly live in poverty by current U.S. standards." (This is a pretty slipshod piece of argument, with its "almosts" and "certainlys.") Who are these people, where do they live, and what is their own idea of what constitutes a comfortable standard of living? Some are farmers who raise much of what they eat, and who submit answers to questionnaires and income-tax returns which, to use a mild term, are gross understatements. They are part-time workers who simply do not care to move to fairer fields or work harder. They are people with specific incomes but also a lot of property which supplies a considerable part of their living. And dozens of other kinds. To raise the gross national product by the nostrum of government spending of deficit money would not affect these in the least degree. I believe that production of real wealth is wholly desirable, provided it grows normally, but Keyserling's projected rate of growth-5 per cent annually-seems to be based upon deficit spending plus wishful thinking. That is a poor poultice for an infection which no longer exists.

Newsweek, January 19, 1959