Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Senator and the General
by Raymond Moley

This piece is written in the belief
that it represents the point of view
of a very, very large group of Ameri-
cans. The political platform of this
group is simple. It has just one plank,
which is a call for a change of Presi-
dents and party control in Washington.
These people regard that change as a
supreme necessity. For unless there is
such a change, the principles and the
integrity of this republic will
be fundamentally, perhaps
irreparably, impaired. They
consider this need so great
that the personality of the
person who fulfills it is, while
important, secondary.

A friend of mine, Alfred
A. Knopf, was expressing
the sentiment of this group
when he said: "I have no
sympathy for people who
say that unless a candidate is nomi-
nated who precisely meets their
heart's desire, they will not vote or
they will vote for Truman. The major
issue is the need for change. I shall
vote for any good Republican, and no
one other than a good Republican
is likely to be nominated."

Two Republican candidates now
dominate the scene. In their order of
entry, not necessarily of importance,
they are Senator Taft and General
Eisenhower. Each has thousands of
sincere, eager supporters, hardly one
of whom, I suspect, is completely
satisfied with his man.

Many a Taft supporter wishes the
senator could be more amenable
to differences in viewpoint or that his
voting record might be different.
Others wonder how he would succeed
as an administrator. Still others feel
that he has compromised his conserva-
tism by favoring certain statist meas-
ures such as Federal aid to schools
and by failing to be sufficiently intent
upon government economy. But these
Taft supporters conclude that their
man has great integrity and an un-
rivaled grasp of public affairs. He has
also been tried in the fire of hundreds
of votes in Congress, and he has a fine
record of victories at the polls.

There are, on the other hand, sup-
porters of General Eisenhower who
wish that their man knew more of the
civil side of government, that he had
spoken more clearly of his views on
public affairs, and that he was less
handicapped by his military habit of
mind and his previous service with the
Administration which he now pro-
poses to supplant. But, they conclude,
he has immense prestige which offers
assurance of election, great adminis-
trative ability, familiarity with Euro-
pean affairs, and established integrity.

The great group of people who have
no specific preference but
want to end the long
Democratic occupation of
Washington would probably
agree with both of these es-
timates. They would, how-
ever, deeply deplore the
exaggeration of the differ-
ences between Taft and
Eisenhower to a point where
it will be impossible to pre-
sent a common cause after
the Republican convention in July.

These two candidates are far more
than merely honorable men and patri-
otic Americans. Each has attained
towering eminence in his field. Both
will have a high place in history.
Eisenhower as a commander will rank
with Scott, Lee, Grant, Pershing,
and MacArthur. The late Charles A.
Beard, a distinguished American his-
torian, said after reading every word
of the record of the 80th Congress
that Taft's performance, particularly
in promoting the passage of the Taft-
Hartley bill, ranked with those of
Webster, Clay, and Calhoun. In these
days when it sometimes seems that
greatness is no longer with us, we can
congratulate ourselves that the con-
vention in July can choose a President
in such a rich market of talent.

It WILL be disastrous if anything
mean and small creeps into this
contest for the nomination. Whoever
descends to that level to drag down
either of these men is not only throw-
ing obstacles in the way of the main
task of 1952, but he is fouling his own
American nest. This general and this
senator are illustrious men in the great
tradition. With either, the future will
be brighter. In fact, if neither the
senator nor the general is chosen, it
would not be difficult to find a number
of public men quite worthy of the
Presidency. May Providence and not
passion guide the 1,199 people who
must make the decision next July.

Newsweek, January 21, 1952