Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

After the Decision

On the surface, the United States
is much the same since the signing of the
momentous Lend-Lease Bill. Some of the
extreme predictions made during the de-
bate sound a little unnatural now. In fact,
the "before" and "after" seem so much
alike, for the moment, that we are apt to
underestimate wildly the results of the
Lend-Lease Bill's passage. Some of them
we cannot foresee at all at this time, of
course. But it is not too soon to venture a
guess as to the long-time effects of the
measure upon our economic system.

What the act means, from the economic
point of view, is that, faced with the job
of producing enormous quantities of in-
dustrial goods in this country for use in
another country, we have discovered that
the traditional mechanism of international
trade was inadequate. We have learned
that the mechanism of trade on which the
American colonies, the American nation
and the British Empire have been operat-
ing for three centuries could not meet the
emergency created by the German con-
quest of France.

That mechanism of trade was based
upon the exchange of goods for money or,
more accurately, upon an attempt to bal-
ance the accounts between nations in fi-
nancial terms, by a series of credits and
loans. Ideally, a nation accepted, under it,
the goods and services of other nations in
an amount roughly equivalent to the
amount of goods and services they accept-
ed from her. Actually, that might or might
not be true, and, to the extent that it was
not, grave weaknesses in the system began
to show themselves. Goods were ex-
changed, but the exchange was multilat-
eral, deferred and often unbearably un-
equal. Tariff barriers and exchange bar-
riers distorted the functioning of the sys-
tem. International trade dwindled and
dwindled and dwindled.

Surveying this calamitous decline
and trying to determine what to do about
it, the New Deal in its early days found it-
self of two minds. The one frankly recog-
nized the sad days on which the tradi-
tional system of international trade had
fallen and advocated the development, on
a small scale at first, of something that
might be roughly called international bar-
ter. It emphasized the importance of trad-
ing goods back and forth rather than the
importance of trying to bolster the old
system under which goods had been trad-
ed. At other moments the Administration


believed that it was indispensable to try
to restore the old system to health by a
slow reduction of tariff barriers, largely
through reciprocal agreements. After a
year of reversing itself, the Administration
gave the second policy the right of way.
No one who believed that the more or
less harmonious and mutually profitable
world economic system of the past cen-
tury or two would be maintained could
conscientiously deny that this policy was
well worth a trial. It resulted in a measure
of good—just how large a measure being a
matter of hot dispute. But that is neither
here nor there. The basic question at issue
was whether the old system could be
maintained at all. And to that there is still
no incontrovertible answer in theory—no
absolute argument which forever silences
the lower-the-tariff advocates: there are
only the stark, relentless facts of the pres-
ent situation.

Those facts are easily grasped. If
Britain's needs had been no greater than
they were in the last war, or if the ma-
chinery of credit had still been intact, the
British might have come to us in the same
manner as before. They would merely
have "owed" for what we sent them. But
the magnitude of Great Britain's needs at
this moment is so great and the destruc-
tion of international credit which has
taken place in the past two decades is so
vast that new arrangements had to be
made if such a transfer of goods was to
take place. The Lend-Lease Act merely
recognizes that situation. It merely admits
formally that trade between us and Brit-
ain had to be carried on with something
other than money.

For if anything at all was clear, in the
economic evolution of the past twenty
years, it was the difficulty of collecting
debts represented by monetary values.
The agreement to repay us in the last war
had been a promise of payment in money.
But those of us who were dealing with the
subject in 1933, when the last payments
were made by Great Britain, were con-
stantly told by our foreign debtors that
they could pay us only in goods. This
country refused to accept goods or radi-
cally to reduce the debts. So the debts
stood as a gaunt reminder of a fundamen-
tal breakdown of traditional international
economy.

After the failure of the London Confer-
ence in 1933, this country plunged into a
program of domestic reform. It is signifi-
cant that at about the same time the Nazis
came into power in Germany and began to
develop a program which purported to be


NEWSWEEK MARCH 24, 1941

as peculiarly suited to Germany's require-
ments as the Roosevelt Administration
thought its program was suited to our
own. The Nazis undertook barter on a
large scale. Despite the enormous complex-
ities that such a system involved, Ger-
many managed to support its population
and to start its armaments going. It
should be noted that while barter is not a
part of capitalism, it is not at all anti-
capitalistic. It is something any nation
can operate, whether it is capitalistic,
Communistic, Fascistic or theocratic. It
is simply inconvenient, and because it
throws a good deal of responsibility upon
government, it is always fraught with the
danger of producing, in the end, an intol-
erable amount of government interference
in private business. The extent of that in-
terference, of course, depends upon the
extent to which a nation is dependent upon
foreign trade. In this country, with for-
eign trade constituting only about 10 per
cent of its economy, the danger is less than
in England, where foreign trade is a very
large factor.

The Lend-Lease Act provides, in effect,
for a form of deferred barter. Goods are
to be advanced to Britain: the same or
equivalent goods are ultimately to be re-
turned. It would seem that during the de-
bate on the bill a strong argument could
have been made by its proponents that
the Lend-Lease plan will eliminate in fu-
ture the difficulties that this country has
encountered in collecting the money lent
in the last war. It might have been argued
that the act is a kind of contract that will
be binding upon the protected industries
in this country which are certain to raise
the roof if, when and as Britain begins to
repay us in goods.

The fact is that if England is de-
feated we shall probably not get the mer-
chandise back. If she wins, we shall not
need it immediately, and probably would
be embarrassed if it were dumped in our
ports. It is not likely that, win or lose,
after the war the United States would call
upon England's remaining munitions
plants to keep making munitions for two
or three years more, neglecting the manu-
facture of peacetime materials that her
population will be needing so badly.
In any event, we have obviously entered
new economic waters. The immense job of
production that confronts our industrial
machine, coupled, as it is, with a plan to
trade goods without the mediation of
money, may substantially alter our inter-
national and domestic economic methods.
This should not be frightening. In the long
run, such a change may well be salutary
from an economic point of view. But it
will impose a critical political responsibil-
ity upon the American people—the respon-
sibility of maintaining, in the face of
growing governmental power, the essen-
tials of republican government and of free
enterprise.