Here's a text extraction of the provided article, aiming to avoid overlapping columns:


Double Talk About Economy

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Enough evidence has accumulated during the present session of Congress to prove that the prevailing influence of the Legislative branch of the government, like that of the Executive, is not really concerned about balancing the budget and improving the efficiency of public service. An excellent example of this complacent abandonment of the principle of budget balancing in good times has to do with the great office of the Comptroller General of the United States.

I pointed out early in the year in this space that, before we can hope for more efficient and economical administration, something must be done to restore the Comptroller General to the function for which the office was created nearly 30 years ago. At the moment, it is bogged down with accounting work, which belongs in the Treasury, and its real function of auditing and of making efficiency studies is overshadowed and neglected.

The Hoover commission made this point forcibly in its report. But now, months later, nothing has happened. We still have a comptroller but no real control.

In the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 the Comptroller General is specifically directed "to make an expenditure analysis of each agency in the Executive branch which ... will enable Congress to determine whether public funds have been economically and efficiently administered and expended." Thus, Congress made a gesture to equip itself to perform its constitutional duty effectively.

Early in 1947, the Comptroller General asked Congress for $1,000,000 to carry out this directive —a fair amount for a beginning. This request was rejected. The 80th Congress, instead, set up staffs to do its own efficiency studies.

This year, the Comptroller General made the request again, and the bill reported to the Senate contained an item of $800,000 for the purpose. There is strong evidence that this belated action was not in good faith. It was probably a means of weakening the drive to direct the President to cut 5 to 10 per cent in all expenditures. That effort, of course, was opposed by the Democratic leadership and failed.

When the bill containing the $800,000 item went to conference, it is reported that there were various objections. House members claimed that they could use people from the FBI and other Executive agencies. Administration people are said to have claimed that the Budget Bureau should do the work. At any rate, the item was thrown out of the bill.

Congress thus admitted that the so-called directive of 1946 was just double talk. It solemnly enacted a law which it had no intention of enforcing. It talked economy and acted extravagance.

The Comptroller General made only feeble efforts to get the means to do his duty. And the President seems to have no interest in the matter at all.

Because any real independent scrutiny of administrative efficiency depends upon the restoration of the Comptroller General to his original and real status, there can be no hope for economy so long as this sort of horseplay continues. And all pious protestations about adopting the recommendations of the Hoover commission must be taken with a grain of salt. For a basic Hoover proposition is to clear the decks of the Comptroller General for real action.

This is only one example of the cynicism and hypocrisy that have been the way of Congress with economy. When the Interior Department appropriation bill was in its final stages in the Senate, members rushed in for larger figures with all the greedy decorum of a brood of porklings swoofling an offering of mash. Senator Hayden, in charge of the bill and major conferee, received these requests. Considering the fact that his state is after three-quarters of a billion for its Central Valley Project, it is likely that the conference committee will be generous. A bit later, I shall present the final score on this year’s appropriations.

Newsweek, September 26, 1949