Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

In Defense of Two Cities

by Raymond Moley

It is one of the most familiar marks Negroes with the essential qualifica-
of pseudo-intellectualism to draw tions to be police officers.
categorical conclusions from isolated
instances. Superficial commentators,
even far removed, may fatten up
their dispatches by drawing an in-
dictment of a city because of some
event that happens to take place
within that specific municipality.
Two cities which I have visited
this spring have suffered keenly from
such prejudicial publicity and the
generalizations derived therefrom.
These are Birmingham and Dallas.
Moscow and Peking, taking their cue
from our own published accounts,
have seized upon the names of these
two cities as weapons in their propa-
ganda war against the United States.
The events that brought attention
to these cities were quite different.
For more than two years Birmingham
was a target of groups and individ-
uals concerned with enlarging the
rights and opportunities of Negroes.
Dallas has been misrepresented be-
cause it was the scene of President
Kennedy's assassination and the
wretched Ruby case.
Birmingham is a growing commu-
nity which derives its strength from
large industries that serve the na-
tion. It ranks with Northern and
Western cities not only in its eco-
nomic promise, but in cultural con-
cerns. In viewing its downtown area
or its beautiful suburbs, one might
think himself in Omaha or Columbus.

SIGNS OF PROGRESS

A year before the Birmingham
demonstrations of April 1963, a com-
mittee of 100 business and profes-
sional leaders set to work amicably to
adjust race relations. This group had
the help of a biracial subcommittee.
Distinct progress was being made.
Later, Washington sent Kenneth C.
Royall and Earl H. Blaik to survey
the situation, to make recommenda-
tions, and report. They carried out
their mission with sympathy and un-
derstanding. The only changes they
recommended were the formation of
another civic committee and the em-
ployment of some Negroes in the
police department. The first sugges-
tion was complied with. The second
was accepted and some progress was
made, although it was difficult to find

It is a matter of doubt whether
some of the crimes for which Bir-
mingham is blamed were actually
committed by people from Birming-
ham or even by citizens of Alabama.
Birmingham has been invaded by
many unsavory outsiders. A Federal
grand jury indicted eight men in
September 1963 for acts of violence.
Three were from Northern cities,
two were from Georgia, and only one
was a resident of Birmingham.

LINGERING RESENTMENT

Meanwhile, distinct progress has
been made in integration. Negroes
are now able to avail themselves of
bus service on an equal basis. They
can use parks and community houses,
lunch counters, and the municipal
golf course. Three of the city's
schools are integrated.

The four months' publicity bath of
Dallas has been concluded with the
end of the Ruby trial. But in the
course of a luncheon with about
twenty business and professional
leaders and public officials, I learned
from some fairly frank expressions
that resentment still lingers concern-
ing the manner in which media of
communication have characterized
the city. There has been an alto-
gether unjustified charge that Dallas
is the center of extremism "of the
right." There is no more extremism in
Dallas than in dozens of other cities
over the nation, although the city
has shown notable conservative
tendencies in its elections. It has a
Republican mayor and has elected
a Republican member of Congress in
several elections. Its city government
is far above the national level in effi-
ciency. The assassination was the act
of an individual who might have
been present in any city in which
the President appeared, even in
Washington, the scene of the violent
deaths of two earlier Presidents.

A Birmingham citizen commented
that while the Ninth Commandment
condemns bearing false witness
against a neighbor, a greater sin is
to bear false witness against a whole
city. I would suggest to people in
the North and West that there is
glass in all our houses.

Newsweek, April 27, 1964