Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Can Communist Party Be Outlawed?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Thomas committee this week is
getting information about a strange
paradox. It is hearing that, despite
widespread public opinion favoring the
exclusion of the American Communist
party from primaries and elections, it
is difficult if not impossible to satisfy
that opinion by specific legislation. The
Attorney General, who in an election
year is surely anxious to meet public
demands, says he does not
favor outlawing the party.
Many others who are vocif-
erous in denouncing Commu-
nism are of the same opinion.
Part of the explanation
of this reluctance lies in the
fear, entertained by many
liberal people, that such a
cure might be worse than the
disease. But the most impor-
tant reason for hesitation in
taking measures to outlaw the party
lies in the legal complications involved.
Several states have attempted, from
time to time, to keep Communists
and the Communist party out of pri-
maries and elections. The Communists,
who are litigious fellows, have dragged
much of this legislation into the courts,
and they have had remarkable success.
Two excellent examples of this are cases
arising under the laws of California and
Illinois.

The California law banned from elec-
tions and primaries the Communist
party or "any other foreign agency,"
etc., or any party which "advocates,"
etc., a "program of sabotage, force or
violence." This law came before the
California Supreme Court in C. P. of
U.S. A. vs. Peek in 1942. Reduced to
layman's language, the court's decision
was that a declaration by the legisla-
ture that the Communist party advo-
cated force or violence did not establish
the fact of such intent. Also, that the
law did not provide for a fair hearing
of specific evidence about the party or
candidates seeking a place on the bal-
lot. The main point was that the legis-
lature could not establish the fact of
subversive intent. To illustrate the
point, the court said that a legislature
might decree that a cow with hoof-and-
mouth disease might be destroyed, but
it could not declare that John Smith's
cow had hoof-and-mouth disease.

The Illinois statute fell in the United
States District Court because the candi-
dates seeking a place on the ballot were
aspiring to the Senate and to the House.
The case was Fineglass vs. Reinecke,
also decided in 1942. The court held the
statute to be void because the term
"Communist" does not necessarily mean
the advocacy of force and violence or
subservience to foreign nations. Here
again, the court declared against what
is called an "implied legislative finding."
The California decision,
however, made clear that the
legislature could provide for
the exclusion of a party (a)
which advocates the forceful
overthrow of government or
(b) "which has subordinated
itself to the control and di-
rection of a foreign govern-
ment." But in such a case,
there must be established
proof and an opportunity for
a fair hearing of proof.
When the question of proof is raised,
the Supreme Court of the United States
has set up some formidable hurdles.
In the Schneiderman case in 1942,
Mr. Justice Murphy, speaking for the
court, held that man's beliefs are per-
sonal and cannot be assumed from his
association with a party or organiza-
tion. Hence, if a candidate is a member
of the Communist party, it is not suffi-
cient to prove that the Communist
party advocates the views of Lenin and
that Lenin taught the overthrow of
government by force and violence.
Moreover, the court held that it could
not be assumed that the Communist
party advocated force and violence
merely because it subscribed to Lenin's
views, since Lenin's views must be
measured in light of the conditions
faced by Lenin in his time. Further, it
was held that the "dictatorship of the
proletariat" would not "necessarily
mean the end of representative govern-
ment or the federal system."

These extraordinary views were in
the majority opinion, but there was
a very strong dissent by Mr. Justice
Stone in which two judges concurred.
Mr. Justice Jackson disqualified him-
self. Hence, there can be great doubt
whether such a view would prevail now.
If, as Stone pointed out, attachment to
the principles of the Constitution is a
vital prerequisite for citizenship, then it
is more certainly a vital prerequisite for
a place on the ballot.

Newsweek, February 16, 1948