Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Coils of Bureaucracy
by RAYMOND MOLEY

THE forthcoming report of the
Hoover Commission on Organiza-
tion of the Executive Branch of the
Government will be launched in cloudy
weather. Had Dewey adequately
dramatized the issue of better adminis-
tration in his campaign and had he
been elected, the auspices for this
monumental report could hardly have
been fairer. The vastly important and
detailed recommendations of
the report would have been
handed to a vigorous young
executive whose initial pow-
er over Congress would have
been decisive.

The report remains, how-
ever, and its authority will
still be very great. It is the
concept of a man without
peer in experience in Fed-
eral administration. Hoover
served in high office under three Presi-
dents and then was able to see admin-
istration from the perspective of the
White House. He feels that he is per-
forming a national service in a field
which is not only of vital concern, but
is over and above all partisanship.

WHEN the report appears it should
be noted that it deals with things
as they are. Hoover makes it clear that
he and his associates are not concerned
with the legitimacy or necessity of any
of the multitudinous activities of the
Federal government. They are con-
cerned with the organization of what
has been loosely thrown together over
many years by Congress and the Presi-
dent, in order to provide more ef-
ficiency, economy, and responsibility.
It is for Congress to decide the "what."
Hoover's commission points out the
"how."

For example, it is for Congress to
decide whether a hundred or more
agencies shall be in the lending busi-
ness. But it is for the commission to
suggest that this overwhelming mass
of government banking shall be done
in a manner that can be audited,
checked, and revealed to the public.
The report itself will not be made
public until January. The twelve-man
commission was authorized by Con-
gress. Four members were appointed
by the President; four by the Speaker
of the House; and four by the Presi-
dent of the Senate. The detailed work
was done by 23 "task forces," com-


posed of expert and experienced peo-
ple, largely selected by Hoover himself.
The range of the report covers the
whole $40,000,000,000 bureaucracy
which has grown from the $4,000,000,-
000 government which Hoover turned
over to Roosevelt in 1933.

The most interesting feature of the
Hoover approach is the change in
point of view about governmental cen-
tralization. It used to be
dogma among government
reorganizers that all bureaus,
commissions, and the like
had to be bound together in
small bundles and placed
directly under central con-
trol. The Hoover commis-
sion, according to what is
now known of its philoso-
phy, is interested not only in
centralizing but in decen-
tralizing controls.

For example, the Civil Service Com-
mission as originally established was
designed to control the selection of
personnel in all departments. The
growth of government has made this
idea unworkable. The Civil Service
Commission should fix general stand-
ards, but departments should have
more authority in hiring and firing. At
the present time, it is so difficult to get
rid of an employe that busy depart-
ment heads have little choice but to
let incompetents stay. The Budget Bu-
reau and the General Accounting Of-
fice were designed to be master
planners and auditors. But budgeting
and accounting should be decentralized
if they are to be effectively done. The
government has simply become so
great that it has outgrown the adminis-
trative principles of the past.

THE Hoover commission will present
a grim and challenging picture of
where our gay and careless govern-
ment has been going all these years.
We have piled up obligations, ex-
penses, and services so fast that order
and intelligibility and responsibility
have been lost. If this merry chase
cannot be checked, we can at least try
to clarify what we have done and face
the consequences. This the Hoover
commission will make clear.

What will come of it all is a story
yet to be told. But unless something is
done, democracy will strangle itself in
the coils of bureaucracy.

Newsweek, December 13, 1948