Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Politics, How-to-Do-It
by Raymond Moley

Two years ago, when James M.
Cannon, NEWSWEEK'S Senior Edi-
tor, NATIONAL AFFAIRS, told me he
was doing a book in which successful
politicians would tell exactly how they
practice their mystifying art, I attrib-
uted his optimism to enthusiasm for
homo publicus, for it is incredibly dif-
ficult to get politicians to talk about
how and why they do what they do.
God knows, talk is the big item in their
trade. But it is designed to incite, to
inflame, not to describe. What they
say and what they do are rooted in
instincts and experience which even
they find hard to define. And anyhow,
these are the secrets of their trade.
True, there are the tattlings of the
retired, intent upon exalting their
careers and refuting their enemies.
The classics are Machiavelli's "Dis-
courses" and "The Prince," the realism
of which has undeservedly earned
Machiavelli centuries of defama-
tion, and Aristotle's "Rhetoric," over-
shadowed and neglected because of
his more theoretical "Nicomachean
Ethics" and his "Politics."
Cannon's introduction tells of his la-
bors in eliciting 23 statements of the
28 for which he tried. Some wrote
their statements specifically for this
book, "Politics, U.S.A."* Others pro-
vided tape recordings. A few chapters
are reproductions of something pre-
viously written or delivered in lec-
tures. The book stands at the very top
of the long list of 1960 political books.
Almost all of those eulogies and spec-
ulations will wither and die in Novem-
ber. "Politics, U.S.A." will live a long
time if those who review or scan it
have the capacity to understand its
unique character.

CANDID ACCOUNTS

There are several big names among
the contributors-Nixon, Stevenson,
Kennedy, Farley, Len Hall, Governor
Ribicoff, and James Michael Curley.
There are also many who are unknown
to most. But it is important that, with
one exception, the lasting value of the
book lies in the contributions of the
lesser known. Either the well known
are still in the game or for other rea-
sons cannot formalize what they have
been doing, or, like Curley, hoped

*348 pages. Doubleday. $4.95.

that their knowledge would perish
with them.
The two best and most valuable
contributions are by Murray Chotiner,
a California lawyer, and Gus Tyler of
the International Ladies Garment
Workers Union. Chotiner, to whom at
least three nationally known California
statesmen owe an immeasurable debt,
has with complete candor and detail
described the strategy and tactics of
successful campaigning on a statewide
basis. His essay-lecture should be a
blueprint and guide for every aspirant
for elective office and every student of
political science. Gus Tyler delineates
simply and openly how the unions in
the past 25 years have attained great
political power. What they did was to
transform habitual non-voters into ac-
tive citizens. Not money, but personal
contact with union members and their
wives was the major factor.

EXPERT WITNESSES

Robert Humphreys, former cam-
paign manager of the Republican
National Committee, tells about the
master plan that was used in 1952.
Ray Bliss of Ohio tells of what it takes
to be a state chairman. Sen. Hugh
Scott is interesting on how to get into
politics. Governor Ribicoff, who would
probably make a better President
than any of the present Democratic
contenders, says frankness is wanted
by voters in these serious times.
Nixon tells at length of how all-
important careful, meticulous prepa-
ration is for a man in public life. He
never had a course in political science
in college, but is an omnivorous reader
of history. Students in college might
well ponder his statement that "a
sense of history" is the best sort of
equipment for public affairs.
Two personal experiences have, I
believe, qualified me to rate this book
very high. I taught politics at Colum-
bia for 25 years, and for more than
ten I have been telling business and
professional men and women why
they should get into politics and how
to behave therein. There has been no
suitable text on political behavior in
either case. "Politics, U.S.A." should
fill a real need. Teachers of political
science would find that the use of this
book would bring the breath of life
into their discourses.

Newsweek, June 20, 1960