Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


**Hell's Canyon Issues**

by Raymond Moley

BEND, ORE. The advocates of Federal socialized power have been so noisy in denouncing President Eisenhower and Secretary McKay for their action concerning the now celebrated case of Hell's Canyon that the real import of what they did may have been missed. The Secretary, acting for the Administration, simply removed the Interior Department's intervention from the case, and thus does not contest the applications of the Idaho Power Co. for licenses to build their three dams on the Snake River.  This means that a political department stands aside while issues are adjudicated by the nonpolitical, quasijudicial Federal Power Commission. McKay did not, as some seem to imply, decide not to build the monstrous dam planned by the Reclamation Bureau during the Truman Administration. That was decided by Congress not once but twice. And with the present great need for economy there is not a chance that Congress will reverse its stand. The decision of McKay merely removed a roadblock which prevented a new supply of power for a truly great need under wholly adequate safeguards of the public interest.


One of the many objections to the Federal leviathan is the element of cost. The estimate of the Bureau of Reclamation, which in the past has been notoriously overoptimistic in such matters, is $500,000,000. This does not include transmission lines. Tremendous charges would never be reimbursed. There would probably be hidden in the bookkeeping large subsidies for irrigation.

I found two years ago, and again last week, great and well-justified fear among Idaho farmers that their precious water rights might be impaired by the Federal plan. Moreover the engineering plans of the Federal dam have many doubtful aspects. Estimates of power production have great speculative elements because none can know when or how often the region will have a dry year. The enormous requirements of the Federal dam for storage water might well have serious effects upon the many other Federal dams already built or building or proposed down the Snake or on the Columbia. Finally, such a dam, if efficiently used for power, is useless to prevent floods.

The counterproposal of the Idaho Power Co. now being heard before the Federal Power Commission is a series of three much lower dams. One of these would be in Hell's Canyon not far from the site of the Federal proposal. The next would be 22 miles upstream at a place called Oxbow. The third would be 11 miles farther at Brownlee. The last of these would be for storage, the others run-of-the-river dams. There are great advantages in such a plan not only for the continuous production of power but for flood control. The estimated production of power from these would be only 12 per cent less than the most optimistic estimates for the Federal dam. All three would cost less than a third of the $500,000,000 estimate for the Federal plan.

The Idaho Power Co. would of course be spending private money. Moreover, it would be paying taxes on its project in all the future at the rate of $10,000,000 a year to Oregon, Idaho, and the United States.

One of the problems that must be ironed out, however, before the Federal Power Commission can authorize the dams is an equitable adjustment of the claims of Oregon and Idaho to the power produced and also Federal measures to protect the interests in fisheries, recreation, and wild life.

For at the proposed site the Snake is between Oregon and Idaho. Secretary McKay has asked the Power Commission to stipulate that a time limit be fixed and that the dams be built simultaneously. He also wants a considerable part of the power produced to be coordinated with the Northwest power pool which supplies Oregon and Washington.

THERE may be some argument about this proposal to divide the power because the Idaho Power Co. says that its own state will need all the power in a few years although for the intervening time they will be willing to turn over some of it to the pool.

Newsweek, July 27, 1953