POLITICS AND POLICE
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Unfortunately, reformers elected to
office concede neither good in-
tentions nor common sense to the chil-
dren of darkness whom they succeed.
But long years of experience in gov-
ernment often teach lessons from
which even the most starry-eyed of
reformers might profit.

This observation applies especially
to John V. Lindsay’s first blunder in
his early weeks as Mayor of New
York. For he has thrust City Hall poli-
tics into the Police Department.

More than half a century ago, a
great police scandal so shook New
York that it elected a reform mayor
and a Republican governor. Charles
Francis Murphy, the redoubtable
leader of Tammany, then decreed
that never again should City Hall in-
terfere in the internal affairs of the
Police Department. The mayor should
appoint a good commissioner and
leave him strictly alone. This rule was
observed in the Democratic years
that followed. And in the most recent
city charter this independence of the
commissioner is written into law.

Mayor Robert Wagner followed this
principle during all of his twelve
years in office. His first commissioner
was Francis W.H. Adams, a lawyer of
repute who served two years. The
two commissioners who succeeded
him had been professional members
of the force. Less than a year ago
Wagner appointed Vincent Brod-
erick, a lawyer who had served in the
department as chief law officer. Dur-
ing his brief tenure as commissioner,
Broderick was highly respected in the
force and by the public.

CONTROL BY CITY HALL

In his campaign Lindsay made no
charges against the police, but in or-
der to win the support of civil-rights
workers and Negro and Puerto Rican
leaders he promised that if elected
he would appoint a civilian review
board to investigate alleged cases
of police “brutality.” It was at this
point that Lindsay thrust politics into
the police. For Broderick and others
pointed out that corrective action was
already vested in the commissioner
and a three-man review board ap-
pointed by the commissioner. It was
claimed by Broderick and by many
other respected citizens that such a
civilian agency as Lindsay proposed
would seriously impair the discipline
and morale of the force. Broderick in-
sisted that, while he could live with
the Lindsay board, the real issue was
City Hall interference with the inter-
nal affairs of the department. Several
incidents made it clear that Lindsay
and some of the reformers with whom
he had surrounded himself in office
were determined to inject themselves
into police affairs.

The issue was clearly drawn when
a “task force” appointed by Lindsay
submitted a report with recommenda-
tions which, if implemented, would
mean police control by City Hall. The
members of this group were appar-
ently without any considerable quali-
fications for their job. The report
recommended that there be created
“a single integrated system” consist-
ing of the police, the prosecutors, the
parole and probation officers and the
judges. At the head of this fantastic
agency there would be an “assistant
to the Mayor.” In practice, this would
create utter confusion. In principle, it
would endanger the rights of any de-
fendant. For it is an age-old principle
that prosecutors are a check upon po-
lice, and the courts are a check upon
both police and prosecutors.

DANGEROUS ISSUE

A tremendous protest arose over
this injection of politics and City Hall
influence into the force. Lindsay then
replaced Broderick with the former
Philadelphia police commissioner,
Howard R. Leary. The new commis-
sioner says he will submit to the
mayor, both as to the review board
and the super-director of criminal jus-
tice. Leary comes from a department
which has been ridden with City Hall
politics. He is unfamiliar with New
York conditions and traditions.

The Patrolmen’s Benevolent Asso-
ciation is now considering a citywide
referendum on the review-board is-
sue. Such an appeal to the electorate
would create a sharp racial division
and, no doubt, shake the city with
bitter controversy.

The controversy has already at-
tained proportions which are most un-
fortunate at a time when juvenile
crime and narcotics peddling are ex-
ceedingly serious. The issue raised is
no less than a danger to the peace
and order of the city.

Newsweek, March 7, 1966