Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Interregnum
by RAYMOND MOLEY

SINCE Dewey is so likely to win, orthodox
political strategy dictates that
he make no serious mistakes in speech
or act, that he raise very few controversial
issues, and do what he can to
win a Republican Senate. His thinking
must also turn to plans and problems
relating to his prospective job. Above
all, he must take account of the 79 days
between election and inauguration.
Some of those days may be
exceedingly important for
him and for the country.
They must all be carefully
anticipated.

Dewey cannot, as did
F.D.R. in 1932, assume that
he has no responsibility for
government in the interregnum. The times
then were tough within the United
States. The great depression
was running on into its most dismal winter.
On the foreign side, the European
debt payments, after the moratorium,
were coming due in December, and defaults
were in prospect. But despite the
appeals of Hoover, there was little cooperation.

It may be assumed that such a situation
will not occur this year. Between
Dewey and Truman there is nothing like
the mutual distaste which existed between
Roosevelt and Hoover. And most
of Truman’s Cabinet will probably face
the result with a sense of relief and will
be happy to greet and to cooperate with
their successors.

In a few instances in 1933, Cabinet
members greatly helped their successors.
Ogden Mills remained in and around
the Treasury for several days working
with Will Woodin, the new appointee.
Henry Stimson opened such of the State
Department mysteries as he understood
to Cordell Hull.

This time, there should be no hitch at
all in the State Department if, as is expected,
John Foster Dulles is appointed.
In short, there is a real prospect for
cooperation among the higher-ups.

Below the top levels, prospects are not
so bright. In the first place, no one will
know who the lesser Dewey appointees
will be. They will not be chosen until
the new regime is installed. Those New
Dealers who have survived these many
years in the lower echelons of the Administration
are generally more intense
partisans than are Truman’s Cabinet members.
They burn with the conviction
that Republican rule will be marked by
economic disaster and that they will all
be back in 1953.

Some—and I say this deliberately—
would not hesitate to leave a few economic
booby traps in the path of their
successors. This could be done, despite
real or seeming good will on the part of
department heads, for many lesser officials
in the departments have
really been making policy for
years.

One example of what might
happen has to do with the
price of corn. After this harvest, there will
be great congestion and lack of storage
space. It would be very easy
to let corn fall below the
support price and then blame
a new Administration for an
alleged injury to the farmers.

Many other delicate economic situations
might lend themselves to tampering,
which might nicely correlate the
entry of a new Administration with unmistakable
signs of a recession. We are
actually at the peak of an unprecedented
boom and are caught in an inflation
which seems about to peter out. Nothing
could be better political ammunition
in 1950 and 1952 than a claim that
Dewey brought bad times with him.

The incoming Administration should be
aware of these dangers and see to it
that plans for stabilizing the economy
are laid with great care.

THERE is also the question of Dewey’s
legislative plans which, in the nature
of things, must be made in close cooperation
with Congress. There is where
Senator Taft comes in. He is a towering
figure in the Senate and will remain so
even if his party should lose control of
that body in the coming elections. His
ample knowledge and experience in economic
affairs greatly exceed that of
most of those department heads that
Dewey is likely to appoint.

In addition, Taft is a man of deep
orthodox convictions. He will not lightly
accept a Presidential program and press
its adoption as did Senate Leader Joe
Robinson in the early Roosevelt years.
Taft will not be recalcitrant or obstructive,
but whatever is to receive Congressional
approval will bear the Taft
imprint, as clearly marked as that of
Dewey.

Newsweek, October 25, 1948