Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Man, the Unbroken Atom
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The late war, like most wars of
the past, has, despite its vast destruction,
given humanity more control of
material resources than before. Under
its terrible necessities, war forced
human intelligence to break open more
and more of the secrets of nature. Invention
and organization have mastered the
means of survival. But there still
stands the enigma of the ages—man
himself. Man understands everything
in the world, except men.

Despite immediate stress in many
countries, knowledge now exists which
can ultimately and permanently remove
hunger from the problems of the world.
The pursuit of bread has been an ever-
present cause of migration, war and
internal disorder. That incentive toward
strife need not survive this period of
readjustment.

Chemistry has taught us greatly to
increase the fertility of land. We have
even learned how to make bread from
air, through nitrates. The application
of new machinery to farming has meant
a revolutionary increase in productivity.
The horizons in raw materials have been
receding ever farther. Illimitable new
sources of power are coming into view.
These developments are not the exclusive
possession of a few favored nations. Such
knowledge will be world-wide. This is one
revolution which will benefit all mankind.

The world crisis which lies ahead will
be in the capacity of human intelligence
to comprehend and organize these
resources. In highly developed countries
like ours, the problem of hunger has been
supplanted by the problem of employment.
Nowhere in the ancient books is employment
mentioned as a problem. There was an old
expression that "whoever knows work and
doesn't avoid it is crazy." Modern life has
created a temporary oversupply of leisure
and a scarcity of work. Men were condemned
to work by the judgment of the Garden of
Eden. Now they struggle to be allowed to
work. And despite multiplying means of
security, we feel a sense of insecurity. A
major reason for this paradox is the gap
between the world as it exists and our
thought patterns concerning the world. Our
minds still move in grooves created by a
vanished civilization. We are like animals
walking in footprints made ages ago by
mastodons and dinosaurs.

In another field in which revolutionary
changes have occurred, the same gap
between facts and intelligence exists.
Modern forms of communication can bring
the world family into instant and intimate
contact. Voices, words and vision move like
lightning from country to country and from
person to person. But everywhere old forms
of keeping people apart contend with new
means of bringing people together. What
we can know is held prisoner by what we
may know.

Men have struggled with the conflict
between reality and obsolete thought patterns
before. Men once found it hard to reconcile
scientific change with established religious
concepts. But now religion is the friend of
science, and scientists are friends of religion.

In the eighteenth century, men like Adam
Smith created an "economic man" to bridge
the gap between economic realities and
human beings. More recently, it was found
that Smith's economic man was wholly fictitious.
But the modern sociologist's man-in-the-mass,
like the politician's common man, is likewise
folklore.

And so we stumble along, trying to fit
fictitious men into a world of material
reality. We can think about land and water
and production in usable terms, but when we
try to rationalize men, we lose ourselves in
swimming generalities.

But we must master human relations, or
our knowledge of the material world will
destroy even what little we have created in
the name of civilization. The only solution I
know for the problem of the atomic bomb is
to have nations learn to live without using it
against each other.

The institutions upon which our hopes must
rest for this reconciliation are educational
and religious, for the problem is intellectual
and moral. We have laid the material
foundations for civilization, but only as
humanity acquires self-knowledge and self-
restraint can that civilization be noble and
enduring.