Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation of columns isn't always possible due to variations in the original scanning and layout.


**F.D.R. at the Bar of History**

by Raymond Moley

The tenth anniversary of the death
of Franklin D. Roosevelt will re-
vive the old and oft-repeated ques-
tion: "What will be the judgment
of history?"

My answer to that question has
always been that no decisive verdict
can be made in our time—perhaps
never. Because F.D.R. was good for
so many and bad for so many that
never the two multitudes
can meet in common agreement. It is also true that
most men who have left a
massive imprint on the civi-
lization of their time are still
the subject of bitter differences. Consider Napoleon
or Luther or Bismarck.

Such considerations could
not satisfy J. Brooks B.
Parker, a citizen of Philadelphia, who left in his will a sizable
sum to be expended for “a contemporary
appraisement of …the Roosevelt
influence …before it is too late …
without fear, favor, or prejudice.” For
this fearsome assignment the executors
selected Prof. Edgar Eugene
Robinson of Stanford University, a
distinguished student and teacher of
American history. His opinion is rendered in a book “The Roosevelt
Leadership: 1933-1945.”*

From those who cling to the fabulous
image of the man who did no
wrong there will be dissents. There
will be growls from those who hold
the equally fabulous concept of a
man who did no right.

But all must grant high honors to a
man who was willing to risk a bitter
cross fire of criticism. An examination
of the book should merit him praise
for incredible industry. For he apparently
searched everywhere and
read everything.

I would add a third award for
shrewd and penetrating judgment,
since to judge the subtle, wily character
of the subject of this study on the
basis of the printed word alone is a
considerable achievement. Indeed,
those of us who knew F.D.R. over
a long period found many of his
ways incomprehensible.

A valuable feature of the book is a
70-page critical bibliography of the
enormous Roosevelt literature.

*Lippincott. 480 pages. $6.


Professor Robinson’s judgment divides
the Roosevelt achievement into
two parts. First there is the indisputable
fact that he carried to swift
and permanent embodiment in the
laws and mores of his country a great
body of slowly maturing readjustment
and reform which had its origins long
before F.D.R. thought very much
about public problems. This evolution
would ultimately have
crystallized but it was
Roosevelt’s amazing control
of public opinion that
brought it about in his first
Administration. He succeeded
so well because he
was to a vast majority a
leader without a peer, a
healer of the afflicted, and
an inspired agent of the
people’s salvation.

The other part of the achievement
must be measured against the nature
and consequences of great, wholesale
decisions. Here Professor Robinson
draws a serious indictment. There
were the deliberate, although furtive,
refusal to cooperate with Herbert
Hoover earlier in the bank crisis; the
blasting of the hopes of Europe by
refusing to cooperate in the Economic
Conference in 1933; the liaison with
Soviet Russia, beginning in 1933, without
realizing the malignant nature of
Communism; the calculated creation
of a vast dependency on government
through immense relief projects and
subsidies; the defiance of constitutional
traditions in the attacks upon
the Supreme Court and the Congress;
the casual diplomacy and
slovenly management which permitted
the disaster at Pearl Harbor;
the unpremeditated and thoughtless
announcement of “unconditional surrender”
and the approval of Harry
Dexter White’s Morgenthau plan
which together prolonged the war
and permitted the Soviet to plant its
power in the heart of Europe, and finally,
the unbelievable surrender at
Yalta which resulted in the loss of
Asia to Communism.

Professor Robinson terms these
decisions the “tragedy of leadership”
and, he says, since the majority
of the American people were indifferent
or acquiescent, they must bear
a measure of the blame.

Newsweek, March 7, 1955