Here's the text extracted from the provided image, separated to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Soaking the Saver

by Raymond Moley

WHEN in the course of inhuman
events is the "little man," about
whom politicians prate and reformers
parade their fine sentiments, going to
realize that he is the victim of the
spending spree that is gathering force
in this Congress? Somehow he is de-
luded by the myth that "big" com-
panies and "big" people are paying
and can continue to pay for big gov-
ernment. A good example of the game
in which he is the victim is the House-
enacted bill taxing life-insurance com-
panies, which is before the Senate.
For a number of years, Congress has
taxed the "net income" of life-
insurance companies which is received
from their investments. The term "net
income" has meant the portion of the
investment income not required for
reserves to meet long-term obligations
and claims under outstanding policies.
Various changes in the law over the
years have attempted to define this
"free" investment income that is sub-
ject to taxation. The Treasury and
Congress this year, in pursuit of more
revenue, are at it again.
Under the House bill, the tax has
been adjusted to raise $550 million as
compared with $319 million under the
1957 enactment. The companies have
presented a number of telling argu-
ments before the Senate Finance
Committee opposing this further
"bite." The burden is considerably
more than the President recom-
mended in his budget.

SHORTCOMINGS

The levy in the bill passed by the
House would represent a 70 per cent
increase in the Federal tax on policy-
holders. The bill apparently ignores
the burden already placed by state
premium taxes which are a tax on
policyholders in the nature of a per-
centage levy on gross deposits with
the insurance company.
The House-passed bill makes some
distinction between stock companies
and mutual companies. But the dis-
tinction is not carried far enough.
Since, in part, a stock company is a
corporation with owners as well as
policyholders, it is with some varia-
tions and deductions treated as an
ordinary corporation. But in the new
bill, mutual companies are also taxed
on what is called "gain from opera-
tions," which is distinct from gain from
investments. There are deductions
from this sort of gain, however. Also,
stock companies are given a deduction
based on their increase in reserves be-
cause they have less cushion from pre-
miums than mutuals. There is a third
deduction of 2 per cent of premiums
received from group and life accident
and health insurance to protect com-
panies from the fluctuations in this
type of business.
One serious objection to the bill is
that since the tax is levied on indi-
vidual companies, it would be much
more equitable to use a five-year av-
erage of the rate each company
earned on investments for comput-
ing taxable investment income. This
change has already been tentatively
approved by the Senate committee.

BURDEN ON SECURITY

Another objection is that the limita-
tion in the amount of policyholder
dividends discriminates against mu-
tual companies which hold 75 per
cent of the assets and 63 per cent of
the insurance of the entire industry.
The mutual companies point out that
policyholder dividends (which are
really not "dividends" at all, but a
return of property to its owners)
should be deducted in full. The pre-
mium deposits received by mutual
companies are not really company "in-
come," but capital given in trust for
safekeeping. A mutual company is
really a savings institution, like a mu-
tual-savings bank or many other such
means of cooperative thrift.
Also, to avoid double taxation, in-
vestment income from individual an-
nuities should be deductible, since
such annuities are also taxed as in-
dividual income.
The most serious objection is the
size of the Federal bite from personal
savings. For so far as life-insurance
companies have assets, they belong,
especially in mutual companies, to the
policyholders. These policyholders
are already taxed by the states in
the form of a levy on their gross de-
posits with their companies.
In the forthcoming Senate consid-
eration of the bill, there might well
be some consideration of the burden
which this legislation places upon a
basic means of personal security.

Newsweek, May 4, 1959