Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Humphrey Force Bill
by Raymond Moley

SANTA BARBARA—It could hardly
have been mere coincidence that
two important events relating to the
interests and political fortunes of Sen.
Hubert Humphrey took place within
a few days toward the end of June.
The first, already discussed in this
space, was the appointment of Gov-
ernor Youngdahl of Minnesota to a
Federal judgeship by the President.
This unquestionably was po-
litically advantageous to
Truman and Humphrey.
This collaboration then ex-
tended to the selection of
Humphrey as litter bearer
for the President's precious
civil-rights program. As a
defender of this doubtful
faith, Humphrey has several
disadvantages, but he will
make up in volume what his
utterances lack in quality. It may well
be that no truly distinguished North-
ern Democrat would be willing to
indulge in this move to precipitate
disunion and bitterness in his party.
In any event, Humphrey introduced
the so-called civil-rights bills, eight of
them, with elaborate oratorical flour-
ishes. As co-sponsors of the bills there
appeared seven Fair Deal Demo-
crats and one Fair Deal Republican:
Douglas, Benton, Lehman, Magnuson,
Murray, Neely, Pastore, and Morse.
These sponsors can feel assured of
several things. They have deepened
the cleavage in their party and the
country. They have further embit-
tered a conflict that cannot be re-
solved by Federal power. They have
invoked Federal force to correct con-
ditions that are being rapidly cor-
rected by state and local legislation
and by public opinion. They have also
raised hopes among the alleged bene-
ficiaries of these laws that cannot be
fulfilled. For these bills in all proba-
bility cannot be passed and, if passed,
cannot peaceably be enforced. For
all these wry blessings, the President
will be deeply grateful to the sponsors.

THE bills are intended to carry out
provisions and proscriptions of the
President's Civil Rights Committee of
three years ago. The so-called fair-
employment and poll-tax bills I shall
consider at a later date. It suffices
here and now to point out the un-
soundness of the antilynching bill.

The bill provides heavy Federal
penalties for those who participate in
a lynching and for those law-enforce-
ment officers who fail to make diligent
efforts to prevent lynchings or are
derelict in bringing participants to
justice. Thus, Federal law would sup-
plant state and local law enforcement,
not only in cases of lynchings but of
"suspected" lynchings, whatever that
may mean. Another bill, in-
tended to help enforce this
and other civil-rights laws,
would build up new Fed-
eral prosecuting and police
machinery in the Depart-
ment of Justice and in the
FBI. It would even go so far
as to set up training ma-
chinery for civil-rights prose-
cutors and police.
In short, this legislation
would arrogate to the Federal govern-
ment a large part of the responsibility
of law enforcement which has right-
fully and traditionally belonged to the
several states. Any such arrogation
was specially denied even by the
Kefauver committee which unearthed,
mostly in the North, much more lax-
ness in state authority than the facts
concerning lynching indicate.

FOR without Federal interference
the crime of lynching has rapidly
been brought under control by state
authorities. Lynching has, in fact, prac-
tically disappeared. The record can
be found by anyone who has access to
the World Almanac. The figures on
lynchings of Negroes contained there
were collected by the Tuskegee Insti-
tute. They are, for the ten years end-
ing in 1949: 1940, 4; 1941, 4; 1942, 6;
1943, 3; 1944, 2; 1945, 1; 1946, 6;
1947, 1; 1948, 1; 1949, 3. Compare
these figures with the record of other
sorts of violence, with deaths in labor
disputes in the North, with election
violence and gang killings in many
cities. But Senator Douglas is not ask-
ing Federal force for labor violence in
Chicago; nor is Senator Humphrey
asking it for the Twin Cities. Nor is
Senator Lehman asking Federal prose-
cution in New York, where many un-
solved murders take place every year.
Such a bill is not only unnecessary
but a gratuitous affront to the states of
the South, which have been effec-
tively solving their problems.

Newsweek, August 20, 1951