Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement:

France Up and Rumania Down

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Well, Lafayette, look who's here again.
When France awakens after the happy days of liberation, there will be many serious matters to concern her and her Allies. On the economic side, the situation is not likely to be as serious as expected. Half of the French are farmers whose forebears, over the centuries, have been eating their own food and drinking their own wine, despite conquest from without and bad government within. This year's grain crop is harvested, and, considering the condition of transportation to Germany in August, it is doubtful if much of it went to the Reich. The vast wine crop is still to come. Grapes ripen in September. Potatoes have none of the importance in France that they have in Poland and Germany. It is reported that a great deal of North African grain is ready for shipment to France. There is apparently no real hunger in France, except in a few big cities. A nation's agriculture soon recovers.

On the industrial side, the situation must be pretty bad. France's industrial system had hard going during the long economic and political turmoil before the war. Probably much of her good machinery was taken to Germany. Bombing must have destroyed a good deal, and what is left is probably out of date. We shall have plenty of industrial material for her and a vast capacity to make more. France has $2,000,000,000 in gold here, which can be used in payment.

On the political side, there will be no permanent government for some time. It may be that the four years' ordeal which the French people have shared will unite them more closely than before the war. One of the reasons why they fell so quickly in 1940 was the bitter civil strife which had existed over almost the entire period between the wars. That strife was a class struggle in which the French bourgeoisie, resisting efforts to make it bear more of the costs of the last war, inclined toward Germany and away from the Soviet-influenced French proletariat. Defeat and slavery for all alike have destroyed that sinister bar to unity.

Current political sympathies in France seem to be pro-American, rather than pro-British. It must be remembered that four years of bombing and four years of skillful Nazi propaganda against Britain must have created considerable doubt and resentment. The best guess would seem to be that French opinion will drift strongly toward the old sympathetic tie with Russia. This would fit in well with the purposes of French Communists. The French will remember, too, that Stalin was the first to recognize the French Committee of Liberation. The bulk of France, however, will never be Communist.

The Rumanian King's proclamation of surrender suggests a Russian story of some months' standing. A Rumanian general hoisted a white flag, and a Russian general went over to the Rumanian lines, the story went, to discuss terms of surrender with the Rumanian. After he returned to his own lines, the Russian discovered that his watch had been stolen, during the conversation, by the Rumanian general's orderly. Many years ago, a Russian czar expressed his despair in dealing with Rumanians by saying: "Rumania is not a nation, it is a profession." A modern czar might use the word "racket."

King Michael lives up to the great Rumanian tradition for larcenous humor. He assured his people that "the United Nations have recognized the injustice of the Dictate of Vienna, under which Transylvania was torn from us." But he failed to say that the United Nations had promised to give Transylvania to his country.

Thus, the old skeleton of every victory feast appears on schedule. The "new and free" Rumania will now proceed to fight its old Hungarian enemies, which will be fine, until Germany surrenders. Then the Solomons of the peace conference must sharpen the carving knife and try, once more, to carve the hybrid province, where some millions of Rumanians and Hungarians live in hopeless confusion. The professors will suggest an international rule for this place, but a more practical idea would be the lend-lease of some thousands of moving vans. For, unless the Hungarian goats are separated from the Rumanian sheep, there can be no peace in the Balkans. The problem of that separation has puzzled statesmen for centuries.