Here's a text version of the provided article, aiming to avoid overlapping columns:


PERSPECTIVE

THE GREAT DECEPTION

BY RAYMOND MOLEY


Statesmen, from the President down, who for political advantage promote unsound legislation under false representations strike at the very roots of national morality and character. In the instance I cite, medicare attached to social security, the proposed legislation would visit grave injustice on some at the expense of others; and because it would become permanent policy if passed, future generations would also pay the penalty.

Two weeks ago I pointed out that medicare under social security would be unjust even to those who are the alleged beneficiaries. In part at least, by substituting services for a cash pension it would suggest that those who receive it are unfit to spend their own income. Now let us consider the millions of workers who will pay the cost in social-security taxes.

An employe with a wife and two children and an income of $5,600, who paid an income tax of $528 in 1963 and is paying $430 in 1964, will pay $386 in 1965. Thus, through the tax cut there is an annual saving of $142 in 1965 over 1963.

But under the bill demanded by the President and passed by the Senate, this man would pay $174 in social-security taxes in 1964 and $238 in 1965. Thus, his income-tax saving would be cut by almost a half in 1965. The government giveth and the government taketh away.

The tax cut was hailed by people with large incomes with great delight because, to those of them who pay it, the social-security tax is small change. It is the poor who are soaked this time.

Other injustices to those employes who are "covered" by social security would be:

1. They would be burdened with a considerably increased tax to pay for what is called a "social (or national) need"-i.e., hospitalization and other services for people over 65. If this is a "social" need, it should be paid by all, not by some of the nation's taxpayers.

2. Those employes would also be compelled to pay for free services for everyone over 65 when it is apparent from the voluminous statistics published by the government that only about half of those people need the help.

3. Once this law is enacted, the tax on employes is scheduled to rise and rise over the years for an indeterminate number of beneficiaries at a totally unpredictable cost. So far as employes buying future benefits for themselves is concerned, they would be buying not a pig in a poke but a tyrannosaur.

4. For every employe who pays, the employer also pays. This employer's tax is mostly passed on in the price of his product. Thus, these employes, as well as all other consumers, would be paying the employer's tax in the products they buy.

5. But since for competitive reasons some employers cannot increase prices, there would be great pressure by employers to eliminate jobs and thus there would be an increase in unemployment.

6. This scheme is dressed up to look like insurance. But it is not insurance because it lacks the contractual character which is present in private insurance. A future Congress could reduce, change, or eliminate the benefits.

7. Another feature of the plan also discredits the claim that it is insurance. For even with the progressively heavier taxes contemplated, most of the older employes would not have paid into the so-called trust fund enough to pay for the services they could receive at the age of 65.

Chairman Wilbur Mills has quite properly resisted all efforts to attach medicare to social security. During the Eisenhower Administration he and the late Sen. Robert S. Kerr after great labor framed the plan which was embodied in the Kerr-Mills Act. This eliminates all or most of the inequities in the present proposal. At any time since 1961, the House committee headed by Mills could have reported and passed perfecting amendments to that act which would have met the legitimate needs of the elderly. But the Kennedy-Johnson Administration has insisted upon this new, unfair, and unsound substitute.

And now, since it seems unlikely that the Senate medicare plan will prevail, Mr. Johnson will use it as a campaign issue.

Newsweek, October 5, 1964