Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Sacking an Idealist
by Raymond Moley

SPENCER MILLER JR. is an idealist
with plenty of what it should take
to make fine thinking and a love of
human welfare a reality. For reasons
stated and rumored reasons that
make no sense at all, he has been
sacked by the present Administration.
It found that it had no place for the
extraordinary qualities of this man,
just as it found expendable another
man of high principle and
courage, Clarence Manion,
a few weeks ago. Miller,
appointed in July to the office of
Assistant Secretary for International
Labor Affairs, becomes the central
figure in the third of a series of
administrative blunders.
The first blunder was the Martin
Durkin appointment. The second was
the strange doings attending Durkin's
resignation. There is a 40-year record
to prove the worth of Miller. I knew
him well when he was a graduate
student at Columbia and when, at the
invitation of the great prison reformer,
Thomas Mott Osburne, he became
assistant warden at Sing Sing. That job
was a summons for humanitarian
public service—a summons which
Miller has never ignored in all the years
since. For 21 years he was director of
the Worker's Education Bureau of
America, a national clearinghouse for
adult workers' education. That job
included worldwide traveling and
lecturing on labor problems. Then, in
1942, Governor Edison drafted him as
highway commissioner of New Jersey.
He held that office under Governors
Edison, Edge, and Driscoll until 1950.
During that period he planned and
partially executed a new highway
system. In such a sensitive spot he
stepped upon many political toes. But
what the holdover bureaucracy in
Washington was able to accomplish in
eight months—the sacking of Miller—
hard-bitten Jersey politicians failed to do
in eight years. Then Miller spent three
years as president of the American
International College at Springfield,
Mass. With this record, he was a natural
for the position in the Labor Department,
a fact which President Eisenhower
recognized when he appointed him, and
a fact which drew enthusiastic praise
from senators of both parties when he was
confirmed.

Miller's position as Assistant Secretary
for International Affairs placed him in a
field already cluttered up with many busy
workers. There were the labor attachés in
many of our foreign offices abroad. These
work for the State Department. In their
mutual relations they create a bureaucratic
apparatus with objectives and interests all
their own. Another apparatus messing
around in the labor field is the International
Confederation of Free Trade Unions,
supported by American labor organizations.
There is an organization with offices in
New York and Washington called the Free
Trade Union Committee. The executive
secretary of this is the well-known Jay
Lovestone. It obviously has most
important international connections. The
Central Intelligence Agency gets into the
act, of course, with its large financial
resources. Only a man with an unquenchable,
not to say reckless, urge for public service
would have ventured into this labyrinth of
bureaucratic ambitions, international
intrigue, organized labor jealousies and
rivalries, and subversive threats.

When Miller's story is told there may well
be a revelation of great importance,
especially so far as it will show the vast
influence of Lovestone and other outsiders
on the two departments most directly
concerned, Labor and State.

As is always the case with a forced
resignation, there have been "leaks." It
has been rumored and published that
Miller gave offense by a speech in Tokyo;
also that he injected a note of domestic
politics into a speech in Geneva. I have
read the Tokyo speech and fail to find
anything contrary to Administration
policy. At Geneva he got off a mild joke
about Adlai Stevenson. Later, he wrote a
letter of explanation to the Democratic
leader, who answered with a most
gracious letter.

These are obviously not the real reasons
for such a summary dismissal. And I am
convinced that when the real reasons are
known, they will be far less damaging to
Miller than to those who accomplished his
dismissal.

Newsweek, March 22, 1954