Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

The Independence of Governor Warren
by RAYMOND MOLEY

The sensational victory of Gov.
Earl Warren in both primaries in Cali-
fornia easily puts him in the first ranks
of 1948 Presidential eligibles. That
was apparent the moment the returns
began to appear, and later specu-
lation is not likely to change this
judgment. The circumstances which
surrounded the primary test in Cali-
fornia can teach us a lot about what
faces the two parties in the
next two years.

It was not a victory for
orthodox Republicanism. It
was an exceedingly gener-
ous vote of confidence for
an unusually independent
politician. Orthodox Re-
publicanism enjoys only a
minority position in the
Golden State. Registered
Democrats outnumber Re-
publicans two to one. Roose-
velt's majorities in California in four
elections averaged 600,000. But nei-
ther of these circumstances resulted
from devotion to the Democratic party.
For the Roosevelt vote, like that for
Hiram Johnson in 1934 and 1940 and
for Warren in 1942 and now, was
composed of a great number of as-
sorted groups, beliefs, movements and
preferences that had little to do with
the issues between the national parties.

The political philosophy, as well
as the election machinery of Califor-
nia, is nonpartisan. Cross-filing in the
primaries, nonpartisan local and judi-
cial elections and a liberal use of the
initiative and referendum-all are part
of the old "progressive" revolt against
party machines and bosses. Hiram
Johnson, whose endorsements in Pres-
idential campaigns were wholly per-
sonal and unpredictable, was the
perfect flower of this California tem-
per. Earl Warren has shrewdly
grasped this fact and owes much
of his strength to his refusal to follow
a party line.

As District Attorney of Alameda
County, he devoted his office to the
strict nonpolitical enforcement of law.
Oakland has been a terror to wrong-
doers for a generation. When, in 1938,
Warren was elected Attorney General,
the voters at the same election chose
the left-wing Culbert L. Olson as Gov-
ernor. In 1942, Warren ran in both
primaries and almost won both. His
campaign was personal and not joined
with that of the rest of the state Re-
publican ticket. This was irksome to
the official Republican organizations,
especially in Los Angeles. But it was
Warren or Olson for them. Regular
Republicans have complained, during
the past four years, about Warren's
lack of attention to them. This com-
plaint was especially keen when War-
ren proposed a state health program
which was suspiciously New Dealish.
But, when it was a choice between
the Attorney General, Rob-
ert W. Kenny, the favorite
of all left-wingers, and
Warren, they turned in, last
week, like good soldiers.

To know Warren well
is to know that he is far
from radical. He also very
clearly differentiated his
position from the Willkie
Republicans of his state.
In 1944, he refused to make
way for a Willkie candidacy in the
Presidential primaries and kept the
delegation under his control, although
he sought neither the first nor the
second place on the national ticket.
Warren's refusal to accept the Vice
Presidential nomination in 1944 was
not due to his belief that the ticket
could not win California. It was be-
cause he felt an obligation to stay by
his state for a full term and also be-
cause of the practical fact that the
voters of his state would have voted
against Warren-for-Vice-President to
keep Warren-as-Governor.

Warren's ingrown independence
will weigh heavily in his favor as a
1948 potential. Elmo Roper's surveys
show that most American voters now
consider themselves to be Democrats
and that this trend is especially strong
in the lower age and economic groups.
This would indicate a less stable party
vote, a vote favorable to a candidate
who appears to be free from party
orthodoxy.

Such voters are not basically inde-
pendent, but they are less bound by
party tradition. That is what Cali-
fornia voters are like. And they have
shown that Warren is their choice.
Add to this the fact that, for many
reasons other than size, California is
almost as important to a national ticket
as New York, and you have a strong
Warren appeal to party leaders who
want to win in 1948.

It is too early to get down to cases
on the Presidency. But at the moment,
Earl Warren of California has emerged
as a fresh and new political fact.