Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Presidential Primaries
by Raymond Moley

MILWAUKEE—It has added a special
interest to be in Wisconsin shortly
after President Truman referred to
Presidential primaries as "eyewash,"
particularly since he declared himself
willing to buy himself a treatment of
said "eyewash" in New Hampshire.
For Wisconsin enjoys a partial but
proprietary ownership in this means of
guiding the nomination of Presidents.
Like many other reforms
collectively called progres-
sivism, Presidential prima-
ries originated in the early
years of this century. In the
generation of these reforms
Wisconsin took a foremost
place, and it still takes its
primary very seriously.
The Presidential primary
was born amid high hopes.
It was designed to strike
the shackles off the oppressed citizen
and permit him to take over from the
bosses and political machines. Democracy was to reign in selections as well
as elections. In fact, enthusiasm rose
so high that Woodrow Wilson prophesied that there would probably never
be another national convention after
1912 and that primaries would prevail.
Indeed, the new Presidential primaries enjoyed a gusty initiation in
1912, for they provided Theodore
Roosevelt and President Taft a fine
forum for a bitter political contest.
But after that, Presidential primaries
failed to spread, and now only fifteen
states have them. The conditions and
the legal requirements under which
they are conducted differ widely.
No candidate is likely to enter all or
even a sizable majority of the fifteen
states that offer this means of preference. By tradition, certain states are
left to the single candidacy of a favorite son, such as Warren in California
this year. No candidate, moreover, is
going to enter a primary in which he
does not feel that he can win. And the
expense and effort of participation
bars candidates from spreading their
campaigns to many of those states.
Delegates can be obtained more easily
and economically in convention states.
Hence, the results in primaries are
never a clear indication of the strength
of a candidate. In 1932 Franklin D.
Roosevelt generally avoided primary
fights and in one of the few that he
did enter he was soundly trounced.


Dewey did well in primaries in 1940
but lost the nomination. In 1948 he
did badly in primaries, except in Oregon, but won the prize.
Occasionally, one primary seems to
be decisive in eliminating a candidate, as in the case of Stassen in Oregon in 1948 and Willkie in Wisconsin
in 1944. But in both of those cases
success at the convention would have
been impossible in any case.
The idea of extending primaries to all the states by
Federal law is preposterous,
despite its approval by President Truman in his letter to
New Hampshire. A major
party behind a single nominee can barely afford to
spread its effort to all states
in a Presidential election.
But a single candidate for
the nomination could not possibly raise
the money or find the time for such
an effort; that is, no candidate except
a President in office such as Truman
whose machine is nationwide, composed of Federal jobholders, and paid
for out of the Federal Treasury.
Thus while the Presidential primary
seems to embody a perfect democratic
principle, it falls far short of democracy in practice. The basic purpose of
a primary, however, is not to measure
the general popularity of a candidate
but to permit the members of his own
party to express a choice. And even
this purpose is frustrated in some
states where members of a party vote
in the primary of their opposition to
defeat a stronger candidate and approve a weak one who can easily be
defeated. This practice tends to
destroy party responsibility.

THE primaries can serve to remind
a lethargic electorate that an election year is coming and possibly to
stir them to some political activity
later on. For that reason alone there
should be vigorous efforts to get out
a big vote wherever there are primaries this year. The choice of the
primaries may not be the choice of
the convention, but that does not
mean that they are as unimportant as
the President says they are. Primaries
may not be decisive in selecting the
eventual nominee but they can nevertheless exercise a powerful psychological influence especially this year.

Newsweek, February 18, 1952

Page 1135 of 1197