Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

A Dark Horse of Another Color

by RAYMOND MOLEY

THE announced candidacy of Earl
Warren for the Republican Presidential nomination materially alters the
whole prenomination picture. If anyone, after carefully examining what the
taciturn governor of California said, expects this to be just another favorite-son candidacy, he has an imperfect
notion of Californians in general and of
Warren's supporters in particular. The
effects of Warren's decision will shake the plans of every other candidate.

What has happened is the product of many months of
discussion and deliberation. Perhaps it is Warren's Scandinavian ancestry that has
made him slow in reaching a decision but sure in his expression of purpose. The ceremonies which attended his
announcement, we may be sure, were meticulously planned.

In announcing his candidacy for the support of his home state, he said he would not "seek delegates in other
states." This is not to be interpreted as a prohibition of Warren movements generated within other states. The California state chairman said that if other Western states form Warren delegations "we will not discourage it."

This gives the green light to an idea freely discussed in the West this summer to pool the forces of several Far Western states behind Warren. In Oregon, Washington, Nevada, Utah, Idaho and possibly Montana, political leaders may find it convenient to resolve differences among themselves and in their states by getting behind a Western candidate. Thus, Warren may arrive at Philadelphia with well over a hundred delegates and be third or fourth on the first ballot.

NONE of the other candidates is hostile to him, and he might later be a general rallying point after a number of inconclusive ballots. Those who dismiss Warren on the ground that he is not well known in the East will have an answer when "California casts 53 votes for Earl Warren" on the first ballot in Philadelphia. Nor will any available bushel be sufficient to hide the light of these 53 Californians in the months before then.

The effect of Warren's candidacy will be felt with special force by Stassen and Dewey. There has been no expectation by Taft supporters of delegate strength from the Far West, although Taft made friends there on his September trip. Stassen's supporters have had high hopes for support on the Coast, although he has not planned to enter the California primary against Warren. That would be suicidal. But his friends in California have hoped to have several members of the California delegation who favor Stassen as a second choice.

Now the word from California is that those who will be selected for the delegation will be for Warren straight through, without any consideration of alternative choices. There can be no doubt that Warren's decision will increase the difficulty of Dewey's position. Warren and his followers want it known that there is no thought of the Vice Presidency in their minds. They actually resent talk of a Dewey-Warren ticket.

A further fact is that Dewey in the past has been strong with Republicans in the Coast states. Only recently, a poll by The Oregonian in Multnomah County showed Dewey as the decided favorite among regular Republicans. He also has strong supporters in the State of Washington. Warren as a candidate may threaten that support.

ON the other hand, the widespread talk that Dewey is "slipping" may overreach itself. Suppose, for example, it should be the deliberate strategy of Dewey to retain a noncommittal attitude toward the nomination and let the delegations of the various states scatter among many candidates. And then suppose Taft emerges as the leading candidate, delegate-wise, by early spring. That would end "stop Dewey" movements and put Dewey second or third or fourth on the first ballot. Meanwhile, the greatest Dewey asset is his strength in the polls, where he still gathers many more votes than the others. In that case, it might be Dewey who would come from behind in a deadlock. I do not say that this is Dewey's strategy, but it makes some sense.

Predicting the Republican nomination to an increasing degree becomes a matter for only fearless and foolish forecasters.

Newsweek, December 1, 1947