Here's the text from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible:

**You Can Do Business With Stalin**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The effort of the peacemakers of
1919 to isolate Russia politically and
geographically has been mentioned repeatedly on this page. History has
proved the futility of that attempt.
But the victorious Allies attempted
the even more futile "cordon économique." If any reasoning at all lay behind
that policy, it must have been that
since Communism denied the moral
foundation of capitalism, it therefore
followed that economic relations with
the U.S.S.R. were dangerous and undesirable. Twenty-odd years of economic
relations between Russia and capitalist
countries have amply demonstrated the
complete fallacy of that inference.

When, in 1922, Russia was invaded
by famine, the Western Powers assembled at Genoa were inclined to
follow Lloyd George's and Walther
Rathenau's plan to feed and build up
Russia by loans and European machinery. Because France and Belgium
stubbornly insisted that there be included in the deal payment by the
Soviets of Czarist prewar loans, the
plan fell through. These loans, which
were made in considerable part for the
purpose of building Russia's strategic
railroad system in Poland, were regarded by Russia as a "capitalist military debt" for which the revolutionary
government was not responsible. But
the Soviets were most scrupulous in
recognizing the validity of debts which
they incurred themselves.

Postwar Germany began almost immediately to trade with Russia. Two
forms of business were tried—foreign
"concessions" and credit on Soviet accepted bills of exchange.

The "concession" idea did not work
out. Except for one, called the Lena-
Goldfields, the so-called "capitalist colonies" disappeared. All that remained of
these "capitalist colonies" was the hiring by Russia of German technicians
for special purposes, under what was
called the "Spez" system.

The method of Russo-German trade
by commercial credits succeeded, however. Russia bought commodities, machinery, plant-equipment and other
desirable goods in large amounts. The
bills given for this stuff were renewed
several times, but they were always
paid. Over nearly twenty years, the
record was apparently perfect. No German seller could say, after 1922, that
his invoice was not paid in accordance
with its exact terms.

Still, political distrust lingered
throughout the entire non-Soviet world.
For many years Soviet bills could be
bought at discounts as high as 30 percent. Political judgments consistently
impaired the flow of legitimate business
relations. It may also be added that
our banking laws and practices, which
prevented multiple renewals, hampered
our trade. Incidentally, American money
which was lent to Germany was promptly turned by German thrift into this
Russo-German trade, at a neat profit
to Germany.

British and American trade with
Russia never reached the volume of
Russo-German commercial dealings.
But Americans who dealt with them
have been free in testifying to the
satisfactory nature of such transactions.

Russia's respect for American industrial technique and business methods is
extremely high. Her needs, after the
war, will be enormous. The building of
her industry will require American
goods, built here by American labor,
and the past record indicates that payment for these goods will be scrupulously maintained.

The objection that by such trade we
shall be creating a great competitor
living under an alien system can be
dismissed. Russia will build her own
economic system in any event, and
hesitation on our part because of political differences will merely hand over
this trade to other countries. A tenth
of the human beings of the world are
on the way to higher living standards
in Russia. The railroads, steel mills,
housing and the rest which supported
American industrial life after 1865 will,
in much greater degree, be needed in
Russia. In return, Russia can give us a
variety of raw materials which our war
industry has largely exhausted here.

The Amtorg people in this country have clearly indicated that Russia
has no intention of moving back the
plants and machinery which were taken
from western to eastern European Russia in 1941 and 1942. Instead, the
Russians will leave the old plant in its
new setting and build anew in the west.
Only in the United States can adequate
equipment of that sort be found. We
can do business with Stalin! And that
business will help our political relations
with the Russians, besides.