Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

All You Lose Is Money

by Raymond Moley

IN THE course of a debate on defense
last month, Senate Majority Leader
Lyndon Johnson made the comment
that if we stepped up our military
defenses and they were not needed,
all we would lose would be our
money. But if they were not stepped
up and we should lose a war, we
would lose our country. This is strictly
true. But it fails adequately to cover
the ground. For by loose financial
management we may so weaken our
economy that military conquest be-
comes inevitable. Congress, of which
Senator Johnson is an important part,
might well pay more heed to the fact
that we are already losing a lot of
money by mismanagement in the very
departments he was talking about.
The General Accounting Office, of
which Comptroller General Joseph
Campbell is the head, is primarily an
agency of Congress. Its reports, which
go to that branch of government, have
over the past year told of ways
through which hundreds of millions of
taxpayers' dollars could be saved. It
is a most interesting office, because not
only is it one which pays for itself
many times over, but it fails to spend
on its own operations all that Congress
has appropriated for it. This is a gov-
ernmental miracle.
Since nobody enjoys criticism, es-
pecially bureaucrats, the military serv-
ices are smarting over the probings of
the Comptroller General, and there is
not a little tendency to withhold in-
formation from this powerful agency
of Congress. But enough has been dis-
closed to provide some uncomfortable
news for taxpayers.

LOOSE PRACTICES

For example: The Navy shipyards
have consistently overestimated their
needs for material for ship overhaul
and conversion work. Experience
shows that such unneeded material is
ultimately disposed of at a fraction of
its cost. Navy inventories classed as
in excess of needs have included $850
million in electronic and shipboard
material, plus another $40 million
loosely accounted for.
During the fiscal years 1956 and
1957, the Comptroller General dis-
covered that military paymasters had
dispensed $46 million in unauthorized
payments, mostly in enlistment bo-
nuses, accrued leave, mustering-out
pay, and travel allowances.
A $15.4 million contract for B-52
fire-control systems was found to in-
clude an item of $1.1 million for ex-
cessive components not required in
the contract. But the contractor who
made the successful bid needed these
on another, different contract. Action
by the Comptroller General recov-
ered this money.
One of the services accepted prices
by a prime contractor who did not dis-
close-and the service did not check-
that his subcontracting costs were not
the lowest obtainable. As a result, it
was found that the contract price was
excessive by $5 million.

LINT-PICKING?

A Navy contract for aircraft re-
sulted in the contractor's incurring
costs that were $6 million less than
the amount contemplated when the
contract was set. The Comptroller
General pointed this out to the Navy
and the contractor. The contractor
agreed to a reduction of $1.2 million,
plus a relinquishment of a claim of
$1.4 million which had been contested
by the Navy in a final price redetermi-
nation under a previous contract.
The Navy, when this was brought
to its attention, said that it considered
this a fair deal. The Comptroller Gen-
eral failed to see that trading a claim
demonstrated to be valid on one con-
tract for a mere claim by a contractor
under another contract was either
fair dealing or good business or pri-
mary bookkeeping.
Since the purchasing of military ma-
terials is almost all by negotiated con-
tracts and the amounts total about 30
per cent of the national budget, the
above examples indicate what a tre-
mendous amount of waste may be in-
volved because of loose business
practices. But the demands for more
and more billions never cease. And if
the taxpayer hesitates, he is roughly
reminded that unless he shells out, we
shall all likewise perish at the hands
of the Russians. If he cites such exam-
ples as I have noted above, he is ac-
cused of "lint-picking." And Congress
seems unable to provide anything for
his protection except political argu-
ments for or against the Administra-
tion in power.

Newsweek, April 4, 1960