Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to maintain the column structure:


**The Dewey Manner**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

For two months now, before the
debate starts in this Presidential campaign, the insatiable curiosity of people
will center on finding out what kind of men the candidates really are.
Since Governor Dewey is a new national figure, much of the pitiless light
will fall on him. One trait of his, in particular, will be widely discussed—Dewey's
personal manner with people, especially his habit of asking questions.

Dewey has a way of making the people who talk to him give more than
they take in conversation. He searches them—"frisks" their brains—deftly,
although somewhat aggressively. Sometimes those who meet and talk to him
are a bit upset when they are bluntly asked to explain their not-too-precise
observations. A sharp question may nettle, but it starts the blood flowing
through the brain. It elicits better answers.

To know Dewey well is to value this trait in him beyond almost every other
characteristic. Without it, he simply would not be the man he is. As time goes
on, this trait can become a national asset, for it can help jar the public out of
the habit of easily accepting sloppy generalities. It can help bring order into the
definition of national problems.

Much of Dewey's time, like that of every other man in public life, has been
taken up by conversations with people. Everyone who has many visitors knows
that such appointments in the course of the long working day are perhaps the
most wearing of human activities. There are several ways of easing the strain
of seeing a long succession of people who come visiting with a purpose—usually
the purpose of getting something. Coolidge met this chore by not talking back to
his callers. He listened, said good-by and then tried to remember what he had
heard. Franklin Roosevelt talks, frequently so much that the visitor has little
chance to get his story over. Dewey asks questions and keeps information flowing
toward him.

The Dewey manner comes from three factors—a natural curiosity, his training
in the law and the necessity of learning more in a short life than many do in a
long one. He asks questions because he wants to learn things and, in seeking to
get things through his ears, he follows a pattern almost universal in men in
political life. Politicians are not great readers. They are too busy to sit back with a
book. With a few exceptions, books don't come to the point quickly enough. A man
high in public life can command something better than a book. He can command
the man who wrote the book or, better still, the man who has been so busy learning
or doing something that he has had no time to write a book. The pace of high
office is so fast that there is little time for research. To get answers quickly it is
essential to get the man who knows the subject and to ask him questions.

People who have worked with Dewey do not resent this directness nor his
bluntness. They know that its result is better and more careful work on their part.
When Dewey is preparing a case, writing a speech or making an appointment to
public office, he demands proof. No guessing. No slips of fact. Every sentence and
every act has to stand on its own legs.

Perhaps the best evidence of the honesty of Dewey's manner of working is the
fact that he has held the allegiance of his advisers. In the main, the same people
who were around him five years ago are around him still. It is not the executive
who firmly requires the best efforts of his subordinates who loses their friendship.
Rather, it is the one who is never clear in his own mind and who scatters confusion,
frustration and embarrassment among those who serve him.

When Dewey met the press in Chicago after his nomination, hard-boiled newsmen
admired his forthrightness and his knowledge. The explanation of what they saw
is simple. He had secured his information the same way that they ought to get
theirs—by asking questions. He took their questions in the spirit in which he asks
questions—the spirit of a fair search for facts.

Popular government lives on questions and answers. They are good for everyone
who is not afraid of the truth. A soft question, like a soft answer, turneth away
wrath, but it provides sweetness, rather than light.