Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure:

**The Issue Is Character**

by Raymond Moley

CHICAGO—Now, with election not so far away and after visiting many states from coast to coast, I want to answer a question I have heard over and over. It is this:

"On what basis should I decide between Stevenson and Eisenhower? I am confused. So many people are shouting at me. So many fragments of truth are flying about that I haven't the time to fit them together. So many lies are in the air, so many slogans, wisecracks, and irrelevant stories. I want to push through all this and seize the real issue. What is it?"

This confusion is quite understandable. Political speeches are not designed to inform. They are to confuse, inflame, or inspire. Many issues, so-called, are abstractions. Some are conflicting interpretations of past events. Other arguments are matters of degree and timing.

I would advise Mr. America to brush aside all the arguments, to try for a moment to forget all he has heard. Then I would advise him to ask himself a simple question. Which of these men, Adlai Stevenson or Dwight Eisenhower, is best fitted by character to stand guard for you and yours in the four perilous years ahead?

The real issue before the American people is personal character. Character means more than simple personal honesty. "Character," said Emerson, "is the moral order seen through the medium of an individual nature...It lies in the man; see him and you will know why he succeeds...It is not measured in the record of his deeds...nor above all in what he says...Men of character," continued Emerson, "are the conscience of the society to which they belong."

A man told me this morning of his experience here at a stationers' convention. He said that the word those men from all parts of the country were using most in speaking of Eisenhower was "integrity." One of them searched out a dictionary for words to express what he meant. He found this, which expressed his idea: "The quality of being complete, undivided, or unbroken. Soundness."

In the years immediately ahead, the American wants that quality in the White House. Details of farm policy or labor laws or social security are in the hands of Congress. But upon the President and upon him almost alone are two great responsibilities. The one is to employ and direct the people who serve us, who collect our taxes, control the flow of money, and guard us from danger—internal and external. The other is to direct our foreign policy.

Grave decisions that affect our safety, that mean life or death for our children pass over that big desk in the White House. The man who sits there must make final judgments alone—profoundly alone—with his conscience. He should be a very strong man, accustomed to the weight of great affairs.

Last week and the week before I gave my reasons why Stevenson does not have these vital qualities. He is a dilettante, a drifter, a player with words, a man in the Acheson tradition, and a believer in the superstate.

I believe that this element of character is what many, many Americans are groping for. I was told in Nebraska that farmers are bored by the candidates talking to them about farming. I was told here that workers in factories don't want to hear the labor problem played with all the variations. Stevenson wastes his time with odd remarks about who stole the other's farm plank. Also, with his quips, verbal gambols, flashes of merriment, and that lower order of humor-puns.

PEOPLE want to hear about Korea and integrity in government and what is to be done about such things. But most of all, they want to push through the speeches and the words and feel and test the substance of the men who speak. I cannot believe that the people who come to see Eisenhower are concerned about what he says. Somehow, he makes them feel safer in this dangerous hour. And now with fresh blood on the first snows on the hills of Korea and a pall of despair fallen over the truce tent at Panmunjom, a sense of danger grows. In such a moment, people seek integrity and character. They find it in Eisenhower.

Newsweek, October 20, 1952