Individualism R'ares Up

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CHICAGO—Collective bargaining
is giving way to individual bargaining.
But before the apostles of individual-
ism as a philosophy take cheer from
this, it's important to note that the
initial evidence of the return of the in-
dividual is not all to the good.
One of the symptoms of the decay in
the energy of collective action is the
yearning of union officers for that main-
tenance of membership which will as-
sure them a dues income even if wages
are set from Washington. Another is
the fact that so many workmen have
been finding that they can make better
wage deals with their employers them-
selves than they can through union
leaders.
The self-assertion of the individual
is breaking out in many another place.
Men stay home from work for personal
and unnecessary reasons and run up the
figures on absenteeism. Or they get into
rows with the foreman and become a
situation for the personnel department
to handle. Or, as in one case, they get
thrown into jail for demanding that
trolley cars be moved out of their way
and sassing policemen. Or they bite
dentists, as The New Yorker was re-
cently moved to remark, accounting for
it as a sign of frustration—the inabil-
ity of the average man to get at the
enemy overseas. Or can this be the re-
vival of individualism?
Now and then industrial irritability
culminates in strikes, or, "strikes," to
use the quotation marks employed in
the statistics in Victory, the publication
of the OWI over which a storm broke in
Congress last week (see page 25).
Whether they are strikes or "strikes,"
the men quit, conciliators go to work on
grievances which the men sometimes
think up after they are on the street
and, after about 24 hours, the men re-
turn. Since strikes are now few and
are always short, industrial manage-
ment is no longer worried about them.
But managers in industry now complain
that they are being continually pes-
tered by men who are dissatisfied with
their piece rates or the conditions of
their individual jobs.
At a time when a government office
must pass on all general wage increases,
whether voluntary or wrung from the
employer by force, it is still possible to
promote men from one position to an-
other or give merit increases within es-
tablished ranges. Now that enough em-
ployes know it to make them eager to
do their own bargaining, they almost
bother the life out of them, foremen
and superintendents in industry say.
Sometimes a whole series of indivi-
dual dissatisfactions is summed up by
the inclusive word "inefficiency." Tes-
timony is available from several con-
cerns that their costs have risen with
disturbing rapidity in the last few
months without the addition of many
new employes. Sometimes—often, in
fact—individual dissatisfactions result
in absenteeism.
Such phenomena do not yield to treat-
ment by posters, by speeches or by gen-
tle union pressure, it appears. In a few
instances, unions have tried to take
in hand a high rate of absences. But
the record of applying the disciplines of
union fines and expulsions, where these
are possible under closed-shop contracts,
is all but wholly blank. An article in
the current number of the Monthly
Labor Review says that absences are a
problem for the "cooperative effort of
management and workers in each war
plant." Which means exactly nothing.
A single instance is mentioned in which
a union "suspended the privileges" of
members who were fired by the com-
pany. It did not demand their restora-
tion to the payroll. Maybe that's some-
thing.

Governmental agencies stand aloof
from the new outbreak of individual-
ism, whether it takes the form of small
disputes or absenteeism. It is clear that
the government is momentarily baffled
by a situation that it can't deal with
along the old collective lines.
But soon it may be permissible to
say that our sturdy industrial popula-
tion includes a few men who are ob-
stinate, cantankerous and lazy. The fact
that one can find the same types in
other classes which are politically un-
popular is beside the point, although
the individual sins of groups sufficiently
small have been known to be the ob-
ject of timely comment in Washington.
If bad actors exist in the industrial pop-
ulation, and if exhortation is not enough
to turn them to more godly ways, then
discipline will somehow have to be re-
stored.
The War Labor Board or the De-
partment of Labor could help in re-
storing it. Certainly the time has passed
when the collective treatment of the
grievances of workers can be deemed
enough.