Here's the text extracted from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**The Republican Picture**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

This article is written at the conclusion of a trip to the Pacific Coast which included stopovers in Chicago, Portland, Sacramento, San Francisco, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles. The conclusions I draw are based upon dozens of conversations with newspaper people, politicians—official and unofficial—businessmen and others in those cities. Those with whom I talked include people who prefer Willkie, Dewey, MacArthur, Bricker or Warren. One comment I heard more than any other in the course of this trip: “Dewey is the key to the Republican nomination.” These words came from people high in the Willkie circle and high in the Bricker circle, as well as from those who have been for Dewey all along.

This checks with what I had heard in the East the month preceding. The only important difference I could find in the sentiment of politically conscious people on the East and West Coast is that MacArthur is stronger in the West. But a fair over-all appraisal of the sentiment of those with whom I talked is that they think Dewey not only has the best chance to get the nomination but would be the best bet to beat Mr. Roosevelt.

This is not a poll of popular sentiment. One cannot talk, these days, to those eternal sources of popular sentiment, taxi drivers, because all the taxis are full of strangers. And porters won’t speak to you at all, as you toil along with your own luggage. Vox populi is too busy to talk politics.

Dewey opinion has grown by leaps and bounds since the election of Dewey’s candidate for Lieutenant Governor in November. It is based upon the solid fact that has been most potent in the nomination of most successful candidates since the Civil War, namely, the proven capacity to get votes in an election. Those votes cast for Dewey in 1942 and for his man in 1943 speak louder than any words. Since the Civil War, six candidates for the presidency were nominated chiefly because they had shown their capacity to carry New York. Dewey now has that qualification, and politically minded people are great believers in precedents. That makes him very strong.

It does not mean, however, that he will be nominated. His popularity may wane. Someone else—Willkie, Bricker, MacArthur or an unknown—may win the unpredictable public favor needed to get the nomination or may, by careful organization, corral the delegates necessary to win. This article does not predict; it merely reports.

Seven months ago on this page, I appraised the chances of Mr. Willkie to carry the direct primary states, which include most of the big ones. I concluded: “At this writing, Willkie stands to gather only about 125 delegates from a grueling campaign in thirteen states. The other strength he needs must come through [state] organizations.” That is about how it looks now, and men high in Mr. Willkie’s group admit it.

Willkie’s greatest handicap will be his difficulty in getting delegates in states like New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois and California. There are those who say he should enter every primary and contest every state, thus proving, by the process required of a champion, his right to the prize. But he is not likely to do that. The direct primary states present his greatest handicap, and he may be compelled to by-pass most of them and to work for small-state and southern-state delegations where the will of a few leaders predominates. That is a hard row to hoe, but he may do it.

Mr. Willkie is willing, nay eager, to admit that organization leaders are not strong for him, but he claims that the people are for him. But by a grim irony, he must either lose or by-pass most of the states where direct presidential primaries are held and appeal to politicians in states which do not let people vote their preferences.

The belief is general that Mr. Willkie must get the nomination on the first ballot or lose it. “There can be no ‘blitz’ this time,” one of his good friends says.

Those who favor Bricker or MacArthur regard Dewey’s attitude as the determining factor, although an early termination of the European war and a bright chance for Republican success may bring Bricker to the front.

The Warren situation was reviewed here two weeks ago. To that should be added a remark which I heard many times in California: “Dewey and Warren! Boy, what a ticket!”