Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**Suggestions for a Labor Program**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The hearings before the Senate Committee on Labor have reinforced the view, held by most informed people, that the labor problem in this country is largely a Wagner Act problem. The hearings are also bringing out the fact that there should be less government, rather than more government in industrial relations.

In the main, the problems surrounding labor relations fall into four classes: First, there are those aspects of the Wagner Act and of the National Labor Relations Board policies which give labor unfair advantages in organizing and in bargaining. Second, there are those aspects of the law, of its administration and of union practices generally which deny the rights of individual workers. Third, there are those circumstances now prevalent which endanger the public interest. Finally, there are practices and conditions, undesirable per se, which will take care of themselves as soon as management acquires equality of bargaining power.

In order to deal with the first of these classes, there should be amendments to the Wagner Act which will give management the same status as the unions before the NLRB. Full freedom of speech should be allowed to management, to minorities of workers and to individual workers. Management should not be shackled through the unionization of supervisory employees. Provisions, similar to those in the Wisconsin Act, defining unfair labor practices should be embodied in the Wagner Act. And management should be allowed to appeal to the board to abate such practices.

Under the second class, workers should be allowed full freedom to choose their bargaining representatives. An amendment which probably has no chance of adoption, but which would provide real democracy in bargaining, would be a provision to elect bargaining representatives by proportional representation. This would enable each union or group to elect as large a part of the bargaining group as its numbers would justify. It would also permit nonunion members to have a fair proportion of representatives. The suggestion of Senator Taft that if we are to have closed shops we are going to have to insure more democracy in unions" makes a lot of sense. The NLRB itself should be made a real tribunal. Fact-gathering should go to the Labor Department; prosecution to the Justice Department; and appeal to the Federal courts should be allowed. The board is now police, prosecutor, judge, jury and appeals court.

The third class of labor problems involves the protection of the general public against the consequences of labor strife. Compulsory arbitration is abhorred by labor, dreaded by management and regretted by every believer in Jeffersonian democracy. But strikes which threaten the vitals of life simply cannot be permitted. A careful definition of industries where stoppage affects the public welfare should be drawn, and a new judicial tribunal should be created to adjudicate all disputes in such industries. The judgments of such a court should be supported by all the power of the government.

It may well be that many unfair practices and conditions will be corrected through the process of free collective bargaining, if management is given an even break in bargaining. For example, the problems of the closed shop, the checkoff and maintenance of membership can be worked out by free bargaining, as soon as bargaining is actually free. An interesting suggestion has been made that a vote be required on a closed shop at regular intervals; that such a vote be under government auspices; and that its results be made public.

The suggestions made by Secretary Schwellenbach to the Taft committee presumably represent the policy of the Truman Administration. That being true, we can abandon hope that there will be any real cooperation between the President and Congress in a labor program. For the Schwellenbach proposals are so weak as to suggest that this Administration is not yet aware that there is a labor problem. But the public is aware of it and is expecting this Congress to provide effective remedies. If such remedies are not to be overdrastic, labor, as well as the Administration, must recognize that the country never wants to go through another year like 1946.