Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Due to the image quality and potential OCR errors, some minor inaccuracies may remain.


**The Boom That Failed**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The question I meet in New
York, after a week in Detroit, Chicago
and Kansas City, is: "What do they
think of all this out there?" What
about strikes, shortages, and slipping
price control?

The answer must be based on such
comment as I heard from business and
newspaper men, political leaders and
others. It goes into economics and
politics; economics more
than politics, for obvious
reasons.

The Chrysler and Ford
settlements at an 18½- and
18-cent increase arose
from a profound conviction,
which I heard everywhere,
that the Truman Adminis-
tration has decided to break
the price line or, rather, to
retreat from an already
broken line and improvise
new defenses somewhere, sometime.
Chrysler and Ford, like General
Motors, were put on notice five months
ago by the CIO. At Chrysler, neither
the union nor the company talked
publicly. Nor was any interference
from government wanted or invited.
Ford negotiated and did a little talking.
GM negotiated and carried its
case to the public. The results have
been in inverse ratio to talk. The
Chrysler settlement covered everything.
Ford settled wages first and continued
negotiations on other matters.
Packard, meanwhile, is fighting for
a definite principle in the question of
unionizing foremen.

It is most significant that the
Chrysler and Ford wage problems
were settled because of a general belief
that the Administration is defeated in
its earlier effort to hold the price line.
That is the conviction everywhere in
the Midwest. Nobody believes that
government can or will hold the line.
Nobody thinks that the government
ever thought that wage increases could
be taken out of profits. Farm land, even
in what Mr. Wallace and other New
Dealers called the "lost" dust bowl, is
selling for big prices. In the Kansas
City region, surplus government plants
are being taken on leases for prices
which seem incredibly high.

Two weeks ago, I suggested on
this page that governments are bad
keepers of promises. The public knows
this, and because of this belief, a deep
and dangerous cynicism prevails. In
the wage-price field, we have been
fed on formulas ever since war became
imminent years ago. All those
formulas are gone, abandoned.

About four years ago (April 28,
1942), Mr. Leon Henderson, speaking
as the Price Chief in Washington,
said: "General price control... means
that savings and earnings of our citizens,
loaned to their government to
finance the war effort, will be returned
in currency that has dollar
for dollar purchasing power
with that now saved."

Judge Vinson, Economic
Stabilizer, said, on April 19,
1944, that if labor were successful
in its effort to smash
the "Little Steel Formula,"
everyone would be a loser
in the inflationary period
which, he said, would be
sure to follow.

On Oct. 30, 1945, President
Truman said: ". . . a juggling of
wages and prices would not settle
anything or satisfy anyone."

On April 7, 1944, Vinson, Bowles,
Jones and Davis reported: "Pocket-
books and checking accounts are bulging
with money which could make it
difficult to hold prices down, if we
went on a nationwide buying spree."

The interesting point is that current
inflation is caused not by a surplus of
buying power, but by a dreadful
scarcity of production. The government,
as before Pearl Harbor, was
looking at the wrong place on the map.

The truly alarming fact is that
we are witnessing the disintegration of
that great reserve of buying power,
the so-called "pent-up" demand,
which, according to all official and
private optimists, would carry us on
golden wings through the first postwar
years. It is being dissipated without
a resultant stimulation of production.
It isn't providing good and permanent
jobs. It isn't going into the
building of a stable economic system.

Business leaders in Detroit, Chicago
and Kansas City are quite aware of
this. They are not too sure that the
demand for such products as new
automobiles will be what was anticipated
a year ago. They are going to
play reasonably safe. Government cannot
compel the making of goods which
must be sold at a loss. This feeling of
discouragement will probably pass and,
in a few months or a year, a different
picture will be seen. But precious
weeks and months are slipping away.