Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


The Great Lakes and the Future
by RAYMOND MOLEY

CLEVELAND—The wind off the lake
is bitter here these days, and the big ore
boats coming in are beginning to show
signs of even fiercer cold up where they
were loaded. Lake Superior, the crews
say, is passing into hibernation. Naviga-
tion on the lakes is not for long now, but
the crews are pulling their coats tighter
and a grim look is on their faces.
Before the Soo closes, they have a
record to polish off—a record that tops
records on the lakes, a mark for all time
to shoot at. More than 90,000,000 tons
of ore will come down the lakes before
these crews can quit for the winter.
They will probably make it about
3,000,000 over the quota of 90,000,000
set last spring. In 1941 the figure was
80,748,000. In 1940, 66,000,000. In 1939,
45,000,000. In 1938, before war broke
over Europe, the tonnage was 19,000,-
000. The average of fairly good years
before that was half the 1942 record.
Managers and owners of mines and
ships in this city are looking ahead.
How many 1942’s can the great iron
ring around Superior stand? Nature is
bountiful but not illimitable. There is
no reason for alarm, but there is good
reason for planning. If 100,000,000 tons
are taken out next year and war de-
mands continue, the lush open-pit sup-
ply, supplemented as it has always been
by underground production, will run
through 1949. Then the supply of under-
ground ore and concentrates will have to
carry the burden, and weeds will gather
in the big canyons. When the Mesabi
open-pit supply goes, we shall have used
up one of the foremost quick elements
of national defense that we possess. It
is a natural stockpile. It is winning
ascendancy for the United Nations.
People have been scooping high-grade
ore from the Mesabi for 50 years now.
Last week Cleveland celebrated the half
century anniversary of the first ship-
ment to Oglebay Norton & Co. In the
whole region from Hibbing, a perennial
boom town in Minnesota, to the farthest
reaches of the Pittsburgh district, bil-
lions of dollars in mines, railways, ships,
docks and mills are involved. The way
to conserve this vital property is to add
new millions in plants for processing
lower-grade ore, which a kind Provi-
dence has provided in almost incredible
quantities.
The Cleveland companies are doing
a thorough job of looking into the
future. Their engineers, metallurgists
and economists have been at work for
a long time prospecting and gathering
ore figures from other parts of the na-
tion, from South America and the world
at large. They have been studying
comparable industries like copper and
calculating the probable extent to which
lighter metals will supplement steel in
the years ahead.
There are important deposits in the
Canadian part of the Lake Superior
region for whose development a sympa-
thetic government there is helping to
clear the way. They will largely feed
south into the present route, for in-
dustrially the lake section of Canada
is, and will continue to be in the future,
closely integrated with us. Both sides
of the lower lakes will welcome Canadi-
an ore development.
It is clear that our own Federal
government has been something less
than foresighted in concerning itself
with iron ore. The Senate and the
House have committees on mining, but
only one member of each is a repre-
sentative from Minnesota, Wisconsin
or Michigan, the states in which so
much of our great ore resources are
found. The numerous planning boards
in Washington have done little to study
the present sources of our ore supply,
to look to their future development, or
to consider what lies ahead for the
whole complex industrial machine which
has sprung up in the area around these
supplies. Here, as in so many other
things, private enterprise has been in
the lead.
The Cleveland area is not worried
about the future. For there is a re-
source in this region that does not
deteriorate with the years—the ex-
perience, capacity and energy of the
people who know and fabricate metals.
Wholly aside from the manufacture of
steel and related products, there are
big Cleveland interests in aluminum
and magnesium, for instance. The newer
light-metal industries that will supple-
ment, not supplant, steel will be very
important in this region. Akron is com-
ing along with synthetic rubber. The
industries that depend upon metal and
rubber products will still be well repre-
sented in nearby places.