Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap.  Note that perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and column formatting. Some minor inconsistencies might remain.


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Stevenson, Kefauver, Lausche
by Raymond Moley

WITH the election of 1954 tucked
away in history, there begins a
brisk race for the Democratic Presidential nomination. There will be no
announcements for a while, because
there is a political conviction that it is
bad to start an open hunt for votes too
soon. The first in the race draws opposition from all sides, and if he starts
early enough, the public tires of his
merchandise. But this inhibition applies only to the
candidates themselves. The
great host of politicians and
others want to pick and support a winner and they want
to do so soon. They will
be considering a number
of notable names,
among which will be Adlai
Stevenson, Estes Kefauver,
and Frank Lausche.

While I do not want to offer myself
on the comfortless altar of prophecy,
I feel that Stevenson, despite certain
advantages, will not get the 1956
nomination. Five people have been
the major candidate of a party
after suffering defeat. These were
Jefferson, John Quincy Adams, Clay,
Bryan, and Dewey. Van Buren and
Cleveland popped up again, and the
latter made it, but these were ex-
Presidents. In the days of Adams and
Jefferson, party lines were cloudy.
Clay was a towering figure for nearly
four decades. Bryan was a man with
a powerful mission and elicited from
his followers fanatical devotion.
Dewey was governor of a great state
with nearly a hundred delegates to
begin with.

Adlai has none of those advantages.
He may elicit a thin sort of admiration
but no zeal from devoted followers.
His stylized manner of speech and his
quips and quiddities will grow stale
long before 1956. Certainly he will
never be drafted. He might get the
nomination, but he will have to fight
hard for it.

While I entertain no admiration for
Kefauver, I have believed for two
years that he would be hard to beat
in 1956. He is of sterner stuff than
Stevenson. He has a species of conviction which he peddles with tireless
energy. He is as radical as he thinks
the situation demands, and that is
considerably to the left of Stevenson.
He ran very well indeed in Presidential primaries in 1952. On the first roll
call in the convention he had 340
votes, while Stevenson and Russell
trailed him. In the 83rd Congress he
has pushed himself prominently into
every Senate debate in which he felt
he might gain attention. In this campaign he was an active campaigner
in more than a dozen states.

It may well be, since the Tennessee
senator has the foregoing
qualifications, that the left-
wing leaders in the Democratic Party and the labor
bosses will feel that the
time has come for a real
rabble rouser and that he is
their man. His indefatigable
efforts to reach the greatest
number of people are in the
main corny but effective.

Frank Lausche, despite
his amazing capacity to get votes in
Ohio, suffers handicaps. Often I have
heard conservative people wish fervently that Frank were a Republican.
For he would be exactly the sort
of Republican that those people will
want after these four years.

He would be violently opposed by
the radical Democratic leaders and
by the labor bosses. He is a Roman
Catholic, and there is a belief among
politicians that a candidate of that
faith cannot win. He is not well known
over the country, and most people
still mispronounce his name.

BUT circumstances might present
themselves which would bring
Lausche the nomination. He is personally more colorful and attractive than
the others I have mentioned. He is no
spinner of rhetoric like Stevenson, nor
a special pleader like Kefauver. He
gets his effects by his sense of timing
and his art of dramatizing his indubitably handsome self. Since he is a
strong believer in states' rights and
responsibilities and is not indebted to
city machines or labor, he might well
draw the support of Southern leaders
who must realize that there is no
chance to nominate one of their own.
His nomination would bring back to
the party thousands of conservative
Democrats. And he would have the
support of businessmen nationally just
as he has commanded it in Ohio.
These are the men to watch as the
long months pass before 1956.

Newsweek, November 8, 1954