Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap.  I've made my best effort, but some minor inaccuracies might remain due to the image quality and column layout.


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Our Partyless Middle Interests

by RAYMOND MOLEY

SOME striking parallels exist between
Britain's Conservative Party and
our own Republicans. Both parties are
trying to live down cloudy pasts. That
of the Conservative Party is replete
with the last struggles of royal privi-
lege, of century-old imperial exploita-
tion, of capitalism that neglected its
social obligations, of industry that self-
ishly exacted only profits and refused
to learn the lesson of effi-
ciency, of blundering for-
eign policy, and of dim
political philosophy. It lost
the great middle class to the
Liberals a century ago and,
despite its efforts in the re-
cent election, 2,500,000 vot-
ers in that class chose to toss
away their votes rather than
join a party which evoked
old, unpleasant memories.

The mistakes and excesses of our
Republicans differ only in time, in de-
tail, and in degree. The Republican
Party's ascendancy came somewhat
later than that of the Conservatives.
It is known to millions only as a party
that shamelessly linked irresponsible
business interests with shady politics.
It neglected too long the social respon-
sibilities that great resources might
have magnificently fulfilled. Its princi-
pal backers in days past were blind to
the legitimate demands of labor. They
resisted a small and wholesome inter-
vention of government when such reg-
ulation might have forestalled great
and repressive statism later. For these
sins of commission and omission the
Republican Party pays a bitter price.

THE Republican Party has permitted
a vast and decisive segment of the
population to drift along with no real
party loyalty and affiliation. That seg-
ment roughly corresponds with what
the British call the middle class. I be-
lieve that a better American designa-
tion is "the middle interests." "Class"
is not an accurate expression in this
country. Moreover, the group to which
I refer is not a socially distinct number
of people. It is an economic stratum
linked by common interests-essen-
tially capitalistic and utterly commit-
ted to a free economic system.

In any typical small American city
there are retailers of various sorts,
builders, bankers, doctors, contractors,
manufacturers and processors, auto-
mobile and farm-equipment agents,
insurance agents, plumbers, barbers,
commercial and civic organization offi-
cials, school principals and teachers,
ministers and priests, advertising and
real-estate people, and many others of
individual pursuits. Linking these peo-
ple together and binding them to the
economy as a whole is their depend-
ence on profits, insurance policies, gov-
ernmental and private pen-
sions and benefits, savings of
all sorts and real estate.
Above all else, their eco-
nomic existence depends on
free competition in eco-
nomic affairs.

This is not to suggest that
millions of these people are
not members of political par-
ties. They are, and they are
active in local affairs. But
they are to altogether too great a de-
gree detached from national party
effort. And the maintenance of eco-
nomic freedom and resistance to social-
ism is a national problem.

Their stake in national policies is
great and critical. Heavy taxation and
creeping socialism fall more and more
upon them. The high brackets are pay-
ing all that can be extracted from them.
The very low brackets are protected by
great political power and cohesion. In-
creased taxation and inflation will fall
squarely on the middle interests. It
was no mere philosophical vagary that
led Marx to predict the abolition of
the middle classes. Ardent left-wing
leaders are already predicting the same
thing here and now. To say that this
middle group must become more and
more politically conscious is an under-
statement. It must be prepared to fight
in the political arena with all the re-
sources at its disposal.

THIS means two things. The Repub-
lican Party in the North and the
conservative elements in the Demo-
cratic Party in the South must shape
their appeal to the middle interests.
And these people must organize on a
local and Congressional district level
in Congressional elections. They can,
if they will, very considerably change
the color of the next Congress and be-
yond that, the national Administration
in 1952. If our economic system is to
be stabilized and preserved, the mid-
dle interests must do it.

Newsweek, March 27, 1950