Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

**Movie Troubles—Past and Present**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

A NOTABLE figure in the motion-pic-
ture industry—a pioneer who is
still one of the keenest observers of
trends in the business—has written a
letter which indicates that troubles far
more serious than Communism face an
industry which has never been dis-
tinguished in meeting emergencies.

The motion-picture industry, he
points out, is faced with two threats:
high costs in present produc-
tion, distribution and exhibi-
tion of pictures and future
competition from television
in the homes.

The writer of this letter
lived through the troubles of
motion pictures in the 1920s.
He speaks of the parallel
with present conditions:
“Just as improvements which
were made in the selenium,
or photoelectric cell, and in methods of
recording and reproducing sound which
came out of the first world war made
‘sound pictures’ feasible; so now will
the radar and other electronic develop-
ments of the second world war be in-
corporated in commercial television
practice so as to permit of receiving sets
showing images of motion-picture quali-
ty being brought into most American
homes…”

The problem of high costs and the
danger of a smaller box office should
force, the letter goes on to say, “a com-
plete revision of distribution practices
which would, of course, profoundly in-
fluence both production and exhibition
methods.”

Will the leaders of the industry have
the vision to meet this situation?
When the ten employees of the in-
dustry refused to answer the simple
question by Representative Thomas,
the industry was present in the persons
of Eric Johnston and Paul V. McNutt.
The industry took occasion to criticize
the Thomas committee and, thus, in
the public mind put itself in line with
the Silent Ten who have now been
called for contempt. Later, no doubt
realizing the ineptitude of these tactics,
Johnston met with all the brass of the
industry in a two-day huddle. Out of
this meeting came a solemn declaration
of deep regret and firm resolution to be
more careful in the future.

There have been many such affirma-
tions. In 1921, as Terry Ramsaye, the
great movie historian, put it: “Woe was
deep in the kingdom of the screen and
the signs of the sky gave no promise.”
A flood of smutty pictures had roused
the nation, and censorship was sweep-
ing the land. So a frightened industry
called in the master of the Republican
success of 1920, Will Hays. For twelve
years there were good resolutions, al-
ways followed by tragic falls from grace.
The pattern was always
the same. First, serious eco-
nomic pains; then bad pic-
tures for easy box-office in-
take; then a high fever of
public disfavor; then a threat
of government censure or
censorship; then a rush by
the leaders of the industry to
get the help of some well-
known public figure, usually
political; then much wran-
gling; and, at last, pious resolutions.

With some variations, this formula ap-
peared in 1921, 1927, 1930, 1933, 1934,
1941 and now in 1947. Hays, Willkie,
Johnston, McNutt, Nelson and, more
recently, James F. Byrnes have been
called in. The movie industry, no doubt
because of its star system, has a pa-
thetic faith in salvation by big names.
But it never seems to be able to antici-
pate a crisis until it has faint power of
resistance and clumsy dignity in retreat.
And, it may be noted, the blow which
drives the industry to reform itself is
always administered by some ponderous
but irresistible force. Once, it was state
legislatures; once it was the Roman
Catholic Church; once it was the Brit-
ish Government; now it is the House
of Representatives.

The industry could have avoided the
Communist mess. Nearly all that the
Thomas committee revealed was well
known. Efficient editing would have
kept propaganda out of pictures; skillful
administration would have rid the indus-
try of Communists and fellow travelers.

Now it remains to be seen whether
the economic threats mentioned at
the beginning of this piece will be met
by business statesmanship or by an-
other retreat to shoddy and smutty pic-
tures. If so, we shall have, once more,
an aroused public, government threats
and more lamentations.

In the great story of the filming of
stories, there is only one plot. It seems
to be telling itself once more.

Newsweek, December 8, 1947