Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

**Death for the Saboteurs!**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

If anything is ever to bring home
to Americans the deadly intensity of
the war, the bold enterprise of the
eight German saboteurs who landed
from submarines on our East Coast
(see page 30) should do the trick.
More than any possible token air raids
it has dramatized the dangers we face.
Sabotage goes to the heart of our war
effort. It does not scatter bombs: it
plants them with devilish precision in
our very vitals. We ought to meet this
threat with the most swift and the
most ruthless punishment which the
law permits. And, believe me, an examination of the laws reveals that they are
completely adequate to meet this case.
That this week's magnificent catch
has not uncovered all the sources of
danger can be taken for granted. In-
numerable microbes of death with
similar training, equipment and intentions are unquestionably at large. We
have a long coastline, limited patrols
and coastal waters infested with scores
of enemy craft. We may expect nocturnal invasions again. We would be
fools if we refused to face the fact that
invaders will find here among us people who will give them aid and comfort. In the name of common sense let
us deal with this group on that basis.
Don't let us make the mistake of surrounding this sort of attack with any
of the romantic glamor with which our
history books have invested the operations of spies. These fiends are not
Nathan Hales or Major Andrés. Espionage, always a customary aspect of
war, was traditionally limited to the
purpose of getting information. Relatively unarmed, spies were, in the main,
people of superior mentality. Military
practice prescribed the death penalty
for them in order to discourage the
enemy from using valuable brains in
such a hazardous undertaking.
This point needs underlining now.
Germany thinks that we are soft. Nazis,
in Germany and here, say that our
courts are slow and that sentimentality
is rampant among us. They can claim,
and, I believe authentically, that when
we warred against them before we executed only one spy. These beliefs will
encourage a continuous stream of attacks upon us. Only swift action will
destroy them.
The eight invaders were more than spies in the traditional sense. They were
even more than run-of-the-mill invaders whose status as prisoners of war,
when captured, would protect them
from the death penalty by international agreement. They forfeited that
protection by divesting themselves of
their uniforms. Thus they put themselves beyond the immunities of combatants. Military practice prescribes
death for such irregulars as they. As
for the two American citizens among
them, they were traitors, also subject
to capital punishment.

The Attorney General may prefer
the civil courts to the military in dealing with these men. If so, he has ample
legal power at his disposal. Yet that
would be regrettable, if only for the
reason that Germany and her sympathizers here will understand the firing
squad much better than they will understand civil court procedures, long
sentences or hangings. But in any event,
we must act with power and decision.
The punishment of these people must
not be delayed. Their execution must
take place before the public forgets the
danger of which they are the signal.
This group of saboteurs has already
cost us dearly. The efforts of officers to
capture them, the use of precious man-hours in industry for added protection
and the need for added watchfulness on
our shores means the diversion of energies that will lengthen the war. American blood will flow for that—blood for
which these men should pay.
When justice is slow, people are almost irresistibly tempted to take the
law into their own hands. That is always bad. It produces, first, vigilante
outfits, and, then, a reign of terror. Innocent people are persecuted. Real offenders escape. That happened in many
places during World War I. This time,
fortunately, it has not happened. The
difference is that our official crime detectors are more competent. The FBI,
in particular, is indescribably more efficient than anything we had in 1917-19.
Public opinion wants to back up the
FBI. It is to be hoped that whoever
tries the eight saboteurs will be as effective as those who apprehended them.
We've got to teach our enemies that
death is our swift answer to those who
come here with murder in their hearts.