Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column structure:


**Our Far Eastern Frontier**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

FOUR conclusions seem to be in order concerning our new policy in the Far East. The first relates to the correctness of the President's decision. The second relates to the general wisdom of the Administration's policies over there during the past few years; the third, to what should be our future policy, notably in our relations with Japan; and the fourth, to the nature of what has been called bipartisanship in foreign affairs.

The legal aspects of the President's action will not be seriously contested. In general, the President's course was in line with the procedure contemplated in such cases when the UN Security Council was created. It was always recognized that, because the American member of that Council had to act quickly in an emergency, he could in effect pledge the use of American force without authority of Congress or even of the President. Therefore, since the Security Council did act, the President was free to commit American force without the formal consent of Congress.

Aside from these legal aspects, the wisdom of the President's action cannot be questioned. The decision on Formosa and Indo-China should have been made long ago. The decision to use force in Korea was wise, whether it succeeds as a military effort or not. Even if South Korea cannot be held, we have revealed to the world our intention to oppose the absorption of the Far East by Communism. The concept of prestige has a singular and critical meaning among Asiatics. We have done something to retain what we won by defeating Japan.

OUR record is very bad, however, as we look back over the years to Yalta. The concessions to Russia were the seeds of disaster. The early determination to grant independence to a united Korea was set aside in favor of the old-fashioned imperialistic spheres of influence concept. The division at the 38th parallel was one of those casual off-the-cuff guesses that should never be made in serious diplomacy. We withdrew our forces with scant regard for the potential of North Korea. And we were surely lacking in adequate information when we were surprised on Sunday morning to find great forces moving south.

The incredible folly of the Acheson policy with respect to Formosa was permitted by the President to hold ascendency, despite the repeated urgings of Republican senators and congressmen and apparently despite the judgment of our greatest military genius, MacArthur.

And now that we have drawn the line along the coast of Asia, Japan must be rehabilitated and joined in our plans for security in the Pacific in a strong and friendly alliance. It will be costly to do so, because, again due to the egregious folly of our policy, we have destroyed industries essential to our own defense and have opened the way to radical movements in Japan itself. But that nation, with our Navy in control of the sea, could sustain attack, as England has shown for a thousand years with half of Japan's population.

FINALLY, our so-called bipartisan foreign policy has reduced itself to a mockery. Vandenberg is out of action. Connally, despite his friendly cooperation, reveals in current debates a lack of that clarity and vigor essential to the making of strong foreign policy. The stand-in for Vandenberg, Senator Wiley, scarcely measures up. Connally, moreover, has been as persistently wrong as has Acheson. It has been Senators Knowland, Taft, and Alexander Smith who have been sustained on the Formosan question, and they have in the past been ridiculed for their pains. Whatever may be the outcome, the Republican opposition has come through clearly vindicated.

The hit-or-miss contacts between the Administration and the opposition in this crisis offer a sharp contrast with what happened in London. When the news came, Attlee met with his Cabinet. Then he had a private conference with Churchill and Eden. Then having reached agreement they all went before the House of Commons.

Unless some entirely new form of bipartisanship can be provided here, it may be well to keep our opposition as a critic and a watchdog.

Newsweek, July 10, 1950