Here's a text version of the article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to image quality and column proximity.  Some minor manual corrections may be needed for optimal readability.


**What Is Fact Finding?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The fact-finding bodies recommended by President Truman for labor disputes are either going to make history or be broken in the clash of the interests between which they must operate. If they are broken, a long-suffering Congress may well roll, over the pieces, toward new and dangerous forms of regulation. Hence, we should consider carefully what such fact finding can or should do.

Fact-finding bodies are certainly no innovation in price and wage fixing. They were used by the WPB and the OPA. The WLB is a fact-finding board. The Railway Labor Act, too, provides for fact-finding bodies.

There has been a great deal of fact-finding experience abroad in labor disputes. Fact finding has been used in the British coal industry since the great strike, nearly twenty years ago. It is common in Scandinavia.

In Germany, legislation was enacted in 1920, after postwar disorders there, which compelled the addition of labor representatives to boards of directors in companies employing twenty or more workers. The practical results of this action were negligible. The workers' representatives found it hard to follow complicated deliberations on costs at various levels of operation, on foreign exchange, on differential pricing and on reserves. So, the government called in neutral experts in serious labor disputes. Such experts as were experienced in modern cost accounting came to be in great demand and had great influence. They developed uniform cost-accounting systems and, based on these, published "standard ratios" for the shares of wages, materials, overhead costs and depreciation for all important industries.

But even if all prior knowledge of costs and profits is correlated and ratios are worked out, a great many questions will remain for which arbitrary solutions will have to be found. The following are some examples:

1-What total sales volume can be expected during the period of the wage contract? If the volume is to be high, the unit costs for overhead will be low and the wage unit can be higher. If, as in the period ahead, the volume is to be lower than in war years, the unit costs for overhead will be higher and money for wages lower.

2-What about depreciation? It will not be sufficient to provide for depreciation of each machine. There is also technical obsolescence. The taking of all advantage of new inventions and methods and the setting aside of reserves for that purpose may be decisive in the future of a business.

On this point, labor will be much more backward than management and will need a good deal of education.

3-Management must have some leeway for risks. During the war, there was little risk on bad debts or obsolete styles, but this will increase in the future. There have been years when "markdowns" in department stores have amounted to 7 per cent of total sales. Manufacturers of goods subject to quick changes in style have, in normal times, had to reduce prices even more than retailers. There is no precedent to guide the fixing of a "risk premium."

4-During recent years, labor has had little concern about the efficiency of the employer. As far as the worker was concerned, the less efficient employer could go out of business. Labor's demand that costs shall define wages may be a two-edged sword. Unions will have to choose, in many cases, between a lower wage in relation to those in other businesses or the end of the source of employment.

5-What of the consumer? If costs are lowered by efficiency, who gets the gains and in what proportion? This will be a long and difficult problem to solve by a formula, but it must ultimately be resolved.

These points are sufficient to suggest some of the factors which will appear in the new era of fact finding. Most of these problems have been worked out elsewhere, notably in Scandinavia. The process, however, will never be an application of cut and dried ratios, for the able manager will always find new ways of reducing costs. But if appropriate measures and machinery are developed, areas of difference will slowly be reduced and there will appear better standards of distributing benefits to workers, managers and consumers.