Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


**Gideon Goes to War**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

FIFTEEN years ago, I received from
the President-elect a routine assignment. As he was leaving for a vacation
at sea, he said, “I am writing asking
Henry Wallace to be Secretary of Agriculture. Call him tomorrow, tell him
this and get his answer.” I called Wallace on long distance and told him the
news. There was a long silence. After a while, I said impatiently, “Hello!
Hello! What’s the answer?”
Finally, he said “Yes.”

I don’t know what Wallace
was thinking during that long
pause, but I guessed that a
sense of destiny was wrestling with a sense of inadequacy. This impression was
later confirmed by his excessively modest demeanor when
he came to Washington. To
Rex Tugwell, whom he asked
to serve as Assistant Secretary, he suggested that their difference in education
should reverse the order of authority.
And in a colorful article written by
Sherwood Anderson, the great storyteller characterized his subject with the
words, “No swank.”


Now it seems that the sense of destiny has conquered the sense of
inadequacy. For only a very bold and
self-confident personality would start
a third party in 1948.

Another trait in Wallace has burgeoned with the years. It is the habit
of indirection, of expressing a purpose
through symbolic action. His candidacy
is pregnant with symbolism. It is not
a direct political act to capture a political objective. Wallace knows he cannot
win. The candidacy mystically contemplates two objectives. The one, a
protest; the other, the defeat of the
Democrats and ultimate victory for
someone else in 1952. I say “someone
else” because if, as many anticipate,
Truman is defeated and the Republicans fail, Wallace will not be chosen
four years later. If Wallace really wants
the nomination in 1952, he should keep
barely within the party and organize it
in defeat, as Bryan did after 1904. But
Wallace now contemplates a hypothetical, far-off end by indirection.

This crusade for the common man is
a most uncommon phenomenon. Wallace says, “We have assembled a
Gideon’s army, small in number, powerful in conviction, ready for action.”

Gideon, like Wallace, was far from being a common man, and he led an
unusual army. After detailed directions
from the Lord, Gideon released two-thirds of his followers because they
were timorous and afraid. That pretty
well disposed of most common men.
The 10,000 who remained were led to
water, and only those who lapped their
drink by putting their hands to their
mouths were chosen. These
300 dexterous drinkers were
Gideon’s army. They won
the battle against the
Midianites by blowing horns,
clanking pitchers and lighting lamps.

The Wallace candidacy will
help Republican chances—
not decisively, but considerably—in important states. It
is not possible to name those
states until the nature of the election
laws has been clarified. In Ohio, for
example, it seems doubtful whether
Wallace could get on the ticket. Among
the Republican aspirants, it would seem
that Taft might gain most from the
Wallace candidacy.

The injury it does to the Democratic
party will elicit little sympathy, because it is deserved. For years, the
Democratic high command has welcomed the support of political guerrillas
such as the Communists, and it should
have known that ultimately they would
desert.

Of course, Wallace may, because of
failure of funds or other reasons, drop
his candidacy entirely.

An incidental injury has already been
inflicted which will be hard to repair. Under the Wallace editorship, the
form, content and appeal of the New
Republic have greatly and, in my opinion, deplorably changed. When that
journal was started, 33 years ago, it
had a worthy purpose and distinguished
direction. Croly, Lippmann, Weyl and
Hackett had something to say that
suited those times, and they said it
well. Wisely, they believed the principles and policies of a newspaper or
magazine should endure beyond any
political administration or personality.

The Wallace editorship made the
New Republic the transitory organ of
personal ambition. A great adventure
in journalism has lost itself in a squabble for promiscuous votes.

Newsweek, January 12, 1948