Perspective
Is There a Difference?
by Raymond Moley

THE root of the apathy which
A brings relatively fewer eligible
voters to the polls in the United
States than in any other free nation,
there is the widespread feeling that
there is no real difference in principle
between the two parties. On every
side we hear the questions: "Are our
political leaders mere mariners who
set their sails with the prevailing
wind?" "Does politics really matter?"
"Why vote when nothing is de-
cided?" The conclusion emerges that
"it is the man, not the party."

For long stretches in our history
there was little difference between
the parties. That is no longer true. A
definite realignment has taken place
in the past 25 years, initiated by the
Democrats under the powerful influ-
ence of President Roosevelt. Republi-
cans are just beginning to appreciate
this and to reflect this change.

A political party in the classical
definition of Edmund Burke is a body
of citizens united on "some principle"
upon which they can find agreement.
In determining that "principle" we
may as well dismiss foreign affairs.
Both parties are dedicated to the
preservation of the security and in-
dependence of the nation. Also, to
the maintenance of peace with honor.
The differences which we hear about
concern method, not principle.

THE ORIGINAL PARTIES

But in domestic affairs there is a
principle which bears upon the very
nature of the nation. It is the issue
which created the two-party system in
our young republic. First there were
the Federalists and anti-Federalists,
then the Republicans and the Feder-
alists, and later the Democrats and
the Whigs. The issue was the relative
power and authority of the Federal or
central government as compared with
state and local responsibility.

The most distinctive principle to
which President Roosevelt dedicated
his Democratic Party was the enlarge-
ment of Federal power. Thus Roose-
velt was the ideological heir of TR,
not Wilson. His strategy for the cap-
ture of a majority of voters was re-
vealed about 1935 or 1936 when the
second New Deal began. Slowly, as
the years passed, the dominant
majority in the Democratic Party
adopted the Federalist principle de-
spite the opposition of the South.
Three successive Republican Presi-
dential candidates-Landon, Willkie,
and Dewey-failed to grasp this is-
sue. General Eisenhower measurably
recognized it in 1952 but failed
strongly to assert it until the final two
years of his Administration.

But inexorably this issue drawn by
the liberal majority among the Demo-
crats has been accepted by Republi-
cans, notably in Congress.

A REAL DIVISION

In a most important analysis of key
votes in the 86th and 87th Con-
gresses, the Congressional Quarterly
has made it clear that the ultimate
and clear answer has been given to
the question stated as the title of this
article. (The Congressional Quarterly
is a privately owned and operated
service invaluable to editors, writers,
and other specialists.)

This analysis shows that in the 86th
Congress Democrats supported an en-
largement of Federal power "almost
four times as often as Republicans."
Also, that in the first session of the
87th Congress Democrats supported
Federalism five times as often as did
Republicans. True, there were dif-
ferences within the parties on this is-
sue. Senator Byrd's record is 100 per
cent against Federal enlargement,
while Senator Javits voted 100 per
cent for the enlargement. But
these and a few others were the ex-
ceptions which will always be found
in a big political party representing
many and diverse constituencies.

At long last, therefore, a funda-
mental ideological division among
Americans has identified itself with
the two-party system.

Each side has an arguable point.
The Federalist Democrats can say that
it is more rational to standardize gov-
ernment on a nationwide basis and far
easier to collect the tax money
through a national income tax.
Republicans can say that through
the maintenance of strong state and
local authority government may be
more closely kept within the reach of
the citizens, individual liberty can
best be preserved, and government
may be more closely adapted to the
needs of specific regions.

Newsweek, November 13, 1961