Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

What Are Government Operations?
by Raymond Moley

THE late Robert M. La Follette over
a period of more than twenty years
was one of the most industrious and
sincere members of the Senate. His
crowning legislative achievement was
his co-sponsorship of the La Follette-
Monroney Legislative Reorganization
Act of 1946. In that same year he was
defeated in the primaries by Joseph
McCarthy. It is an ironical footnote to
the history of these times
not only that La Follette's
defeat gave McCarthy his
seat in the Senate, but that
an item in the Reorganization
Act has given his successor his
great power as
chairman of the Committee
on Government Operations.
It is naïve for Senator
Flanders and others to expect-
if they do expect-
that the Senate will take any action to
remove a committee chairman in the
course of a session of Congress. Such
an action, senators of both parties
believe, would mean parliamentary
chaos and party irresponsibility. But
the Senate itself caused this situation
by creating a committee without
clearly defined limits of authority.
La Follette and the co-author of the
Reorganization Act, Representative
and now Sen. A.S. Mike Monroney,
created a plan by which many Senate
and House committees were consolidated and reduced in number. In the
Senate, 38 committees were reduced
to fifteen.
In the approved reorganization,
several of the small and relatively
unimportant committees of the Senate
were consolidated in a Committee on
Expenditures in the executive departments. That committee was later
renamed Committee on Government
Operations. It was thought by the
authors of the plan and by some of
the academic people who had been
advocating such a reform for years
that this would not be a general investigating committee, but a catch-all
committee, picking up here and there
items too small for the busy committees dealing with major departments
of the government. Before McCarthy
took over, the several chairmen kept
to that routine job. But only the faith
and trust of a hopeless theoretician
would expect that when the lid is left
off the oats box a hungry horse will refrain from thrusting its nozzle therein.
McCarthy has done exactly what
any resourceful and zealous chairman
would do with such generalized powers. For almost everything in government involves expenditures. And
during the burgeoning of the great
Federal bureaucracy during and after
the war, it seems to have been possible for Communists and their friends
to get into almost every vital
department and bureau.
Consequently the range of
the committee's operations
has been very wide.
In an effort to limit the
McCarthy committee, Senator
Monroney in 1953 introduced a resolution which,
if passed, would amend the
rules of the Senate with the
following language:
"In any case in which a controversy
arises as to the jurisdiction of any
committee of the Senate to make any
inquiry or investigation, the question
of jurisdiction shall be decided by the
Presiding Officer of the Senate, without debate, upon a motion to discharge the committee from further
pursuing such inquiry or investigation;
but such decision shall be subject to
an appeal [to the entire Senate]. The
chairman of each committee shall
from time to time and at the earliest
date practicable report to the Senate
the general nature of inquiries or investigations the committee proposes
to undertake, or, in any case he deems
the national security might be endangered by such report he shall in
writing advise the President of the
Senate of that fact."
Such a rule would, Senator
Monroney believes, make the Senate
master of its investigations, as well as
of its legislative activity. This resolution is now locked up in the Rules
Committee, where it is likely to remain for the rest of the session.

IT WOULD seem that even with such
a rule it would be difficult this year
to induce a Senate chairman, say Senator Saltonstall in the case of Army
matters, to claim a violation of jurisdiction. And so the problem created by
the Senate when it established the
Committee on Government Operations remains a problem with no solution in sight.

Newsweek, July 5, 1954