Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the column structure:

**Coordination, Not a Merger**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Behind the movement for a merger of the Navy and War Departments are three distinct groups:

1-There are those civilians who, over many years, have sincerely advocated merger of the departments as a means of more efficient defense and war activities. Much of this advocacy appeared before this war and, hence, before the acid test had displayed the ways in which our armed forces are not properly coordinated. In general, this body of opinion rests on the assumption that in any administrative task one head is better than two. It assumes that unity is necessarily achieved when one Cabinet officer does the work of two.

However, we have learned in business, government and in many other activities that efficiency depends on how much is loaded on a single chief. It must be remembered that human beings have human limitations. The late Justice Brandeis made the essential point in his philosophy that efficiency decreases when units of operation become too big for a single human head. An organization can become bottom-heavy as well as top-heavy. Unity and coordination begin when a clear picture is drawn of what should be unified and what should be separated.

2-A second group has been growing ever since the pioneers of 30 years ago began to demonstrate the importance of air power. The signal event in that history was the Billy Mitchell episode. The strength of this group was enlarged in opposition to the conservatism of the brass hats-notably, it should be added, of the Army leaders. To get recognition, air-power advocates have long claimed a place in the Cabinet. That has been a stock manner of claiming recognition for many other things, such as welfare, education and health. In any event, a real recognition of air power has come. The older services have embraced it, utilized it, developed it.

3-The third group supporting the merger is the present Army command. The Army case is impaired by two facts. Its plan for a merger is imperfect. And its advocacy is weak, because it is so obviously opportunistic. It wants to exert pressure at the moment when it has the most power, when it is biggest and before it has been cut down to normal strength. The Army argument sounds impatient, hurried, arbitrary. It makes a serious effort to unify essential services look like a tommy-gun marriage.

The whole discussion should begin with an appraisal of what the war proved to be defective in our armed structure. Pearl Harbor highlighted a lack of correlation between diplomacy and armed force. Next, there was lack of coordination between civil production and the needs of the armed forces. To meet this, many departments must be reached into-War, Navy, Commerce, Labor and Interior. Budgets need coordination, but the Bureau of the Budget is the agency to provide for that.

Intelligence needs coordination, but that again ties into the State, the Justice and the Treasury Departments, as well as the Army and Navy. Scientific research in part needs unification and, in part, separation. The planning of material requirements and procurement must be systematized. These necessary correlations require not a merger, but the mobilization of resources in several departments. And such correlation would not be secured by a merger of two or of half a dozen of the present departments. This is enough to illustrate that what is needed is much bigger than mere merger.

All of these correlations-with which, incidentally, the Navy agrees-can be achieved without disturbing the position of the Navy as a department. And in any reorganization the Navy's distinct position in our national life must be respected and preserved. We are and have been since our beginning a maritime power. Our potential enemies are overseas. In that respect, we differ from Russia, France and China. Command of the sea is an essential preliminary to the exercise of our power anywhere on earth. That thesis of Admiral Mahan has been strengthened by this war. Our Navy is the greatest on earth. It is a strange proposition to suggest that its head be an Assistant Secretary in a department sure to be dominated by Army and Air forces.