Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:

**Arm Japan Now**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

HIGH among the many mortal errors of the Truman Administration which have contributed to the hideous tragedy of Korea is the failure to permit Japan to rearm and to make with that country a hard and fast military alliance. Two weeks ago Gen. Robert L. Eichelberger made a convincing plea for Japanese rearmament in this magazine. Earlier, in his book, "Our Jungle Road to Tokyo," he asserted his conviction that the Japanese could not only be trusted but that "Japan's security and our own are now indivisible." Eichelberger is no professional diplomat or political strategist of battles long ago. He was the great commander of the great Eighth Army—the army that is now battered by the Chinese hordes to which mistaken American diplomacy turned over the dominance of Asia.

The creation of a Japanese army is a matter so obviously in the interest of the United States and the free world that the average rational person might wonder why it has been so long neglected. That is, he might wonder if he had not learned that the obvious is what our President and State Department seem to have been missing for a long time. General MacArthur has also been at fault in this delay.

There are probably two or three million fit and battle-trained soldiers in Japan subject, now, as always, to the commands of the emperor. There are many thousands of trained officers. These soldiers could be cheaply fed and maintained. Japan is a country which is easy to organize. It had the best shipyards and manufacturing facilities in Asia, equipment which has been injured by our ill-advised policies, but which can be redeemed. The Japanese people are not possessed of the worn spirits and wasted will to fight so characteristic of much of Western Europe. They will not need a navy because we have our own. We shall have to provide air power, radar, and similar equipment for some time.

JAPAN is a natural ally of the United States and England. All three of these nations have been maritime powers, industrially minded, and quick to learn. All three have salt water between them and all possible enemies. There are important conditions that must apply to such a rearmament. We shall have to work through the emperor, who commands the loyalty of his people and who, according to every source of my information, is thoroughly loyal to the United States. With that assurance we shall have to let the Japanese carry out the rearmament in their own way with material and technical aid and assistance from us.

As to whether we can trust Japan, the following opinion of Eichelberger confirms what I have learned from many sources:

"Can Japan Be Trusted? This question has been largely answered by Japan's cooperation since the beginning of the Korean war. Our troops in the occupation of Japan have been sent to fight on the Asiatic mainland and that conquered country has been used as a supply base. Has there been a parallel in history? We must not forget also that Japan has no middle course and that self-interest enters the picture. It stands at the crossroads, and its future lies with the democracies or with Russia. The great majority of Japanese fear and hate Russia. On the other hand, there has been built up in Japan a respect and friendship among the majority for America. Yes—Japan can be trusted."

THERE is no time to go through the tortuous processes of United Nations consent to a treaty providing for rearmament and alliance of Japan with us and perhaps with Britain and the Commonwealths. Nor can the objections of the Soviet be a bar. Russia has sacrificed every claim for participation in the making of a peace treaty and should no longer be a factor in our relations with Japan. The provision against rearmament in the Japanese Constitution should be quickly annulled. Nor can the fears and objections of other Asiatic people be regarded as serious objections. This setting up of a Japanese bastion against Communism and the assurance of our lines of defense are matters of immediate American necessity and self-preservation. Further delay would be criminal neglect.

Newsweek, December 18, 1950