Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

A Tax on Information

by RAYMOND MOLEY

MONG the various proposals sponsored by the Truman Administration and now before Congress is one which would radically change the nature of our postal service.

House bill 2945 and a similar bill in the Senate would enact a drastic revision of postal rates. The heart and center of this revenue-raising plan is an increase in second-class rates, which provide for Americans most of their means of knowing what is going on in the world and which make possible a constant stream of culture, education, entertainment, and business and professional assistance. The bills prescribe increases in second-class rates in order to bring in something like $75,000,000 in additional revenue in the first year and $125-000,000 thereafter. Among other ways of accomplishing this increase, magazines and newspapers would be classified according to the proportion of advertising carried. In the first year, the rate for publications which carry from 25 to 50 per cent advertising would be increased 25 per cent. Those carrying between 50 and 75 per cent advertising would pay a 50 per cent increase, and those over 75 per cent in advertising, a 100 per cent increase. After one year of these rates, there would be a further increase of 50 per cent.

THE professed purpose of this drastic proposal is to cut down the deficit of the Post Office Department which, according to the President’s budget message, amounts to about $400,000,-000 a year. It should be underscored that only about a third of the deficit would be reduced by the increase in second-class rates. There are other department services, amounting to about $150,000,000, that cannot be charged to users of the mail.

It should be added that the Hoover commission proposes a reorganization and streamlining of the Post Office Department which is calculated to save as much as the proposed increase in second-class rates. The Postmaster General, however, sharply denies the possibility of any such savings.

In the discussion of this legislation we are hearing a great deal about "subsidy" and "service." And over the years a faintly unfavorable connotation has become attached to the term "subsidy." It is erroneously suggested that the carrying of second-class mail at rates less than actual cost is a subsidy to periodicals. But even assuming that the element of subsidy enters into this picture, the amount involved, as in any subsidy, must be measured against the background of the ultimate return to the nation in stimulated gains. A ship or aircraft subsidy is provided to develop a service of value in national defense and to promote commerce that will not only increase the wealth of the country but bring back revenues to the government far greater than the subsidy. If we should grant that some of the cost of second-class mail is a subsidy, it can be demonstrated that the return is bounteous and the cost amply justified.

But the carrying of second-class mail, as in the case of all mail, has been a service for more than 100 years and has so been officially recognized since 1879. The present proposal is in effect to terminate that service and to set up the Post Office as a self-sustaining business. Such a policy is not only inimical to the public interest but actually self-defeating.

The first impact would exterminate roughly half the magazines now in business, particularly those designed to reach farmers, workers, small businesses, and religious groups. Strong magazines, which sell largely in cities and on newsstands, could with painful readjustments stand the shock and emerge as the monopolists of the field. Consequently, the public would be denied a large part of its means of acquiring information and contacts with developments in special fields.

BUT government, by killing off some users of mail, would lose a great proportion of the revenue it now receives. The Post Office deficit would be increased, unless the burden could be shifted to other classes of mail. Through the destruction of a major means of advertising, the total business would decline, with a possible loss of tax revenues many times larger than the amount saved.

Newsweek, April 4, 1949