Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Labor and the Candidates
by Raymond Moley

THE following is an account of
a meeting between candidates
Kennedy and Johnson and Sen. Harry
Byrd in August. In the main, it is
based upon an article by a responsi-
ble reporter, Frank van der Linden,
published in Southern newspapers, in-
cluding The Nashville Banner and
The Greenville (S.C.) News. The ac-
count did not come from Byrd, but
apparently from the Johnson people.
In late August, Kennedy and
Johnson had a meeting of Southern
senators to win their support for the
national ticket. Byrd was a conspicu-
ous absentee. Thereupon, Kennedy
and Johnson asked to come to Byrd's
office to explain things. Byrd told the
two candidates that he disagreed
with most of the Los Angeles plat-
form, especially the pledge to repeal
that section of the Taft-Hartley Act
which permitted states to enact
"right-to-work" laws. Byrd was as-
sured by Kennedy and Johnson that
such a repeal "won't necessarily be
enacted if they are elected."
Byrd then confronted Kennedy
with a bill (S. 1269) introduced in
1955 by Senators Kennedy, Clements,
Douglas, Lehman, Pastore, Murray,
and McNamara which proposed ex-
actly what the 1960 platform promises
about "right-to-work" laws. Kennedy
answered that he "did not press its
passage." Kennedy could have done
so because he was a member of the
Labor Committee and could have in-
sisted upon hearings. There were no
such hearings, and the bill died.

KENNEDY TO MEANY

Byrd made it clear then, as he did
in the Senate in a speech, that he
considered such a repeal an unwar-
ranted invasion of the right of a state
to enact such a law. Twenty states
have it, and in nine, "right-to-work"
is in the state constitution because of
a vote of the people.
In the AFL-CIO News for Oct. 1,
1960, there appears a lengthy in-
terview of Kennedy by president
George Meany:
"Mr. Meany: Senator, I believe
that kind of strong labor movement
is made impossible by measures such
as 'right-to-work' laws. What do
you think?"
"Senator Kennedy: Let me make
it clear once again, as I have in the
past, that—whatever office I shall hold
—I shall always be unalterably op-
posed to so-called 'right-to-work' laws
at any level, Federal or state . . . To
achieve that goal [preserve and pro-
tect the legitimate rights of legitimate
unions] now means the elimination of
some anti-labor sections of the present
labor laws. To that end, I am un-
equivocally committed."
Nixon opposes the repeal of that
section of Taft-Hartley.

FACING BOTH WAYS

While the great majority of the
leaders of the big unions are com-
mitted to the Kennedy-Johnson ticket,
the millions of members who have
elected them and supported them
with their dues should consider se-
riously the foregoing accounts of what
Kennedy and Johnson have said—in
one case to the South, and in the
other to the unions through their offi-
cial publication.
The wisdom and effectiveness of
"right-to-work" laws is not the issue
here. The issue goes to the validity
of a party platform and the pledges
of party candidates. That is a matter
for union members to consider.
It also goes to the constitutional
right of a state to legislate on a sub-
ject which concerns its internal af-
fairs. If the Federal government can
invade a right of a state, validated
by the courts, to pass these laws—
and twenty states have exercised that
right—there will remain little in a
state’s province that cannot be taken
away by a triumphant, powerful ma-
jority in Congress backed by a Presi-
dent who believes in such invasions.
That is a matter for citizens of the
South, indeed for all Americans, to
consider. This goes to the essence
of the kind of government we shall
have in the United States.
It is well known that the Southern
States are bitterly opposed to most
of the provisions of the Los Angeles
platform. Texas Democrats made that
position official in their state platform.
Johnson said recently on “Meet the
Press” that he had not calculated
what either platform would cost.
Thus, he has endorsed a platform
which to him has no meaning in terms
of money or taxes.

Newsweek, October 24, 1960