Here's the text extracted from the provided image.  Note that the original formatting (columns, etc.) is lost during this process:

Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Man of Destiny

The patient reader of news and
comment is herewith cautioned to cross his
fingers and plant a skeptical tongue in his
check. Predictions about a new man of
destiny are now emerging from Washing-
ton. Mr. Donald Nelson, the man-of-des-
tiny-presumptive, is hailed as directing
force of the defense setup by those New
Deal sources through which so much of the
news filters these days. Maybe so. But
don't bet the baby's savings account
on it.

Of all the businessmen who have come
down to Washington during the past fif-
teen months, Mr. Nelson was most likely
to win the good will of orthodox New
Dealers. His relations with Mr. Henderson,
that elder statesman of the New Deal,
have been excellent: the two men have, in
fact, collaborated in magazine writing on
price control. Throughout the rise and
qualified eclipse of those earlier men of
destiny, Knudsen and Stettinius, Mr. Nel-
son has maintained the best of standing
with the top drawer of New Dealdom. This
alone would partly explain the current
rumors. But Mr. Nelson's ultimate ascent
to the heights will depend upon three
things—his inclination to accept and reach
out for power, the continued friendship
of the New Dealers and his success in
his job.

Months ago this page observed that
preeminent leadership in the defense setup
would probably never come as the result
of a voluntary delegation of power by the
President. The President is not the man to
specify with exactitude what a subordinate
shall or shall not do. Those around him
who have acquired the most power have
got it by reaching out for it. Jesse Jones,
Ickes, Morgenthau, Hopkins and Hender-
son have all followed this pattern. They
have achieved power to the degree in
which they have sought it. And they have
held it as long as their use of it has not
embarrassed the President. Businessmen
who went to Washington would have been
wise to ponder that curious circumstance
despite the fact that the years had ac-
customed them to precisely defined admin-
istrative organization. Mr. Nelson was one
of the very few who seemed to. If he
has, in truth, he is well on the way to
the top.

But two more "ifs" stand in his way. He
must avoid too much independence of the
New Dealers or he will provoke them to
undermine his position. And he must do
what he is doing without too many mis-
takes along the way. The indefinite dele-
gation of power that characterizes the
President is withdrawn with astonishing
definiteness after major blunders are made
or, equally bad, when the popularity of the
Administration is impaired.

One last caveat remains. The men near
the top at the beginning of any comparable
national venture are almost never near the
top at its end. Occasionally they are, of
course. Perhaps Mr. Nelson will be one of
those rare exceptions. And if so, he will
have merited well of Mr. Roosevelt and
the rest of us. But don't rely on it.

It Can't Be Done

The restless ghost of steel expansion
has danced again. From Washington comes
the announcement that the SPAB has ap-
proved a plan to expand the nation's steel
capacity from approximately 90,000,000
tons to 100,000,000 tons. This is more than
a little mystifying. Four months ago we
were told precisely the same thing with
appropriate whoopings of joy. On June 3,
to be exact, Mr. Jesse Jones met with the
steel producers, told them to expand their
production by 10,000,000 tons and gave
them the assurance that the government
would put up 90 per cent of the cost. We
were left to assume that the thing was as
good as done.

Then, when more than two months had
passed, came another announcement. On
August 13 we were told by the OPM that
an expansion program that might run as
high as 15,000,000 tons would be an-
nounced soon. So we checked that off in
the books. Now we are given still a third
announcement that a 10,000,000-ton ex-
pansion has just been approved.

It appears, then, that the announce-
ments of June and August were empty
gestures. The new "plan" promises to be
just as empty, despite the fact that New
Deal expansionists have moved heaven and
earth to sustain their program in three
elaborate reports—the first by Mr. Melvin
de Chazeau late last year, the second by
Stacy May this spring and the last by
W. A. Hauck, which has recently been pre-
pared for Mr. Knudsen. And wise people
hope the gesture will be empty.

Walter S. Tower, president of the Amer-
ican Iron and Steel Institute has ex-
plained some of the reasons why. He points
out that 85,000,000 tons a year is the best
that our steel plants can produce over the
next eighteen months for the simple reason
that there is a limited supply of scrap and
ore. To create the proposed new facilities,
he says, would require 20,000,000 tons of
ore, which would, in turn, require 40 new
lake ships to transport. Not one such ship
has been contracted for to date.

Mr. Tower's objections closely parallel
those made in May by Mr. Gano Dunn,
the President's chosen expert adviser on
steel production. The net of the Dunn
contentions is (1) that the capacity of the
industry is adequate for all defense pur-
poses and for pledged aid to foreign na-
tions, provided civilian needs are reason-
ably and temporarily restricted; (2) that
to build the equipment now to provide for
a 10,000,000-ton expansion would divert
4,160,000 tons of urgently needed steel
now; (3) that the expanded production
could not be ready for two years—or after
the probable peak of the war demand had
passed.

What is plain is that none of the reports
of the expansionists, including the latest
by Mr. Hauck, takes into account all the
obstacles that are involved. Mr. Hauck, for
instance, accepts Dunn's estimates as to
the cost and time of a 10,000,000-ton ex-
pansion. But Hauck maintains that it
would divert only 2,250,000 tons from
current needs. Dunn said 4,160,000 tons.
He reached that figure by reckoning
the added equipment necessary for mine
development, transportation and like
items.

How fatal the error may be is suggested
by what promises to happen when, say,
plates for new lake ships to carry ore are
requested. That request will conflict direct-
ly with orders for plates required on new
transatlantic freighters. Does anyone sup-
pose that Admiral Land will fail to point
out that fact? The same grim necessities
will bar the way to steel expansion in a
half-dozen directions. And in view of all
the facts—most important being the un-
controverted fact that the supply of avail-
able steel is more than enough for de-
fense purposes—it is a fair guess that
we will not see that 10,000,000-ton steel
expansion completed for a long time to
come, whatever the announcements may
be.

Those announcements are beginning to
recall nothing so much as Gilbert and Sul-
livan's Mikado, in which the order to exe-
cute Nanki-Poo resulted in a long chain of
circumstances that produced before the
astonished Mikado, at the very end of the
play, his quite live and healthy son. Ko-
Ko, the Lord High Executioner, then ex-
plained: "When your Majesty says, 'Let a
thing be done,' it's as good as done—prac-
tically, it is done—because your Majesty's
will is law. Your Majesty says, 'Kill a
gentleman,' and a gentleman is told off to
be killed. Consequently, that gentleman is
as good as dead—practically, he is dead—
and if he is dead, why not say so?" Perhaps
in two years the steel expansion will be
thus revealed. If it is, we may all repeat
with the Mikado that "nothing could pos-
sibly be more satisfactory."