Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

The U.S. vs. The U.S.—I

by Raymond Moley

IN THIS time of transition, or of
greatness, or of whatever oratorical
flourish may have it, the Administration in Washington stresses motion,
not reflection. We are blinded by incandescent illusions. But this government often blinds itself.

In its haste to raze the ruins of the
past, basic structures of principle are
weakened or destroyed. In scrambling together a world order out of miscellaneous fragments, the United
States has already consigned much of its own control over its foreign affairs to the United Nations. In
"solving" the Cuban crisis, essentials of the Monroe Doctrine have been compromised or abandoned.

And now, in arguments before the
Supreme Court, our Solicitor General would compromise a vital international principle which has stood for centuries and which has the sanction of every maritime nation in the
world—the law of the flag.

This law holds that a merchant ship plying the high seas from port to port is invested with the sovereign jurisdiction of the nation where it is registered and whose flag it flies. The arrangements governing the internal management, discipline, and order on that ship are therefore subject to the jurisdiction of the flag nation, despite the nationality of its ownership or the area of the commerce in which it is engaged.

ESTABLISHED PRINCIPLE

The classic statement of this principle appeared in a decision of the Supreme Court in 1893. The Court adopted as its own the words of Secretary of State Daniel Webster, who in turn had paraphrased what the great Swiss jurist Emeric Vattel said in the eighteenth century:

"It is natural to consider the vessels of a nation as parts of its territory, though at sea, as the state retains its jurisdiction over them ... This is the doctrine of the law of nations, clearly laid down by writers of received authority, and entirely conformable, as it is supposed, with the practice of modern nations."

This principle has been sustained uniformly by the Supreme Court.
In 1927 the Permanent Court of International Justice held: "It is certainly true that—apart from certain special cases which are defined by international law—vessels on the high seas are subject to no authority except that of the state whose flag they fly." In 1960 the principle of the flag was upheld by the International Court in a case in which the United States argued as amicus curiae.

THE PRACTICAL PROBLEM

This principle has been relied upon by shipowners of many nations who have registered their ships under foreign flags. American companies have been compelled to do this as a matter of survival because of the great difference between the wages of seamen and other costs under our flag and those of other nations. There is also a tax advantage, as well as the lower cost of ships built abroad. It costs upwards of $800,000 more annually to operate a 47,000-ton bulk carrier under our flag than under virtually any other flag in the world.

The cost differential has been recognized by Congress, which has provided subsidies for building and operating American general-cargo and passenger ships on scheduled routes. But the big bulk carriers are not eligible for such subsidies.

More than 400 ships aggregating about 11 million tons beneficially owned by American companies are registered in Panama, Honduras, and Liberia alone. More than half of these fast, efficient vessels have been built during the past five years. These Panhonlib ships represent more than half the tankers and almost all the ore carriers available to the United States in case of emergency. The small countries mentioned have been approved for registry because they place no obstacle in the way of their prompt availability to the United States. No such availability is possible in European registries.

American unions have sought in recent years to organize the crews of these foreign-flag ships. Finally, in 1961 the National Labor Relations Board on a petition from the National Maritime Union ordered an election on certain Honduran ships. These cases were argued before the Supreme Court in December. I shall discuss them next week.

Newsweek, January 21, 1963