PERSPECTIVE

THE YARDSTICK ILLUSION

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Clyde T. Ellis, general manager of
the National Rural Electric Co-
operative Association, at a meeting
of his group in Miami Beach last
month unfolded a master plan to
build, with the money already ac-
cumulated by the rural electric co-
operatives and by loans to come from
the Federal government, many steam
plants over the nation. The theme
of his address announcing the plan
is that these plants are needed as a
"yardstick" in regulating the rates of
privately owned power companies.

This idea of a yardstick was first
projected into national policies by
President Roosevelt 32 years ago
when he announced a plan to rebuild
Muscle Shoals as a Federal agency
and to follow with a great hydro-
power dam at Bonneville and to de-
velop the St. Lawrence project.

The concept was this: since great
difficulties had been encountered by
state utility commissions in determin-
ing fair power rates by examining
the books of the private companies,
it was necessary for the Federal gov-
ernment to own some power plants.
Thus, by the intimate knowledge of
what costs were, there could be a
determination of fair rates.

SENSELESS COMPARISON

Very few, except orthodox social-
ists, talked about vast, competitive
government power systems in direct
competition with privately owned
companies and subsidized by money
from the generality of the taxpayers.
But as time went on and under Har-
old Ickes' Interior Department many
new dams were built, the concept
of a yardstick faded, and direct com-
petition became the order of the day.
It became clear that to compare
costs of a heavily subsidized Federal
project and those of a private com-
pany made no sense. It is like com-
paring the economic usefulness of an
elephant with that of a mule. Large
tax advantages are enjoyed by Fed-
eral projects. Also, while a private
company must borrow money in the
open investors' market, a Federal
system gets money for expansion
either free or at low interest rates.
When the Rural Electrification Ad-
ministration entered the scene, the
purpose was welfare relief. The gov-
ernment was concerned about the
farmers who could not get electric
service from private companies. Rural
cooperatives were loaned Federal
money at a low interest rate.

But Ellis, substantially backed by
Norman Clapp, head of the govern-
ment's REA, now revives the word
yardstick to justify what he calls "a
bold new plan" to construct large
"mine-mouth" steam plants using coal
from depressed mines and to con-
struct steam plants in connection with
the desalting of water. His grand
plan also ecompasses the Federal
construction of "extra high voltage"
transmission lines to create a great
countrywide "grid"-a government-
controlled, monopolistic network.

VITAL OMISSIONS

Ellis said further, in an effort to
justify the revival of the yardstick:
"There is just no question about
the benefits of the yardstick to con-
sumers Companies serving areas
near such major Federal projects as
TVA and Bonneville Power Admin-
istration tend to set low rates, and
the farther away from such [Federal]
projects a company is located, the
higher its rates.

He then cites the rate paid by con-
sumers in Portland, Ore., which is
$5.35 per 250 kilowatt hours. Port-
land benefits by the Bonneville sys-
tem. In Boston, served by private
companies, the rate is, he says, $9.91.
There are several vital omissions
in the Ellis argument. The Bonneville
system, according to its own figures,
is running in the red. And the Port-
land rate gets the benefit of a sub-
sidy. Boston has to transport its fuel
long distances, whereas Portland is
adjacent to the great resource of tur-
bulent rivers. Ellis would burn coal in
Appalachia and subsidize the East.
Ellis sets a figure for the relative
production by government and pri-
vate companies. He wants "15 to 20
per cent" of the generated power to
come from government-owned and
-operated plants. There is no magic
about these percentages. If 20 per
cent is reached, we may expect the
mark to be moved upward. For the
ultimate end is government owner-
ship of power production, the avenue
through which all industry will be
socialized. This is not a yardstick. It
is a weapon.

Newsweek. February 15, 1965