Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

**The Randall Warning**

by Raymond Moley

The Randall Commission on Foreign Economic Policy has issued a sharp warning to the President, the Congress, and the American people against the deadly peril to our free economy in some international agreements. Such agreements, allegedly entered into for the alluring purpose of stabilizing prices and sharing the supply of raw materials, may well introduce a new and sinister form of regimentation here and also lend our approval to the old European cartel.

Our State Department under Secretary Hull was ostentatiously dedicated to the principle of freedom of trade. It is therefore ironic that members of that department now dedicate themselves to the imposition of shackles more serious than past high tariffs. The Randall report says:  "The commission believes that such agreements introduce rigidities and restraints that impair the elasticity of economic adjustment and the freedom of individual initiative which are fundamental to economic progress. Moreover, the types of intergovernmental commodity agreements thus far tried or proposed ... involve commitments which could lead, if extensively employed, to very large outlays of U.S. Government funds of indeterminate amounts."

Specifically mentioned and deplored was the International Wheat Agreement which costs us more than $500,000,000 and was renewed in a mad hurry last July by the Senate without a record vote.  This sort of thing is already moving into other commodities such as tin. Last week I offered a prize example of how such agreements were put over through the International Materials Conference, which operated without authorization of Congress and enforced its determination through war-emergency agencies. Such bypassing of Congress might well be done in the future through executive agreements little noted at the time but of profound impact on our economic life.

Let us for a moment see how such commitments fasten themselves upon us. In 1946 the Committee for Economic Development sponsored a study of the control of world trade by Prof. E. S. Mason of Harvard, who was also for a time deputy to the Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. He wrote in his report that "to enable the machinery of international commodity control to function it will be necessary to reshape not only commercial policy but policies hitherto considered as belonging to the field of domestic regulation."

Professor Mason turned up later as a member of the President's Materials Policy Commission, of which William S. Paley was chairman. The Mason ideas were deeply embedded in the official report of that commission in 1952. Referring to the Havana Charter, which was considered and deliberately rejected by Congress, it said: "The United States has not ratified the treaty, but under a resolution of the United Nations Economic and Social Council is bound with other nations to recognize Chapter VI as a guide." Thus when Congress bars the front door, use the window!

Now enters the U.N. Under the direction of the General Assembly the Secretary General called upon a group of economists from here and abroad. They rendered a long report last month which recommended the creation of a watchdog commission to advise the Economic and Social Council and its member governments. It also recommended that this commission operate in secret to consider measures to which it might not wish to appear publicly committed.

When the Paley-Mason theory is added to this, we have the complete picture. The U.N. sets up a commission to sit in secret and to recommend proposals to the Economic and Social Council, whose decisions are binding upon the United States, whether the Congress likes it or not. This kind of commitment was foreshadowed in the opinion of Chief Justice Vinson in the steel seizure case.

Can it be wondered that informed people are determined to bring all such agreements under the clear and effective control of Congress?

Newsweek, February 8, 1954