Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


**Getting Down to Earth**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Expressions of opinion in this
country by official Washington, by influential Republican leaders and by the
press since Winston Churchill spoke on
March 21 indicate that something extraordinary has happened. Clearly,
Churchill’s blunt, down-to-earth realism
has done more to clarify and unite our
thinking than anything else since 1939.
That is statesmanship of a high order.
The catalytic secret of Churchill’s
speech lay in his suggestion of a formula
for postwar organization which eliminates almost every factor that blocked
this country’s joining the League 24
years ago and its participating in the
jerry-built order the League signalized.
He drew the outlines of a program for
stability which every American not
utterly blind to the realities can accept.

Churchill, by inference and through
Eden’s private conversations here, made
it plain that whatever the United States
chooses to do about postwar Europe,
that continent will be stabilized by the
two powers capable of doing the job—
Great Britain and Russia. He proposed
that regional councils do the effective
policing to guard the peace; that a
world organization, when formed, have
none of the features which wrecked the
League; that the peace setup rest not
upon a theoretical paper equality of big
and little countries, but upon the four
powers—the United States, the British
Commonwealth, Russia and China; and
that England would not attempt to tell
us how to organize the great regional
area of the Western Hemisphere.

Let us see how these ideas affect our
interests.

To begin with, they put a sensible
estimate on the future of Russia. Most
people in this country don’t like the
Russian form of government and are
determined to keep Communism out of
the United States. But that should not
close our eyes to two hard facts. First,
Russia’s size, resources, self-sufficiency
and historic policy all make it most unlikely that Russia’s territorial interests
will be inimical to ours. Second, Russia’s
desire to have friendly governments,
uncontrolled by Germany, in predominantly Slavic countries bordering on her
western frontier not only has some
justification but points to an outcome
we simply cannot prevent.

The European structure set up at
Versailles was a bridge supported on
only one bank of the river. Because it
expected something that did not happen
—the collapse of the Bolshevik regime
in Russia—it left Russia out. It attempted to anchor on France a cordon
sanitaire which France could not have
sustained, even had she remained
healthy and militarily impregnable.

All this the British recognized in
Eden’s Anglo-Russian alliance of 1942.
We had better recognize it too, or we
shall end in disunity at home and frustration abroad. Our role in Europe will
be to encourage in every friendly way
the formation of federated groups of
smaller states with as much autonomy
as possible. But basically we will have
to realize that the stability of any order
established there will depend upon Great
Britain and Russia, just as the peace
created in 1815-22 rested upon them.
That peace, incidentally, lasted 100
years. We could do worse than settle
for such a period of freedom from world
disorder.

The development of Pan America
into a regional council of nations is
already under way. Mr. Churchill, with
great tact, did not mention that, but
the inference is plain. It is our business
and, by the same token, our responsibility. So far as the Churchill-proposed
council of Eastern Asia is concerned, we
would do well to think of accepting a
membership, along with Great Britain,
Russia and China. American opinion
has never been especially opposed to our
participation in efforts toward collective
security in the Western Pacific. It would
certainly support major responsibilities
there after this war.

This leaves the way open to the
creation of a world league with moderate powers at first, and with a capacity
for growth as new avenues for cooperation are laid out in a peaceful world.
Meanwhile, until reason is ready, power
must control. Fortunately, in this case,
power rests with the four countries least
apt to be predatory, since they already
possess continental and intercontinental
resources.

All signs point to a swift recognition
of the value of Churchill’s proposals by
thoughtful Americans. In any case, it
is obvious that the division of opinion
here is not between isolation and cooperation. Isolation is out. The real
argument is only whether we shall accept a form of cooperation built upon
rock or in the clouds.