Here's the extracted text from the provided image, aiming to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


NEWSWEEK, SEPTEMBER 13, 1943

Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

European Boundary Issues
by RAYMOND MOLEY

When and if Messrs. Roosevelt,
Churchill and Stalin sit down to the
task of patching up Europe, one subject,
strange as it may seem, need not
detain them long. That is the problem
of boundaries, with the exception of
that ogre of diplomacy, the Polish question.
The Polish problem with all its
ramifications, is not within the scope of
this article.

Modern wars, in point of fact, do not
really originate in boundary disputes.
Time has healed many a sore spot on
the map of Europe. It is astonishing,
but true, that a great majority of the
1939 boundaries can remain where they
were by common consent of all concerned.

The British Isles, Spain, Portugal,
Switzerland, Holland, Luxembourg, Belgium,
Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Bulgaria,
Greece and Turkey can be crossed off at
once. So can France, for no important
sentiment has existed in that country for
further annexation, and even Hitler did
not want Alsace-Lorraine.

Another group of countries has minor
boundary problems which, when examined,
easily suggest remedies. They present no
difficulties that the lease-lend of a million
moving vans and trailers, plus some housing
aid, new farm machinery and a little firmness
and common sense would not cure.

Take Italy as a starter. Italy will be a
defeated country with no lust for cutting
neighbors off from the sea. The area at
issue will be small. It will include the two
cities of Trieste and Fiume. By making those
cities free ports and by giving Hungary and
Austria the right of passage to them, the
peacemakers could satisfy the economic
necessities of those two land-locked countries.
The territories surrounding those cities could
be added to Yugoslavia without the slightest
economic or political injury to Italy. Transylvania,
a bone of contention between Hungary and
Rumania, should be left with Hungary. The
Hungarian claim, as was recently pointed out on
this page, is backed by a thousand years of
history and by plain geographical considerations.

Bessarabia is Russian by every logical
consideration. No tears will be shed except
those of Rumania. And Rumanian tears are
soon dried.

Far to the north, Finland, despite some
complaining, may well find stability and
prosperity within the boundaries fixed in 1940,
after her unsuccessful war with Russia. Latvia
and Estonia have well-established boundaries.
Their problems will be not their boundaries, but
the extent to which their postwar government
will be under the control, even the sovereignty,
of Russia.

Czecho-Slovakia may well win from the
victorious Allies a restoration of her pre-Munich
boundaries. Her claim to the Sudetenland is
ethnologically shaky and historically strong. The
Sudeten Germans could be reduced in numbers by
migration and the rest pacified by internationally
determined and enforced rules for the guidance of
the Czechs.

Two devices have been suggested in this
article to facilitate these settlements. The first is
induced and assisted migration. This method,
which used to be impossible or immensely painful,
becomes possible for considerable numbers, under
modern mechanized conditions. The point is that
ultimately not many will want to be moved, but, to
the extent that moving is achieved, agitation
will decline in the affected area. The problem of
supporting more people in the territory to which the
moving is directed is answered by modern
mechanized farming and also by increasing
industrialization. If as many Europeans could be
moved and housed as there have been Americans
moved and housed since 1940, the boundary
problem would be settled for generations.

A second device is that of the "free port." It
affords landlocked nations access to the sea. Applied
to Fiume (for Hungary), Trieste (for Austria), Hamburg
(for Czecho-Slovakia), Danzig (for Poland), Memel
(for Russia), and perhaps to other cities, it would
afford commercial expansion without the agonies of
annexation.

A third device, federation, despite its popularity
in the United States, is no cure for Europe's problems.
What is more, it may well take the form of threatening
alliances against this or that nation and actually lead
to war. Finally, Russia does not want any federations in
her neighborhood.

The two major problems of Europe, the Polish
question and the elimination of Germany's power to
cause trouble, lie far beyond boundary questions. But
to stabilize the remainder of Europe through some such
methods as are suggested here would pave the way for
these greater undertakings.

Page 17 of 1087