Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column structure.  I've tried to minimize errors caused by the image quality and column layout:


**Columbia's Commander-in-Chief**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Of the twelve men who held the office to which General Eisenhower has been elected, four were clergymen, four were teachers, two were lawyers and two, who were men of wealth, were civic leaders. Four of the most notable of these twelve—William Samuel Johnson, Charles King, Seth Low and Nicholas Murray Butler—were deeply interested in politics. Johnson was one of the great lawyers of his time and a member of the Constitutional Convention of 1787. King’s father was Rufus King, senator, ambassador, twice candidate for Vice President and once candidate for President. King himself, raised in this atmosphere, dabbled in politics and journalism before his Columbia presidency. Low was a businessman-politician who served as mayor of Brooklyn, ran unsuccessfully for mayor of New York while president of Columbia and, after his retirement at Columbia, ran again and was elected. Butler’s interest in politics is voluminous and well known. He was a delegate to nine Republican conventions, a candidate for Vice President in 1912 and for the Presidential nomination in 1920.

The greatest of Columbia’s traditions is public service, and this means freedom for its president to participate actively in politics. Freedom of political expression and action by the faculty is not only permitted; it is encouraged. And, I may add, this opportunity is not neglected. Faculty members are active, articulate and, for the most part, courageous exponents of their views.

This may convey the impression that formal education is neglected. It is not. The immensity of the place harbors every range of temperament, from mole-like burrowing in abstruse knowledge to an energetic exploitation of newspaper headlines. Columbia pioneers in the science of education. Teachers and administrators in every field are trained there. But the strictly educational machinery is so organized as to permit the president wide latitude in public affairs and broad administrative policies.

Eisenhower will need no apology in approaching an educational office. His interest in education is a trait which has been overshadowed by his more glamorous military career. He proved this in the dull military period between the wars. He was busy schooling himself. In 1921 he graduated from the Army Tank School; in 1926 from the Command and General Staff School; from the War College in 1929 and from the Army Industrial College in 1932. He applied himself to these studies with incredible intensity. He won first honors in the Command and General Staff School—a singular distinction. If any more schools had been within reach, no doubt he would have enrolled. This intensive association with high-grade technical, administrative, industrial and cultural disciplines should be superb training for an educator.

But it was as a massive public figure that Eisenhower attracted the Columbia trustees. The Columbia tradition demanded such a public figure. And in that tradition, Eisenhower will be free to speak his mind on public issues—political and otherwise. If the wisdom of his military conduct is any indication of what he will say, we shall be hearing some great common sense in these troubled times. The “international mind” of which Butler spoke so often will be embodied in a man who has proved his capacity to get on with Europeans in a responsible official position.

The change in Eisenhower’s position will loose a flood of speculation about his availability for the Presidential nomination in 1948. His new status provides a fresh alternative to the familiar list of possibilities who have been assessed and reassessed until there is nothing more to say about them. Many people who are skeptical of all who are in the running now will turn to Eisenhower as a man who is capable of facing the immense problems ahead.

Eisenhower may silence such speculation as did General Sherman years ago. But looking beyond the interests of Columbia and the preferences of Eisenhower, the public interest requires that every possible name should be considered in the selection of a candidate. The need for superlative and proved capacity was never so great.

Newsweek, July 7, 1947