Perspective

Man, the Inscrutable

by Raymond Moley

As you read this, in the season when
Christians everywhere commemorate
God's greatest tribute to man, an
atomic submarine is prowling somewhere
in the reaches of the sea. Its
frightful deterrent power may also
mean security and peace.

Somewhere in the vitals of that ship
is an electronic computer designed to
guide Polaris missiles on their trajectories
of death. This is a necessary use
of a great mechanical device to supplement
the slower calculations of
even the most expert crew.

Even in this realm of physical cause
and effect and measurable prediction,
there can be errors. This was learned
recently when computers in Greenland
mistook impulses from the moon
for enemy missiles.

But in the long hours after the polls
closed in the East on election night,
men's ambition to serve profitably the
lustful curiosity of the public asked
too much from electronic marvels.
Computers were used by networks to
project the results of the election before
all the votes were counted. I
have not space to describe the failure
of this experiment. But there is point
in outlining what meat was infused
into the monster to produce such an
emission of alleged prophecy.

According to a news release before
the election, certain preparatory data
were put into the machine. These
were called "socioeconomic" data. "It
was determined, for example, that
such factors as per capita income, age,
education, religion, number of business
failures, changing economic conditions,
population shifts and other
population elements were reliable
[italics mine] indicators of why a voter
chooses a particular party. Once identified,
these key factors were measured
to determine their effects on the
various segments of voters."

ECONOMIC DETERMINISM

It is unnecessary to comment upon
the looseness, incoherence, and bland
assumptions in that statement. It is
self-revealing. Presumably, into this
mixture in the computers there were
introduced without discrimination
fragmentary returns from scattered
areas as the evening wore on.
The theory behind this effort to calculate
the behavior of human beings
through empirical data is not new.
It is called the economic interpretation
of history and politics. Its vogue
was stimulated by the scientific revolution
of a century ago in which
Darwin and Huxley were major
prophets. Marx, fired by the "enlightenment,"
created a "scientific"
theory of history in which man was
reduced to a clod of matter.

Half a century ago, professors of
history, politics, economics, and psychology
succumbed to the infection.
Later, the behavioristic mania proliferated
into business and practical
politics. The priests of this order
turned away from the baffling study
of man to the physical data that surrounded
him, on the assumption that
these determined his behavior. Why
bother with mind and soul and abstractions
like pride, honor, and patriotism
when it is easier to measure
stomachs and pocketbooks?

PERILOUS QUACKERY

This new superstition was as powerful
as the belief of the Picts that by
painting themselves blue they could
control the fears of their enemies.
Such perilous quackery has infected
not only higher learning and many
huge foundations, but the business
world. And it came full circle when
an itch to dispense with waiting to
learn how voters had cast their ballots
substituted the chattering of machines
for authentic news and truthful information.
It was easier for the networks,
because the help they hired
needed no understanding of politics.
Anybody can crank a machine, and
any actor with a solemn face and a
good voice could proclaim the results
hours before burghers and farmers
had gotten around to vote.

Pascal, a transcendent mathematician,
knew that empirical data could
not solve inscrutable man: "What a
chimera is man. What a novelty! What
a monster, what a chaos, what a contradiction,
what a prodigy."

Perhaps the Creator intended that
man should be endowed with moral
and rational forces sufficiently complex
to differentiate him from dumb
brutes and the material mass around
him. It is man himself who has sought
to bring himself to the dirt from which
God raised him.

Newsweek, December 26, 1960