Here's the text from the provided image, excluding the advertisement on the left:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

A Tax Against Safety and Progress
by RAYMOND MOLEY

IF Congress really wants to increase
national wealth, guard us against
depressions, and protect the jobs of
workers, a good place to begin is with
Section 102 of the Internal Revenue
Act. This section was innocently writ-
ten in 1913 and ignored for 25 years.
It was rediscovered in 1938.
In 1935 President Roosevelt shocked
and angered Congress by proposing his
notorious "share-the-wealth"
tax program. He did it be-
cause he was at the moment
afraid of Huey Long, who
intended to run in 1936.
One of the proposals then
recommended was a tax on
corporation surpluses, de-
signed to force the paying
out of profits in dividends.
This idea was enacted into
law in 1936. In 1938, against
the President's vigorous opposition, it
was substantially repealed. Roosevelt
then turned to the sleeping Section 102.
Under this law, the Treasury, not
the business concerned, decides how
much a company should withhold from
stockholders and keep as a reserve
against future needs and emergencies.
The people who make this decision are
not the people who have made and
live with the business, but are revenue
officers without business experience
generally and altogether without
knowledge of the specific business in-
volved. The section has been an un-
just burden and a sinister threat, par-
ticularly to small business.
There has been a stepping up of
this threat since President Truman
assumed office. In the 1946 tax-return
forms the Treasury inserted a warning
which meant to most companies that
they should dissipate their earnings
or else! This was later omitted. Mean-
while, the Department of Commerce
was encouraging companies to invest
more and more of their surplus funds
in government bonds, substantiating
this suggestion by a reference to Sec-
tion 102.

THE fallacy of this policy is that it
implies that a business surplus is
an unnecessary economic precaution.
The fact is that a surplus constitutes
basic purchasing power. It represents
the ability to pay labor, buy raw ma-
terials, restore machinery and equip-
ment, and provide security for busi-
ness credit. It becomes the central
power plant which supplies jobs, pur-
chasing power, improved products,
and a better standard of living for all.
To build up strong and productive
companies means more income for
normal taxation and larger revenues
for government. But to compel this
security to be dissipated in dividends
produces an insignificant amount of tax
revenue. The wide scattering
of share holdings, in which
80 per cent of stocks are in
the hands of relatively small
taxpayers, provides a very
limited tax source. Thus,
the drastic enforcement of
Section 102 decreases tax
revenues.
This law was originally
intended to prevent abuses
through "incorporated pock-
etbooks." That purpose is already
accomplished through the personal
holding company tax.
Section 102 should either be re-
pealed or it should be amended.

ONE part of an amendment should
be to make it clear that it does
not apply to companies employing a
given amount of labor or realizing a
given turnover of goods in relation to
the amount of capital invested.
Further, the burden of proof should
be placed upon the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue to show both the
unreasonableness of the accumulated
surplus and the existence of a real tax-
avoidance purpose. In addition, it
should be provided by law that long-
term capital gains should be excluded
from Section 102 net income.
And corporate reserves set up out of
profits already taxed, which reflect
higher costs of replacing plant and
equipment, should be excluded from
Section 102 net income.
Finally, there is a problem that has
grown as the government has, more
and more, placed its heavy hand on
business enterprise. That is the prob-
lem of unreviewable administrative
decisions. The Supreme Court has
refused to review cases brought under
this law. As a result, the only law
available to taxpayers and advisers has
been the law as interpreted by the
Treasury. The result is that business
has been the helpless victim of ad-
ministrative caprice.

Newsweek, February 6, 1950