Here's the text extracted from the provided image, respecting the column structure:

**Louisiana Renaissance**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

New Orleans—Behind the gaiety of the Mardi Gras, a serious note dominates New Orleans these days. People tell you to look behind the festive masque to substantial facts. What we quite inadequately call "civic spirit" is summoning great energy to strengthen the natural and man-made advantages of the city as a seat of industry, international trade and, surprising enough in light of the past, enlightened government.

Greater New Orleans, Inc., in effect a group of civic and business leaders, has raised a considerable sum to bring business and visitors to the city. City leaders have established International House, a cultural and business center in the heart of the city, with the object of fostering better relationships with the rest of the world, especially the Latin American world.

New Orleans wants to emphasize that it is no war baby. It has survived the closing of its notable war industries with remarkable success. In 1939, its heavy industries employed 25,000 people, with a payroll of $20,000,000. At the peak of the war, the figures were 85,000 employed, with a payroll of $160,000,000. Now heavy industries employ 57,000, and the payroll is over $100,000,000.

The city also wants you to know that it is the nation's second seaport and that up-river live 60,000,000 people whose world contacts lie through the Mississippi. The Mississippi Shipping, Co., which carries on extensive shipping with the western hemisphere to the South, has bought three fast, modern ships for a line to West Africa.  Most important to the future of the New Orleans port will be the building by the Federal government of a sea wall, providing better access to the open waters of the Gulf.

The route now runs through the meandering course of Ole Man River down through the delta. The greatest dream of New Orleans is a deep-water ship channel cut almost due east from the present canal, which runs north from the river to Lake Pontchartrain. The project, kept alive for decades, is of national importance. In the last analysis, 30-some states deposit the silt which makes the trip through the delta so difficult.

Andrew Jackson Higgins liquidated Higgins Industries, Inc., last year, after a break with the AFL. He then organized Higgins, Inc. The new company will continue to make Higgins boats and housing materials. It has bright prospects.

Postwar New Orleans is enjoying a political renaissance. A year ago, the voters cast out the old machine mayor and boss, Robert S. Maestri. That was revolution. Except for only one short interval, years ago, the machine had prevailed for a period of 54 years. The new mayor is de Lesseps S. Morrison, who came back from four years in the Army, where he rose to the rank of colonel.

Young Morrison is a hero out of the schoolbooks. He reminds me of the Tom Dewey of ten years ago. He is serious, hopeful, energetic and deeply convinced that his eyes have first witnessed the ocean of civic sin. But this sort of enthusiasm is what moves us ahead in a cynical world. Morrison has apparently put a stop to public gambling in the city and intends to keep it stopped. He is skillful in mobilizing public opinion and will be a hard man to turn out. The machine licks its wounds and waits.

The old Huey Long ring is pretty well scattered. The men who went to jail are out now and are working at various jobs. One, the former president of the state university, is teaching in a boys' school in another state. The present governor, Jimmy (You Are My Sunshine) Davis, is neither bad nor very able. He writes and renders popular songs.

Sam Jones, the man who succeeded Huey Long's last governor, is being urged to run as Davis's successor. His opponent would be Congressman Jimmy Morrison, who as a student in college started out by giving imitations of Huey's speeches and mannerisms and soon found that his impersonations were a genuine asset. For since then, he has built a political career because the voters in faraway parishes seem to believe in reincarnation. Jones would prefer to run for the Senate. It will be a question whether his wishes or those of his friends ultimately prevail.

There is no lack of color in Louisiana politics, and there are no bounds to the ultimate importance of the state in the nation's business.