Here's a text extraction of the provided image, aiming to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Party Rule in Senate

by Raymond Moley

"LIBERALS," who would have President Eisenhower as their very own, repudiate any suggestion that he might be a loyal Republican and a believer in a two-party government. In their anxiety to injure the Republican Party they would destroy party government and exalt the "independent," both at the polls and in Congress. Hence they would like to prove that support for the President is just as great among Democrats as among Republicans in Congress, and that bipartisanship, which really means a no-party system, is a state of affairs devoutly to be wished.

Incidentally, those people who used to call themselves "liberals"—a name stolen by collectivists from the traditional and genuine believers in individualism—have now stolen the word "moderate." It is more popular now, they believe. They would steal the livery of the right to serve the left.

The President, however, is wiser than these false friends. In May he offered this testimonial of his belief in party government and party loyalty: "I am a Republican in our two-party system. Consequently, to do that work best, I think it is only logical that the people you give to me as my closest associates—if that responsibility is again laid upon me—be bound to me by terms of party loyalty as well as official and personal loyalty. I think it is quite clear that in that way we preserve the integrity of the two-party system and make it possible to hold one single party responsible for anything that happens within the Federal government."


VITAL DIVISIONS

The facts bear out this view that the President needs strong party support in the next Congress. He cannot depend upon Democratic help.

A study has been made available to me which shows the vitality of party government in the Congress. I offer the Senate analysis here, and next week that of the House.

In the Senate there were 270 yea and nay votes in the 83rd Congress, and 88 in the first session of the 84th Congress. However, there were only 78 and 24 respectively in which the parties were really divided. These issues were all of vital importance to the Eisenhower Administration. My criterion of a party division is a roll call in which the respective leaders and the policy committees of the two parties are on opposite sides.

The total positions taken by all senators who voted or announced where they stood on the 78 divided issues in the 83rd Congress were 6,915. Republicans following their party leadership accounted for 2,999 of these, and Democrats loyal to their leadership accounted for 2,818. Republicans voting with the opposition accounted for 490 positions, and Democrats supporting Republican leadership, 608.

The same pattern is found in the roll calls of the first session of the 84th Congress. There were 2,195 positions taken on the 24 issues that really mattered. Republican leadership received the support of senators taking 870 positions. Democratic leadership had 953 votes. Republican and Democratic votes which crossed the party lines were 199 and 173 respectively.


RELIABLE SUPPORTERS

It is a commonplace among commentators who fail to examine the facts to say that certain Democrats are more reliable supporters of the President's party than are many Republicans. That is not true. Senator McCarthy stands third from the bottom of the list of members of his party supporting the leadership. But at that he is tied with two Democrats who are regarded as conservative supporters of Eisenhower—Byrd and Robertson of Virginia.

When the chips were down, Senator Smith of New Jersey never deviated. Senators Bridges, Hickenlooper, Martin of Pennsylvania, Martin of Iowa, Millikin, Saltonstall, Schoeppel, and Watkins deviated only once.

On the other side of the Senate, the stalwarts were Sparkman, O'Mahoney, Murray, Mansfield, Lehman, Kilgore, Johnston of South Carolina, Hayden, Humphrey, Hill, Fulbright, Hennings, Douglas, Clements, and Barkley. Each of these deviated only once.

Thus party lines do make a difference. There could be no stronger argument than the foregoing analysis of Senate roll calls for giving the President a Republican Congress at the coming election.

Newsweek, July 2, 1956

Page 469 of 1197