Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure as much as possible.  Due to the image quality and column arrangement, some minor inconsistencies might remain.


**Our Neighbors, the British**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

In the course of several years of comment in this corner, there has never been a disposition to spare deserved criticism of our very good old neighbor, Great Britain. That is in the excellent tradition of English-speaking people on both sides of the Atlantic. We have been neighbors for a long time now. We have exchanged goods and services and books and ideas and brickbats. Our families have visited back and forth. Like the best of neighbors, we have had our spats, and twice those spats grew into healthy brawls. We have had a lot of wrangling in our own house over these neighbors too, just as we have wrangled at home about a lot of other things. That's a way that stiff-necked people have with equally stiff-necked neighbors.

Which brings us to some current problems in our mutual relations. There are some Americans who, a few months ago, talked about tearing down the back fence and moving both families into the same house. Those people are now telling the British how to run their own affairs and are pretty offensive about it. Those people have been wrong both times.

A knowledge of English character makes it clear that, while good healthy arguments never leave a sting, there are limits to the kind of thing we ought to say to the British. Let us leave to the people we have put into the White House and into the State Department the question of talking with the British about India. Public clamor or public prodding by uninformed people can only come to one of two unfortunate ends. One is that our great balance of power in the United Nations may force decisions that those close to the situation think unwise. The other is that gratuitous criticism will permanently impair our frank and friendly relations with our old neighbor. Something like that applies to second-front prodding also. Supreme wisdom may not be guiding British statemanship, but it is experienced and expert wisdom, and that is better than soapbox wisdom. It will, in the long run, cost less in lives and less in money to let those in power decide such things.

This war has created an unprecedented relationship between our two countries. In military and naval matters, our affairs are interwoven everywhere. Clearly the decisions jointly arrived at are not matters that the public should dictate. On the other hand, political questions are matters in which, on principle, each country must have independence. We would bitterly resent British interference in matters before Congress or the electorate. Matters of colonial policy in Great Britain are subject to parliamentary decisions. They are none of our business except insofar as they are quietly handled through diplomatic channels. A rigorous respect for these distinctions will do much to maintain good will.

It is about time we knew how to deal with the British. There are some sharp things they will take cheerfully from us, but there are other things that belong in the even-your-best-friend-can't-tell-you department. And the present phase of the war is, of all times, a bad occasion to overstep the bounds of friendship. Later on we can send some strong-willed and intelligent people to the peace conference and let them see that the next peace is better than the last. But we are fighting a war now, not making a peace treaty.

In the course of a limited official experience and in a number of other ways, I have learned two things about dealing with official England. One is that British and Americans get on with enhanced respect if each is pretty frank with the other. The British love their country, and we must not take it amiss if they are pretty vigorous in looking after its interests. We love our country too, and they can recognize the right in us when we are vigorous in asserting our interests. Fawning or flattery is not respected by either side.

The other conclusion is that in official dealings the British are as square-shooting as any people in the world. They have driven some good deals with us, and if we got the worst of it we have no one to blame but ourselves. But they don't cheat. They don't play with marked cards. And in a world of cutting sharp corners they tell the truth. That is a lot. For it means that in the long run the best basis of neighborliness is honesty in words and money. This is no time to be throwing dead cats over that back fence.