Here's a text version of the provided article, carefully separated to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective

Comedy on a Dark Stage

by Raymond Moley

ON NOV. 7 the voters of New York
City are going to pass upon one
of the most preposterous claims ever
made before an American electorate.
They must accept or reject the proposition that Mayor Robert Ferdinand
Wagner Jr. alone is the Hercules capable of cleansing a stable of which
he has been the custodian for nearly
eight years.

Wagner is opposed by a Republican, Louis Lefkowitz, the capable
and clean Attorney General of the
state of New York, and by a couple
of minor candidates.

The Wagner plea has been to save
the city from the "bosses." These
are the Democratic leaders of the five
boroughs. Since it became glaringly
apparent early this year that the
mayor had made a mess of running
city affairs, those leaders decided to
nominate a more capable individual,
Arthur Levitt, comptroller of the
state. Wagner won over Levitt in the
primary, aided by his huge city bureaucracy plus a "reform" group
headed by former Gov. Herbert Lehman and Eleanor Roosevelt.

Those individuals had never been
shocked about the borough leaders
until in 1958 the leaders decided to
support for United States Senator
Frank S. Hogan, who was made District Attorney by Thomas E. Dewey
nearly two decades ago and who has
operated the office capably since. The
Lehman-Roosevelt group wanted a
more liberal candidate. And so the
reason why the "reformers" began to
complain about bossism was not that
the leaders were bad people but that
they were too conservative.

MACHINE PRODUCT

Wagner, who now says he is running against the bossism in his own
party, is a time-tested product of the
Democratic machine. His father,
United States Senator Wagner, was
moved up the ladder of political
fame by the greatest and most powerful New York Democratic leader of
this century, Charles F. Murphy.
When the leaders decided to nominate the younger Wagner in 1953 they
did so because of his famous name.
For a useful name in politics depends
upon who had it first.
Wagner's candidacy now is based

upon the absurd proposition that the
bosses are what ails New York. Thus
he is asking the people to believe
that as burgomaster he has not been
responsible for the bad management
of the city over which he, by virtue
of the charter, the laws, and custom,
has been the chief administrator. So
he invites the belief in any logically
minded individual that he has, in reality, been merely the expensive receptionist greeting the heads of
nations who come to the U.N. and
pinning badges on celebrities.

This great city is the center of
many of the nation's vital concerns.
It is the heart of news dissemination,
of cultural activities, and of business
and finance. Here the nations meet
and furiously rage over their problems. It is a high-grade city with a
low-grade government. A fine example of American democracy at work!

BAD GOVERNMENT

This Wagner farce is being played
against a dark and sinister backdrop.
Deadly peril lurks in the city's streets
by day and by night. Within a block
of its cultural center-adorned by Columbia University, the great Cathedral of St. John the Divine, the Union
Theological Seminary, the Juilliard
School of Music, and Rockefeller's
Riverside Church-women and children cannot walk in the streets safely.
All over the boroughs murderous
teen-age gangs range unhindered.
Narcotics have been peddled even in
city parks. The police are frustrated
by the leniency of magistrates appointed by the mayor. Streets are in
disrepair and jammed with poorly
regulated traffic. The city hospitals
are crowded and unkempt. The
schools have been the center of management scandals so bad that the
mayor had to fire a school board for
which he himself was responsible.
The subways and bus lines are dominated by an insolent labor boss before
whose threats the mayor periodically
quails. City finances reflect waste and
inefficiency. Small manufacturing is
moving from the city. The relief rolls
are clogged by the undeserving.

But here the United States seeks
to teach representatives of emerging
nations the art of self-government by
showing that it cannot govern itself.

Newsweek, November 6, 1961