Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Inauguration

Not since the fateful days in 27
B.C. when the Roman Senate conferred
upon Caius Octavius the title of Augustus
has a man taken over a grant of power
more portentous than President Roosevelt
will accept on January 20th. The power of
Churchill is no more secure than the shift-
ing opinions of Parliament. Hitler rules by
what he has usurped and holds on only
as long as he succeeds. But the most en-
during Constitution of the most powerful
state in the world guarantees the tenure
of Mr. Roosevelt as he begins his third
term. And that assured tenure stretches
ahead over four years that will determine
the kind of world in which people will
live for generations.

If Mr. Roosevelt so desires, he can play
the major part in the reordering of the
world. It is not easy to resist such a role.
To a degree President Wilson was forced
into it by the pressure of peoples who
feared more wars and more revolutions.
The same pressure will come to bear upon
President Roosevelt. Beyond that, he will
be strongly urged by many of his closest
followers to participate in drastic revisions
of the social order, not only in the coun-
tries that lose but in those that win.

Any political seismograph that fails to
detect and record, these days, the subter-
ranean impulses toward a world order
based upon the philosophy of the British
Labor party had best be thrown on the
junk pile. In England the most significant
internal shift is toward increasing Labor
control. Our more extreme liberals here
are acutely aware of that. Happy rela-
tionships are growing between them and
their prototypes across the water. That
our government is greatly influenced by
them is clearly suggested by two recent
events-Mr. Hopkins' mission and the
active campaign to have the President ap-
point John G. Winant Ambassador to
Great Britain. Whether or not Mr. Hop-
kins was sent abroad to discover the social
and economic changes the war has brought
to Britain and their probable limits, it is
clear that he will find true congeniality
with the Bevins and the Laskis. And Mr.
Winant's Washington sponsors are closer
to the philosophy of Justices Frankfurter
and Douglas than that of Secretaries Hull
and Jones. It is unnecessary to add that
those sponsors are closer to the President
than any of his Cabinet.

Such facts are no more than straws in
the wind, of course. But something more
than coincidence must account for their
emerging at the same time that the Presi-
dent calls for a crusade for the "four free-
doms." We all want the world to seek such
freedoms, and we shall do our part to keep
what we have. But freedom is not won for
other people: they have to win it for them-
selves. And when and if some sort of peace
follows this war, we shall have plenty of
work here to see that another cycle of
economic disintegration does not follow.

To achieve this limited end in terms of
our own institutions is a task to which
we may well hope the President will ad-
dress himself in the years to come. In that
effort he can expect and get the loyal
support of a united country.

Budgeting the Unknown

The budget submitted to Congress
last week turns out to be less a budget, in
the original and classic sense of the word,
than any within the memory of most ob-
servers. For that state of affairs, the
budget's maker can scarcely be blamed.
You can't budget war. You can't budget
it any more than you can predict the
course a war will take. The President did
the best he could to offer something in the
way of a formal statement of what the
American defense effort may involve
financially. That statement, prepared at
the end of an unpredictable year and on
the eve of another unpredictable year,
could not possibly amount to more than a
series of guesses.

In one sense, it is a partial forecast of
our capacity to produce. It means that
the Federal government will take and pay
for whatever can be produced in the line
of defense during the fiscal year beginning
next July. The faucet is wide open for
expenditure. The only valve is industry's
ability to produce. The President forecasts
a national income of $80,000,000,000 and
a proportionate production. He proposes
taking about 15 per cent of the national
income for defense.

But is 15 per cent of the national pro-
duction capable of being used for defense?
To turn 15 per cent of the national in-
come or national production into defense
purposes means an enormous rearrange-
ment, modification and redesigning of all
kinds of trades to adapt them to defense.
In this sense, the budget is really only a
forecast of success in diverting produc-
tive energies. To the degree that this is
achieved, the expenditures provided in the
budget will be made: to the degree that
it isn't, they won't. It's this that makes
the budget unique.

The fact is that with this budget we
discard budgets for the time being, at any
rate, just as we discard debt limits. The
debt limit, the old monitor, as the Presi-
dent calls it, was useful only as a warning.
Budgets, too, are warnings. Presumably
warnings are of no importance in an
emergency such as that we face. We decide
to spend without stint under the most pow-
erful incentive to expenditure which na-
tions have. We conclude that all we can do,
on the paying side, is to raise what money
we can, where we can, by whatever taxes
can be devised and enforced. That, pri-
marily, is what the new budget means.

H. R. 1776

There can be no doubt that the
"all-aid" bill, as presented to Congress,
asks for more than the President expects
to get. The willingness of Administration
leaders in Congress to make concessions
to the bill's critics was apparent from the
first. That is as good an indication as any
of the somewhat tentative nature of a
number of the things the bill proposes.

But it is something more than that. It
is also a cheering sign of reasonableness
on the part of the Administration leaders
-a mood that will disappear like a June
mist over a fish pond if Administration
critics fail to manifest a similar reasonable-
ness. This is not the moment for shrieking
and hair-tearing. Restrained statements of
fact are in order.

It would, for instance, be flagrantly un-
reasonable to deny that the President is in
a better position than Congress to decide
which articles should be kept for our own
use and which articles should be released
to Britain, Greece and China. But it would
not be unreasonable to say that Con-
gress should be amply informed about
what is produced, what is sent abroad
and what remains on hand. It would
not be unreasonable to ask for a re-
quirement that key experts in the Army
and Navy certify that articles transferred
to foreign powers are not essential to
our own defense.

So, too, with other aspects of the bill.
Clearly, the powers the bill would confer
are very great. No President has ever had
their like. They are powers that have al-
ways been vested in Congress even in
times of war. Their full exercise would
effectively involve us in war both in
Europe and Asia. Yet it would be unfair
and immoderate to say that the President
intends to exercise them fully. On the
other hand, there is every justification for
a request that the President give a full
explanation of what the bill means in
detail and what, of all he asks, he truly
wants.

For if he does that, we shall all be able
to think in terms of what can be risked
without thinking in terms of risking every-
thing.