Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to preserve the column structure:

**1953 Will Not Be 1933**

by Raymond Moley

THERE seems to be a disposition on
the part of many people to expect
something after Jan. 20 next in the
nature of a repetition of the famous
Hundred Days' Congress of 1933.
They ask for blueprints for new and
drastic legislation. They are appar-
ently of the erroneous opinion that
the activities of a conservative regime
of this kind and at this time can be
planned like the building of
a house or the projection
of a sales campaign. Such
expectations are doomed to
frustration. Nineteen fifty-
three will not and should
not be 1933.

The most important dif-
ference will be rooted in
the character of the new
regime. It will be a conserv-
ative one. If any further
proof of this is necessary, it is pro-
vided by the Eisenhower Cabinet ap-
pointments. The personality and views
of most of them have been well pre-
sented in the press. I can add that
Douglas McKay, who is to be Secretary
of the Interior, is also of a decidedly
conservative cast of mind. The great
Interior Department will no longer be
the powerhouse of socialistic planning
and government in business. In the
Taft-Eisenhower contest, McKay fol-
lowed the preferences of his state,
but when I saw him in Salem immedi-
ately after the convention, he was
most complimentary to Taft as well as
to Eisenhower. He will be a strong me-
diatory influence and also a supporter
of states' rights in resources develop-
ment. With Eisenhower and such col-
leagues as these, we shall have an
Administration that favors the curbing
of Federal power over the states and
over our private economic life.

The reforms of 1933, on the other
hand, represented a marked change
of direction. They were the practical
application of the theory that govern-
ment must move into economic life to
stabilize it, or to energize it, or, if you
prefer, to save it. This invasion of
economic life overran itself later, but
that is not part of this story.

The important fact about a con-
servative government is that it con-
serves. A radical government tears
down and builds anew. A reactionary
government tears down and retreats
to some earlier status. There is every
evidence that the Eisenhower regime,
in which Taft will be a powerful fac-
tor in legislation, will be conservative
in the best sense of the word.

That being true, it will conserve
the major additions in the functions of
government created since 1932 and
work toward better and less wasteful
means of operating them. For ex-
ample, it will keep social security,
but rationalize it.

This will not be a spec-
tacular affair. A conserva-
tive is never spectacular or
glamorous. He is not news.
He does not excite-or thrill.
He just builds and moder-
ates, and saves, and remem-
bers. But for him, we would
dissolve into our primordial
elements. We don't want
conservatives forever at the
head of affairs. But they are the nor-
mal state of affairs. We never needed
them more than at this moment of in-
stability, fear, and mutual distrust.

I recently heard a British journalist
tell a group of Americans that the
Churchill government had done noth-
ing in a year and, at least by infer-
ence, that it could do nothing to check
the onrush of socialism. This dolorous
opinion has been industriously pro-
moted by the very people who want
to promote socialism. The point about
the Churchill government is not the
rate of its progress but its objective.
You must halt a disease before you
start convalescence.

THE regime that will move into
Washington will disappoint some
unless this fact is kept in mind. It
will not work miracles, but it will pro-
vide a change of essential philosophy.
It is high time to challenge the charge
that it is inconsistent to keep these
new services of government but to
promise to do them better. For meth-
ods are often important as objectives.
This regime will not, as did the one
that came in in 1933, unroll the blue-
prints of a new world. But it will
conserve the best of what we have
and avoid commitments that we can-
not fulfill without danger of disaster.
It was written in the book of Ec-
clesiastes and quoted by Eisenhower
in the campaign that there is "a time
to cast away stones, and a time to
gather stones together."

Newsweek, December 1, 1952