Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Candidates Alone Can't Win
by Raymond Moley

SANTA BARBARA, CALIF.—As the dog
days ended and September campaigning
weather arrived, there were vociferous
complaints in the Eisenhower press about
the failure of the general to start a
vigorous campaign. There had been, in
the far-off days of June, warnings which,
if heeded, might have anticipated and
prevented those complaints. The
warnings suggested that, while a
nomination might be won on sheer
personality, an election could not be won
unless the candidate were properly
prepared for a long, grueling campaign.
That preparation should have been
undertaken by the Eisenhower
supporters long months ago. Instead, they
assumed that just to bring him before
the American people would suffice and
that he could delay his return from
Europe until a month before the
convention.

Well, the convention came and went, and
at its conclusion the Eisenhower people
were just about as done in as the Taft
people. There was, however, one precious
asset in the Eisenhower camp. That was
the fine, unspoiled, capable, and
aggressive personality of General
Eisenhower himself. It has been years
since the Republican Party has had such a
candidate. But he is not a superman.
Emerson said that when people saw
Ulysses they admired him but wanted to
see him do battle. When they saw Hercules
they were content. Eisenhower is not
Hercules. People want to see him do
battle. There is some justification for this
impatience. The Republican candidate is
not running against Joe McCarthy. Nor is
the Democratic candidate, although he
went all the way to the Legion
convention to deliver a high-school oration
on patriotism in general and Joe in
particular. He cited Dr. Johnson's crack
about patriotism being the last refuge of a
scoundrel. It might be said that patriotism
is also the first refuse of Stevenson, who
hates to meet the real issues of the mess in
Washington.

But there is something that should be
said for the fact that Eisenhower did not
choose to start his campaign in August. I
have watched campaigns for these many
years, and I cannot remember when
anything more than an acceptance speech
has been delivered before September. There
is plenty of time yet, and those who are
impatient can be assured that there will be
plenty of action before long. The real job
before all of those who want a Republican
victory is not to sit around and complain
about what the candidate does or does not
do. This is not a one-man show. This
fight is everybody's fight.

Candidates don't win elections. Organized
personal efforts at the voter level and
vigorous man-to-man persuasion are
decisive. Elections are not won on the
stump or on the TV screen. They are won
at the front door of the voters and at the
roadside in the country and at the workbench
in the factory. For the women it should be
added that elections are won also when they
drop in on their neighbors and chat. It is a
well-known fact that personal contacts, and
personal contacts alone, are the final means
of delivering the vote.

Two books that I have seen bring home
this lesson with terrific force. One is a
volume issued several years ago describing
the house-to-house work of the CIO-PAC.
The other is Paul Lazarsfeld's "The People's
Choice," which is the result of a study of how
people made up their minds in a typical
Presidential election. The conclusion is that
their choice was determined not by the
speeches of the candidates or by printed
propaganda. The decisive persuasion was by
personal contacts, and they were often
chance contacts at that.


EISENHOWER will need from six to
eight million more votes in this
election than were cast for Dewey in 1948.
Let's try to induce about half a million
people who want Eisenhower to win to be
responsible for converting and for getting to
the polls two dozen votes each. Don't expect
the candidate to do it all. He can't. No
candidate ever could.

If the worried Eisenhower press will give a
bit of a boost to this idea, it can help win
this election. There is no better way to
help.

Newsweek, September 8, 1952

Page 1051 of 1197