Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  The advertisements have been omitted.


After Little Rock?

by Raymond Moley

This is a moment when “a more
perfect Union,” justice, and do-
mestic tranquility demand that people
vested with responsibility act in a
responsible manner. This applies to
those concerned with the interpreta-
tion of the law, the enforcement of
the law, and, not less, with the cre-
ation of that public opinion upon
which obedience to the law must rest
—public officials, journalists, and those
who in privately organized groups are
dedicated to telling other people what
to do and how to behave.

For regardless of what happens at
Little Rock, the basic problem at the
root of the crisis will endure, and un-
wise judgments on all sides which
sharpened the conflict will bear their
bitter fruit. The fundamental task of
living together can be performed only
by people united by a spirit of mod-
eration and restraint.

Many of the decisions before and
during the Little Rock episode rested
upon psychological assumptions. The
original decision of the Supreme Court
rested upon a conception of the effect
the denial to a Negro of attendance
in school with white children might
have upon his later life. Governor
Faubus decided that latent violence
would flare into action unless he used
his powers to the full. Judge Davies
decided that the governor’s appraisal
of that question was wrong. The Pres-
ident based his extreme action upon
his belief that violence would break
through local efforts to contain it.

THE LOST YEAR

The responsibility of all those with
influence over future events is to con-
sider a much larger but clearer matter
of psychology and opinion. For there
will remain a belief, clearly fixed in
the minds of more than 50 million
Americans, that the Supreme Court
was wrong in 1954.

The roots of the crisis, however,
run back far before 1954. Largely, al-
most entirely for political reasons, poli-
ticians in Congress annually brought
forth civil-rights programs which they
knew would never be accepted with-
out the use of overwhelming force.

The Supreme Court’s opinion in
1954 had two gross defects. First, it
rested its interpretation of the Con-
stitution upon “authorities” and writ-

ings strange to the language of law.
And more important, it ripped apart
a settled judicial status without sug-
gesting any specific means of en-
forcing the new one. After a year, it
turned the problem over to the Fed-
eral courts in the South, although it
had been clearly pointed out in the
first instance that this was the only
way to implement its decision. That
meant a whole year lost in irrespon-
sible discussions and in extravagant
expectations of a quick and easy
means of integration.

GOVERNMENT BY CONSENT

The second opinion of the Court
(1955) said that a “prompt and rea-
sonable start” toward desegregation
should rest with the courts in the
South “because of their proximity to
local conditions and the possible need
for further hearings.” And it specified
that “the courts which originally heard
these cases can best perform this ju-
dicial appraisal.”

It is not without significance that,
despite the need for judges familiar
with local conditions, the Executive
department permitted a vacancy to
exist in the eastern district of Arkansas
for months. And pending the filling
of the vacancy, there is assigned at
this critical time to this area a judge
from North Dakota.

However, Judge Davies’ order is
the law, and the President had clear
authority to send in the troops. But
precedents are set by this action
which may exacerbate a bitterness
that may last for years.

The basic principle involved is
something we inherited from English
tradition, the consent of the governed.
This I carefully endeavored to de-
fine on one occasion in the following
precise language:

“Consent is real when those in-
volved, freely, knowingly, and with a
part in making the decision, enter into
the benefits and responsibilities in-
volved in carrying out the decision.”

When there are perhaps more than
50 million Americans who believe the
Supreme Court was wrong, such con-
sent is lacking. The fact that Federal
authority, while letter perfect, has
such an impaired support of opinion
is something that everyone concerned
might well keep in mind.

Newsweek, October 7, 1957