Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Our Merchant Marine

by Raymond Moley

The other day in an office high
above New York's Battery, a man
who has spent his life in shipping
paused in our conversation and swung
his swivel chair toward a window
which looks out over the harbor. Several
ships and tugboats were churning
up thin, white wakes on the dark
water far below. After a few moments
he said: "Of course, this has
happened before. But how
silly can we get?"

He was referring to recent
developments concerning an American
enterprise of which those ships are a
part—the merchant marine. Like others
aware of the importance to this country
of a strong merchant marine, he
regards as unwise, if not absurd, the
absence of any provision for new construction
of private and passenger ships in the
President's 1955 budget. He had in
mind, too, the alarming recommendations
of the Randall report touching
upon our merchant fleet.

The cruel lessons of two world wars
should have made indelibly clear the
wisdom of maintaining a merchant
fleet second to none. For in both
wars, the United States and her allies
experienced the harrowing situation
inherent in the absence of adequate
merchant shipping and felt the price
in time, lives, and money. "Battles
might be won or lost," Churchill wrote,
"...but dominating all our power to
carry on the war, or even keep ourselves
alive, lay our mastery of the
ocean routes and the free approach
and entry to our ports." And the U.S.
merchant marine, built up at a cost of
some $16 billion, was essential to victory
in both Europe and the Pacific.

Yet today, while the Soviet threat
is recognized, while a vast defense
establishment is maintained, and
while we bolster the free world with
tremendous quantities of aid, our
merchant marine is fast becoming obsolete
in the face of a healthy resurgence of
foreign shipbuilding. Within ten years, 80
per cent of our cargo and passenger ships
will have seen their day. For defense
purposes an inadequacy of more than 200
vessels exists at present.

Britain leads the way in new ship
construction. Destitute a few years
ago, Germany, Japan, and Italy are
close behind. We lag in seventh
place. And not a single private cargo
or passenger ship is on the ways or is
scheduled for construction in 1955. In
war we have sunk the enemy. In
peace we have scuttled ourselves.

Our merchant-marine policy, however,
as set forth in the Merchant
Marine Act of 1936 and the Long-
Range Shipping Act of
1952, aims at the maintenance
of a merchant fleet in
peacetime which assures
the benefits of national security,
stable commercial
operations, and a continuity
of trade development and
promotion benefiting American
industry. Provisions of
these acts for building-
differential subsidies make
possible a wise program on a year-
to-year basis.

The Randall report, on the other
hand, urges that the United States
consider the availability of foreign
vessels and the importance to foreign
nations of dollar earnings for
shipping services in determining our
active fleet requirements. Such a recommendation
is both unrealistic and
dangerous. In the event of a war,
we cannot expect foreign nations to
make merchantmen available to us.
The contrary would be true, as it
has been in the past.


As for the report's recommendation
that we amend legislation stipulating
that 50 per cent of U.S. foreign-
aid cargoes be shipped by American
flag vessels, it should be said that no
foreign nation would think of giving
our ships a chance at more than a
small fraction of their exports. Already
our merchant marine has slipped to
the point where it carries only 28 per
cent of our imports and exports. Our
actions are double-barreled. We
build up foreign merchant fleets by
direct financial aid. Then we make it
possible for foreign shipping to carry
the huge majority of our trade.
Subsidies in accordance with our
shipping acts, which, incidentally, are
the only government subsidies that
are subject to recapture, plus a sound
shipbuilding program can correct the
unfortunate and inauspicious state of
our maritime affairs.

Newsweek, April 5, 1954