Perspective

On American Highways

by RAYMOND MOLEY

T would be difficult to spend, as I
usual, the rule. Interminable direction
have, nine weeks this spring and inquiries are eliminated by informa-
summer on the highways of 30 states
without recording admiration for the
remarkable job done by those states in
making travel safe, efficient, and at-
tractive. There were two trips—one
from Connecticut to Louisiana and
Texas; another from New York to the
far Northwest, down the Pacific Coast,
and through the midsection
of the continent.

It is most significant to
note that such traveling is
possible because the several
states, especially in postwar
years, have done a job of
construction unparalleled in
history. The Federal gov-
ernment has helped, as it
should, considering the great
importance of interstate
travel. The highway program planned
in 1944 provided for a Federal grant
of $500,000,000 for each of the past
three years, that sum to be matched
by the states. But in those three years
the states themselves and their subdi-
visions have spent many billions more.

Each state learns from the experi-
mentation, the successes, and mistakes
of its neighbors. Some years ago, there
was in Washington great agitation for
vast Federal superhighways from coast
to coast and from north to south. The
idea was not pressed to its ultimate
goal. We escaped the awful monotony
of a grid of autobahns.

State imposts on road users now
cover 60 per cent of highway costs.
The rest comes from local property
taxes and Federal funds. It was agreed
at the Governors’ Conference this sum-
mer at Colorado Springs that still more
of the cost of the highways should be
charged to users.

I noticed vast improvement since I
made similar tours across the coun-
try in 1946 and 1947. California, al-
most swamped with traffic two years
ago, under Governor Warren’s huge
building program is making travel
safer and pleasanter. Despite the
building that is apparent in virtually
all states, the detour horror of twenty
years ago has been all but eliminated.
In the 14,000-odd miles I covered, I
probably spent less than 25 miles in
detours. Skillful road engineering has
made travel as usual, or almost as

tive signs and good free maps.
Better policing, safety education,
and the bitter lessons of experience
have impressed upon drivers the com-
mon sense of reasonable speed. If,
after no little experience, I should sug-
gest a rule for long-distance travel, it
would be that early rising and reason-
able speed make about 350
miles a day an easy task.
The traveler who starts early
covers about 300 miles by
3 o’clock, which leaves time
to ease off and look for
an overnight stop. There
should, however, be better
means to provide the infor-
mation necessary to antici-
pate motor courts and hotels
and to make reservations
well in advance or from day to day.

Old-time delays due to tortuous city
streets have been greatly reduced. The
big cities have done better than their
little brothers. It must be recorded in
all honesty, however, that admiration
for the State of Pennsylvania, which
rises as one traverses its great Turn-
pike, ends in frustration in the mazes
of Pittsburgh.

T seemed to me—and here I wish to
be circumspect—that for highway
quality, road signs, and safety, Michi-
gan and Virginia rate very high. The
sparsely settled upper peninsula of
Michigan is a tourist’s dream of good
roads, light traffic, scenery, and, in this
torrid summer, cool air.

Government builds highways, but
private industry created the immensely
improved machinery that makes rapid
building possible. It also created the
automobile which fathered our high-
way system and which has become a
marvel of efficiency. Beyond routine
service, I had no occasion to stop for
repairs in all those miles. Twenty-five
years ago, I estimated the life of a tire
at 5,000 miles. In the entire length of
this year’s touring I did not find it
necessary to change a tire or to add a
pound of air. Perhaps some reader
will murmur “good luck.” My verdict
is “good tires.”

For all these advantages two Ameri-
can institutions which are often under
attack deserve credit—local state gov-
ernment and free industry.

Newsweek, September 19, 1949