Here's the extracted text from the provided image, focusing on the article and omitting the advertisement:


NEWSWEEK JULY 20, 1942

Perspective

Advertising in Wartime-II

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Every American expects two things
of American industry: first, it’s to pro-
duce the goods necessary to win the
war; second, to produce, when the war is
won, the goods necessary to maintain
American standards of living. The
present preoccupation of American in-
dustry with war production need not
darken the prospect for an ever-higher
standard of living after the war. Just as
we moved effectively from the produc-
tion of peace goods to war goods, so we
can reverse the process. But we can do
it only under two conditions. The basic
organization of our industries must be
maintained, and the American people
must retain their desire for increasing
amounts of the good things of life.
It is elementary that each of these
conditions depends upon the other. If,
by a miracle, we could move our great
industrial plants into a poor and un-
developed country, they would die for
lack of markets. People accustomed to
low living standards could not, except
after a long period, acquire the desire
for high standards. On the other hand,
the American people, because they have
learned to want more, can sustain a
high rate of production. Thus our de-
sires and the means of satisfying these
desires are interdependent. The vital
connection between them is salesman-
ship, including advertising.

The function of wartime advertising
is less to sell goods now than it is to
preserve the connection between the
public and those individuals and com-
panies which satisfied its economic de-
mands before the war. For only by
preserving that dynamic interplay can
our economic system be maintained.
This is now apparent not only to
business but to the leaders of govern-
ment. The President, Cabinet members
and the heads of great war agencies
have joined in recognizing the essential
role that advertising must play in war-
time. But what, specifically, becomes of
advertising under war conditions comes
down to a question not of pleasant re-
assurances but of how government is
actually determining the legitimate place
of advertising in computing taxes and
in computing costs under government
contracts.

Let us look first at Treasury policy.
On May 28, in the course of a general
definition of Treasury policies to pre-
vent war profiteering and tax avoidance,

Secretary Morgenthau stated its posi-
tion. “The test of whether expenditures
for advertising are deductible,” he said,
“is whether they are ordinary and neces-
sary and bear a reasonable relation to
the business activities in which the
enterprise is engaged. This is not in-
tended to exclude institutional advertis-
ing in reasonable amounts or good-will
advertising calculated to influence the
buying habits of the public. If such ex-
penditures are extravagant and out of
proportion to the size of the company
or to the amount of its advertising
budget in the past, or if they are not
directed to public patronage which
might reasonably be expected in the
future, such payments will be disallowed
as deductions.”

This is an admirable statement, care-
fully calculated to protect the govern-
ment and the taxpayer on the one hand,
and, on the other, to protect the legiti-
mate rights of companies engaged in
war work. It suggests, as standards of
judgment, two yardsticks: first, the size
of the company’s business together with
the amount it spent in the past; second,
what may be reasonably expected in the
future.

The emphasis which the Treasury
gives “institutional … or good-will
advertising” is significant. Several other
governmental heads, including the Presi-
dent, have spoken well of such advertis-
ing as a means of helping the war effort
while keeping alive the good name of
producers. In fact, the government has
suggested a number of things which
it regards as useful subjects for such
publicity, such as urging the public to
buy bonds and stamps, recruiting, con-
servation, salvaging and morale building.

Thus on a difficult and, in the past,
a controversial subject, the Treasury
has greatly clarified matters. It is true
that zealous Treasury subordinates will
scrutinize corporation expenditures
closely and that there will be many in-
dividual arguments. But reports from
many companies show that this policy
is working out to the satisfaction of all
concerned.

But the big purchasing agencies, such
as the Army and the Navy, have not
yet clarified policies with regard to ad-
vertising costs allowable in war con-
tracts. The implications of this we shall
consider on this page next week.