Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
At Home and Abroad
by RAYMOND MOLEY

It is now obvious that when the
war is over, the high esteem the public
will have for brave officers and men
who are winning victories abroad and
for the sum total of American industry,
workers and managers will not be shared
by those in Washington who have
labored at the job of mobilizing ma-
terial, food and finances. Fundamental
defects in planning, which were freely
pointed out two and three years ago,
not only make triumphant success in
these sectors impossible, but are daily
being aggravated.

Take the czar angle, for instance. The
trouble with the Washington policy of
creating czars is that the more you
create, the less czarism there is to go
around. Power, unlike baloney, does not
remain the same when you slice it.
When the Maloney bill for a new
civilian supply czar was being debated
the other day, Senator McNary said
sharply: "I recall more than 24
years ago that Mr. Baruch and
Mr. Hoover, one operating in one field
and one in the other, did practically
everything that is being done by all the
agencies operating today, and did it
well."

It is beside the point that the advice
of neither Mr. Baruch nor Mr. Hoover
was followed in setting up our Wash-
ington war machine. For things had
already reached such a pass when Mr.
Baruch was summoned to rescue the
rubber program that unhappy circum-
stance compelled him to recommend a
further dispersal of authority by the
creation of a rubber czar. Why was that
done? It was done because Mr. Nelson,
under whom the rubber program had
failed, could not be further recognized
as an authentic director of all war
production. Nelson's powers were then,
as now, limited to the allocating fune-
tion of the WPB. Despite the broad,
ambiguous language of the President's
order appointing him, he has had to
share even this allocating power with
several other czars.

The Maloney bill is defective in
the same sense and for the same reasons
that all other arrangements in the war
production setup to date have been de-
fective. Basically, it means that in
disputes between two or more czars over
the allocation of materials, the final
decision must be made in the White
House. But in the White House sits Mr.
Byrnes, who is the victim of his own
earnest desire to settle everything by
compromise and of his position as an
assistant president, with all of the fatal
limitations of such a job.

Mr. Byrnes is not really economic
director, in short. Whatever his nominal
position, actually he is only assistant
economic director, and all the czars
know it. He must compromise or fall.
And there are some things that can't
be compromised.

Nelson, an exceedingly able and
sincere man, has lived to see his energy
dissipated by his efforts to hold his job
at all. Meanwhile, because things must
get done somehow, Nelson loses great
chunks of his authority. Rubber, then
food and now probably civilian supply
are taken away.

At the same time, agencies like the
WLB and the OPA find, after the first
honeymoon, that they are married not
to firm and fixed law, but to executive
caprice. So we reach the point where
Congress attempts to do two things-
first, to give an executive agency like
the WLB a clear lawful status, as
through the Smith-Connally bill, and,
second, to overhaul an executive agency,
as through the Maloney bill.

Meantime the inexorable march of
inflation goes on (see Business Tides,
page 68). Subsidies, as suggested in this
column a year ago, are an inevitable
consequence of the failure to grapple
with prices and wages early in the war
effort.

But to use subsidies at this stage of
the game is not, as the Administration
says, to follow the sound example of
Canada and England. They used mild
subsidies very early-long before mat-
ters reached the situation we now con-
front. The justification for subsidies is
primarily that they provide the time
to make the adjustments that will
render them unnecessary, either in ex-
tending enforcement of market regula-
tions or reducing consumption. Without
these achievements, subsidies become
only a postponement of the evil day,
with the prospect that the day will then
be more evil when it comes.

What, the average American will ask,
does all this mean? Fortunately the
disintegration on the Washington home
front will probably not lengthen the
war. Every day reveals new achieve-
ments of a fighting people and an
industry mobilized for war. But the
failures in taxation, price control, and
manpower will immeasurably delay re-
covery from the war.