Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:

**Illinois and Connecticut**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CHICAGO—A revealing anthology might be made of the meat-shortage explanations by Democrats in various states. Mayor Ed Kelly has brushed aside petty answers. He takes the missing bull by the horns. He tells his multitudinous constituents that the issue is meat or money. Under Democrats, the toiler may have no meat. But under Republicans, the toiler had no money. Forget your stomachs, remember your money, he says. The issue is "humanitarian government."

As Kelly sat calmly and confidently in his office, his youthful demeanor belying his 70 years, he certainly revealed no worries about his own political future, although the results this fall may have a heavy bearing on next spring's election for mayor. Republican Gov. Dwight H. Green's future is also at stake. He looks to 1948; Kelly, to 1947. Col. Bertie McCormick, more active than ever, looks to the cosmic future of the Republic, self-contained.

The statewide ticket is not important. The Cook County ticket, however, is vital to Mayor Kelly. His county slate will carry, and the Republican state ticket will no doubt win. But the size of these majorities will determine several Congressional seats. Two Democratic seats in Cook County are doubtful. At least one Republican district downstate might change. And another Democratic seat, in the East St. Louis district, will swing with the tide.

But is there a tide? Mayor Kelly thinks there isn't. Political reporters are cautious on the subject. The Cook County Democracy has lost some Poles on the Communist issue, but it has gained strength among Negroes. The Democratic party downstate is better organized this year. Also, an old election law which enabled Republican farmers to vote by affidavit has been repealed.

A cautious guess is that the Republicans may gain three seats. This assumes no big tide, which may set in and which, as far as anybody can tell, may already be here. We shall know much more in two weeks.

HARTFORD—Connecticut voters may well place in the list of 1948 Republican possibilities the name of Raymond E. Baldwin, three-term governor and almost a sure winner of the senatorship. The Democratic convention, faced by a Baldwin sweep, nominated for senator a man named Joseph M. Tone, who has toiled unobtrusively in Washington's Labor Department. There are those who called him the "kamikaze candidate."

Chester Bowles's friends in left-wing journals say that Democratic bosses Cummings and McMahon beat him in the convention because they were afraid to make him governor. But the better and more plausible explanation in this hard-bitten state is that Bowles didn't have enough delegates. The Connecticut convention—like the Connecticut legislature, heavily loaded with rural elements—simply filed Bowles away with the old ration books.

The race for the governorship is what college people call intramural. Prof. Wilbert Snow, a poet-professor and Democrat from Wesleyan, is running against his former boss, ex-President James L. McConaughy. I am afraid that we professors will have to defer celebrating the victory of a professor over a college president until Ray Baldwin is not running.

Speaking of professors, the only present Connecticut member of Congress who is likely to return to Washington is Chase Going Woodhouse, a professor of economics. Mrs. Woodhouse looks good for another semester, if there isn't too much Baldwin.

The perch lately occupied by Clare Boothe Luce is being sought by John Davis Lodge, formerly an actor and presently billed as "The Senator's Grandson." The Democrats have offered him a weighty opponent, Lt. Col. Henry A. Mucci, an authentic hero of heroes in the Philippines campaign.

Another Republican congressman, Joseph E. Talbot, is not running, but his district should go Republican. In Hartford, there is a biennial revival, Congressman Herman Koppelman vs. W. J. Miller. In the past, Koppelman won when Roosevelt ran, and Miller when he didn't. Roosevelt isn't running this year. Congressmen James P. Geelan and Joseph F. Ryter are neither poets, peasants, professors, actors, playwrights nor Republicans. This handicap may be fatal in a Baldwin year.