Here's a text version of the provided article, respecting column breaks.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the complexity of the original layout:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Phony Union Reform
by Raymond Moley

IT WOULD be easy this week to write
a piece concerning official impro-
prieties, vicuña coats, rugs, and the
mystery of Sherman Adams. But that
hullabaloo is based not on the merits
of the issue but on its probable in-
fluence politically upon voters who
refuse to bother their minds with
more important matters pending in
Washington. True, it will influence
countless votes. True, also, Adams has
revealed either stupidity or a callous
disregard for the welfare of his party,
for the President who has so implicitly
trusted him, and for the need for
higher standards in the public life of
the nation. But more important mat-
ters are before Congress, affecting not
only the integrity of our democratic
processes but the solvency and safety
of our institutions.

Among those subjects before Con-
gress and the country is legislation
which will restore labor unions to
their proper place in the economy and
political life of the country, which will
protect the worker from exploitation
by union bosses, and which will sub-
ject those unions to the same legis-
lative regulations with which all other
groups, associations, and corporations
must comply.

It has been evident for months that
because of his strategic committee
memberships, his importance to the
plans of the Democratic Party, and his
relationship with Senator McClellan
and with his brother Robert, there
would either be legislation to the lik-
ing of Sen. John Kennedy or no legis-
lation at all. It has also been evident,
because of Kennedy's speeches and
statements, that union bosses would
have nothing to fear from him or
his legislation.

THE CENTRAL PROBLEM

And so the great crusade lies low,
pierced with the arrows of polit-
ical expediency.

The milk-and-water bill passed by
a tired and talk-stricken Senate in-
cludes only a few of the more im-
portant but still insubstantial reforms
advocated by the President and Sec-
retary Mitchell.

The central problem, to which only
a slight gesture is made by the bill, is
the public interest in union finances. I
say "public" because it is not only the
interests of union members that
should be protected, but the general
public itself. For these brimming
treasuries of the unions are, when
hidden from adequate public and offi-
cial inspection, a threat to our po-
litical system.

The bill does have provisions con-
cerning the disclosure of union fi-
nances. But it is doubtful whether the
disclosure required will bring into the
open the extent to which union funds
are used for purposes wholly alien to
the proper bargaining activities of un-
ions. Moreover, Title Six of the bill
would seriously weaken provisions of
the Taft-Hartley Act.

THE NEGLECTED ISSUE

The most important purpose for
which union funds are used outside
collective bargaining has to do with
political activity for or against candi-
dates for Congress and the State
Legislatures. This includes vilifying
in their publications candidates of
whom the union bosses disapprove
and praising those who will do their
bidding. Political pressure also mani-
fests itself in throwing into campaigns
almost unlimited manpower through
control of union officers, members, and
shop stewards. Already such activity
has given several senators who voted
for the bill the vote margin which
put them in office.

All this has been neglected by
the Kennedy legislation, by the
Eisenhower-Mitchell proposals, the
Kennedy-Ives bill, and the long
McClellan hearings. The three mem-
bers of the committee who have
tirelessly worked to have this sub-
ject investigated-Senators Mundt,
Goldwater, and Curtis-have been
thwarted by the chairman and the
majority of the committee itself, es-
pecially in the Kohler hearings.

Senator McClellan accepts the
phony reforms of the Kennedy-Ives
bill as all that can be gotten this year,
and he asks us to wait until the new
Congress assembles for more. But
there will be many more in that Con-
gress who will owe their election to
the unions. And so the senator from
Arkansas has marched up a high hill,
but when the very citadel has been
reached he has decided to sit down
and wait another year.

Newsweek, June 30, 1958