Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  I have focused on the main article text, leaving out the advertisements on the left.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality and column layout.


The Beau of New York

The following review is by Raymond
Moley, a contributing editor of NEWS-
WEEK, who in 1931-32 was an assistant to
Samuel Seebury in his investigation into
municipal corruption in New York City.
During Mayor Walker's subsequent hear-
ing in Albany, Moley was an adviser to
Governor Roosevelt on matters of policy.

James John Walker, sometime mayor
of New York, was the product, the hero,
the flower, and finally the victim of an
age that is gone. That is what Gene Fow-
ler tells with deep understanding, unaf-
fected candor, unpedantic justice, and
fine skill in his "Beau James: The Life
and Times of Jimmy Walker."

Many others have, for better or worse,
written of those fabulous times, but epi-
sodically, with halts and starts and
choppy interest. Fowler strings his flash-
backs in a glittering panorama which to
those who lived before and during the
'20s will be an absorbing means of re-
capturing memories. For those who were
too young to know those years, it will
document and unify what they have
heard and imagined.

The stereotype of the '20s now filed
away in history and literature was in the
main the New York City of that time.
For most of the characteristic factors of
that festival were in and of New York.
Gene Fowler qualifies not only as an ac-
tor in many of these events he describes
but as a sharp-eyed witness and conscien-
tious reporter.

His book flashes before us generous
giving and rapacious taking, stocks and
bonds, rackets, Dusenbergs, Rolls-Royces,
champagne, the fabulous old Central
Park Casino, the theater, visiting royalty,
heroic idols, ticker tape, suicide, mur-
der, clowns, phonies, dissipated genius,
waste, plenty, and, as Machiavelli said
of an earlier time, "high thinking and
low living."

And since our hero must be followed,
there are also Paris, Rome, Venice, Na-
ples, Atlanta, Havana, and Palm Springs.
And franchise grabbing, subway manip-
ulation, and high politics. Freely mixed
with politics, there are in the heldenleben
wit, song, and romance; caprice, jealousy,
and desertion; love, faith, hope, and charity;
disaster, frustration, and retribution;
defeat, exile, and disease; contrition,
prayer, and ghostly absolution; humilia-
tion, despondency, and death.

Never Elected: Little, bright lov-
able Jimmy, born in a comfortable home,
son of a decent minor Tammany figure,
didn't really care for politics. He liked
songs and music and happy companions.
He wanted to write songs. He learned
music by ear and played by ear; as a
statesman, he learned by ear and acted on
instinct. His father and his father's


Walker (with Jones): Fabulous
friends planned his career. Jimmy didn't
elect a career in statecraft. He never
elected. Always he was elected. He
drifted into law and public life, but his
heart tarried on Broadway.

The austere Charles Francis Murphy,
whose life was a symphony of horsehair
sofas and roll-top desks, was amused by
and interested in this little man of charm
and color. He promoted him from the
Assembly to the State Senate and, no
doubt, played covertly with the idea of
higher honors.

It was Al Smith, Tammany, and later
Edward J. Flynn, the new boss of the
Bronx, who decided that the bumbling
Mayor John F. Hylan had to be ousted
and that Walker fitted the need for sharp
contrast and attractive vote bait. And so
Jimmy became mayor of New York, with
all the perquisites and power of that great
office. Fowler says Walker worked hard at
the job for exactly six weeks. Then his


Walker (with Seabury): Helpless