Perspective
Tokenism I
by Raymond Moley

CCORDING to Mother Goose, the old
A woman who lived in a shoe was
confronted with limited housing and
also with a brood which as it grew in-
creased its demands for space. So she
bought a limited respite by giving the
children broth without any bread.
That was tokenism.

This word has been used in the Ne-
gro press to express its unhappiness
with legislation which, the editors say,
gives the appearance without the sub-
stance of rights and privileges.

Perhaps the old woman who lived
in a shoe might have had more fore-
sight. But her dilemma suggests that
of politicians who have made vast
promises but never look far ahead.

The fiscal dilemma faced by Presi-
dent Kennedy is like that which
confronted Presidents Truman and
Eisenhower. It will face other Presi-
dents, regardless of party.

On the one hand there is the situa-
tion described by Professor Parkinson
in his two best sellers. The bureauc-
racy always elevates its sights to all
the available revenue. And then new
demands raise tax rates to a point of
diminishing returns.

APPLYING PARKINSON

I don't recall whether Parkinson
noted that the bureaucracy's pressure
to spend is augmented by the excited
expectations of large groups of
prospective beneficiaries. In their
scramble for votes politicians ignite
demands in individuals and pressure
groups by lavish and irresponsible
promises. These appetites reached a
giddy height in the Roosevelt years
before the war. We were told that
one-third of the nation was ill-housed,
ill-clothed, and ill-fed. The implication
that the Federal government could
supply the claimed deficiency had a
seeming plausibility in those years.

Tax rates were, by comparison with
present rates, relatively low, and the
national debt had not mounted to its
present high level.

The crop of prewar promises has
been plentifully watered by reckless
postwar promises. These have ma-
tured into political demand drafts.

Meanwhile, the high tax rates fixed
as emergency measures in two wars
have been measurably maintained.
Efforts to exact more money by tink-
ering with the tax laws have been
and will be relatively ineffective.
Also, the growth of the economy,
which provides more revenue from
the same rates, has inevitably settled
into a relatively small percentage.
Despite opulent promises, this cannot
be increased much, and it cannot be
raised much by anything the govern-
ment can do. Few economists and
fewer congressmen believe that by
raising rates there can be anything
but diminishing returns. It may well
be that we have already passed the
fatal point and that only by easing
some tax rates might there result
greater economic growth and also in-
creased revenues.

PEANUTS FOR SCHOOLS

Congress has a way of superfi-
cially covering its embarrassment
by "back door" spending, which
means continuing withdrawals from
the Treasury which do not appear as
real annual appropriations. It has also
found many ways to levy hidden
taxes. But this does not suffice, for
the bills must be paid in revenues.
And so the President and Congress
must resort to token payments on the
promise account. This is accentuated
now because President Kennedy is
quite aware that excessive spending,
resulting in deficits and inflation, will
bear heavily upon the international
status of the dollar. There is the
flight of gold to be considered.

Many examples could be cited,
such as the proposals for depressed
areas, aid to education, and housing.
If the teachers and administrators
would carefully examine the amount
of real aid they would get from the
President's plan, they would realize
that the change in their financial sta-
tus would be almost negligible. For
the total amount of Federal aid to ele-
mentary and high schools would be
in the neighborhood of 3 per cent of
the present annual cost. Then they
must realize the grants to a state are
designed to be divided into three
parts: An increase in the number of
teachers, school construction, and
teachers' salaries.

But the most vivid example of to-
kenism is in the Administration's plan
for public housing. That I shall show
in some detail in next week's article.

Newsweek, May 8, 1961