Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Is Stassen Fading Away?
by RAYMOND MOLEY

MINNEAPOLIS—The major casualty in
President Truman's cute trick of
appointing to a Federal judgeship the
Republican governor of this state,
Luther W. Youngdahl, is Harold
Stassen. That Stassen is well aware of
this is shown by his bitter comment
about the selection or, as he would
put it, the seduction, of his friend
the governor. There will now be no
popular Youngdahl to help
Stassen get the Minnesota
delegation to the Republi-
can convention—a delega-
tion which in the Stassen
plans was to do for Stassen
and, if that were to fail, to
do and if necessary to die
for Eisenhower. It is now
not at all clear that Stassen
will have the support of
the Minnesota delegation.

It is quite probable that Stassen's
long ascendency in Minnesota Repub-
lican politics is ended. This loss of a
native state is a mortal blow to a native
son in politics. He will be a prophet—
any university president must be more
or less of a prophet—but without much
power in his own country.

A long succession of incidents, some
of which involved poor political judg-
ment, has whittled away the Stassen
prestige and influence in this state.
The man who will succeed Youngdahl
as governor, C. Elmer Anderson, has a
good reason to feel no enthusiasm
about Stassen. For in 1942, when
Stassen ran with the announced
intention of resigning to join the
Navy, Anderson was unceremoniously
ousted from the Minnesota lieutenant
governorship in order to make room
for Edward J. Thye, who then served
as governor and as U.S. senator.

THE Republican organization in the
state, which is a going, effective
concern, has been put on many a
tough spot by Stassen and is not likely
to submit further. Republican regulars
think they can now survive without
their young statesman. The public
forgets the Stassen of prewar days.
When statesmen go forth to the far
spaces of the world, home fires die
and memories grow dim. "Stassen?
Oh, yes. He was a great fellow. He
went off—somewhere—long ago."
There are those who have felt for a
long time that Harold has considered

his home state as a means rather than
an end. In 1940 the state delegation
at the Philadelphia convention favored
Taft. What was their surprise when
they heard their governor eloquently
nominate Wendell Willkie. In 1942
Stassen made the extraordinary re-
quest of the electorate that it select
him for governor with the proviso that
he resign after the first months of the
term and join the Navy. The
electorate complied. In 1948
the state organization and
many substantial Minnesota
citizens contributed energy
and treasure for Stassen's
hopeless quest for the nomi-
nation. Now Stassen seems
to want the delegation for
himself first and then, if he
so decrees, for Eisenhower.
This is about the last straw.

But Mr. Truman has broken the cam-
el's back and saved old friends from
the pain of breaking it themselves.
In 1949, at the instance of Stassen's
friends, the legislature passed a new
Presidential primary law. It provided
that the Minnesota primary come be-
fore that of Wisconsin, which would
rivet national attention on the result.
It would make it easy for a number of
the prominent candidates to file and
thus to have a spectacular test of
strength. Stassen's advantage in such a
test would be like that of the Boston
Red Sox in playing in Fenway Park.

BUT now Stassen's chances, even in
such a test, would be rather less
than equal. It is Taft who looms as the
choice of Minnesota Republicans.
To make matters worse for Stassen,
the new governor may call the legis-
lature and the legislature may repeal
or drastically amend this Stassen pri-
mary law. Good reasons for this action
will be to save half a million dollars
for what would really be national
entertainment and also the fact that
the law may be unconstitutional.
Despite Minnesota's propensity to
elect left wingers occasionally, the
state is substantially conservative. Its
Republican leader from here on will
undoubtedly be Roy Dunn, national
committeeman and leader of the legis-
lature for many years. The Repub-
lican Party will remain a strong and
probably dominant force, despite the
decline of Stassen.

Newsweek, July 30, 1951