Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

Mixed Medicine

by Raymond Moley

UNCLE SAM is already deep in the
business of health and medical
care. Twenty Federal departments,
agencies, and commissions have medical-health budgets, amounting to
more than $4.4 billion annually. The
amounts spent by three alone—
Health, Education, and Welfare;
Defense, and the Veterans Administration—total $3 billion. Beyond this,
a very large amount is provided for
payments to the disabled.

Much of this activity is sound and
desirable. But somewhere there must
be a limit if any part of the problem
of health and medical care is to be
left to individual and cooperative administration and decision-making. In
short, how rich a mixture of government intervention can safely be introduced in this area of welfare?

The King-Anderson bill for the
aged would cost from $1 billion to
$3 billion at the outset, and much
more as the years pass.

The basic question is not whether
this sum can be safely taken from
American incomes, but whether the
quality of care will be adequate under the plan proposed. Is government
equipped to assume this new and
immense responsibility? Undeniably,
as the size of a government operation
increases, efficiency declines.

While the proponents of the King-
Anderson bill attempt to brush aside
the medical profession as a selfish special interest, the elderly who would
be eligible under such legislation
must remember that their interests
are directly involved in those of the
hospitals and the staff doctors.

CONTROL OVER HOSPITALS

It is estimated that 50,000 doctors
are directly employed in the hospitals
—pathologists, radiologists, psychiatrists, anesthetists, interns, and residents. There is also a limited number
of nurses, technicians, and other
trained hospital personnel. Since the
bill by its very terms would place a
large measure of control over the
hospitals in the hands of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and his bureaucrats, all those
who work or practice in the hospitals
would be affected.

In 1950 I had the opportunity to
talk with Aneurin Bevan, who was then the British Minister of Health
and a dedicated socialist. I asked him
how he proposed to control the medical profession. He replied: "We have
got the hospitals, and that means we
will control the doctors. They can’t
practice without places to practice.”

There is already a shortage of doctors, nurses, and hospital facilities in
the United States. It is true that a
large proportion of potential eligibles
are physically not in need of care.
Others have adequate private means
or insurance. And still others can now
get medical care through philanthropic agencies. But once the gates
are opened by the proposed scheme,
millions will decide to save their
money, drop their insurance, and take
advantage of the opportunity. A host
who are not in real physical need will
crowd the admitting rooms.

POTENTIAL VICTIMS

The hospitals will feel the greatest
strain because, under the bill, a patient cannot have nursing-home care
unless he enters a hospital first. And
so many will leave the nursing homes
where they now reside and only after
a spell in the hospital be returned to
the nursing homes.

The burden on the hospitals and
those who serve them will be overwhelming. The dangers now apparent
wherever hospitals are overcrowded
will be vastly magnified. Large numbers of nurses and orderlies and others
will have to be recruited, with less
and less attention to their qualifications. Under these conditions the situation will become chaotic. For new
hospitals cannot be built overnight,
nor competent personnel trained.
There would inevitably be diminishing attention to really serious cases.
And the dangers resulting from inefficiency would multiply. As has been
the case in Britain, those who require
the most care would be victims of
overcrowding of facilities by those
with minor ailments.

This stark fact should be faced by
elderly people and their relatives and
children who are being so vigorously
rallied by the President and by other
proponents of the King-Anderson bill.
For they would suffer most from this
carelessly conceived and politically
promoted scheme.

Newsweek, June 25, 1962