Here's the extracted text from the right-hand column of the provided image.  I've attempted to preserve the original formatting as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the complexities of the original layout.


Perspective

The Presidency
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Not the least of the features of this, because he would have been
the late campaign was what happened hounded to death for dragging a grisly
to the massive institution of the Presi- irrelevance into the campaign. He
dency. Organization Democrats far would have been smeared from Dan
and near acted as if they were ashamed to Beersheba.
of their own President. His name was And so a campaign was fought in
barely mentioned in speeches and the dark.
campaign literature. With an eye to It was tragic that President Roose-
the Gallup polls, which indicated a velt should have been urged to run.
drop in Mr. Truman’s popularity from Those who cared more for him than
a honeymoon percentage of for victory did not press him
87 per cent to an October to be a candidate. And now
brown of 32 per cent, they comes the testimony of an
decided that he was to be honest man and as loyal a
written off as a loss. Repub- friend as Mr. Roosevelt ever
licans made the most of him had, Vice Admiral Ross T.
as an issue. He was sur- McIntire. In his revealing
rounded by Communists and and important book “White
bunglers, they said. He was House Physician,” he says
weak and wobbly. Congress of the advice he gave,
must seize the reins from his after his consultants had
faltering hands. reported that the President
Upon the Republicans was organically sound:
blame must rest for a strategy which “In private talk with the President,
evaded the presentation of a strong however, I could and did go beyond
case for themselves and depended on the checkups, frankly stating my fears.
this fatal weakness in their opposition. There was his age to be considered and
An equally important condemnation twelve years of grueling strain such as
is due the Democratic political leader- no other Chief Executive had ever
ship for what it has done to an insti- been called upon to bear. With proper
tution basic in our national prestige care and strict adherence to rules, I
at home and abroad. gave it as my best judgment that his
The little people who dominate po- chances of winning through to 1948
litical matters in the Administration were good.” He italicizes the word
are, to a degree, responsible for what “good.”
has happened to the Presidency. Take The plain fact, revealed in Admiral
a small item as an example. It has been McIntire’s interesting pages, is that
a feature of Washington political life the President did not adhere to the
in the past year for politicians to attain rules.
puny prestige by getting the President Admiral McIntire says, further, that
out of the White House to attend this when the campaign reached an exciting
or that politico-social function at their state, “the President waved my objec-
homes or under their auspices. Granted tions aside and scheduled speeches in
that the President himself should real- Washington, New York, Boston and
ize that this demeans his office. But Chicago.” And so on to the end.
his political friends have been more Admiral McIntire cannot be
concerned with their competitive posi- blamed. His case is clearly made out.
tion among their cronies than with the But what of those who urged the Pres-
integrity of the Presidency. They have ident to run and those who urged his
put exploitation above respect. added exertions?
The thing goes back to a sordid In any event, Mr. Truman is now
day at the Chicago Democratic con- the President, with all the deep signifi-
vention in 1944. Some of us who sat cance that attends the institution of
in the press section through the reeking the Presidency. He is the spokesman
oratory that attended the nomination and personal embodiment of the na-
of the Vice Presidential candidate tion in world affairs. Hundreds of mil-
knew that most of those self-seeking lions of human beings conceive of na-
people felt in their hearts that they tions in terms of their institutions. It
were nominating a President. That’s would be unfortunate if either the
what all the shouting was about, and President’s friends, his enemies or he
some orators all but said that their himself should permit respect for his
candidates were young and vigorous office to decline further in the two
men. But no commentator dared reveal years ahead.