Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and column layout.  Some minor inaccuracies may remain.


**New Conservatism in Texas**

by Raymond Moley

AUSTIN—The two new outstanding political figures in Texas, Allan Shivers, Governor, and Price Daniel, Attorney General, represent something strong, aggressive, and new in the state and, I believe, in the nation. That is a new conservatism, no longer intimidated by the gibe of the socialists that the past is bad, but bravely asserting that the future may be glorious and fruitful and at the same time owe much to the past. Shivers is leading the movement to break the Democratic Party away from the domination of the present regime that controls the national Democratic Party through the Executive branch of the Federal government. He is a candidate for reelection as governor. Daniel will undoubtedly succeed Tom Connally in the U.S. Senate.

I became aware of how this new conservatism is sweeping Texas two and a half years ago, when in the course of a visit to the state I had the pleasure of speaking before an assembly of university students. Those students, unlike many that can be found in our colleges throughout the land, were sharply antagonistic to the propaganda, so largely pervading the academic world, that envisions the American destiny to be shrouded in the vestments of the socialist welfare state. These Texas students were raring to have a go at a world in which competition and not collectivism would prevail. They saw that a real new deal for this country should be away from, rather than toward government intervention in our life. Like Shivers and Daniel, they were not inventing a crusade. They were discovering and giving articulation to something deep and indigenous to the American temperament. This sentiment has now flared into open revolt.

In several other respects Shivers and Daniel are alike. Both are fairly young. The governor is 45 and the attorney general 42. Both came up the way so often followed by Texas statesmen. They studied law, went to the state legislature, and attained prominence there. They dabbled in newspaper publishing. Shivers, in addition, has extensive business interests. Fortunately, there are two major jobs open to these men. Otherwise, we would probably have seen a fierce political contest. For as is the way with human nature, the two aggressive, ambitious young men operating in the same environment have been rivals rather than partners. That fact can be sensed in any conversation with their respective friends. But they observe good terms in their mutual relations. Ideologically, they are as one. Their statements on national issues are almost identical. They oppose Federal creeping socialism, extravagance, and corruption. They oppose further Federal invasion of the traditional province of state authority. They both make the retention of the tidelands by the states a major issue, and they favor the solution of the civil-rights question by state or voluntary action. On foreign policy, Daniel is opposed to the course followed by Truman and Acheson, but, he says: "We must stand firm in Europe and get firm in the Far East."

Since Shivers is to be the leader of what he calls "the Democratic Party of Texas," he has been the spokesman and policymaker in the fight to wrest control from the Federal machine down here, which flatters itself with the name "loyalists." The way for Texas, Shivers says, is "a free and local Democratic Party." According to Shivers, Texas wants no part of an "impotent and warring Republican Party."

THE Shivers course from here to November is to move from convention to convention and month to month without pledges in advance. With respect to the course of his group at the Chicago convention he says: "We must see the black and white of the platform and the color of the eyes of the candidate. The Democratic Party in Texas is to be dealt with during and, if necessary, after the national convention." Without naming him, Shivers makes it fairly clear that he is unalterably opposed to Kefauver. Shivers makes it clear, too, that this is no mere sectional movement. It is a fight to save the Democratic Party from socialism and Federalism. Fundamentally, it is an expression of a new national conservatism.

Newsweek, May 12, 1952