Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Quackery or Experience?
by Raymond Moley

A SPENDING spree, with or without a
tax cut, seems inevitable in the
hysterical atmosphere now prevailing
in Washington. Congress and the Ad-
ministration, Republicans and Demo-
crats alike, in seeming agreement with
most economists are possessed of the
conviction that the government can
spend itself into recovery with bor-
rowed money. Never have so many
been held by a belief that has never
been proved and that runs counter to
all experience and rational calculation
—unless we go back to the days of
witchcraft, the Mississippi bubble, or
the dogma of a flat earth.

The January budget is dead. With
or without a tax cut, great deficits for
this year and next are inevitable. The
debt limit of $280 billion will be in-
adequate by $10 billion or $15 billion.
An unprecedented situation prevails
in which employment is falling while
prices are rising.

Democrats are completely oblivious
to a bit of experience on which
they successfully carried elections in
Roosevelt’s name for eighteen years;
Republicans are scuttling the tradi-
tions of their party.

ROOSEVELT’S 1933 POLICY

Not for the sake of mere reminis-
cence, but to offer valid proof, it is
appropriate to recall what happened
in March exactly 25 years ago. Then,
as now, there were advocates of def-
icit spending as a means of stemming
a vastly greater economic blight than
the current one. Included among such
advocates were elements as dissimi-
lar as Al Smith, John N. Garner, and
the Hearst press, along with econo-
mists like Rex Tugwell. All through
the campaign of 1932, F.D.R. was
pressured to come out for a $5 billion
make-work program. He refused be-
cause he said there were not in sight
more than a billion dollars’ worth of
useful projects. When he took over
in March 1933, during the bank holi-
day the pressure intensified. Lewis
Douglas and I were very close to him
then, and we agreed with him that
economy, not spending, was the
proper remedy. Moreover, F.D.R.’s
sharp political sense told him that a
move for economy would be success-
ful only in the very first days of his
Presidential honeymoon. And so he
determined that in the first week of
the special session of Congress two
and only two measures should be
passed, an emergency banking act and
an economy bill giving him a sharp ax
to cut government expenses.

Within a week after his inaugura-
tion Douglas and I were summoned,
the former to prepare a bill and I to
draft a message. We worked fever-
ishly, I well remember, in the Lincoln
study, with the President in the next
room checking and approving. Mes-
sage and bill went to Congress on
March 10. The bill was signed by the
President on March 20. The message
speaks for itself and states a policy
that will be ignored at the peril of this
Congress and this Administration.

CONFIDENCE CAN DO IT

It first recited the mounting deficits
of three successive years and an esti-
mate of 1934. Then:

“With the utmost seriousness I
point out to the Congress the pro-
found effect of this upon our national
economy. It has contributed to the
recent collapse of our banking struc-
ture. It has accentuated the stagna-
tion of the economic life of our people.
It has added to the ranks of the un-
employed... Upon the unimpaired
credit of the United States Govern-
ment rest the safety of deposits, the
security of insurance policies, the ac-
tivity of our industrial enterprises, and
the value of our agricultural products, and
therefore, becomes our first concern. It,
therefore, becomes our first concern
to make secure the foundation. Na-
tional recovery depends upon it. Too
often in recent history liberal govern-
ments have been wrecked on the
rocks of loose fiscal policy.”

The bill was appropriately named
“An Act to Maintain the Credit of the
United States Government.”

This and the cure of the banking
illness loosed a great tide of public
confidence. The worst was over. In
June 1933, F.D.R. compromised on
$3.3 billion for public works, but
shrewdly gave it to Harold Ickes, who
cautiously spent only 3 per cent of
it in twelve months.

Confidence, not tax cuts or spend-
ing, is the proper course. The
1933 policy worked. Why turn to
quackery now?

Newsweek, March 31, 1958