Perspective

Nixon's Role and Plans

by Raymond Moley

LOS ANGELES—Various digs and ru-
mors have appeared in print in the
past months which are designed to in-
dicate that former Vice President
Nixon is something less than popular
within the Republican Party. It may
be that some of these emanate from
Democratic quarters, which have al-
ways sought to give the appearance of
being greatly concerned for the wel-
fare of their political opponents.
Others have come from those who
favor some of Nixon's rivals for future
leadership in Republican affairs. The
facts controvert such digs and rumors.

It is said that John Tower when
running for the Texas senatorship did
not want Nixon's help. The fact is that
at the outset of his campaign Tower
did seek the help of Nixon. After con-
sideration, Tower's Republican man-
agement decided that to introduce a
number of national figures into the
campaign in Texas would raise the cry
of "carpetbagging" from Tower's op-
position. If Nixon went into Texas,
they believed, it would be likely that
President Kennedy, Vice President
Johnson, and Speaker Rayburn would
enter. And that Texas would be made
merely a ground for a national battle.
This would measurably injure pride,
so apparent in Texas—as if to say that
a state which was once an independ-
ent nation could not look after its
own affairs.

Senator Goldwater went in, but
since he is the chairman of the Senate
committee charged with electing Re-
publican senators everywhere, his
presence was proper and necessary.

THE CALIFORNIA QUESTION

After his election, Tower went to
Nixon in Washington to seek his ad-
vice in his Senatorial activities.

It is also said that Governor
Rockefeller feels that Nixon's help in
his campaign for re-election would not
be helpful. The fact is that Rockefeller
has invited Nixon to appear as a
speaker at a Republican fund-raising
dinner this fall.

The policy of James P. Mitchell in
running his campaign for the gover-
norship of New Jersey is that he
wants all three of the possible ri-
vals for Republican leadership—Nixon,
Goldwater, and Rockefeller—or none.
There is less danger of the charge
of "carpetbagging" in New Jersey.
That state, unlike Texas, never had
the experience with solicitous North-
ern meddlers that was present in the
South during Reconstruction days.
Nixon is also on the receiving end
of a tremendous volume of unsolicited
advice about what he should do with
his life in the next two or three
years. The pressure to run for the
governorship of California is very
strong. He has made no decision and
does not intend to for some time.

INDEPENDENT DECISION

In California, Republican leaders
regard Nixon as the most likely—in-
deed, the only—Republican who can
oust Governor Brown from his job.
Nixon must consider the blame which
will fall upon him if another Republi-
can runs and loses. The claim by Re-
publicans that Nixon must hold a
public job to maintain a position as
leader is spurious. History shows that
many a former candidate remained
just as eminent with no public office.

And there is also the consideration
that if Nixon runs for governor he
must promise to serve out his four-
year term. Besides, the governorship
is a full-time job. To run would pre-
empt his time and prevent him from
helping to elect Republican senators
and congressmen in 1962.

There are many who favor a ref-
erendum on the bill passed by the
California Legislature gerrymander-
ing the state in favor of Democratic
congressmen and legislators. If a ref-
erendum is put on the ballot in 1962,
the 30 present districts will remain
the same, and eight congressmen will
be elected at large. It is urged by
some that if Nixon ran for the House
on such a slate, he would be an out-
standing man in the House of Rep-
resentatives from January 1963 on.
That is also a possible course.

Meanwhile, there is no lack of evi-
dence of Nixon's great popularity over
the nation. Hundreds of invitations to
speak, and tens of thousands of letters
indicate that.

Nixon must be regarded as no reed
swayed by the wind. He will decide
his course himself, just as he always
has. That is a trait which has always
distinguished this resolute and highly
talented figure in public life.

Newsweek, July 10, 1961