Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Essence of Reutherism

by Raymond Moley

A REMARKABLE interview with
Walter Reuther was recently
tape-recorded for The Sunday Times
of London and was reprinted in The
New Republic of July 21. Either in
speeches, or in demands upon em-
ployer companies, or in his actions,
the strands of Reuther's philosophy
have appeared before. But here they
are, tied together in a neat package—
ominous, comprehensive, and revolu-
tionary. The proof of his intentions lies
in what he has already accomplished.
"The American labor movement," he
assures the British, "is as radical as the
European labor movement." But he
refrains from using their labels, such
as socialism, planned economy, Marx-
ism, or Fascism, although in essence
his program is practically identical
with the last. He maintains that re-
forms would be within the four cor-
ners of a "free" economy and our
constitutional system. Indeed, the
late Justice Frank Murphy in 1942, in
the Schneiderman case, said that the
objectives of any "ism," even Commu-
nism, could be accomplished within
the American Constitution. No origi-
nal thinker himself, Murphy, while
governor of Michigan, probably
learned this during his close collabo-
ration with Reuther.

It has been clear that Reuther's ef-
forts to secure first a pension plan and
then supplementary unemployment
compensation were to bring industrial
management to his side in efforts to
get the government to give more. He
says that within "48 hours" after Ford
succumbed to his pension plan "we
got action out of Congress that we
were unable to get in twelve years."

A PLANNED ECONOMY

The objective in all Reuther strat-
egy is to "make private decisions more
publicly responsible." To do this, "we
want" a "government clearinghouse, a
place where you can have a top group
periodically sit down and evaluate,
and based upon their evaluation and
their recommendation have the pri-
vate decisions then attempt to trans-
late and implement these broad
policies." This is precisely what so-
cialists call national planning. It is
government imposing its will upon all
economic life.

On many occasions Reuther has made clear that this super-group
should be composed of one-third
management, one-third labor union,
and one-third government. This means
that to gain control of all planning,
the unions must control the third
member-government. "The solution,"
says Reuther, "has got to be economic
and political."

He rejects a "labor party" because
"a political party to succeed has to
have groups that go way beyond labor
as a group." In short, the bulk of
workers would be too conservative,
since so many have moved into the
middle-income brackets. The groups
he has in mind that go "beyond labor"
toward collectivism would be leftist
farm organizations, public-power pres-
sure people, the ADA (in which he is
already a principal figure), certain
teachers' organizations, and generally
the pink "intellectuals" (who include
a good many individuals of wealth).

POLITICAL CONTROL

There is no better example of the
sort of coalition he has in mind than
the Democrats of Texas—DOT—di-
rected and largely financed by CIO
units, which has just re-elected Ralph
Yarborough to the Senate with almost
twice his 1957 vote.

Reuther's ridiculous claim is that
the aim is to "work with" but not
"capture" the Democratic Party. This
is a subtle trap for those conservative
Democrats who are prisoners of their
party, either by habit or tradition or
by the one-party system in the South.
But he notes that the Democratic
Party "is coming to reflect the kind of
programs and policies that the Ameri-
can labor movement can support."
Thus if the Democrats can have the
name if their policies are agreeable to
Reuther. He will reward the party by
bearing a large part of the expense of
their campaigns.

Reuther says in conclusion that "the
great tragedy is not that the Russians
are better than we are—they're doing
better because they're trying and we
aren't." But the education which he
says should be copiously supported
should, he says, be directed toward
"constructive and creative leisure." If
we follow that policy, we may win the
next Olympics but lose the cold war.
Khrushchev would settle for that.

Newsweek, August 11, 1958