Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  I've tried my best, but some minor imperfections might remain due to the image quality and column layout:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Knowland, Nixon, and Knight
by Raymond Moley

SANTA BARBARA—After these six
weeks up and down the West
Coast, I expect that politically minded
friends in the East will ask what
California thinks about its two sons
who occupy the Vice Presidency and
the Republican leadership in the Senate.
There will also be some inquiries
about the man named Knight who
succeeded Chief Justice Warren as
governor of this state. Since
no one can know what a
great, busy state thinks
about anything, I can simply
record what newspapermen
and others interested in
politics have said.

Vice President Nixon has
gained greatly in prestige
out here since he ran for
the Senate five years ago.
Doubts then uttered about
his lack of maturity are heard no
more. California likes a man who
speaks out plainly about responsibil-
ity for Communism and corruption in
government and the perils of appeas-
ing Communists abroad. Republicans
here bitterly resent the threat of Dem-
ocratic Chairman Butler when he was
out here that Nixon rather than
Eisenhower will be the issue next
year, since, according to Butler, the
President's age will make it likely that
the Vice President will be his successor.
This gruesome suggestion is not
regarded by sophisticated people as a
real bid for voters in November 1956.
If that were intended, such a suggestion
would be made not now but
a month before election.

The real purpose is to throw doubts
into the people around Eisenhower
and possibly into the mind of the
President himself. Such doubts would
result in suggestions that Nixon be
dropped and that some other candidate
be selected. That in turn would
create such a rumpus in Republican
ranks that the success of the ticket
would be endangered. California with
its big electoral vote would certainly
be lost if Nixon were dropped.
In England last May I heard this
same sort of talk against Nixon. But
the British are still more critical of
Knowland and his stand on Asia.

While Nixon is the pride of Southern
California, Knowland is a tremendous
figure in the North. In 1952 his
majority in the primaries that determined
his election to the Senate
was 1,680,000, which is, so far as I
know, the largest ever cast for a candidate
for any office in the United
States except a President and Vice
President. I have heard no complaints
out here about Knowland's uncompromising
stand on the Chinese issue.
Californians are closer to Asia and
know the Chinese Communists for
what they are. Nor are
there any important complaints
about Knowland's independence so far
as the Administration's Asiatic policy is
concerned. For 30
years Hiram Johnson,
Knowland’s predecessor,
was equally independent
but was also the recipient of
vast majorities in California.
Knowland is a solid man,
slow to action but inflexible in his
convictions. He succeeded the towering
figure of Taft as Senate leader
and has carried that burden with
credit to himself and his party. The
pressure of the load of party leadership
in a legislative body like the
Senate is grimly illustrated by the
tragic illness of Sen. Lyndon Johnson
and the collapse of Joseph Robinson
18 years ago. Knowland would be the
last man to beg consideration on the
ground that he occupies a hard job,
but that should not prevent his critics
from bearing the fact in mind.

Gov. Goodwin Knight, who was
hailed two years ago by conservative
Republicans as a welcome relief from
the liberal Earl Warren, has given
those people a shock by his almost
abject attentions to the leaders of organized
labor. Warren himself never
went so far. Why Knight has taken
this course is a mystery, because
these same labor leaders will go all
out next year to defeat the candidates
of Knight’s party. For some reason
Knight is highly critical of Nixon.

SINCE Nixon and Knowland are both
rising men, are energetic and ambitious,
and come from the rival
northern and southern parts of the
state, rumor has revealed in tales of
friction and jealousy between them.
I have found nowhere any evidence
that this rumor is true. Their relations
in their home state are unreservedly
friendly and cooperative.

Newsweek, September 19, 1955