Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Because of the image quality and column layout, some minor inaccuracies may be present.


**The Real RFC Lesson**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

WHILE the exposure of the revolting
perversion of the RFC and the
waste of taxpayers' money has the
wholesome effect of calling attention
to the low moral tone of the Fair Deal,
the real issue has not been brought
out by the Fulbright committee nor
has it been driven home by Congress.
That issue is why government should
be in the banking business at all.
As long as government is
in the banking business or,
in fact, in any business activity
which is also conducted
by private companies, there
will be politics, favoritism,
probable corruption, bad
judgment, and the whole-
sale waste of public money.
That is because the basis of
judgment and the measure-
ment of values which must
govern ordinary business processes are
absent in a government business.
The inexorable force that drives the
management of a private business onward, that promotes efficiency, that
develops good judgment, that provides
jobs for workers and goods for consumers is the essential need to make
ends meet in an atmosphere of competition. All this for the relatively
small price of a small payment on invested capital. If this end is forgotten
by a private company, it goes broke
and other businesses take over its
workers and customers.
A government business has no such
objective. At its best, it gets itself
tangled up with other vague objectives such as helping somebody who
can't get on in competitive business,
providing work without productive return or, as in the case of the loan
to Elder Solomon Lightfoot Michaux,
providing through a loan an enterprise
in housing which, if it were desirable,
should be a direct gift by Congress.

AT ITS inevitable worst, government
lends money to make votes for a
party or an officeholder or to enrich
some tinhorn chiseler who manages to
worm his way into the circle of officialdom. Hence, the scandals we see are
rooted in the very nature of government business. The way to get rid of
the scandals is to get government out
of private business enterprise.
All this is well known to intelligent
members of Congress. It was spelled

out, so far as lending agencies are concerned, in the report of the Hoover
commission task force on that subject.
That report was prepared by Price,
Waterhouse & Co., with an advisory
committee of first-rate businessmen
and economists. It said that "direct
lending is not normally a proper function of the Federal government."
When it is needed to sustain the
whole economic system, as
in 1932, it should be done
through private financial institutions so far as possible,
and government help presumably would be indirect.
That was, incidentally, Mr.
Hoover's view, but his commission was so loaded with
Administration people and
"liberals" that this recommendation was not adopted.
In the finest economic treatise of this
generation, "Human Action," Ludwig
von Mises makes the point clear that
there can be no economic calculation
under socialism: "The paradox of
'planning' is that it cannot plan at all
because of the absence of calculation."
If government tries to substitute calculation in kind for calculation in money,
it fans the impossibility of adding or
subtracting different kinds of things.
Profit tells the businessman what consumers want or do not want. When a
common denominator of value disappears, confusion prevails.

MY COLLEAGUE Henry Hazlitt has
explained this in a very ingenious
and dramatic way in a novel, "The
Great Idea," which has just been published (see Books). He takes us to the
year 2100 and says that by that year
all the world is Communist and is
ruled by a dictator in Moscow. The
son of the dictator attains power and
seeks to alleviate the distress of the
people by some modification of Communist principles. Slowly, at first by
permitting the exchange of ration coupons, he gropes his way back to the
idea of money, which had been abolished as a hated symbol of destroyed
capitalism. In time, the devices of
capitalism reappear because of the
dire necessities of the people.
This lesson should be pondered as
we seek to adopt socialism by installments. And government lending is one
of those installments.

Newsweek, March 26, 1951