Here's a text version of the provided article, separating the columns to avoid overlap:

**1945-Politics-1946**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

World events crowded domestic politics into the wings this year. But a number of the events of 1945 may set the political tone for years to come.

The most important of these events was the death of President Roosevelt, who dominated the politics of a great and decisive era. His departure has resulted in the return to this country of traditional two-party government.

President Truman has sought to hold the diverse elements in his party together by compromise, by good will, and by faithful representation of all party points of view in his Cabinet.

Despite some loss of his initial popularity, President Truman is still firmly in control of his party and enjoys the confidence of a great majority of the electorate. He has done better than anyone had a right to expect.

The death of President Roosevelt has had an important effect on political thinking in this country. It has enabled many sincere persons to return to their former liberal views, from which they were diverted because they feared the excessively personal government of Mr. Roosevelt. The danger of a President’s perpetuating himself in office cannot reappear for years.

The circumstances under which the war ended, unlike those of 1918, brought practically all parties and individuals to a recognition of the necessity that the United States retain a leading role in the world. Isolationism as a political issue is eclipsed. The two parties, we may assume, will be in substantial agreement on major international issues.

Since its defeat in 1944, the Republican party has scarcely assumed an active role as a “loyal opposition.” Governor Dewey has avoided the responsibility of national leadership. He has been busy with the government of his state. Republicans in Congress seem content to wait and to watch the Truman Administration and to hope to profit by its mistakes. Chairman Brownell has made a good start in setting up a full-time, four-year organization for the National Committee.

Two of the leading figures in the Republican party in 1944—Governors Dewey and Warren—will have hard fights in 1946 for reelection to their present posts. Governor Warren’s party in California is not thoroughly united, and Democratic registration is heavier than ever in that state. The Republican outlook in New York State is not very bright. There is considerable discontent in the organization throughout the state. Governor Dewey has not been able to dramatize any strong issue during 1945 which might have enlarged his popularity. And the governor’s choice as a candidate for mayor of New York City was disastrously beaten.

Former Governor Bricker, in Ohio, will run for the Senate in 1946, with a very good chance for election. Former Governor Stassen is popular with those who favor wider American action in world affairs. Everyone speaks highly of Senator Vandenberg, but his role is likely to continue as a senator, rather than as a potential candidate.

It is too early to consider candidates for 1948. The 1946 elections will throw up new names with fresh appeal to voters and politicians.

The Republican party needs not candidates, but a philosophy. It should not be impossible to devise such a philosophy, although there has been no such thing in GOP campaigns since 1932. A winning party philosophy must avoid a straight return to pre-Roosevelt days. Mere conservative, laissez-faire rugged individualism will not do. Neither will a modified program of government regulation do.

What is needed is a body of doctrine which favors cooperative action in business, in agriculture, in labor and in such fields as medical care and health. But the express provision must be made that government is not the means to accomplish all good things. Keep government as an umpire, a friend of all, a mediatory agency. But follow the lesson of the ages that men can and will find new forms of working together out of their necessities and through nongovernmental means. This would provide an alternative to reaction to tooth-and-nail individualism, on the one hand, and bungling statism, on the other. If Republicans can create such an alternative, they may expect increasing public support.