Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to maintain the original column structure:


**Lest We Forget!**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

IN THIS MacArthur controversy, it serves no public interest for those unacquainted with all the facts—and I know of no one acquainted with all the facts—to rush forward with dogmatic opinions on the detailed aspects of this specific case. Nor does it serve any public interest to get ourselves entangled with General MacArthur's future or his past mistakes. It is future security of continents and oceans—yes, the very preservation of our nation's life and liberty—that is at stake.

And so it may be well in threading our way through thickets of testimony to hold fast to a few simple fundamentals that are not likely to be altered by anything that can be elicited by inquisitive and litigious senators or others from mountains of documents.

There would be no Soviet threat in Manchuria if Stalin had not bought a pound of loot for a pittance of effort. That goes back to Yalta and beyond, and Acheson policies were very influential in the decisions of a sick and weary President.

**T**HERE would be no Red Chinese killing Americans, if China had not been delivered over to them by General Marshall under directives from the Acheson element in the State Department. If ever there was proved the assertion, now made by supporters of Truman, that military men should not decide political questions, Marshall himself proved it by his conduct in China and his subsequent Chinese policy as Secretary of State. When Marshall attempted to pacify the Far East, he failed to consult the best American authority over there—General MacArthur. When he arrived in China, the next best American military expert on Asia, General Wedemeyer, presented his views. Marshall rebuffed him, saying in effect: "These are my policies. You are going to help me carry them out." Subsequently, Wedemeyer's advice was not only disregarded, but his fine report was suppressed. Those Marshall policies devitalized Nationalist power against the Reds and permitted hordes of them to enter Manchuria, where the Russians, enjoying the gifts of Yalta, turned over to them the arms of the defeated Japanese. They then completed their conquest, drove the Nationalists to Formosa, and made a hard and fast alliance with Soviet Russia.

There probably would have been no attack on South Korea if our diplomacy had not brought about the withdrawal of our forces and then, despite the protests of informed members of Congress and others, had not deliberately failed to provide South Korea with means of self-defense. This, too, without the collaboration and advice of General MacArthur, stationed in nearby Japan.

The decision to put ground troops in Korea last June was a Truman decision. An alternative might have been to confine our participation to attack by sea and air. That course was preferable in the considered judgment of high military authority.

Without passing judgment on all of MacArthur's prescriptions, two seem now to be unassailable. We should probably risk no war and lose no allies if we blockaded the Chinese ports. The pouring of supplies through Hong Kong and elsewhere to our mortal enemies is indefensible. Blockades do not necessarily cause wars. They help to end them. And Formosa must never fall into unfriendly hands. Unleashing Chiang to carry on attacks against the Red Chinese in the manner described by MacArthur sounds reasonable. The bombing of Manchurian bases is not a matter for this writer to judge.

To repeat, it is not MacArthur's reputation that is at stake. Perhaps his military and political acts can be impaired. There is ample evidence that tar buckets of the bureaucracy are already being used for that purpose.

**T**HE over-all conclusion must be that the political decisions of this Administration with regard to Asia since Yalta have been tragically wrong. A vast majority of the American people is convinced that those decisions have been wrong. The throngs that greeted MacArthur to a degree proved this conviction. Since such decisions have been described by Truman, Acheson, and Marshall to be political rather than military, the sentence must fall upon those who made them.

Newsweek, May 14, 1951