Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


**Perspective**

War and the Small Colleges

by RAYMOND MOLEY

"It is, Sir, as I have said, a small
college. Yet there are those who love
it," said the great Webster to the Supreme
Court. So compact of emotion were these
words that the speaker's voice broke, and
tears welled in the eyes of the Chief Justice.

There are more small colleges now
than there were when Webster argued for
Dartmouth. And all those who love them
view with grave apprehension the coming of
1943.

There isn't much that can be done
about the prospect they face in 1943, or for
a year or so later. The Army and Navy
cannot utilize the facilities of most of these
colleges. Their plan contemplates the use of
some 200 to 300 institutions. That leaves in
the neighborhood of 1,000 which must stay
alive, even if they must temporarily suspend
for the duration.

To regret the plight of the small college is
not to question the plan of the Army and
Navy. That plan, on which the government
and college authorities collaborated over a
series of months, is admirable in almost every
way. It will offer continuity of education to
thousands of boys while, at the same time, it
will prepare them for war service. It is based
upon the broad democratic principle that any
boy in the service who is equipped to benefit
from specialized education will be placed in a
suitable college or university, regardless of his
economic status. It will provide the means for
keeping scores of educational institutions going
through the war. And it will force a
reconsideration of the permanent curriculum in
the light of the new vistas of knowledge and
interest opened up by this world upheaval.
Presumably the scientific side of education will
be permanently enlarged. Some of the older
studies, like history, literature and the classics,
will have to be overhauled after the war to
attract a college generation awakened by the
sharp disciplines of physics, mathematics and
other sciences.

This is all to the good. The possible
dangers to free education in the temporary
exercise of control by the Army and Navy are
far less serious than many seem to think. The
college people themselves will be on the
ground. So far no friction of consequence has
developed between them and the military. The
Army and Navy are not special classes in this
country, as they are elsewhere, and there is no
reason to believe that even a protracted war will
make them so.

Perhaps the most important thing about the
new educational plan is its definiteness. For
months the boys in college have tossed about in
confusion. They were willing to serve, but there
was no specific indication of how the government
really wanted them to proceed. At one moment
government spokesmen assured them that they
could serve best by continuing their studies and,
at the next, they heard of the services' growing
need for young men. Now that they know what
is required, they can get to work. This certainty
has also greatly contributed to the morale of the
teaching and administrative staffs of the colleges
which will be used in the plan.

But the small college will find the going
hard, for the plan will take thousands of boys
from small colleges and, in a few weeks, put
them into big colleges.

It is foolish to say that small colleges are
doomed anyhow—that they must ultimately
become junior colleges or close their doors. These
institutions play a vital role in the life of their
community, their influence reaching far beyond
the student body. Great numbers of students can
attend them and live at home. There are means
of self-support open to the students of these
colleges which are not available near big
institutions. Only one who has attended a small
institution can know what the close association
of students and faculty there means. The
professors are seldom famous, their intellectual
discipline often leaves much to be desired and the
range of courses they offer is limited. But there is
loyalty, intimacy and the quiet pursuit of truth.
Many of these small colleges, moreover, are
sectarian institutions, important in maintaining
the active life of the sects themselves.

The plight of such colleges was serious even
before war came. Heavy taxation was cutting
into contributions. The yield on endowments was
sinking. The specter of inflation threatened
invested capital.

Reasonable financial aid by the government
might well be extended to carry these schools
through the emergency. But if they are to remain
free, government aid should not be the sole
solution. Now and after the war it is the duty of
graduates, friends and private foundations to
come to their rescue. This will not be easy, but it
is the best way to keep them free and to restore
them to usefulness. They must not die, for they
are vital to democracy in this country.