Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  I've attempted to preserve the column structure as much as possible, but some minor adjustments might be needed for perfect alignment depending on your text editor.

```
NEWSWEEK, OCTOBER 16, 1939

Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY

Slave Socialism

That war starts civilized people
along the dark road back to barbarism
has been said many times. The destruc-
tion of property, man power, the diversion
of inventive genius, the stoppage of cul-
tural advancement—of all these costs to
civilization, we know. But the circum-
stances surrounding this war point to a
new and terrifying process. In former
days, when equipping armies was mainly
a problem of supplying food, the young
men marched to the front and the boys,
old men and women tilled the fields. This
war will be, at bottom, a clash of great
mechanized forces backed by modern in-
dustrial enterprise. In this war, the side
that maintains its industrial system intact
will probably win. Women, boys and old
men cannot run an industrial plant. And
so we are witnessing the enforced employ-
ment of vast numbers of unwilling non-
Germans in agriculture and in industry.
The Germans have been utilizing the
forced labor of the Jewish population to a
greater and greater degree. They are now
compelling the forced labor of many thou-
sands of Poles, and it is quite probable
that, before long, half of Poland and a
greater part of old Czecho-Slovakia will
be reduced to a condition hard to distin-
guish from the serfdom of the Middle
Ages.

This stark possibility has been described
in a brilliant article by John W. Love, eco-
nomic commentator of The Cleveland
Press. Mr. Love says:

"Today we see something really sinister
in the world, and that is Greater Ger-
many's reduction of whole peoples to a
condition in which they have no choice of
the work they shall do, or of where they
shall work. This is a real slave socialism.
Your German worker may not have much
freedom left, but he is still German. The
Jewish worker, the Polish worker and the
Czech worker, and possibly more to follow
them, are in considerably worse case, for
there may be no hope for them in the
future.

"A National Socialism, in the hands of
the people who run Germany today, seems
capable of exploiting these subject peoples
for the sole benefit of the Germans. So
long as the war lasts it is certain they will
do so, and after the war, unless the Ger-
mans are overwhelmed, they can go on
doing it. There would be nothing to keep
them from setting the wages low enough
and so arranging the production and
prices that all the returns beyond a sub-
sistence would go to the benefit of the
people of old Germany and German na-
tionality. The world has seen nothing like
that since the Roman Empire."

Except for the fact that such an organ-
ization of society would be modified by
modern industrial needs, the social form
would be as old as history. We may see,
in the course of long years of either war
or preparations for war, the crystallization
of a form of society in which there will
be a military class composed of "pure
Germans," dominated by a Nazi politico-
economic machine and resting upon mil-
lions of non-Germans whose position
would be substantially that of slaves. So
long as outside pressure remains, the inter-
nal pressure of class upon class in the
state will remain. Grumblings of unrest
cannot develop into genuine revolutionary
force because of the preponderant and
overpowering might of the ruling power.

It is possible that the defeat of Ger-
many would shatter such a condition of
servitude of national minorities. But it
is also possible that Germany's defeat
would shatter only the ruling group and
the particular variety of Socialism it pro-
fesses. Russia, for instance, might become
the new master. That scarcely seemed
conceivable so long as the government of
Russia went through the motions of try-
ing to make the rewards equal between
trades and regions within her borders.
But the invasion of Poland and the coer-
cion of Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania and
Finland open up whole new vistas of slav-
ery and mastership. And for the worker
and the peasant, there can hardly be a
choice between the dictatorship of a me-
dieval imperial court, the dictatorship of a
National Socialist oligarchy and the dicta-
torship of a proletarian or Communist
autocracy.

It is one of the grimmest ironies of his-
tory that when Socialism and Commu-
nism came into the world they proclaimed
as their purpose the freeing of workers
from their chains, for the two great na-
tions most deeply imbued with those doc-
trines are now re-creating forms of slavery
that we thought had passed away cen-
turies ago.

The Neutrality Debate

It is characteristic of the debate
over the revision of our so-called Neutral-
ity Act that many of those who are lined
up for arms-embargo repeal are arguing
against part of an act they helped to pass
in 1937, while not a few of those who op-
pose repeal are letting themselves be put
in the position of resisting provisions they
most vehemently supported two years
back.

The intricacies of the debate are, in
fact, almost incomprehensible to the citi-
zen. The embargo is unneutral, says Sen-
ator Pittman, rattling off a list of citations
from authorities. The embargo is neutral,
retorts Senator Borah, rattling off a list
of citations from authorities. The distinc-
tion the present law makes between arms
and other commodities is wholly artificial,
says Senator Connally. We cannot make
ourselves an arsenal for one side without
becoming a target for the other, answers
Senator Vandenberg. And so it goes.

All but unspoken are the basic points
at issue. Only in one or two cases, such
as that of Senator Norris, has anyone as-
serted that we have a stake in this war,
that we ought to make a contribution to
"preserve civilization." Most of the pro-
repeal debaters are at pains to insist
that they have no such purpose in mind;
that they are intent upon keeping us out
of war by remedying the defects of the
present act. Similarly, the pro-embargo
debaters did not, until Senator Clark
spoke, express their basic fear that the
President is taking over more emergency
powers than they consider safe. This is
behind much of their opposition.

Moreover, the fact has not been suffi-
ciently pointed up that repeal of the arms
embargo and the enactment of cash-and-
carry safeguards are not one and the same.
We can have one without the other. We
can have both. Or we can have neither.

A serious and important fact presents
itself that may have much to do with the
fear of the country at the moment. We
want to feel safe behind our Navy and
Army. And the President could, if he
would, give our defense arms exactly what
would reassure millions—distinguished and
competent leadership. The Navy Depart-
ment has no Secretary. The War Depart-
ment is torn by differences between the
Secretary and the Assistant Secretary.
People are disturbed by reports of prepos-
terous possible appointments to these
jobs. The President could do no greater
thing to reassure Congress and the coun-
try than by appointing to these jobs the
most nonpolitical and able men available.
This does not necessarily mean that
Republicans should be chosen, nor profes-
sional Army and Navy men. Nor does it
mean that such appointees need be men
in politics at all. It means that among the
thousands of trained administrators in the
country, the President could find reassur-
ing choices.

Page 626 of 1087
```