Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid column overlap.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the original document's layout.

**The Faith of a Newsman**

by Raymond Moley

IT WAS in 1896 that a cub reporter was sent out by his boss to cover the waterfront in San Francisco. His name was Edmond D. Coblentz, and after these 58 years in the newspaper business he is publisher of *The San Francisco Call-Bulletin*. He has just edited a book, "Newsmen Speak," which might well be required reading of all young men who would pursue the absorbing, exacting trade of the journalist. The book consists of a series of contributions from notable newsmen, past and present. Collectively they constitute a picture of the concepts, philosophies, and methods of journalism yesterday and today. Running through these contributions is a fine thread of sentiment which can appropriately be called the articles of faith of American journalism.

There is such a faith based upon ideals as high as those of any other profession. As in other professions, that faith is not always kept. But it is a faith. It has the advantage of having been built over many generations. It can be and has been lived up to by thousands of newsmen, and it should light the way for thousands more. Some observations in the article in the Coblentz book written by the late Arthur Brisbane prompt a few comments of my own.

Brisbane said that in the editorial as well as the advertising departments of the press the rule should be to see things clearly and to describe them simply. Then to inspire confidence and get results, the editorial as well as the advertising man should "stop talking after he has talked enough."

Brisbane made clear a most important distinction between the writing of news and the writing of opinion. The first is to serve and inform with "brevity, energy, and good writing." The second is to interpret and, if possible, to influence the reader's opinions. The first, whatever the writer may feel, requires a certain anonymity. The second requires open responsibility under the writer's name. Both news and opinion should be labeled for what they are.

The impact of new forms of communication and news-gathering has faced the news side of the newspaper and magazine with sharp competition. It is not too much to say that the radio and television have required fairly extensive reconstruction of news presentation. They have not yet, however, affected the writing of opinion. Because of the complicated problems of mass and commercially sponsored programs, radio and television have found no real place for opinion.

While the reporter and the writer of opinion share a common faith in truth, they must operate in quite different channels. The reporter lives from his sources, and in political writing his sources must necessarily be, in part, people in public office. The writer of opinion can hardly afford to have any favorites in public office. His job is to watch and at all times to avoid beguilement by those entrusted with public authority. His road may be somewhat lonely, but that in itself may help to keep his vision clear. Moreover, his faith must include a point made by Roy Howard in his contribution to the Coblentz symposium. He says in brief that editorial policy should always be independent and never be neutral. This may be hard for some readers to understand. But if they ponder the question a moment, they will realize that when they pay for a man's opinion they are entitled to get it and to get it straight.

Nor can the writer of opinion be swayed by communications of protest from those who disagree with him—unless, of course, they can present arguments or advance facts that will modify his own views. I sometimes feel that the very multiplicity of letters disagreeing with what I say on this page is a good sign. For it shows that people who disagree are still reading my stuff.

AFTER the campaign of 1952 I had a letter from a woman whose husband had been forbidden by his doctor to read my articles during the campaign. He had a weak heart and he was against Eisenhower. Perhaps, despite the wish that all could agree, it is some satisfaction that only a doctor's orders can keep those who disagree from reading what one writes.

Newsweek, June 7, 1954