Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Is Truman Really President?
by RAYMOND MOLEY

OUR united and assorted states have
lived with their old Constitution a
long time, and they still love it. But
they have found in it glaring ambigui-
ties and omissions.
For instance, it would seem that the
very important matter of who should
succeed to the Presidency, if the person
holding that office should meet one of
the many fates to which our flesh is
heir, could be put into un-
derstandable language. The
Constitution provides that:
"In case of the removal of
the President from office, or
of his death, resignation or
inability to discharge the
powers and duties of the said
office, the same shall devolve
on the Vice President..."
Does that mean the Vice
President becomes President,
or that the Vice President remains Vice
President and merely moves into the
White House and does whatever a
President does? That depends on
whether the word "same" refers to
"office" or to "the powers and duties of
the said office." When we journeymen
write for NEWSWEEK, we have to be
clear, or one of our bright young copy-
readers catches us up. But the boys
down in the heat of 1787 Philadelphia
had no copyreaders for their committee
on style, and they let 'er go at that.

MADISON said that if legislative "of-
ficers" were to perform the duties
of the President, under the Constitution
it would be "an annexation of one of-
fice or trust to another office" and that
the original office of the person who
acts as President is the "substratum of
the adventitious functions." It is pretty
terrifying to think that the tidy, likable
man whom we erroneously call Presi-
dent is flying around on a substratum.
It isn't as bad as it sounds, but it
clearly means that, if Madison is right,
Truman is not President. Excellent au-
thorities agree with Madison. But since
Tyler, tradition has given the Presi-
dent's title to VP's who go to the
White House.

However, when Mr. Truman is fly-
ing for a week end at home, the
substratum is tricky, unpredictable,
murderous air, and practical minds
turn to the gruesome results if he
should crash. That is why Congress has
been figuring out the succession. And

it has struck some more cavities in the
Constitution.
The passage quoted above goes on
to say: "...and the Congress may
by law provide for the case of removal,
death, resignation or inability, both of
the President and Vice President, de-
claring what officer shall then act as
President and such officer shall act ac-
cordingly, until the disability be re-
moved, or a President shall
be elected."
In 1792 a law was passed
which provided that, after
the Vice President, the suc-
cession should be the Presi-
dent Pro Tem of the Senate
and the Speaker. Madison
tossed another bomb at this,
alleging that these worthies
were not "officers" at all. On
this rickety substratum of
law, and with the aid of Providence,
things went on for 94 years. In 1886,
Congress changed the succession to the
Secretary of State, et al.
The 1947 plan, which puts the
Speaker and President Pro Tem in the
line of succession, deepens the mystery.
The debates reveal that a goodly num-
ber of senators believe that, if Mr.
Truman should pass on and Mr. Mar-
tin should, according to the law resign
as Speaker and move into the White
House, the new "President" would be
just another guy named Joe. For ac-
cording to the Constitution he cannot
act as President after his resignation as
Speaker, because he would not then be
an officer. To compound the problem,
according to Madison, the Speaker is
not an officer in the first place.
But if the Speaker is an officer and
moves into the White House without
resigning, the Constitution takes this
whack at him: "No person holding any
office under the United States shall be
a member of either House during his
continuance in office."

ANOTHER gaping omission is the lack
of any definition of the "inability"
of a President to perform his duties.
The cases of Wilson and Garfield sug-
gest that disability is a very real pos-
sibility, and no one has an answer.
Perhaps we shall continue our good
luck for the next century or so. As the
old man said to Senator Barkley, "I
always notice that if I live through
March I live the rest of the year."

Newsweek, July 14, 1947