Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


TODAY IN AMERICA

April 17, 1937

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

THE BEST LAID PLANS

The government bond market has been cascading rather handsomely now for the past few weeks and nobody seems to be enjoying the spectacle except a few financial writers who are composing self-righteous funeral sermons for the government’s credit.

The soundest view of the bond decline seems to be that with recovery has come a normal rise in money rates which would depress bonds naturally and that the decline is unlikely to go much further precipitately, barring a European war or some such upheaval.

But the banks—especially the country banks, which reached the peak of their buying only last Fall—are worried. For years they have kept on buying government bonds because that seemed the only thing they could do and because, besides, they all expected to scalp a point or two. Now they find that their old customer, industry, wants to borrow from them again. In order to accommodate commercial requests they sell bonds, only to find the other banks selling at the same time. Add to this the nervous selling on the part of large individual holders of government securities who have concluded that it is time for them to get into the stock markets, what with all the talk of inflation, and it is not hard to see why the banks are upset.

Washington, too, is disturbed. It is true that Secretary Morgenthau’s jitters must be discounted, for he has a way of reading curious omens into his charts. When a Secretary of the Treasury can exultantly point to the fact that Governments are selling above par and find in that situation assurance that continued budget unbalance is of little consequence (as did Mr. Morgenthau during the campaign) it is small wonder that the decline of many issues below par at this time should grieve him. Others, who believe that Governments were high largely for technical reasons last Fall, may comfort themselves by saying that Governments have declined largely for technical reasons since. But Secretary Morgenthau must be permitted his own somber reflections.

Governor Eccles’ concern is a more serious matter, however. His admission that financial measures alone will not control inflation has been followed by evidence and that the actual deficit is still on the upgrade. The Federal government is going to have to borrow money after all. For that reason, the Federal Reserve Board has had to step in to support the government bond market. There is nothing objectionable about this move of the Reserve Board per se. But it is just the opposite of one of the things the Board was going to do to prevent a speculative boom. And so, as another tool of the managed economy goes out the window, it is natural that we should doubt that the Administration can run the machinery without getting its knuckles skinned a bit.

“TRIAL BY FURY”

Last week we were told in NEWS-WEEK of New York’s perfect tabloid crime—Veronica Gedeon’s murder. Everyone with an elementary sense of fair play must be outraged by the attempt of the police and some newspapers to conduct a drumhead trial of the innocent father of the murdered woman. Trifles were blazoned forth as implications of his guilt: he had “strange eyes,” “powerful hands,” a “shaky” alibi. After a 30-hour “examination” by the police he appeared with unmistakable bruises on his face.

And then, after this Roman Holiday of brutality and injustice, the identity of a much more likely killer was discovered and Gedeon was forgotten. The same hullabaloo began again with respect to another man who is no less entitled to the presumption of innocence. But what are presumptions when the police and the sensational press give chase?

SUGAR IS SWEET

Anyone who feels that Mr. Norman Davis is confining his activities in London to the Sugar Conference either does not know sugar or does not know Mr. Davis.

Of course the Administration denies that it intends to call a world economic or disarmament conference. Yet the persistent reports that Mr. Davis is “feeling out” the prospects for a general conference are not wholly fabricated by imaginative newspaper men, nor are they entirely due to the propaganda of foreign governments. In large part they are traceable to the Administration itself—to the obvious eagerness of some of our State Department officials to meddle in European affairs and to the President’s well-known desire to “do something about” Europe’s threatened disintegration.

These reports are reinforced by public knowledge of the competition among various officials to give birth to some kind of international panacea. So keen is the rivalry between Norman Davis, Sumner Welles, and R. Walton Moore that when Ambassador Bullitt recently went to Warm Springs with the President, friends of Mr. Davis and Mr. Welles were reported to be profoundly disturbed by the belief that Mr. Bullitt had brought home a peace plan.

The President’s disavowal of any plan for taking the initiative in calling a general economic or disarmament conference may be accepted at face value. No one knows better than he the grave political risk he would run, should he attempt it. But the argument that he could, with political impunity, participate in such a conference if a suitable European sponsor for it were found is persuasive. And the danger lies now in private conversations and commitments, implied or specific, concerning our possible participation in one.

The ideal of world peace is noble. The historical position guaranteed to any statesman who could lay the framework for permanent peace is so glorious to contemplate that it is easy to understand why statesmen are tempted to make the effort. No doubt Mr. Davis is keeping within the letter of his instructions. But can he not argue that courtesy compels him to listen to honeyed representations about things other than sugar? And who can prevent him from reporting them to Washington, if he keeps disclaiming any interest except the success of the Sugar Conference?

All these possibilities are disturbing. At the very least, the President would do well to notify all his subordinates publicly that they should refrain from further intimations that we might be induced to meddle with Europe’s political affairs.