Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Decay and Change
by Raymond Moley

HOUSTON—Political parties never die suddenly like the frail humans who make them up. Group pathology differs in essence from that of animal life. There is some resemblance to some parts of the kingdom of plants—that tenacity of the ebbing spark of life, that capacity for transformation which escapes all but the most minute observation, that change which is persistent, unpredictable, relentless.
Nor is a new party created, all of a sudden, like a house born of the imagination of the architect and the fabrication of a contractor. A statesman or reformer may perceive certain inevitable change, and following, not leading, with a capacity for compromise and an art of articulation, give whatever wants to happen a local habitation and a name. Jefferson did this in the years before 1800, and the Republican—later the Democratic—Party appeared. T.R. failed with Progressivism because he was too impetuous and because his party could offer nothing that could not better be supplied by Wilson’s New Freedom and the Democratic Party. President Eisenhower, we now know, was momentarily beguiled by his amateur advisers with the idea of a new party. He would have failed as did T.R. for the same reasons.

THE TRANSITION
F.D.R. was more subtle and more perceptive and, in the period between 1935 and the war, without heeding listened to the entreaties of the pink amateurs around him who wanted a “new” party. With the sagacious guidance of Edward J. Flynn, he took a different course. Under his benign encouragement and patronage, the CIO came into being (a vertical union is inevitably political). The Wagner Act was passed under which government helped the CIO to grow. Alliances were made with large interest groups—racial, economic, and social. City bosses were nourished with WPA money, housing, and many other forms of voter bait. The outcome of this policy is now apparent in many states. The Democratic Party of today in all but a few states is in a transition to something new but not altogether strange. It is being invaded and occupied by purely unofficial but dedicated groups and organizations.
Consider, then, in the light of the foregoing, what is happening.
Here in Texas for more than a dozen years the Democratic Party has been shaken by a bitter contest between conservatives and “liberals” or collectivists. The tide shifted back and forth. Under the patronage of the Roosevelt-Truman years the “liberals” gained greatly. Meanwhile Texas industry grew prodigiously and the power of the unions, especially the CIO, waxed. The political influence of the unions, of course, went to the “liberal” side.

STRUGGLE IN TEXAS
The “liberal”-labor coalition has now taken shape in the so-called “Democrats of Texas.” This unofficial organization, popularly known as DOT, provided most of the muscle which put Ralph W. Yarborough in the United States Senate, when Price Daniel resigned to take the governorship. Now DOT is girding itself for the primaries this year in which both the senatorship and governorship are at stake. Yarborough will run either for re-election as senator or for governor.
In this struggle of forces and interests notable Texas politicians have been tossed about most uncomfortably. For a time Senate Majority Leader Lyndon Johnson and House Speaker Sam Rayburn leaned to the “liberals” despite the growing conservatism of Johnson and the basic conservatism of Rayburn. Both ardently sought compromise. But DOT, now strongly supported by union money and manpower, disdains compromise. In addition, Johnson was grievously offended by being booed at a Democratic convention. Rayburn and Johnson are therefore moving toward the right. Neither relishes a Texas Democratic Party controlled by union labor.
Governor Daniel, a good politician and a moderate conservative, is making every effort to consolidate the conservatives and it looks as if Johnson and Rayburn would help.
Thus the traditional Democratic Party in Texas is striving to keep its identity and traditions in the face of powerful and what may prove to be overwhelming forces.

Newsweek, March 17, 1958