Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies may remain due to the image's quality and column layout.


PERSPECTIVE

LO! THE POOR TOURIST

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

As one of many Americans who are
planning a visit to Europe this
spring, I am amazed to learn that the
Johnson Administration stigmatizes
such expeditions as unpatriotic. When
the real facts are understood, I am
sure that my feelings will be shared
by thousands of other prospective
tourists—teachers wearied after a
grim winter in classrooms made disorderly by the influence of mobs outside the schools, students who seek to
enrich their education, clergymen
seeking material to enliven their sermons, elderly couples who have
saved the money for a second honeymoon, and small-business men who
want to learn about new ideas or consider markets abroad.

The wonder grows when we hear
the same Mr. Johnson piously call
for better teachers, help for students,
a better life for the elderly, and industrial progress.

The suggestion of a $100 exit penalty raised such a rumpus in Congress that the Administration now
says it was only a trial balloon. But
the effort to beautify grimy passport
offices with travel posters has been
banned. And the Kennedy limitation
of $100 wholesale on duty-free purchases is to be cut to $50 retail.

WHERE THE MONEY GOES

Congress, as Will Rogers used to
say, is a prime source of humor. But
he should have lived to see this Administration grapple with an unfavorable trade balance and the flight of
gold. In what was intended to be a
serious message about the balance of
payments, LBJ said:

"Foreign travel should be encouraged when we can afford it... Today
our encouragement must be directed
to travel in the United States."

If we seek amusement, there is no
better show than Washington. But we
won't learn much down there, and
we won't be inspired.

But let us seriously consider LBJ's
contention that the U.S. cannot "afford" to have our people tour abroad.
One of the most glaring distortions
of fact by our government is the
claim that tourism takes $1.6 billion
abroad. This figure is arrived at by
calculating that U.S. residents spent
$2 billion in foreign countries in 1963
and paid foreign carriers $625 million for transportation. Subtracted
from these amounts are $933 million
spent by foreigners in the U.S., plus
their payments of $118 million to
U.S. carriers for transportation. The
figure of $1.6 billion is subject to
misinterpretation. A study by American Express points out that 43 percent of the $2 billion we spent was
in North America—mostly Canada and
Mexico. That left $1.5 billion spent
elsewhere in the world.

But 40 per cent was spent for "non-pleasure" travel. Also, there was the
money spent here by foreign carriers
in transporting Americans.

MIDDLE-INCOME TRAVELERS

When we come down to what our
people spent for overseas travel in
Europe—where most tourists go—the
charge in the balance-of-payments
account goes down to $350 million, a
small proportion of the deficit.

The old stereotype which seems
to haunt the Administration is that
American tourists in Europe and the
Mediterranean countries are rich people who are also big spenders. But,
more and more, those who travel for
pleasure and education are middle- or below-middle-income people
whose travel budget is very limited.
As the proportion of these travelers
increases, the average amount spent
by them becomes less and less. In
1963 the average expenditures of an
American traveler in Europe and the
Mediterranean were $667; in 1956,
$900, exclusive of transportation. If
U.S. carriers were used, most of the
dollars stayed here.

At this point a vital question has
been raised by my esteemed contemporary, Henry J. Taylor. As ambassador to Switzerland in Eisenhower
years, Taylor learned a great deal
about "counterpart funds." They are
the proceeds in foreign currency
mainly from the sale of American surplus commodities under Public Law
480. These funds increase year by
year and now amount to huge figures.
Taylor suggests that they be tapped
to finance the travel of Americans
abroad by having Americans buy
drafts on these funds from the Treasury. Thus the dollars go to the United
States Treasury and the traveler gets
and spends foreign currency now
held by the United States.

Newsweek, March 15, 1965