Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to maintain the column structure:

**Two Years on the Home Front**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

As long as men thumb the pages
of history they will ponder the miracle
of this country's achievement in the two
years just finished. The cold record will
show an unparalleled strength and re-
sourcefulness. No other economy could
have produced so much so soon. And no
economy could have survived such er-
rors of judgment on the home front.
The apparent paradox stems from the
inherent vitality of the nation and from
the failure of public policy to apply
economic ideas adapted to its economy.
This nation increased its normal pro-
duction 250 per cent, with a labor force
capable of increasing less than 30 per
cent. It built a war industry that repre-
sents an investment more than twenty
times the value of its great automobile
industry—itself a miracle of growth in
30 years. Its war industry represents a
value equal to half of all the 1939
American industry. This war industry
alone outproduces Germany and Eng-
land combined. In agriculture, the na-
tion is producing 30 per cent more than
in 1939. It has helped to feed the world,
while it has given every American more
food than he has ever consumed before.
The demands of war have always
meant that civilian needs must be cur-
tailed. Yet we have not only met un-
paralleled war demands, but have also
produced a total of more civilian goods.
This record is the product of a system
based upon freedom of economic effort,
of scientific inquiry and of political ex-
pression.

While our people have been doing
this at home, they have refuted one of
the hoariest of clichés, which is that, in
war, a whole people is mobilized to fol-
low implicitly the policies created by its
government. On the home front and on
the economic side, government did little
more than set a casually conceived high
production goal.

Fundamental in a government's
duty, while the economic system turns
to war purposes, is so to apply govern-
mental regulations as to prevent finan-
cial disorder and inflation. But in its
handling of controls, government has
exhibited the same confusion of purpose
that it has shown in years of peace.

In financing the war, it followed the
easy way of relying upon the commer-
cial banks. This means the pouring of
new money into an already rising tide
of purchasing power.

In controlling the economy, it neg-
lected the sound policy of absolute and
universal controls and attacked the sit-
uation piecemeal. It wasted effort on
details and permitted essentials to get
utterly out of hand.

Its labor policy had no consistency.
It might have imposed a policy of wage
freezing or it might have tied wages to
the cost of living. It tried to do a little
of both and, as a result, it was thrown
into confusion.

Its efforts to control and direct public
opinion consisted of jumping from reor-
ganization to reorganization.

In controlling food prices, it content-
ed itself with hopping from veto to
veto. It kept cattle and hogs on the
farms by its price policies and, at the
same time, lessened the supply of feed
for them. It kept meat off the market
when it was needed and then, when con-
servation was in order, flooded the mar-
ket. It paid for not planting, and it
paid bonuses for more processing.

It shouted warnings about inflation
and then begged people to buy fixed in-
vestments. It promulgated grandiose
and ill-conceived plans for postwar "se-
curity" schemes, while it neglected its
major job of making sure that there
would be a future in which anything
would be secure.

Meanwhile, the common sense of the
people prevailed over all the advice of
its leaders. Those leaders predicted an
astronomical "inflationary gap," but the
people calmly forestalled that gap by
more production of civilian goods, on
one hand, and by unparalleled sav-
ings, on the other. The people, not
the government, have prevented wild
inflation.

This corner believes that the man
who did most to win this war is Junius
Q. Public. In the failure to understand
this public lies the basic source of the
economic mistakes of these two years.
This Administration, up to the advent
of war, had never decided whether to
trust the traditional economic habits of
the country or to try for a new eco-
nomic deal. It carried its indecision into
the war.

Only a great country could survive
these mistakes. But it is not an omni-
potent country. It will win this war de-
spite its mistakes, but it cannot win
peace at home until its public policies
conform to economic reality.