Charley's McCarthys

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Charley Michelson, as director "Chip" Robert and Hugh Johnson
of publicity for the Democratic Na- cross the crowded stage. The agonies
tional Committee, has proved that a involved in financing the party, de-
man can live a long and interesting spite the Hatch Act, are frankly por-
life by serving as a professional agent trayed. Michelson gives us some salty
in other men's controversies. What is pages depicting statesmen, not alto-
more, he has proved that he can do gether in undress, but hardly adorned
this without very much personal at- for state occasions. Important among
tachment to the policies, causes and those statesmen are senators for whom
ambitions of those whom he has Charley regularly turned out political
served. There are those who disap- speeches. Whenever National Com-
prove of such professionalism. But let mittee headquarters decided that a
it be recorded that there is more hit- partisan speech should be made,
ting below the belt among political Charley would write it and then a
amateurs than among professionals. A senator would be asked to deliver it
professional like Michelson can reflect over the air. There was no time to
upon his scars and his laurels with tailor the product to fit the senator.
malice toward none and bitterness There was hardly time for the senator
toward few-a fact not true of zealots, to read it beforehand. Consequently,
who identify their political slogans Charley's McCarthys did not always
with Holy Writ and personal virtue. sound especially spontaneous.
Hence, both those who like the When Michelson discusses the part-
President and those who do not can ing of the ways between the President
derive enjoyment from Michelson's and Jim Farley, he is treading on diffi-
new book, "The Ghost Talks." It is cult ground, for he likes and respects
mellow, interesting and, as an eye- both men. Michelson apparently be-
witness account, affords glimpses of lieves that the President might have
many sidelights of recent history. been more candid about his ambitions
Of course, there are spots where it before the 1940 convention and that
seems that Charley unnecessarily rat- Farley was the victim of his own am-
tles the bones of dead issues. His ac- bition to be President. But it seems to
count of the London Economic me that Michelson falls down in fail-
Conference, for instance, gains him ing to give Farley more credit for act-
points for dramatic value, but makes ing on the question of principle.
him lose them as an accurate histo- Farley honestly believed in the two-
rian, since he believed was happening term tradition and entertained a pa-
than of what actually did happen. triotic fear of the latter-day tendencies
Yet, as one who has had the personal of the New Deal.
experience of loving Charley for his Michelson, however, is quite can-
generosity, despite years of political did in blaming the President for pre-
disagreement, even a participant in cipitating the court-packing fight and
the nightmarish story he relates can- the 1938 purge. Here Michelson takes
not and does not complain. his position with the classical political
Some of the boys who are or writers-a point of view which holds
have been around the President will that there is no political sin as great
not like Charley's appraisal of them. as a blunder.
They will whine about "broken confi- I hope that Charley will feel no
dences" as they have done when embarrassment if I suggest that his is
others have written about them. That a book after Aristotle's own heart. The
seems to be the stock answer when a transcendentally wise Greek, who
man has the courage to tell the truth taught politics to Alexander the Great,
about public service. lamented that while the Sophists wrote
"The Ghost Talks" is uneven in of politics, they knew no politics, and
value. As a portrayal of the problems that those who knew politics would
and perplexities of a political group, not write about it. Charley is no
it is fine. Mysterious figures, who are Sophist, and he knows politics better
only names to most, come to life and than most of those who have prac-
do their stuff. Jim Farley, Ed Flynn, ticed the art. As I read his book, I
heard another ghost-that of Aristotle
-say: "Hear, hear."