Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Eisenhower Situation
by RAYMOND MOLEY

T
he time has come to stop annoying
General Eisenhower with questions
about his availability for the Presi-
dency. He has said all that Americans
are entitled to expect. In fact, his pa-
tience with reporters has already led
him to say more than the circumstances
require. The event is in the hands of the
American people, of their political
leaders and of the inscrutable circum-
stances of the next nine
months. From here on, what
the general himself thinks
about it is only incidental.
Eisenhower, quite proper-
ly, has not dismissed ques-
tions with quips and wise-
cracks. The matter is serious.
A great number of people
prefer him to any of the
others under discussion. I
have found in all parts of
the country, except among professional
politicians, that Eisenhower is the sub-
ject of more and more favorable com-
ment. The Gallup poll confirms this im-
pression by finding that 35 per cent
like the idea of Eisenhower's candidacy
and 18 per cent do not. When it is con-
sidered that all Democrats-for-Truman
and Republicans-for-Dewey-Taft-et-al
are among the 48 per cent, the Eisen-
hower sentiment is preponderant.

A
side from the inevitable popularity
of a successful military man,
there are solid reasons behind Eisen-
hower sentiment. One is the extraordi-
nary personality of the man himself
and the skill and substance of his
speeches. Moreover, his name enters a
broken field of candidates—some shop-
worn, some appealing only to special
groups, and other obviously inadequate
for the Presidential office.
Perhaps the preponderant reason for
Eisenhower's popularity lies in a prev-
alent sense of foreboding about foreign
relations and in people's desire to have
a wise, experienced hand at the helm.
Eisenhower, they realize, has no mere
theories about the Russians, British and
other Europeans. To a superlative de-
gree, he has successfully dealt with them
under critical and trying circumstances.
He has not sought political attention,
but, like every other American except
General Sherman, he accepts the tradi-
tion that the Presidency has an in-
exorable claim on any man. However,
he refuses to lend even passive consent
to "conniving" for a nomination, to the
marplots who would organize clubs or
to any organized effort to get delegates.
He has accepted a big job at Columbia,
to which he must give concentrated
attention. As he said, he "honestly"
does not seek anything else.
Eisenhower, who has seen the Presi-
dency at close range, must wonder why
anyone would want the job. The vexa-
tions and heartbreaks, the
crushing responsibilities of
that office and the empty
glory which is its sole reward
are apparent to him. He has
already attained the grati-
tude of a nation. The Presi-
dency to him would seem
like an inescapable judgment,
rather than a reward.
If those who want him as
a candidate are wise, they
will, as Alf M. Landon suggests, seek
their end by no blitz tactics. They will
approach their purpose through the
established methods of political activity.
They will not try to override or intimi-
date delegates, but try to convince
them. And in the convention, where
the great decision will be made, they
will use skillful and practiced managers.
The legitimate and logical reasons for
supporting Eisenhower must be made
clear, and there should be no barriers
raised which would prevent their man,
if elected, from having harmonious re-
lations with his party in Congress and
in the states.

T
he only hint of Eisenhower's posi-
tion on domestic policies is the
statement credited to him that he is
"inclined" against the New Deal. This
may mean almost anything or nothing.
His official position properly forbids
political comment, and if anything of
the sort could be attributed to him, he
would be unworthy of the Presidency.
There is plenty of time for an elabora-
tion of his political views, if, as ex-
pected, he assumes the Columbia
presidency early in the year. Those who
admire him can well await the expres-
sion of his views before committing
themselves for him. The nomination
lies nine months ahead, and, unless
Dewey shows growing strength, the
identity of the candidate may not be
known until balloting is well under way
at Philadelphia. The suspense may be
trying, but we shall have to endure it.

Newsweek, September 22, 1947