Here's the text extracted from the provided image.  I've done my best to preserve the original formatting and avoid merging text from different columns. Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the limitations of OCR on the original image.


40
Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY
100 Per Cent Servility

T
he drive for a "100 per cent
Roosevelt" Congress is on. Candidates are
being entered as primary opponents of all
but two Democratic Senators who fought
Court-packing—and there is a reasonable
chance that there will be opposition of the
"100 per cent" variety against those, too.
Who is responsible for the bobbing up
of "100 per cent Roosevelt" candidates
throughout the country? Why, that is no
secret. Every newspaper reader in the
country knows that a small group of Presi-
dential intimates threatened last year to
conduct a "purge" of the party—to "put
a fire under" the men who voted their
convictions against the Court-packing bill.
No, the threat of a purge isn't news.
The surprise is that ugly words, spoken
by the President's lieutenants at the
height of a bitter controversy, should be-
come a solemn statement of policy a year
later. The surprise is that a President
should permit intimates, who derive their
power and prestige from him, to conduct
a campaign which he feels himself obliged
to disavow by implication.

Mr. Roosevelt says he is "taking
no part" in the primaries. But a cabal of
his friends have set up a test of the loyalty
they require of Senators. Stated rhetorical-
ly, this test is "100 per cent for Roose-
velt." Specifically, it means that failure to
support the President's Court-packing
plan a year ago marks a sitting Senator
for political annihilation regardless of his
vote on other measures that have come
before Congress. And, in practical terms,
it involves some such declaration of fealty
as has been offered up by the "100 per
cent Roosevelt" candidate for Senator in
Nevada, Albert Hilliard, who had the
effrontery to tell the voters of his state:
"I am for President Roosevelt and shall
support him whether in the Senate or in
private life. And I don't mean whether he
is right or whether he is wrong. In this
battle between the people represented by
the President on the one hand and the old,
emaciated forces of reaction, Democratic
and Republican, on the other, the Presi-
dent has never been wrong and never will
be."

What does this statement really mean?
How can the drive for a "100 per cent"
Roosevelt Congress be explained in a coun-
try which pretends that it maintains a
representative government? Well, we are
told, in effect, we may go through the
motions of electing representatives to
speak our will and vote our power. But


NEWSWEEK
how can our representatives know our
will? Can they hear it above the clamor of
special interest and unholy greed? Can
they read it in the "distorted" newspapers?
Can they mine it out of mountains of tele-
grams and letters we send them? The Exec-
utive cabal answers that they cannot,
that there is only one true way to know
the will of the people in any state—through
a knowledge of the national will of the
whole people. And the national will of the
whole people has spoken unmistakably
only twice—in two tremendous majorities
for Franklin D. Roosevelt.

The cabal tells us that the President
alone speaks to all the people. He tells the
people over the radio what they need and
what they want. And, after he has re-
minded them, the people telegraph and
write to the White House registering their
approval of his plans for them. The inti-
mate relationship between the Presidential
will and the people’s will is kept in fine
working order by a gigantic publicity ma-
chine which, according to recent figures,
has cost the taxpayers $30,000,000 a year.
Thus there has been established a relation-
ship between the President and the whole
people that supersedes the relationships
between members of Congress and their
constituents. The President has become
the repository of the will of the people.
Individual members of Congress, then,
must not obtrude their own interpreta-
tions of national policies into Congression-
al debate. They are not supposed to
arrogate to themselves the right to give
their capricious notions about the will of
the people greater weight than the Presi-
dent’s sure knowledge of that will.

Does this sound like an extravagant
statement of the philosophy which actu-
ates the Executive cabal? If it does, then
consider the fact that “disobedience” on
the part of a Senator is being punished by
an attempt to impose a political death
sentence on him.

Many years ago, Woodrow Wilson bold-
ly advocated some such theory. The point
that he made then, and which he later
sought—successfully for a while—to put
into operation, was that the President was
“the national voice.” He combined in his
own personality, Mr. Wilson claimed, the
function of chief magistrate, party leader
and the people’s champion.

This idea the White House cabal is now
reviving. And the danger in this position,
as Mr. Wilson’s experience proved, is
that the more a leader becomes obsessed
with the idea that he is the true interpreter
of the people’s will, the less is he able to
divine and to discover that will. The very
excess of power which he wields destroys
his capacity to learn.
But the issue of whether the President
knows the people’s will cannot be brought
to so sharp a test as it was in Mr. Wil-
son’s case, because it will always be ques-
tionable whether Mr. Roosevelt is relying
solely on reason and persuasion, as Mr.
Wilson did. Mr. Roosevelt has discretion
in the allotment of public funds for relief
and public works. When his WPA Admin-
istrator and his Secretary of the Interior
take sides in Congressional primaries, has
not the coercive force of patronage been
brought to bear upon those who are the
recipients of Federal money? Can we
know whether his theory of Presidential
powers has a clear majority in the free
forum of public opinion? When you rea-
son with a man and imply that you may
reward him for his compliance at the same
time, is his compliance a tribute to your
argument or to your gift? Cupidity and
conviction become indistinguishable. In
certain lights Solomon and Santa Claus
have a way of looking like twin brothers.

It is not necessary to argue that a
relegation of Congress to a subsidiary place
in the scheme of government will lead to
the kind of European dictatorship we de-
plore. We do not need to look to Europe.
On this continent—in Mexico and Cuba—
the feeble hypocrisy of representative gov-
ernment persists. But we may as well recog-
nize that, when a seat in Congress cannot
be held except by a pledge of "100 per
cent" loyalty, we have driven men of spirit
from public life and sounded the knell of
representative government.

We may as well recognize the distinc-
tion between the servile declaration of
"100 per cent" Hilliard and Edmund
Burke's principle that: "Authoritative in-
structions, mandates issued, which the
member is bound blindly and implicitly to
obey, to vote, and to argue for, though
contrary to the clearest conviction of his
judgment and conscience—these are things
utterly unknown to the laws of this land,
and which arise from a fundamental mis-
take of the whole order and tenor of our
Constitution."

The Executive cabal prefers Hilliard.
Does the President also? Or does he hold
with James Madison and Alexander Ham-
ilton that: "In order to lay a due founda-
tion for that separate and distinct exer-
cise of the different powers of government,
which to a certain extent is admitted on
all hands to be essential to the preserva-
tion of liberty, it is evident that each de-
partment should have a will of its own;
and consequently should be so constituted
that the members of each should have as
little agency as possible in the appoint-
ment of the members of the others."

The Executive cabal prefers Hilliard.
Does the President also? Or does he recog-
nize that Article I, Section 1 is still part of
the Constitution he has sworn to uphold?

Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Page 860 of 1087