Here's the extracted text from the provided image, maintaining the column structure as much as possible:


PERSPECTIVE

FEDERALISM'S TWILIGHT

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

Only those suffering from incurable
astigmatism can fail to see that
the present trend, greatly acceler-
ated by the Johnson programs, will
in not many years create a monolithic
centralized government. This will
mean the end of what we call fed-
eralism, in which responsibilities
for government are nicely allocated
among the U.S. Government, the
states, and the urban communities. I
omit, for the purpose of making my
point, purely rural and agricultural
areas. While great subsidies are still
paid in the fight against surplus ag-
ricultural production, these areas can
worry along as they have in the
past with support by the states and
self-support at home. The great ur-
ban communities, ever growing and
spreading, lie at the heart of our
domestic concerns.

The needs of these communities,
needs for which some form of govern-
ment revenue must be found, com-
mand the larger part of our Federal,
state, and local revenues, aside from
defense, foreign operations, and ag-
ricultural subsidies.

Here we reach an ironical situa-
tion. The wealth from which almost
all revenues must come-Federal,
state, and local-lies in these areas of
greatest need. U.S. revenues from
other than various forms of income,
death, and excise taxes have become
negligible. The great suction pumps
of Federal income and death taxes,
plus several other taxes, touch all
this locally centered wealth. And
even with the greatest possible lifting
of income-tax rates plus-always plus
-inflationary deficits, Federal reve-
nues cannot begin to fill these local
needs and wants.

BASIC URBAN PROBLEM

We have gone far beyond the point
of diminishing returns with the Fed-
eral income tax. The Kennedy-
Johnson decision to cut the rates
proved that. And Congress will find
that the limit of increase on social
security taxes will be reached politi-
cally in a few years.

The assumption of U.S. responsibil-
ity for so many state and local con-
cerns presents grave defects and
problems. Those I have elaborated
in these essays many times. Waste,
political manipulation, bureaucratic
incompetence, wooden procedures,
and invasions of individual liberty are
an old story. And so rather than rep-
etitiously examining these huge new
programs in medical care, education,
urban transportation, along with the
old ones such as urban renewal, de-
pressed-area help, and the like, I am
trying to cut through to the essen-
tial problem beneath all these U.S.
interventions.

Conservatives have failed to slow
up the trend because they have
been striking at symptoms rather
than at causes or, I might say, the
cause. Appeals to constitutionality or
tradition, or denials of need, or
protests against the invasion of lib-
erty have not affected the trend.
These have had small impact upon
the influence of Federal dollars flow-
ing from Washington.

FEDERAL AID IS PUNY

But the greatest of the arguments
against the programs of The Great
Society as well as earlier ones is not
so much that they are bad. It is that
they are puny contributions to the
situations they are claimed to correct.
Even a few billions contributed to
education and medical care are mi-
nor contributions. The general cost of
such activities is many, many times
that amount. The demands for these
services are growing faster than any
possible increase in U.S. help. And
U.S. help with inflationary deficit
money compounds the problems by
raising prices.

Since the money for these programs
is borrowed money, the Administra-
tion faces the peril of destroying the
prestige of the dollar internationally.
There is a limit to what Congress can
do to keep up with the Johnsonian
vision. Our neighbors in Europe keep
a sharp eye on our budget, and they
have great weapons which we can-
not afford to have them use in inter-
national monetary affairs.

Even if the U.S. Government
makes such great contributions as are
now contemplated, the fiscal problems
of the states and communities still
face those governments. For in politi-
cal life wants grow by what they feed
upon. Demagogues fan the flames
with fantastic promises.

In another piece I shall consider
the fiscal crisis in state-local finances.

Newsweek, April 26, 1965