Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Political Contests in California

by RAYMOND MOLEY

DALLAS—This is written in Texas
after a brief survey of political
affairs in California. There will be
major contests there this year for the
governorship and one Senatorial seat,
and labor will seek to oust some of
the Republican congressmen who do
not regard the Taft-Hartley Act as
a slave law.

Since it would be difficult to convince California people that
James Roosevelt has more
knowledge of the complex
problems of the governorship of California and more
administrative ability than
has Earl Warren, the son
of the late President has
conceived a few truly inspired reasons for his preference. The first is expressed
in words which may become
his campaign slogan: "I care." This is
supposed to mean that, in the true
Roosevelt tradition, James will offer to
the weary and restless a more profound understanding and sympathy
than has Warren. It will be difficult
to prove, since Warren himself is a
bit of a brooder on the vicissitudes
of the underprivileged.

ANOTHER Roosevelt plea is that in
the coming welfare era he will be
a better representative of the state in
Washington. As he says, he knows
his way around down there. It might
be suggested that this would more
properly fit him for the senatorship.
But such a suggestion overlooks the
vision of those who are planning our
future. In that happy time governors
will have little to do in the states in
which they are elected, since the Federal bureaucracy will take over all
state functions. A governor will be
a suppliant or lobbyist in Washington
for his once sovereign state.

Beyond that, James relies upon his
name and his personality.

Warren will be a candidate in both
primaries in June. He will get most of
the Republican votes and, if he bestirs
himself, he can threaten to eliminate
James in the Democratic primary. For
James is not a favorite among many
thousands of traditional Democrats.
Warren, however, has not yet been
actively campaigning. He has no organization, no manager, no committee,
and no money. But he is no novice, and these deficiencies will presumably
be remedied in the weeks to come.
The fight for the senatorship offers
a number of interesting features. Senator Downey has decided to quit,
after twelve years. It is said that he
is not well. He is also tired and discouraged. The novel economic ideas
which won his first election have not
prospered. He has tried to be a friend
of labor, but the unions
were nevertheless sharpening their hatchets for him
this year. He has made little
impression in his service in
the Senate. So he is out of
the race.

Even before Downey's
withdrawal, Helen Gahagan
Douglas, devoted Fair Deal
adherent, entered the contest for the senatorship,
backed by numerous labor interests.
Then, quite unexpectedly, a new Democratic candidate appeared—E. Manchester Boddy, publisher of The Los
Angeles News. Boddy will bring to
bear against the glamorous Gahagan
a number of flashy qualifications. He
claims to be a Democrat of the old
school, although his editorial policy
has never been far from the Roosevelt-Truman party line. He is against the
candidacy of son James, and since
there will be no real contest in the
Republican primary, he will get a
great many Republican votes the purpose of which will be to kill off a more
radical choice. There will also be a
candidate from Northern California,
State Senator Earl Desmond.

CONGRESSMAN Richard Nixon, a
young, aggressive, and attractive
conservative, will get the Republican
nomination almost unopposed. Nixon
as a member of the Un-American Activities Committee really broke the
Hiss case and prepared the way for
the prosecution. Warren and Nixon
will constitute a strong ticket.

The result will probably depend
upon the effect of mounting unemployment in California. Either Warren
or Truman will be blamed, but the
real responsibility rests upon the
masses who have moved to Southern
California recently in the vain expectation that there were jobs for everyone and sunshine and pensions, too.

Newsweek, April 17, 1950