Here's the extracted text from the provided image, respecting the column layout:

**How to Elect Ike**

by Raymond Moley

Our circulation manager tells me that about 3,600,000 people will read this issue of this magazine. Not all read all of our features, however, and certainly not all who will see this piece will want Eisenhower to win. But close to a million will, and with them I want to have a heart-to-heart talk. For they can do a lot toward electing Eisenhower if they will exert themselves.

In fact, if every person who reads this piece could bring to the polls from five to ten voters who did not vote for Dewey in 1948, Ike would win by a landslide. Remember always that about 42,000,000 eligibles did not vote that year.

In popular government, the vote is the payoff—the indispensable final force. A good candidate isn't enough, or good speeches, or tons of literature, or vast amounts of radio and TV time. Unless the normally lazy sovereign voter is nudged, pushed, dragged to the polls, all is lost. And experience has shown that the greater proportion of laziness and the lesser amount of organization are on the side of voters who will prefer Eisenhower and a change this year.

The temper of the AFL meeting in New York last week and that of earlier gatherings of the CIO indicate that all the organized strength of those organizations will be working for Stevenson. Moreover, they know what I mention above: that to win elections, voters must be almost physically dragged to the polls. Their method of house-to-house work has been perfected over many years, and it works. Long before the Republicans were awake to the necessity of individual contact, the political agents of labor were winning votes for Roosevelt and Truman by the simple act of ringing the most doorbells. To twist a wisecrack borrowed from a man in Ohio, they were ringing doorbells while Republicans were wringing their own hands.

The serious problem this year is that a vast proportion of the people who should vote for Eisenhower are not organized. They are the vast middle group of Americans who have incomes of $3,000 to $10,000 a year, who have some savings, whose incomes are not flexible, and who are grievously hurt by the inflationary spending of this Administration. They are people, moreover, who have a deep sense of pride in their government and who deplore the shoddy, corrupt government we have seen in Washington of late. And they have children who are likely to be the bloody sacrifices to blundering foreign policy. I have learned by personal contacts clear across the country this summer that these people desperately want a change.

But these people, while a potential majority, are discordant and confused.  The task of you, the people who read this piece and who want to help, is to reach as many of this potential majority as possible. You can, if you belong to a service club, join with other members in a "get-out-the-Ike-vote" movement. Fine work has been done along this line by Kiwanis, Rotary, and other clubs. The voting record of those clubs in Ohio in 1948 was better than that of any other organized group except labor. You can go to your Republican precinct, ward, town, or county chairman and volunteer. You can get in touch with some Citizens-for-Eisenhower group. Or you and your neighbors can work on your own in your apartment house, block, town, or township. Take it upon yourself to be responsible for as many votes as you can. Or if you yourself cannot work, give some money to your local political organization so that it can hire one or more workers in your place.

Unless an enormous amount of work is done this month and next, it will make little sense in the last two weeks of the campaign to argue issues and tell people to vote. A voter must be qualified, and in a great many places an essential step is registration. In New York the vital registration days are in early October.

And after your prospects are registered, they must be checked to make sure that they get to the polls.

You can win this election. Neither Eisenhower nor his co-workers can win it alone. He will be elected by votes, not good wishes.

Newsweek, September 29, 1952