Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to separate the columns and avoid the advertisement:

**Dewey of New York**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

ALBANY — Revisiting the governor's office at Albany after ten years kindles memories. There is much that is the same. Bill Lamborn still stands at the door, offering more cordial welcome with one hand than most men can with two. He has seen a good many governors come and go in these 53 years. Their portraits look down on him from the old walls of the front office — Theodore Roosevelt, Hughes, Whitman, Al Smith, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lehman. But beyond that, where the new governor and his secretary, Paul Lockwood, deal with state business, there is one unmistakable change.

For ten years after 1922, the office of the governor of New York was the center of an intense concern with national politics. Three times in those ten years a governor of New York sought the Presidential nomination. Twice, in ’23 and ’32, he got it. State business in those years seemed remote and secondary. It was a matter of no interest to the swarm of visitors from other states who came to the shrine.

State business has the exclusive right of way now. It’s moving faster than it has for many years. Nobody is talking about national politics, and nobody, apparently, is thinking about it. But state business can be tremendously colorful when Gov. Thomas E. Dewey is directing it.

Dewey is by nature as quick, inquisitive and forceful a man as ever lived. Everything interests him, most of all the problems of government. He attacks them with a machine-gun series of questions. The feathers fly, until a problem emerges in all its nakedness. Phonics find it hard to get by that kind of mental and verbal frisking.

The government of New York, with the bureaus, committees and commissions that 30 years of social experimentation have added, is a gargantuan machine. It costs $370,000,000 a year and employs 50,000 persons. Since the time of Al Smith, governors have been so busy putting “social gains” on ice that the refrigerator has had no real cleaning out. The state administration is not corrupt. Nor has it been politically abused. But it has got into an awful state of disrepair. Righting it, alone, will provide enough labor to keep the governor up to his neck in work for a long time.

Quietly, but firmly, Dewey has been accelerating the legislative part of the repair job. Two measures needed for years have already been whipped through. The date of the beginning of the fiscal year has been moved from July 1 to April 1. And a reapportionment of the legislature required by the state constitution, but neglected for 27 years, has just been enacted despite spirited opposition. The measure of this achievement is suggested by the fact that neither Al Smith, F.D.R. nor Lehman could get it done.

Both Dewey’s relations with his legislative majority and with the press are excellent. He is making few speeches, none of them on national affairs, and wasting no time on the endless social and political engagements that usually eat into the time and energy of public men. The politicos are naturally somewhat irked by his policy of studying each department and getting the best possible person to head it before he makes appointments. This takes time, and he has made few major appointments, but it should pay the state dividends in a revitalized government.

Provision for the postwar needs of returning soldiers, which is much in Dewey’s mind, comes down now, as in other states, largely to a question of fiscal policy. Surpluses must be created and protected against the itchy hands of spenders, on one side, and the piteous outcries for tax reduction, on the other. New York has a $44,000,000 surplus now. Dewey’s current budget will add $10,000,000 more. Reserves may well bring the nest egg to over $60,000,000. There will be further additions as economies are made within the budget.

As Dewey sees it, his chief job, now that a nationwide food pinch threatens, is to see to the planting, growing and harvesting of maximum crops on New York’s fertile soil. Called upon to speak on Lincoln’s Birthday, he avoided the customary flight into Lincoln quotations and talked about the need of food and farm workers. Since no one can eat quotations, however noble, that is probably what Lincoln himself would have advised.

It’s good to watch Dewey at work. These days when Federal bureaucracy is doing so poorly, vital state governments are the most hopeful sign on our domestic scene. In four years at Albany Dewey should give the Empire State something to remember.