Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  Note that I've preserved the original formatting as much as possible, including the column structure.  This means some lines might appear shorter than expected due to the original column breaks.


TODAY IN AMERICA
By Raymond Moley

An Inquisitor
Comes to Glory

IN ITSELF, the addition of Senator
Black to the present Supreme Bench
is of relatively slight importance to the
country. But as a clue to the political
history of the next three years, its sig-
nificance is incalculable. For the nomi-
nation of Hugo Black by Franklin
Delano Roosevelt, seen in the light of
the personal characteristics and careers
of both men, is a portentous indication
of what lies ahead.

There have been worse appointments
to high judicial offices; but, with
Rodgers and Hart, I can't remember
where or when. Like the late Huey
Long, Senator Black is an able man.
His sympathies, again like those of the
Kingfish, lie with the socially and
economically dispossessed of the coun-
try. But Huey's fundamental weak-
nesses, his passion for short cuts, his
tendency to oversimplify complex prob-
lems, his gullibility where plausible
crackpot economic schemes were con-
cerned, his use of reckless methods to
attain his ends, all characterize Hugo
Black. Huey's chief redeeming feature
was a constructive effort which gave
the poor of his State better schools,
cheaper books, good roads. Black
looms only as a destroyer, an attacker,
an inquisitor.

LONG'S rule of Louisiana did not fan
the fires of religious intolerance. Cath-
olics and Jews of that State will still
testify that, in the catalogue of Long's
shortcomings, religious bigotry was ab-
sent. His influence was to minimize
rather than to increase intolerance.
Hugo Black as a national figure
is a product of that dark political hour
in the '20s when fiery crosses flared on
thousands of hillsides. In 1926 the
gracious and tolerant Underwood de-
clined to stand for reelection because
he refused to submit his long and un-
sullied record as a public servant to
an electorate in which the K.K.K. had
become, for the moment, a determining
influence. That was Hugo Black's big
chance. He waded into the seething
caldron like an asbestos duck. Although
apparently not a member of the Klan,
he stumped the State attacking Al
Smith, then Governor of New York and
champion of repeal. This was the ladder
that lifted the Clay County lawyer to
the Senate of the United States.

The years passed: religious bigotry
diminished as a factor in politics, and
the Klan slowly dissolved in its own
poison. But another form of intoler-
ance took its place, and Senator Black
rushed to join the new crusade. This
time the proscribed class was big busi-
ness, and the fiery cross of attack was
the Black Thirty Hour Bill of 1933.
Recognizing the bill's patent unsound-
ness, the New Deal of 1933 sought its
defeat and barely achieved it through
the enactment of the NRA.

Black then turned to his well-prac-
ticed role of inquisitor and scourge in
a sweeping investigation of the Ameri-
can merchant marine. There was, as
a matter of established fact, a very
small minority of wrongdoers among
American shipping companies. But
Black's attacks were so general that
virtually all shipping companies were
held up to the country as members of a
proscribed industry. This, and the re-
strictive legislation that Senator Black
subsequently sponsored, all but drove
the flag of the American merchant
marine from the seas.

SENATOR BLACK'S talent for witch
burning did not reach full ma-
turity, however, until he launched his
lobbying investigation. In the course
of this inquisition, the operations of a
small number of wrongdoers again be-
came the excuse for as sweeping an
attack upon private rights as has ever
been made in this country. With the
aid of the pliant Federal Communica-
tions Commission, Senator Black's com-
mittee invaded the privacy of the
senders of thousands of telegrams. The
United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia, on Nov. 9,
1936, held that the resolution of the
Federal Communications Commission
under which the telegrams were ex-
amined "was without authority at law
and contrary to the very terms of the
act under which the commission was
constituted."

The official life of the inquisition,
moreover, was not terminated with the
passing of the occasion which brought
it forth. The Senator's inquisitorial
faculties have been held in readiness
since as a threat to all and sundry
critics of Administration policies. Even
in the fight over Court-packing there
were journalistic suggestions that Ad-
ministration opponents were to be
"investigated" by the Black committee.
As a member of the Supreme Court,
Senator Black will fortunately be re-
lieved forever of that necessity for vote-
getting which has so consistently
brought out the more unlovely of his
characteristics. He has a quick and
absorptive mind, great capacity for
work and a fair amount of book learn-
ing. His genius for irritating others
will no doubt stimulate his colleagues
to vigorous intellectual activity. But
it is likely that his presence on the
Court, indicating, as it does, the Presi-
dent's taste in Supreme Court timber,
will galvanize the determination of
conservatives of the Court to live long
and to stay in office. Black, in short, is
more apt to drive his colleagues to the
Right than a moderate and persuasive
appointee might have done. It is true
that his general sympathy for humane
legislation will be a wholesome factor
in the deliberations of the court: yet
such a quality must have been present
in at least fifty of the hundred possible
nominees the President was considering.

WHY, then, did Mr. Roosevelt choose
Senator Black for a place on the
Court? All of the evidence indicates
that the appointment was the product
not of long and heart-searching con-
sideration, but of an immediate and
hastily formulated desire to strike back
at opposition. It was a gesture of de-
fiance toward the Southern Senators
and Representatives and toward em-
ployers of labor. It is said that up to
the very moment of the appointment,
the inner circle of Presidential ad-
visers expected a much more con-
ciliatory appointment. Apparently the
decision was made as late as the day
before the nomination, when the House
Rules Committee bottled up the Wages
and Hours Bill.

Appointments made in such a way
are rarely wise appointments. This
one is no exception. It means that war
is to continue within the Democratic
party. More important, it means that
war is to continue between the Ad-
ministration and moderate opinion
throughout the country. Obviously,
the President feels that it is so neces-
sary to solidify and augment his radical
support that he is willing to risk the
displeasure of those to whom Senator
Black is grievously offensive.

It is a far cry, indeed, from the days
in the 1920s when Franklin D. Roose-
velt so gallantly defended the principles
of tolerance and good will against the
attacks of those who sought to divide
the country into classes. If this is the
Presidential conception of "new blood"
on the Supreme Court, I can only offer
up profound gratitude that the coun-
try escaped six such appointments.

NEWS-WEEK August 21, 1937