Here's the text from the provided image, separating the columns to avoid overlap:


**The Russell Candidacy**

by Raymond Moley

The candidacy of Sen. Richard B. Russell has a significance far beyond the threat that it presents to President Truman or to any Truman-blessed candidate. It draws sharply the line between what the Democratic Party stood for in the years before the Roosevelt Administration veered to the left after 1934 and what is now represented by the Truman regime. That party in whose behalf several million of us labored up to and through the campaign of 1932 stood for a number of principles, eternally indispensable, we believed, and handed down to us from illustrious men of another generation. Among those principles were government under a strictly construed Constitution; a guarantee of life, liberty, and property; indestructible states; and controlled, limited, and balanced power. These principles we conceived, as Jefferson put it, to be "unalienable," and as Burke before him phrased it, to be "an entailed inheritance."

The restatement of these Democratic principles by Senator Russell will inspire many more than the citizens of the South. It will be a message of cheer to millions of Northern Democrats who over the past few years have been politically homeless. For that reason, among others, the candidacy of Russell cannot be regarded as a mere sectional revolt. Its significance is national. There is no reason why in many states in the North as well as throughout the border states Russell should not pick up many delegates. If that be true, the Russell candidacy may be a threat not only to the election of Truman, but to his nomination as well.

Within the lesser meaning of a Southern revolt, however, the decision of Senator Russell fits into a pattern that we have all seen taking shape for a long time. The first sharp warning was in Senator Byrd's speeches in 1951. In these he made it clear that the South was determined to wage war against the Truman program. He made it clear, too, that he and his colleagues from the South opposed not only the Truman civil-rights proposals, but the whole trend toward Federal supremacy and national socialism. He said that this fight would be carried into and through the national convention. Further, he left wide open the question of whether in the event of failure in the convention the fight would go on to the election. But he uttered the ominous warning that no Democrat could be elected without the electoral vote of the South.

Governor Byrnes placed his own protest squarely on a line with that of Byrd. He stated at the Governors' Conference last fall that he favored Senator Russell and, by implication, that his state was inalterably opposed to the reelection of Mr. Truman. Meanwhile, over in Texas those Democrats who oppose Truman and his policies have grown in power and quite probably at the moment are in control of the party in that state. Governor Shivers is the leader in the fight for conservative principles. Thus, the opposition of the South is in the hands of vastly more experienced and more eminent leaders than it was four years ago. And with Senator Russell as a candidate, it has reached the proportions of a national movement to rescue the Democratic Party from those who now control it.

Despite the pressure of those who want Russell to say what he and his colleagues and supporters will do if they are defeated at the convention, he is quite right in refusing to commit himself. His course is and should be to present himself as a genuine candidate for the nomination and to seek not only Southern but Northern votes. If, despite this opportunity to choose a candidate in the true traditions of the Democratic Party, the convention should again rebuff the South, there is time to decide on the next step.

If Russell decides to become a candidate at that time, he can prevent the election of Truman or anyone Truman might choose as his successor. And as Arthur Krock pointed out in The New York Times, he can carry on the fight after the convention with the complete sanction of a ruling of the Democratic convention of 1948 in the so-called Mississippi case. This year may well be memorable in American political history.

Newsweek, March 10, 1952