Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Gaitskell at Blackpool
by Raymond Moley

THE so-called intellectuals in the
British Labor Party listened to the
truly magnificent speech of Hugh
Gaitskell at the recent party confer-
ence at Blackpool. If it were possible
for minds so calcified by academic
prejudice and colored by tints com-
pounded by socialists back in the Vic-
torian age to accept new truth, they
would have realized that they were
listening to one of the outstanding
political addresses of their generation.
But it was no day for miracles, and
there was little applause. The next
day their sterile souls took wing with
the reiterations of the ancient faith by
Aneurin Bevan.

Gaitskell's speech was a richly il-
lustrated statement of a principle of
politics: Facts are faster than ideas. A
philosophy when formulated and ac-
cepted by a large following is a ra-
tionalization of facts which have
vanished from the scene. Facts are
rabbits. An idea is a tortoise.

Gaitskell was speaking to a brood
procreated by two sorts of parents-
socialists such as the Webbs, Shaw,
and James Keir Hardie; and trade
unionists. Until now, the intellectuals
have written the books and manifes-
toes, and the latter have provided the
money and the votes. The party's
ideas, such as nationalization, date
back into conditions and facts prevail-
ing many years ago. Meanwhile, a
group of practical parliamentary lead-
ers like Gaitskell were developed by
the responsibility of six years in office.
These politicians are concerned with
political power and are far nearer to
the thinking of the British people than
are the rest of the party. But they
must somehow hold together the
trade unionists and the intellectuals in
order to remain a major opposition.

WOMEN QUIT PARTY

Gaitskell reminded the trade union-
ists that British workers, like their
American counterparts, are moving
from a purely working-class environ-
ment into middle-class communities
and are enjoying many advantages
and benefits foreign to them before
the war. They are moving into the
status of the middle class. Many voted
Conservative in the last election.
Especially the women. Gaitskell
describes their defection from Labor

in this year's election as the major fac-
tor in the debacle. These women,
Gaitskell reminded his audience, are
concerned with modern living, wash-
ing machines, refrigerators, electric
cookers, and holidays. They can't feed
their husbands and children with
Shaw's "Intelligent Women's Guide to
Socialism and Capitalism."

He further reminded the trade
unions that work, and with it those
who are employed, is changing with
technological progress: "There are
fewer miners, more engineers; fewer
manual workers and more clerical
workers; fewer railway workers and
more research workers... the typical
worker of the future will be a skilled
man in white overall, watching dials in
a bright new factory, rather than a
badly paid cotton-factory operative in
a dark nineteenth-century mill."

MOVE TO MAIN STREET

He implored the intellectuals to
overhaul their ideological store win-
dow. He said that the 40-year-old
Labor Party constitution is an anachro-
nism written when Fabianism was a
blinding dream, not, as now, a light
that failed. The zealots in many con-
stituencies should now act more like
representatives of a responsible politi-
cal party fit to govern a modern nation
and less like "doctrine-ridden fanat-
ics." Let us be missionaries not
monks, a mass party not a conspir-
atorial group."

Pointedly he reminded them of
something I have noted in my three
visits to British elections. The Labor
Party may be limited in its finances,
but party headquarters could use a
bit of new paint and the vigorous ap-
plication of brooms and mops. More-
over, Gaitskell said, they ought to
move their quarters out of the slums
and get on the main street. When I
read this part of his speech, I envi-
sioned "Nye" Bevan's agent shuffling
around in Tredegar on the edge of
Wales, in a deserted dressing room in
a broken-down theater, a room lit-
tered with the accumulation of yel-
lowing reprints of the gusty Marxian's
speeches of past years. It took me a
long time even to find that miserable
den in that small city. Socialism has
a venerable history, but no appeal-
ing future.

Newsweek, December 21, 1959