Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


TODAY IN AMERICA
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

DANGEROUS CURVES AHEAD
THAT jolt you felt a week or so ago was inflation
slipping into gear. For four years we have been
talking about inflation without actually experiencing
its results. Now we can see that an inflationary boom
rises not only from credit and currency expansion, but
from industrial situations. Reduce the supply of goods
by shortening the supply of men, assume a worldwide
armament race equaling in its intensity the middle
days of the World War, and you have inflation, with all
its variations.

Nobody begrudges the steel or automobile workers
the increases they are getting. But when the increases
are promptly passed along to consumers, when the
government gaily agrees to pay more for its naval steel
and when the budget and its deficit threaten to be re-
vised upward once more (what with the Wagner hous-
ing bill and such projects) then we must begin to
wonder if the old boom days are not here again and to
ask ourselves how long they are going to last.

This is not the inflation we were imagining in our
innocence a few years back—planned money, credit
and agricultural production which would automatically
bring the farmers more for their produce and gradually
reemploy factory workers. Those well-laid plans have
been tossed into the ash can. Droughts threw the AAA
calculations completely out of kilter. We have set up
a WPA which competes with private industry for the
dwindling supply of skilled labor. We have passed a
Walsh-Healey law designed to diminish the working
time of this already reduced supply of men. New highs
appear on the strike fever charts. We rejoice in a
rush of war orders. And, to top all this, we begin to talk
of new plans for raising wages and reducing hours—
plans which will have the effect of standardizing in-
dustrial work to a greater degree and of disemploying
more marginal workers who cannot quite make the
steeper grade.

We have, it is true, a set of brakes on inflation. But
they operate only on the financial side of industry.
Their purpose, among other things, is to control the
stock market, the place where these economic changes
are marked up. We have a stabilization fund designed
to keep our currency on a parity with the currencies
of Great Britain and France, who are themselves en-
gaged in war booms and in budget unbalancing. Such
brakes as these can be usefully applied only by an
administration as anxious to prevent inflation on the
price side as on the speculative side.

When Miss Perkins says "our whole steel problem is
over," but the Navy Department prepares to pay $3 or
more for steel beyond the prices originally budgeted
for this armament, then we may begin to have our
doubts about how far the Administration really wants
to go in controlling inflation. When Mr. Hopkins talks
once more of raising the wages of the WPA to compete
with the new "prevailing" rates in private industry, be-
fore the taxes to meet these additional outlays can even
be suggested, then we may indeed wonder if the Ad-
ministration has not already joined the grim dance.

March 13, 1937

We cannot expect to lay out money for more battle-
ships, more power plants, more slum-clearance projects
and still work fewer hours or days—unless we are ready
to give up other things we also want. If we do attempt
it, we shall skyrocket prices, with wages trailing behind,
and finally end in a collapse of the currency. Will the
Administration have the courage to put on the taxes or
reduce the expenditures to the degree that the emer-
gency requires?

NEUTRALITY, LTD.
THE best that can be said for the Pittman neutrality
bill passed by the Senate last week is that it is neith-
er fish, flesh, fowl, nor a good red herring.

The bill embodies five principles. On the first three
of these—the mandatory ban (1) on the export of arms,
ammunition and implements of war to belligerents,
(2) on travel by American citizens on the ships of bel-
ligerents and (3) on credits and loans to belligerents—
there has been no criticism. And, while the fourth
principle of the bill, the mandatory insistence on "cash
on the barrel head," has been bitterly attacked, I see
no objection to it. For however stirring the concept of
freedom of the seas may be, it is perfectly clear that
the American people are more disposed to surrender
certain rights than to risk war in an attempt to main-
tain them.

The fifth principle of the bill, however, is another
matter. It vests in the President the discretionary pow-
er to prohibit American ships from carrying such ma-
terials as cotton, steel and copper to belligerent nations.
That, as Senators Borah, Johnson and Vandenberg have
repeatedly pointed out, is a dangerous power, a power
equivalent to the right to apply sanctions. No Presi-
dent, while a war is going on, can select commodities
to be embargoed without hurting one side or the other,
provoking resentment and inviting reprisal.

Nevertheless, the Pittman bill, even including this
dangerous principle, is preferable to the McReynolds
bill in the House, which seeks to give the President
an even larger measure of discretionary power. As it
stands, the Pittman bill represents a substantial victory
for those who fear that the real purpose of the Admin-
istration in seeking greater discretion is the desire to
apply sanctions to an "aggressor" rather than to pre-
serve American neutrality.

But the important thing for the American people
to remember is that, with or without neutrality legisla-
tion, they have no sure protection except eternal vigi-
lance against the exertion of influence by the Executive
in behalf of one side or another in a conflict. We may
lessen the dangers of involvement by divesting our-
selves of the responsibility for protecting American
cargoes anywhere at any time and by restricting the
conversion of foreign investments and deposits in this
country into purchases of American commodities. But
we have discovered no automatic safety devices which
will "quarantine" this country against other people's
wars if those in control of our foreign affairs are inept
or unneutral at heart.

5