Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure:


**The Eighty-Third Congress**

*by Raymond Moley*

Last week in this space I made the point that while Republicans are at one another’s throats about who shall lead them next year, there seems to be little concern about a much more important question. That question concerns what there is to lead.  The delusion persists that the Republican Party is potentially a majority in this country. There is plenty of evidence to the contrary.

Corruption and foreign-policy mistakes may pave the way for the defeat of President Truman in 1952 if he decides to run. Also, if he runs there is a very good chance that another candidate will appear in the South and make a Truman victory impossible. The result may be the election of a Republican President. However, such a new President would probably be a minority choice. Moreover, he would almost certainly not have a Congressional majority of his own party. He would be the beneficiary of anti-Truman sentiment rather than of a pro-Republican revival.

To meet this uncomfortable situation, two courses of action suggest themselves. One is a reconstruction of Republican principles so that the party’s candidates can appeal to large sections of the South, where powerful conservative opinion is waiting for such leadership. The other is active effort by citizens’ groups to the end that a Congress may be elected that will support conservative policies.

The first of these courses I shall consider later. The second deserves attention now.


At this moment, the chances of a Republican majority in the Senate are exceedingly slight. There are 46 Republicans in the present Senate, and nineteen face reelection. There are 50 Democrats, and only fourteen must run again. To control, the Republicans must make a net gain of three.

Let us see where they have a chance to gain. They have absolutely no chance for five of the fourteen, for those seats are in the deep South. In three of the remaining nine states where a Democratic Senator must run —Arizona, New Mexico, and Rhode Island—the Republicans have not won a Senate race for many years. That leaves Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Wyoming, Connecticut, and Michigan. Republicans might win three of those.

But can they win all the nineteen contests where Republicans must run? Only four of them can be counted safely Republican—Maine, Vermont, North Dakota, and Nebraska. There are fair Republican chances in New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Indiana, Wisconsin, Minnesota, California, Delaware, and Ohio. In the remaining six states —Massachusetts, Missouri, Utah, Nevada, Montana, and Washington—there are only even chances.

The Senate picture presents a doubtful prospect for a Republican majority.  The chances of a Republican House are better, but not very good. Of the 235 Democratic House seats, 28 can be regarded as close or marginal. Twenty-seven of the 200 Republican House seats are close or marginal. Thus the fighting ground is in 55 Congressional districts. In 1944 Republicans carried only 28 of these. In 1948 they carried only six. In 1950 they carried 27.

But to gain control of the House, they must in 1952 carry 45 of the 55.


These facts are well known to the pro-Truman forces, including the CIO-PAC, and other labor and left-wing organizations. Beginning in 1948, those organizations concentrated on Congress.  The Republican Party cannot meet this challenge alone. There must be organized in these critical states and Congressional districts strong, active citizen movements to carry on a campaign for conservative principles, to assist the Republican candidates in Northern States and districts where such candidates meet their specifications, and to get out the lazy and “independent” vote at election. In the South similar organizations should support conservative candidates and oppose left-wing candidates in primaries. Such efforts in Ohio, Utah, Illinois, and elsewhere were decisive in 1950. They will be critically necessary in 1952.

*Newsweek, December 3, 1951*