Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  Note that perfect column separation is impossible due to the image quality and varying column widths.  Some minor manual adjustments were needed.


Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Shadow and Substance

The businessman who has been
having bad moments since the President's
whacking budget was presented to the
country some days ago can get some meas-
ure of comfort if he remembers that the
man who presented this financial report
was a politician—not an accountant. The
words of a politician are designed to make
a case for public consumption. His expres-
sions are not accurate statements of em-
pirical facts: they are emotional, general,
conceptual.

It must be remembered further that
those upon whom the President leans most
heavily in phrasing such statements are
not economists, but lawyers. If the Presi-
dent's closest advisers were, say, graduates
of the Harvard Business School, the busi-
nessman would understand his language
better. But they are graduates of the Har-
vard Law School and other law schools,
and consequently the President's utter-
ances are heavily colored by lawyer-think-
ing. Political-thinking still stems much
more largely from lawyer-thinking than it
does from business-thinking. That's the
reason why there are more lawyers in
politics than businessmen.

The President has been moving from
one year's end to another without much
consistent planning as to how he is going
to improve the state of the government's
finances. He has trusted to his skill to
draw, at each year's end, a pleasing pic-
ture, in preference to driving himself to
the task of rearranging the unpleasant
facts out of which the picture must be
made. His situation at the beginning of
1939 was particularly discouraging. De-
spite the humiliating fact that time and
again he has given budgetary assurances
that were not realized, he found it neces-
sary to stand up before Congress and the
country once again with a colossal budget
for the coming year and little hope to of-
fer for the year after this.

For this reason, as a politician, he found
it necessary to dress up his budget mes-
sage with certain rhetorical flourishes
meant to sweeten the pill without chang-
ing its essential contents. Finding it im-
possible to make the figures themselves
more palatable, he developed a new finan-
cial vocabulary to envelop them and con-
cocted a new financial philosophy to act
as a chaser so that the patient could down
them with less gagging.

Unfortunately, the chaser proved to be
more bitter than the medicine. And so,
paradoxically, it is the rationale for this
NEWSWEEK, JANUARY 23, 1939

year's expenditures that has been greeted
with the groans and handwringings of
businessmen rather than the size of the
projected expenditures themselves. For the
rationale, the alibi, suggests that Mr.
Roosevelt views the continuing deficit
with utter complacency—that he considers
it, in fact, a desirable and a rather won-
derful thing.

There is first the assumption that pump
priming was responsible for the recovery
after 1933. This overlooks the facts
(pointed out by Harry Scherman in The
Saturday Evening Post of Dec. 31, 1938)
that the pump was not dry in 1933 and
that the government's expenditures added
merely a trifling amount to the total sum
of private spending. It overlooks the fact
that the most spirited recovery in 1933
took place before there was any actual
government spending induced by Roose-
velt. It also overlooks the enormous effect
of Roosevelt's handling of the bank crisis
upon public confidence.

Then there is, in the message, the partial
discarding of the concept of pump priming.
Certainly the concept of pump priming,
for which the English economist, Keynes,
was responsible is tossed out the window.
The Keynes idea was to reduce spending
just as rapidly as possible in a period of
increased business and to expand spending
during a period of slackening business.
This two-sided concept is now abandoned.
We are told not that we should have less
government spending as business improves.
We are told that there ought to be a cu-
mulative pushing up of expenditures from
one level to another because we will not
only push up the national income by con-
tinuing to push up government expendi-
tures, but, in fact, make the national
budget balance almost automatically.

It is at this point that the new vo-
cabulary bursts upon us. The word "spend-
ing" is not used. Instead there is the word
"investment"—which has a Rock-of-Gi-
braltar sound. There are the words "as-
set," "durable," and, on the other hand, is
the word "extraordinary," which suggests
that while the bill this year is pretty big,
this year is something extra-special and
the coming ones may not be like it.

The process of prettifying the sad news,
in short, is carried so far that the Admin-
istration will have to go only a bit further
before its annual budget messages are
studded with such comforting epitaphs
as the following: in referring to "spending
for assets"— "if my bark sink 'tis to an-
other sea"; in referring to "extraordinary
expenditures"— "he that dies this year

is quit for the next"; in referring to "dur-
able improvements"— "gone but not for-
gotten."

Yet all such verbal hocus-pocus must
not be taken too seriously. For it is merely
the way of a politician with an ugly fact.
It is merely Mr. Roosevelt's attempt to
put the best possible face upon his record.
Its arguments do not warrant the worried
consideration economists are giving them;
because the arguments never would have
been presented had there been a somewhat
greater improvement in business than the
Administration's policies of the last few
years made possible; because the argu-
ments will be dropped when there is an im-
provement in business; because, believe it
or not, their chief proponent is not a gen-
uine convert to the spending school.

Mr. Roosevelt is an unwilling and
belated victim of the seductive argument
of the spending school. He never did any-
thing with a better heart than recommend
to Congress the Economy Bill of 1933. It
was only after long persuasion that he was
brought to the point where he would ask
Congress for a large public-works allot-
ment. After he had recommended it, and
after Congress had granted it, he stood be-
hind Budget Director Douglas in his ef-
forts to put the brakes on Secretary Ickes.
Those who have known him over the years
know that he would rather leave the
United States Government with a bal-
anced budget than almost any other single
thing. It is only the politician in him that
has caused him to present this double-sided
budget—the one telling you how much the
government is costing you, the other sup-
posed to make you feel better about it.

The President's message, of course, com-
pletely mistakes the true purpose of a
budget. A budget is a cash account of ex-
pected income and projected outlays. It
is not an inventory of the country's wealth.
The Treasury and the nation are not
identical. The Treasury acts as a paying
and receiving teller: the nation is a pro-
prietor. The balance sheet of the Treasury
is not designed to set forth a theoretical
appraisal of the wealth of the country it-
self, but to inform the citizens how much
of their income they will have to give up
to the Treasury. To confuse these things
is to invite the most unfortunate kind of
delusion.

The names for spending have changed
several times in the past three years, but
the multiplication table has remained the
same for centuries. It is to be hoped that
both Congress and taxpayers are more
clear-headed about this cold fact than the
President seems to be. It certainly begins
to look as though Congress were in no
mood to accept the new era in government
bookkeeping. Congress will spend a good
deal of money, but it will do so because it
wants to spend and not because it is being
hornswoggled by new names for spending.

Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.

Page 746 of 1087