Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Beyond the Fifth

by Raymond Moley

PORTLAND, ORE.—The current re-
flections of Dave Beck must be
embittered by the thought that if his
interrogation by the McClellan com-
mittee had been a few weeks later,
he and his son might have spared
themselves the trouble of taking the
Fifth Amendment 328 times. For the
Supreme Court in the Watkins case
makes it clear that any witness, with-
out mentioning self-incrimination, may
decide for himself what is relevant to
the making of the laws of the land.
However, the most eminent of the
defenders of the Fifth Amendment,
Dean Erwin N. Griswold of the Har-
vard Law School, in his book, “The
Fifth Amendment Today,” justifies a
witness in taking the Fifth even when
he has “no confidence” in a commit-
tee. There was a time, during the
Internal Revenue scandals, when
many of us had no confidence in the
bureau, but we responded to its ques-
tions and paid our taxes.
But we are far beyond the Fifth
Amendment now. Silence, unembel-
lished silence, is the law.
Since the Watkins decision, all sorts
of screwballs and subversives are
skipping about like rams. The Court
has fitted their needs, as one lawyer
puts it, “like a glove.” Go ahead, folks,
say what you please; choose whatever
shabby, traitorous pals your heart
may crave; go to their meetings, and
sing in the choir. Support Communist
causes with sympathy and money,
and you may be invited to lecture
with Oppenheimer at Harvard.

COMMUNIST REVIVAL

There is no better member of Con-
gress than Gordon H. Scherer. He
was out here on the Coast when the
Supreme Court handed down its
shocking decision. He was serving as
a member of a subcommittee of the
House Un-American Activities Com-
mittee. He says that when the news
of the Court’s action was known, a
former chairman of the Communist
Party in California said that this “will
mark a rejuvenation of the party in
America…we are on our way.”
Scherer saw the rejuvenation in
San Francisco. Communists swarmed
into the hearing room like flies. Mem-
bers of the subcommittee were sub-
jected to snide remarks as they passed
by. When the hearings opened, a
lawyer appeared, armed with the
Watkins decision, and before his wit-
ness was allowed to speak demanded
that the subcommittee outline in de-
tail the nature and object of its inves-
tigation and explain to his satisfaction
how each question was pertinent to
the subject of the investigation.
What Dean Griswold said applies
with greater pertinence now, for it
reflects the sentimental thinking
behind these decisions. The Fifth
Amendment, he wrote, was “an ex-
pression of the moral striving of the
community…a symbol of the Amer-
ica that stirs our hearts.” He argues
that the taker of the Fifth should be
spared not only any unfavorable in-
ferences, but any social punishment
and reproach. Time was when people
who stood against prevailing opinion
in defense of their beliefs were pre-
pared to take the consequences.
Sidney Hook in his devastating book
replying to Griswold, “Common Sense
and the Fifth Amendment,” says:
“Can anyone imagine a William Lloyd
Garrison or a Eugene Debs hiding be-
hind the Fifth Amendment?”

TEST OF HISTORY

Hook exposes relentlessly the shal-
low scholarship which prompts the
dean to associate the immunity from
self-incrimination with the great
Anglo-American struggles for human
rights. The renowned reformer of the
penal law, Jeremy Bentham, saw no
justification for the privilege. Nor did
America’s foremost legal scholar, John
H. Wigmore. Justice Cardozo said
that “justice would not perish if the
accused were subject to a duty to
respond to orderly inquiry.” Justice
Stephen, in his “History of the Crimi-
nal Law of England,” wrote that the
privilege was merely one of a number
of rights which “arose from a peculiar
and accidental state of things which
long since passed away.”
Perhaps it is a mark of the dilution
of law and common sense with socio-
logical and psychological jargon in
law schools that is responsible for the
loose sentimentalism of Griswold, who
occupies the position once distin-
guished by such scholars and philoso-
phers as Roscoe Pound. Perhaps that
is what is the matter with our judges.

Newsweek, July 15, 1957