Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the image quality and column layout:


Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Human Nature, Rex

by Raymond Moley

IT is a grim commentary on hu-
man progress toward democracy,
popular government, and the self-
determination of free peoples that a
lesion in an artery in the brain of one
man can deeply affect the lives or
disrupt the plans and anticipations of
a great majority of the human beings
that inhabit the earth. From Indonesia
to Indianapolis, whatever route you
take, you will find people
today asking what the fate
of Stalin means to them and
their families and their
friends and their countries.

A personal illness or the
swift thrust of a knife or
the crash of a bullet has
turned the tide of world
events before. While every-
one is guessing how and
where and when the tide
will change again, let us turn to that
great unchangeable, human nature.
Fate has caught up with Stalin.
After all, the wages of dictatorship is
chaos and death. He could no more
by pre-planning assure a quiet con-
tinuity of his regime than he could
provide himself with eternal life.

Human nature will have its way.
In the midst of wild speculation in
August 1941, when Hitler was mov-
ing into Russia-speculation in which
most military geniuses were saying
that the Soviet would fold in a matter
of weeks-there were a few who re-
membered Napoleon. They pointed
out that human nature and the
weather would destroy Hitler. They
did. For as one commentator said:
"There is a mysterious rule of human
nature which impels a man or a group
of men or a nation to evolve grander
and grander schemes at the same
time that the creative intelligence
grows less and less capable of
executing them."

Lord Acton might have added to
his observation that power corrupts,
the reminder that it corrupts not only
the man who has it, but those who
are infected with the consuming lust
to possess it. That will happen with
those who constitute the oligarchy
with which Stalin ruled Russia.

Presumably there will be an heir,
either designated by Stalin or se-
lected by the machine. But the selec-
tion of that heir will create, in the
homely language of American politics,

"nine enemies and one ingrate." For
he will not trust even those who pro-
moted his election, and no one will
trust him. Fear will prevail every-
where. He must remove potential ri-
vals, and potential rivals will fear just
that. Under such conditions, the op-
eration of a centralized government
must weaken.

When, as is the case with the vast
reaches of the U.S.S.R., the
lines of power reach into
countries, races, and regions
of vast diversity, the capac-
ity to maintain unity is rap-
idly dissipated. It will take
more than a dialectic writ-
ten in a book, or a Lenin
and/or Stalin embalmed in
perpetuity, or an heir sur-
rounded by rivals to hold
this malignant contraption
together. For the deliberate choice
of those who fashioned the Commu-
nist creed in rejecting all the implica-
tions of morality will defeat itself. If
power is god, then power alone must
hold the obedience of subject people,
and when power falters, obedience
vanishes. In the great Communist
world, therefore, the Kremlin's will
must wither-first in the distant peri-
phery and then inexorably back to-
ward the center.

Then, as was the case in the Roman
Empire after the golden age that fol-
lowed the Emperor Augustus, the far-
flung tentacles of power will feel a
slow paralysis. To borrow a figure
from medical science, when central
control is damaged, the extremities
lose their strength and convulsive
movements rack the whole body.

The circumstances that brought
Stalin to power do not prevail in Rus-
sia now. There is a vast difference
between the problem of control in the
confusion that followed the death of
Lenin and the present state of the
U.S.S.R. Then, it was a matter of
stability and growth. Now, it is the
maintenance of an overextended and,
to a degree, precarious geographical
and political monstrosity.

SURELY we must not count on a more
peaceful world. The convulsions of
this sick giant will be extremely peril-
ous. But it is difficult to avoid the
conclusion that we are witnessing the
beginning of the end.

Newsweek, March 16, 1953