PERSPECTIVE
THE WORTH OF A NAME
BY RAYMOND MOLEY

In these days of precooked TV dinners we also have plenty of flashy
but insubstantial and unreliable books of history and biography. And we also
are offered many, many accounts, thinly disguised as works of fiction
called political novels, written by people who know only the periphery
of politics and have none of the craftsmanship of the true storyteller.
It is good, therefore, to find among current offerings a volume of history
and biography written after great research, with a judicial appraisal of
the facts, and in a style sure to capture the interest of even the most indolent
reader.

The book is by Stephen Hess, a young man with a historical conscience
who served for two years on the staff of President Eisenhower, taught briefly
at Johns Hopkins and worked for a while as an associate fellow in the Institute
of Policy Studies in Washington. His product is "America's Political Dynasties"
(Doubleday, $7.95). There are 528 pages of textual narrative and, most important
as a mark of validation, there are 178 pages of notes and references.

Sixteen famous families are considered, from the Adamses to the Kennedys.
The treatment of these families of many political faiths is completely objective
and without partisanship.

OUR VERSION OF NOBILITY

Seven hundred families have been represented in Congress by at least two
members. These families account for 1,700 of the 10,000 who have served in
Congress since 1774. In the sixteen families considered in the book there have
been eight Presidents, three Vice Presidents, 30 senators, 56 members of the
House and eight Cabinet members.

Under the Constitution we can have no titled nobility. The distinguishing
badge here is only a name. But with human nature what it is, a good name
seems to be a tremendous hoist up the ladder.

In drawing conclusions from this provocative study I depart somewhat from
the thesis of the author. But I am sure he would agree that the brand name is
a most important asset to any aspirant for high office. The choice of Franklin
D. Roosevelt as Democratic candidate for Vice President in 1920 was largely
because the illustrious Theodore Roosevelt had died the year before, leaving a
gap in the political field which the Democrats sought to fill with one of their own.
That is not to say that the young FDR did not have a fine public record, and he
later justified a place in history in his own right. Some years before that, as I
remember, a blacksmith named John Marshall came close to election to the
Supreme Court of Ohio.

INFLUENCE OF ENVIRONMENT

There are many factors which provide qualifications for a member of a famous
clan. Presumably he grew up in a political climate and had the golden opportunity
to know and associate with the distinguished people who visited his father's or
grandfather's house. From these associations he would learn a great deal about
the arts of politics and also find plenty of supporting hands to lift him to his first
offices. The late Ruth Hanna McCormick Sims sat as a small girl in all the momentous
conferences in which the renowned Mark Hanna participated. She went on to marry
and help to a senatorship Medill McCormick and, after his death, to have a notable
career of her own. Some say that politics is "in the blood" of some family members.
It would be accurate to say that they have been conditioned in a climate of politics.

Running through the pages of Hess's book are other reasons for preference and
availability. One is that in most of these families there has been considerable money.
This came either by inheritance or by fortuitous marriages. Hess points out that in
at least five of these sixteen families the bulk of their material fortunes came from
thrifty marriages.

Scattered through his account are men of many sorts. Some have been unquestionably
brilliant. Some have been men of mediocre talents. Some have been idlers or playboys.
And there is an occasional scoundrel.

Here are facts which may somewhat water down the American dream in which
the Horatio Algers rise on their own to greatness and riches. It is a tempering lesson
for the believer in pure democracy.

Newsweek, October 10, 1966