Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure:

**Second-Rate Men on a First-Rate Court**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

A great tradition makes it possible to respect the Supreme Court while withholding respect for some of its justices.

It was inevitable that public respect for a number of the justices should decline. Some years ago, the ultraconservative justices had dignity without good sense. The present majority has neither good sense nor dignity. We are reaping the harvest of twenty years of failing judicial statesmanship, aggravated by outside interference and poor appointments.

A Gallup poll shows that the attitude of a third of the citizens questioned has changed in recent years and that, of that third, practically all now have a lower regard for the Court. Nearly half those polled say they believe that politics decides many questions before the Court. This evidence of loss of respect reinforces what everyone senses these days.

If, as some rumors suggest, we are to resort to short cuts to change the majority of the Court, we shall only make matters worse. President Truman, having appointed a good man as Chief Justice, should let the Court alone. The controversy between Justices Black and Jackson is not an Executive problem, and hints that the White House believes that this or that justice should resign are bad for all concerned.

Most of those who opposed court-packing did so not because they agreed with the Court's decisions but because they believed the Court should be independent. For the same reason, we should support this Court, with which we may disagree.

It is exceedingly shortsighted to say that all would be well if Justices Jackson and Black should both resign. There is no rational reason why Jackson should resign. He had been gossiped about in the press and he apparently had reason to believe certain gossip had been inspired. He took a proper channel to make his views known—letters to the Judiciary Committees of Congress. The value of that approach was not because those committees could do anything about Justice Black. It was because future appointments might be more carefully scrutinized. Hereafter, it may be assumed, the Senate will dig a little more deeply into the ethical standards, background and connections of appointees. That will be a wholesome check on Presidents.

President Roosevelt unquestionably appointed a series of men who should not be on the Court. The seven men he appointed had, in all, only twelve and a half years in judicial office, 59 years in teaching law and 61 years in exclusive private practice. Only one had served as a Federal judge.  Most of the Roosevelt appointees were partisans—some of them violent partisans of the specific personal views of the President rather than of broad, liberal policies. Those lawyers who had supported or who lacked the courage to speak up about court-packing were preferred. Some of the men appointed had undisguised political ambitions, which apparently they still harbor. Some justices have obviously talked too much in private, and the result is garbled blabbing in Washington social gatherings and in gossip columns. It may be many years before this damage is remedied.

But while nothing can be done by the President or by Congress about this present situation, a lot can be done in other quarters. Rules of ethics should be drawn by the Court itself. No justice could be compelled to obey such rules, but it would be difficult to disregard them. Justices should govern their private comments more strictly. Interference or advising in political matters by justices should be stopped by a ruthless exposure of such indiscretions in the press. The press, however, should publish only facts about such matters, not mere rumors. The Senate should subject appointments to a more searching analysis. The nonsense about passing ex-senators appointed to judicial positions with little investigation should stop.

Finally, we shall have to be patient and wait this out. The great tradition built up by the Court for a century and a half cannot be destroyed in a day. President Truman has appointed not great, but good and responsible men. The prospects are favorable for a gradual return of the Court to past standards of dignity and capacity.