Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Japan's Super-Salesman
by Raymond Moley

THERE are many Americans who
will note, when Nobusuke Kishi,
Japan's Prime Minister, pays his visit
here on his good-will tour of the West-
ern world, his remarkable resemblance
to the late Will Hays. This was the
first impression that came to mind
when I paid a formal call on him in
Tokyo last April.

There are comparisons other than
physical lineaments that fit. Like Will
Hays, one of the most astute political
figures of his time and a model of
patient compromise, Kishi is soft-
spoken, friendly, and conservative in
his political and economic views. He is
essentially a safe and sane man who
gets things done. As Ed Lowry wrote
of Hays in the early 1920s, he re-
sembles the Model-T Ford. He gets
you there and gets you back with the
greatest economy of gas. When, in
late 1958, a rabble of Socialists, trade
unionists, and a hard core of Commu-
nists moved to mob the Diet in protest
against a new police bill, Kishi simply
vanished from the scene and the mob
spent itself in a few fisticuffs.

I was told last spring by a few
correspondents that the resignation of
Kishi was expected momentarily. But
smashing victories for Kishi's Liberal-
Democratic Party-first in the prefec-
tural elections and later in elections
to the Diet-proved that his govern-
ment may well last a long time.

RISE TO LEADERSHIP

Despite the agitation of the
heterogeneous Socialist opposition and
some discontent in his own party,
Kishi's position has grown in impor-
tance since 1955, when he was chosen
as the general secretary of the amal-
gamated Liberal-Democrats and later,
when he was made Prime Minister.
This elevation to the top post in the
government came because with the
amalgam between the two wings of
the party it was essential to get some-
one who could conciliate both.

His earlier career explains in large
part his knowledge of and absorption
in economic affairs. In 1935 he was
appointed to the post of Director of
Industry in Manchuria. In 1939 he
returned to Japan as Vice Minister of
Commerce and Industry. He was soon
a member of the Cabinet, and in 1944
he revealed great courage in standing
up to Tojo against continuing the war.
Kishi, with his knowledge of economic
affairs, realized that the economy of
Japan was dissolving day by day. Tojo
demanded Kishi's resignation, which
was refused, and ultimately it was
Tojo who had to give way.

So far as "war crimes" were con-
cerned, the only possible charge by
the victors against Kishi was his ear-
lier connection with the Manchurian
occupation. He was, like many other
Japanese public figures, imprisoned-
in his case, for 39 months. By 1952,
he was back in the Diet and from
then on rose rapidly to leadership.

THE MAIN CONCERN

In his present tour, he took on the
tough part first, Western Europe.
There, in Britain and Germany, he
had to deal with the two nations
which have the most to fear from Ja-
pan's competition in the world market.
With trade in China at a bare mini-
mum because of Japan's own policy
and American policy, Japan is looking
for customers in the Middle East, Af-
rica, and Europe itself. Germany with
its long ascendency in optical goods
and cameras is finding Japanese prod-
ucts as good as her own. Japan, with
its steel industry growing at a rate of
almost 2 million tons a year, is ship-
ping the finished product into Europe.
Kishi's concern is to make it clear
that the days before the war, when
his country was flooding the markets
with cheap and low-grade goods, are
over. Nor need Japan copy the prod-
ucts of other nations. It is making its
own designs. Moreover, it is imposing
voluntary restrictions on its exports.
In short, Japan is already one of the
major industrial nations and is seeking
recognition of that fact.

But Kishi's major interest is in Ja-
pan's relations with the United States.
Our interests, militarily and otherwise,
are united against Communism in
Asia. Japan must import coal, cotton,
and some other products from us and
in return sell manufactured goods to
us. With the right sort of cooperation,
Japan can do a big job in keeping
Southeast Asia out of the Communist
domain. Kishi and his government
have been unswervingly friendly to
the U.S. This is the sort of message
that we should be glad to get.

Newsweek, August 10, 1959