Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

How to Lick the Wounds
by Raymond Moley

REPUBLICANS who are applying the
salivary emollient through the
most primitive method known to
the animal kingdom will, no doubt,
after the sharpness of the pain has
passed, conclude that what happened
in the 1958 election may perhaps have
a beneficial effect. Such a catastrophe
has happened before, to both parties.
The experience of wise people in
those instances was that after the
shock comes pain; after pain, depres-
sion; out of depression, reflection; and
after reflection, action. But there must
be reflection-plenty of it, in this case.
The British Conservatives, after the
votes were all counted in midsummer
1945, found themselves not just
routed: They were slaughtered, scat-
tered, numb. Only in 1832 and in
1906 had anything so terrible hap-
pened in British politics. The House
of Commons count was Labor and
allies, 399; Conservatives and allies,
213. In between were 28 Liberals,
independents, and Irish Nationalists.
The indomitable Churchill rallied the
fragments, created a plan for thorough
party reorganization, and then put at
the head of the party organization
no political routineer but a super-
salesman, Lord Woolton. Woolton was
no mere huckster, no fabricator of cal-
low phrases. He was trained in the
management of large affairs-as it
happened, merchandising.

BUSINESSMEN'S ROLE

Meanwhile, there ensued nearly
five years of Labor government, dur-
ing which no pie appeared in the
sky. The trouble with a political party
after a smashing victory is that it may
be expected to fulfill its promises.
The promises of defeated Republicans
will be forgotten. That is the first
lick on the wound.
By 1950 the newly organized Con-
servative machine was able to get an
almost even break in the House of
Commons, and in 1951 that party took
over once more. The failures of the
Socialists helped, but it was organiza-
tion that did the real job.
I am not suggesting that an Ameri-
can party emulate the British political
pattern in detail. But there are a num-
ber of principles inherent in the Brit-
ish Conservative renaissance that
should serve as a guide for a complete
overhauling of the Republican Party.
First, there should be introduced
a much larger element of competent
management at both the national and
state level, for American parties spend
more and produce less than any other
element in our national life. In accom-
plishing this, the brains, time, and
energy of businessmen must be used
to a far greater extent than now.
Hitherto, politicians have regarded
businessmen as a bovine sort, suitable
only for biennial milking. Of course,
money is needed in politics, but not
so much as organized, directed man
and woman power.
A most careful appraisal of the
spending habits of organizations
should be made. What results are
gotten from television, radio, bill-
boards, and so-called literature? It is
the personal touch that wins, together
with a sparing use of the other media
I have named.

PROFESSIONAL MANAGERS

Second, an element of professional-
ism must be more widely used. The
British Conservatives saw to it that
constituencies were equipped with
trained, paid, all-year agents or man-
agers. These are essential to the re-
cruitment, training, and direction of
countless volunteers necessary to the
detailed work of a campaign. The
spare time of many, many retired
people can be used-former business
executives, Army and Navy officers,
and Civil-Service employes with
rich experience.
Here I am not drawing from the
British example but from what I know.
Much more use should be made of
the time and energies and common
sense of women.
Finally, specific issues and phi-
losophy are needed. The occasional
preachments of the President and the
platitudes of platforms are wholly
without substance. Republicans of all
sorts, "modern" and traditional alike,
should by some form of representa-
tion be gotten together to agree on
what the party stands for—a faith and
a program opposed to the dominant
Democratic liberalism. I shall, from
time to time, comment at length on
that subject, for there is no need for
a party split if all will use a bit of
sense and forbearance.

Newsweek, November 17, 1958