Perspective

Among Us Taxpayers

by RAYMOND MOLEY

WE taxpayers have just completed the sad rites ordained by law for
March 15. We are now engaged in deciding how we can meet the recurring
tax payments that will relentlessly fall due in the months to come. For many
or most of us there will be no savings for the rainy day ahead. We must
decide what we can give up among the things that we would like to buy.
And those omissions will be enough to lessen the expansion of useful
production, reduce the number of available jobs, put a brake on the
exchange of goods and services, discourage invention, and flash a red light
before venturesome people who want to start new businesses.

Let us follow our money as it flows into government treasuries. There
will be a lot of it there. The President’s budget for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1950, mentions $41,900,000,000. But to that will be added other
items bringing the total Federal take to more than $50,000,000,000. To that
we must add something like $15,000,000,000 for state, city, and other
government units. So our government costs will run around $65,000,000,000.
This is close to a third of our national income.


Now let us return to the taxpayer. It has been observed in various
countries that when the tax burden rises to something like 25 per cent of
the national income, a law of diminishing returns sets in. Some people, who
could increase their incomes by new efforts, are discouraged and decide that
the extra expenditure of energy is not worth-while. Under the pressure of
taxes, some consciences melt away. Money is hidden. People paid in cash
simply omit making returns or proper returns. Still others are moved by
feverish ingenuity to find new ways of legal tax avoidance. Thus three
classes—the crooked, the tired, and the ingenious—pay less. The burden falls
on the honest, the industrious, and the courageous, but they are already paying
all they must or can.

When all these and other pressures develop, the total government take
falls. And it falls relatively much faster than the national income, because
taxes are then paid from lower brackets. Three years ago Treasury Secretary
Vinson said that 25 per cent of the national income was the limit which
government could exact in taxes. Now to return to the government’s reasons
for asking for so much. Here we find an unprecedented conglomeration of old
motives and new theories operating. We have always had to deal with the old
motives. They are the political urge to give to communities and social classes
money to win votes and the pressure of bureaucrats to get more money. New
theories, however, provide specious reasons for satisfying old appetites.

These theories began simply in our national life in 1921, in the President’s
Conference on Unemployment. It was held that in times of prosperity we
should avoid spending for government works and that later, when depression
threatened, we should spend more. This came to be known as the
“pump-priming argument.”

Then, about 1933, John Maynard Keynes advocated and American economists
repeated that government should keep spending, even if that meant borrowing
money. Finally, about 1938, came the “mature economy” theory that private
savings could not be consumed by useful investment but must be taken by
government and spent by government. President Roosevelt embraced all these
theories by 1939.

Meanwhile, Keynes, who buzzed like a hummingbird from one theory to
another, before his death repudiated about all he had advocated. But his early
theories marched on and are now solidly entrenched around the President.

The theory of the earlier days was that government spending should be
curtailed in prosperity. But our spending has risen. Hence, for the first time
in our national history we are approaching a slight business decline with
government spending at a level usually advocated for the depths of a
depression. And this spending is fortified by a theory never before officially
held at a moment of business decline. Thus we move into strange and
uncharted waters.

Newsweek, March 21, 1949