Here's the text extracted from the provided image, preserving the column structure as much as possible:

**Mr. Dewey Kicks Off**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

The Presidential campaign is at that quiet moment after the whistle blows and before the ball goes zooming down the field. Leaders of both parties, basing their judgments on polls, guesses and trends, see a close game ahead. Republicans see the chance for bad fumbles favoring them, since Mr. Roosevelt is in office and is dealing daily with hot passes and punts.

Mr. Dewey's plan has been to say little in the two months following the convention and to devote practically all his time to the preparation of his organization. In a political campaign there are two sides to organization. The first has to do with the million or so party workers, including town, ward, city, county and state chairmen and all others who have contacts with voters. Mr. Dewey works harder on that side of the campaign than has any candidate of either party in many years. He does not give a free hand to the National Committee. He watches every detail. Through Herbert Brownell Jr., the chairman, with whom he has worked for years, his personal knowledge and judgment will go into every state. His working relations with the 26 governors are intimate and continuous. If a poll is taken by a newspaper in Cleveland or Des Moines, you may be sure that Mr. Dewey will have the exact figures from Governors Bricker or Hickenlooper. And so, while the greater part of Mr. Dewey's labors, in the past two months, did not make the newspapers, they have resulted in harmony, alertness and energy in the far reaches of the party.

The other side of organization has to do with the development of issues which are uncovered in speeches later. Here also, Mr. Dewey has applied a passion for organization. He has a well-trained staff of research people, writers and experts in every field of national policy. When he named Mr. John Foster Dulles as his representative in the conferences with Secretary Hull, he revealed the type of expert upon whom he depends. There are comparable experts in many other fields. By the time the first Dewey speech comes over the radio, the essential content of every speech in the campaign will be thought out, documented and tentatively put on paper. In the Dewey speeches, nothing is left to chance or guess or momentary inspiration. Gone are the days when a William Jennings Bryan could say, as he did in his memoirs, that after the free silver campaign in 1896, he decided to make a "thorough study" of the money question. Dewey would have done that in 1894.

But Mr. Dewey knows, as few politicians ever realize, that relatively few votes are snared by speeches. It is necessary to make them, and if mistakes are made, they may lose an election. But they are useful chiefly in drawing attention to the candidate, in inspiring party workers and in revealing to voters the character of the man who makes them. People vote for a man because of what they think he is, not because of what he says.

There are several very important unknown factors that both candidates face in this campaign.

The first is victory over Germany, whose political implications this column reviewed four weeks ago. The end of the war in Europe before mid-October would greatly help Mr. Dewey's chances, but a spectacular offensive in the Philippines would diminish that advantage.

The size of the vote in the large cities will affect the result.

Another uncertainty is Wendell Willkie. Since Mr. Willkie has outlined no specific plan of postwar international organization, he has the great advantage of occupying a position from which he can attack either Mr. Dewey's or Mr. Roosevelt's much more specific ideas. If he attacks Mr. Dewey's ideas, even without joining the President, he will considerably injure the Dewey chances. He would be doing a Samson, however, because the fall of the Republican temple would finish him, too. Loyal Willkie supporters have made it clear that if he fails to support the Republican candidate, they will not forgive him.

At this writing, it looks as if the states that will decide the election are Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Missouri and Oklahoma. Everything else in the North, from the Hudson River to the Rocky Mountains, looks like Dewey. Nobody in the Republican high command expects to carry any Southern state.