Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Note that some minor formatting differences might remain due to the original layout and OCR limitations.


**New Insurgency?**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

President Taft had Western
trouble. Now Senator Taft is developing
symptoms. Real insurgency is in
the making among Western Republican
senators.

At the moment, the talk around the
Senate is about the slowly developing
differences between Senators Taft and
Vandenberg. To some degree, the
opposition to the steering-committee
decisions will rally to Vandenberg. But new senators,
especially the Western ones,
will move as individuals.
Their disagreements with the
group which is running the
Senate present no common
pattern; no sign of a bloc is
now present.

Senator Knowland of California
refused to accept the
Taft proposal of a $2,000,-
000,000 payment on the
debt and introduced his own resolution
of a $3,000,000,000 payment.
Senator Cain of Washington made a
strong speech against the $4,500,000,-
000 budget cut and argued for $6,-
000,000,000.

Senator Morse of Oregon has disagreed
with his senior colleagues on
many occasions in the past two years
and is now prepared to press for his
own ideas about the revision of the
Wagner Act.

The vote on the Millikin resolution,
fixing the prospective budget cut at
$4,500,000,000, was most significant.
Despite the fact that this figure was
the creation of the Republican leadership,
the Senate Republicans voted
24-21 against it. It was saved by
Democratic votes.

While there will be no uniformity
among the new Western senators on
the budget or on labor, there will be a
united front on the issue of more Western
representation on the major Senate
committees. Only one senator, Millikin
of Colorado, from the eleven states
from the Rockies to the Coast, is chairman
of an important Senate committee.
No Republican senator from these
states is on the Committee on Agriculture,
although Western agricultural
interests are enormous. No Western
Republican is on the Foreign Relations
Committee, although the Coast states
face our ultimate destiny abroad. The
greatest of our public-works projects
are in the West, but the chairman of
that committee is from West Virginia.
The South monopolized committee
chairmanships for fourteen years. Now
the Midwest and the East have a disproportionate share. The West gets a
bad deal under either party. Seniority
and the controlling group of senators
are to blame, and unless something is
done about these inequitable ways of
distributing power, there will be rootin’,
tootin’ insurgency like that which
shook the Taft Administration in 1910.

As this column noted two
weeks ago, political power
follows the census returns.
A political revolution in the
West has sent several young
and forceful men to the Senate.
They have the potential
power to shake the present
regime, headed by Taft, to
its very foundations. A few
Republican senators, by
merely voting with the Democrats
on a few issues, make
a great deal of trouble. In the period
between 1910 and 1928 those tactics
were pursued by Borah, the La Fol-
lettes and others. And they brought
great tribulation to the Republican
party. This may happen again, unless
Taft and/or Vandenberg conceive their
statesmanship in national terms.

It is significant that Western senators,
notably Knowland, Morse and
Cain, have a definite leaning toward
international cooperation. On foreign
affairs they are closer to Baldwin,
Vandenberg and Saltonstall than to
Taft and other Midwesterners. This
is an important difference from the
insurgency of a generation ago,
when the Western “progressives”
were isolationist. In the Presidential
preliminaries, they will be likely
to lean toward Warren, Stassen, Vandenberg and Baldwin.

It is an interesting fact that Baldwin
of Connecticut enjoys the admiration
of several of the Western senators.
Since his election he has made a number
of speeches on the Pacific Coast
which were exceedingly well received.
Morse, who was born and educated
in Wisconsin, has been the most vocal
of the Western senators. His philosophy is in the La Follette tradition. It
leans toward sustained high taxation
and strict budgetary practice. But
unlike the La Follettes, Morse is a
strong internationalist.

The energetic independence of these
Western Republicans may cause
trouble for the new Senate leaders,
but it is good for the country.