Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


The Diminishing City Vote

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CLEVELAND—Speculation on the
probable results of next fall's election
must reckon with two factors unique
in American politics. The first factor
that will make this election unusual is
the fact that never before has the
strength of one party outside of the
South been so concentrated in cities,
while the strength of the other party
is centered in rural districts and in
small towns. The hopes of the Democratic candidate this year must rest
upon his ability to pile up enough
votes in the big cities to overcome an
unquestioned Republican trend of several years' duration in the rural areas
and in villages.

This brings us to the second factor
in the coming elections. How many
votes will be cast in the cities. Democratic and CIO leaders are profoundly
troubled about this, since if a sufficient number of votes is not cast in
the big industrial cities, the majorities essential to the overcoming of the
Republican trend outside the cities
will be lacking. Cleveland is a good
example not only of the possible drop
in the 1944 vote, but of the frantic
efforts of labor organizations to get
out the vote.

Cleveland is located in Cuyahoga
County, which includes, in addition to
the predominantly Democratic big
city, a number of contiguous suburbs
and a sizable semirural area, which
are heavily Republican. In 1940,
Cleveland's population was 878,336;
the population of Cuyahoga County
was 1,217,250.

The voting registration of the
county in 1940 was 631,755. It fell
off steadily until, in 1943, it reached
461,029. Then, because of the rule
that registrants not voting in two successive elections were to be dropped
from the rolls, the election officials
threw out, in January of this year,
137,000 names. This cut the total
1940 registration approximately in
half.

A desperate drive to get the delinquents to register was then undertaken by labor, through a committee
of representatives of the CIO, the
AFL, the Railway Brotherhoods,
whose national headquarters are in
Cleveland, and of some local unions.
While the major effort was made by
labor, the parties also helped. Some
industrial leaders lent a hand, too.

This effort netted an increase of 37,-
000 on the rolls. But, in the primaries
held May 9, the eligible voting population was still less than two-thirds of
1940's!

There will be great efforts by both
Republicans and Democrats to add
more to the lists before November, of
course. The secretary of the Board
of Elections estimates the number of
new registrants to be added at between 50,000 and 100,000. There are
also 130,000 county people in the
armed services.

If we assume that the number
which is added between now and
November will be halfway between
this range of estimates, or 75,000, and
that a third of those in the armed
services will vote, and that the same
proportion of registered people will
not vote as in 1940, the vote cast next
November will be about 500,000.
In 1940, there were 562,119 votes
cast.

On the basis of these figures, it
seems probable that the President's
former majorities in this urban district
will be very considerably reduced,
despite the efforts of his party workers
and of organized labor. It should be
added that the foreign vote in Cleveland, where there are large numbers
of voters who are of Polish, Czech,
Slovak, Hungarian, Italian and Lithuanian origin, may be greatly shifted
about, as they were in 1918 and 1920,
as a result of the diplomatic plays
affecting the smaller nations in
Europe.

It is clear that situations similar to
this are present in many other big
cities throughout the country, especially in Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Louis, Philadelphia and
Pittsburgh. The outcome of the election may well depend upon the extent
to which the President's supporters
can secure for him the sort of city
majorities which gave him a thumping
victory in 1936 and which, by reduced figures, won him the election in
1940.

Yet, when all this has been said, it
is only fair to add one caution: from
the moment the terrific land battle
for Europe begins, the public will be
so preoccupied with it that all attempts to gauge public reaction to
what is happening in this country may
be thrown out of kilter.