Here's the extracted text from the right-hand column of the provided image:

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Upper Colorado Defeat
by Raymond Moley

SANTA BARBARA, CALIF.—The Hon.
Clair Engle represents an immense northeastern California district in the House of Representatives in Washington. He has specialized in power and reclamation legislation and is now chairman of the Interior and Insular Affairs Committee. He has supported the Upper Colorado project.
Early in July he issued a newsletter to his constituents, saying among other things:
“The recent barrage of criticism of Western reclamation has taken a heavy toll. The articles in the Reader’s Digest, Newsweek, and others condemning Western reclamation projects have made a heavy dent in Congressional support. There are members of Congress who simply do not intend to vote for any more water and power projects no matter how good they are… Some people here just don’t think we should arrange to bring any more lands in production while we have farm surpluses running out of our ears… Finally, some members of Congress do not want to vote for any more projects which produce public power.”
This admission is important, because Engle is an old hand in Congress, shrewd and well aware of the opinions of his colleagues.
Up to the bitter end, Presidential advisers put on the heat. The President even took the unusual step of asking for an appropriation in advance of authorization. But a poll of the House Democrats and a caucus of the Republicans indicated certain defeat on the floor. And so the project was shelved.
The rapacity of members from the four states concerned had a great deal to do with the revulsion of sentiment against the project. Sixteen months ago the project as approved by the President and the Interior Department consisted of two big power dams, Glen Canyon and Echo Park, and eleven storage and irrigation units. Last summer a Senate committee changed the plan beyond recognition. The estimated cost jumped several hundred million dollars. This bill died when Congress adjourned.
The version passed by the Senate this year was a legislative monstrosity. Four more power dams and 22 storage and irrigation units were added. There were all sorts of qualifications. Many of the units were named with a requirement that at some future time reports would be filed on them. In short, the Senate voted for a lot of expensive units without knowing the agricultural and engineering facts. This strange procedure allowed senators from the beneficiary states to assure their constituents that their rivers would be dammed and their land watered and at the same time to answer critics by saying that the authorizations were not actually made. This latter claim was made by Senator Watkins in his long Senate tirade against what I had written in this magazine.
Now that this wry legislative comedy is over, there is time for the Administration to offer a more reasonable plan next year. No one denied that the Upper Basin states are entitled to their share of the water. There should be storage for cities and industries, with provision for repaying the Federal investment within a reasonable time. Irrigation on almost all of the units would be unnecessary and excessively expensive. The Echo Park dam was dropped not only because it would violate a national monument but because it would not even be a sound power project. Glen Canyon could be made a sound and reimbursable investment under terms similar to those which were fixed for Hoover Dam.
THE President might well apply to this project what he said in connection with another bill, approved in July: “In the case of projects involving reimbursable items such as electric power and water supply we must be assured that satisfactory arrangements have been completed for a return of the Federal investment.” Such assurance might come from an independent survey by a board of engineers nominated by the nation’s great engineering societies.
The public is entitled to have facts and figures which are not only understandable but incontestable.

Newsweek, August 22, 19555