Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and layout:


Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Why Congressmen Go Wrong
by Raymond Moley

IT HAS been my observation in a
number of states and Congressional
districts this year that campaigns are
degenerating into crude contests in
promises to minority groups and local,
selfish concerns.

Archibald Republican claims that
he got for Spud Junction a new de-
fense plant, a grant for deepening the
channel of Muddy Creek, and several
new automobiles for gov-
ernment workers in the dis-
trict. And he voted for nine
hundred and ninety-nine
per cent parity on cab-
bages. Mortimer Democrat
answers that this was pretty
paltry stuff for such a great
and growing community. If
elected, he will get much
more. And the Chamber of
Commerce, the labor locals,
the so-called civic clubs, and the town
brass generally weigh these offers
against the possibility of what they
might get for the good old Fourth Dis-
trict. That entity, the United States of
America, is observed only when at the
regular Wednesday meeting of the
luncheon-club members piously turn
to the Stars and Stripes and croak
through the national anthem.

If the representative from such a
district turns out to be a mere solicitor
of favors in Washington, a sordid
trader of votes in the logrolling that
goes on, a statesman who cannot see
beyond the small print on an appropri-
ation bill, and a windbag when he tries
to discuss national and international
concerns, the people at home have
asked for and deserve exactly that.
For the germs of pork-barrelitis, our
national disease, are incubated and
grow on the local and state front.

In this present campaign, I would
implore sincere businessmen, farmers,
and wage earners to ponder well the
peril to national solvency and security
in such a pursuit of immediate, selfish
ends. They would do well to ponder
the classic reminder in three pas-
sages from statements addressed by
Edmund Burke to his constituents in
Bristol. After his election to the House
of Commons in 1774, he said:

"Certainly, gentlemen, it ought to
be the happiness and glory of a repre-
sentative to live in the strictest union,
the closest correspondence, and the
most unreserved communication with
his constituents. Their wishes ought to
have great weight with him; their
opinions great respect; their business
unremitted attention. It is his duty to
sacrifice his repose, his pleasure, his
satisfactions, to theirs... But his un-
biased opinion, his enlightened con-
science, he ought not to sacrifice to
you or to any set of men living...
They are a trust from Providence
Your representative owes
you, not his industry only,
but his judgment; and he
betrays instead of serving
you, if he sacrifices it
to your opinion."

"Parliament is not a con-
gress of ambassadors from
different and hostile inter-
ests," he added later, "but a
deliberative assembly of one
nation; with one interest,
that of the whole." Six years later it
was apparent that Bristol was not in
agreement with his course in Parlia-
ment. Thereupon he told Bristol to go
to the devil: "I could hardly serve you
as I have done and court you too."

Bristol lives in history as a constitu-
ency which was not good enough to
be represented by one of the half-
dozen greatest statesmen of the age.
I can imagine a local constituent
who reads this sputtering: "Fine
words, but not practical." And some
congressmen and senators, saying:
"Who the blazes do you think I am,
Edmund Burke?"

My answer is that I can name two
dozen senators and congressmen who
walk in the fine tradition of Burke.
The people of Idaho were too proud
of Borah to attempt to control him.
The people of Georgia are likewise
glad to give full discretion to George.

A LONG, long time ago John N.
Garner said this to his constitu-
ents in West Texas:

"If you re-elect me I'll go up there
and do the best I can for you as long
as it is best for the country as I see it
...Even if you have read the bill,
which will be unlikely, you won't
know what it will be in its final form.
I will know this and will vote to do
what I think is right-for the Fifteenth
District and the Country."

The Fifteenth kept Garner as long
as he wanted to stay in Congress.
They were truly practical people.

Newsweek, October 18, 1954