Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Coalition in 1952?

by RAYMOND MOLEY

HOUSTON—We are going to hear a great deal in the next year or so about some sort of conservative coalition for the 1952 campaign. This talk will suggest that Democratic and Republican conservatives of the North and South must join, if there is to be an end of the Truman Fair Deal.

This suggestion has great appeal, and superficially it looks easy. It is true that all over the South there is bitter opposition to President Truman and his domestic policies. It is also true that many Republicans in the North have grave doubts about winning the next Presidential election without some Southern help.

There is no doubt about agreement among business and professional people of the North and South about the sort of domestic policies that should be followed. Some Republican politicians in the North disagree with the South on the civil-rights issue, and there is more sentiment in the South for aid to Europe than there is in the northern Middle West. But these differences could probably be resolved if there were united determination to eradicate the Fair Deal. There has also been a growth of the Republican vote in Texas. Dewey received 50 per cent more votes there in 1948 than in 1944.

There are practical suggestions and some organized effort for coalition in the North and South. Senator Mundt's plan has been widely studied and discussed. Several prominent Republicans such as Senator Bricker have declared for coalition of some sort. A National Coalition Committee has sprung up in Mississippi to unite citizens who will put pressure on political leaders. There is also in the making in Washington a coalition committee of "elder statesmen" of both parties.

WITH these facts in mind, I have talked with a good many people on this trip—people from Tennessee, Mississippi, and Texas. There is no doubt about sentiment for some sort of relief through coalition. But farsighted people point out a great many difficulties in the way of a coalition in 1952. There are legal difficulties which would require action by slow-moving legislatures. In Texas, it would be impossible under present court holdings to have the name "Democratic" on more than one ticket. And thus, unless the anti-Truman forces could completely control the conventions, it would be impossible to provide a slate of electors pledged to an anti-Truman candidate. There is also a fear in the South, a fear which I must confess I share, that the Republicans of the North may feel by 1952 that they can win without help from the South.

If the Truman people are involved in many more errors of judgment, improprieties, and misdeeds, Republicans may be inclined to feel that a "throw the rascals out" platform can win. And, as Peter Molyneaux of Dallas says, "coalitions are not made; they happen."

There is a profound hope on the part of many people that the Republican Party can rise to a profound sense of responsibility and adopt principles that at least some of the South can support. It could, these people say, come out with a platform which would ignore all appeals to minorities and stand for national unity alone. This would eliminate the eternal wrangle about civil rights.

THE Eisenhower potential is a large factor. Southerners say that if the Republicans nominate the general they will go for him. But there is also the lurking chance that Eisenhower might shoulder the burden or, as some say, accept the bonus of a Democratic nomination. That would end the idea of coalition in the South for years.

Meanwhile, sound people point out that there is already a coalition in Congress which up to now has frustrated the statist trends in the Truman program. These people emphasize the importance of strong and continuous citizen action at the district and state level to keep the conservative members of that coalition, both Democrats and Republicans, in office and, if possible, add to their number. There have been an increasing number of striking examples of this in the elections of 1946, 1948 and 1950. This method of holding the line is essential, regardless of what is done about the Presidential campaign.

Newsweek, April 2, 1951