Here's a text version of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective

Registered U.S. Patent Office

Party Rule in Congress

by Raymond Moley

LAST week I presented in this space
a study of voting in the United
States Senate in the 83rd Congress
and in the first session of the 84th
Congress. This study was concen-
trated on the votes on issues in which
the leadership in the two parties were
definitely in opposition to each other—
in short, on issues on which the party
line was sharply drawn. The record
showed that there is genuine two-
party government in the Senate. My
conclusion from this is that, since Pres-
ident Eisenhower has clearly defined
himself as a Republican who believes
in party discipline and loyalty, these
votes show the degree to which the
President if re-elected can expect co-
operation from Democrats. This dis-
poses of the fallacy that Mr.
Eisenhower would do about as well
with a Democratic Congress as with
a Republican Congress.

This week I shall show that the
same situation prevails in the House
as in the Senate.

DOWN THE LINE

During the 83rd Congress there
were 147 yea and nay roll calls, and in
39 of these there was a genuine party
division in which Majority Leader
Halleck and Whip Arends were op-
posed by Minority Leader Rayburn
and Whip McCormack. Among those
issues were agriculture, atomic en-
ergy, and taxes.

The individual positions taken by
members who voted on those issues
totaled 15,708. Republicans who fol-
lowed their party leadership ac-
counted for 6,832 of those positions,
and Republicans who opposed their
leaders accounted for 1,252. Demo-
crats following their leaders accounted
for 6,023 positions, and Democrats
crossed the party lines on 1,601.

The same pattern was followed in
the first session of the 84th Congress.
Here, since the Speakership changed
hands, my guides for leadership are
the votes of Minority Leader Martin,
and Halleck and Arends on the Re-
publican side and of Majority Leader
McCormack and Whip Albert. Mem-
bers took 9,595 positions on 23 issues
on which the party line was drawn.
There were 3,499 Republican posi-
tions in support of their Republican
leadership and 966 Republican posi-
tions across the lines. Democratic posi-
tions supporting their leadership were
4,361, with 769 deviations.

It is interesting to note that the
party in control seemed to have better
control of its members than its opposi-
tion had in both Congresses.

In the first session of the 84th Con-
gress the Republican Party’s leader-
ship received perfect support from
Representatives Allen of Illinois,
Bentley, Budge, Clevenger, Cole,
Gamble, Kilburn, Reed of New York,
Taber, Williams of New York, Laird,
Utt, and Simpson of Pennsylvania. On
only one issue did the following devi-
ate: Bates, Wigglesworth, Cederberg,
Dondero, Ford, Hoffman of Michigan,
Meader, Thompson of Michigan,
Wolcott, Davis of Wisconsin, Gwinn,
Derounian, St. George, Jackson,
Younger, King of Pennsylvania,
Mumma, McGregor, Mason, Vursell,
Reece, Scrivner, and Devereux.

On the Democratic side, the non-
deviators were Addonizio, Rodino,
Tumulty, Steed, Anfuso, Buckley,
Celler, Davidson, Dollinger, Klein,
Powell, Rooney, Zelenko, Ashley,
Vanik, Bailey, Burnside, Blatnik,
Bolling, Carnahan, Christopher, Boyle,
Karsten, Gordon, Kluczynski, Murray
of Illinois, Price, Diggs, Griffiths,
Lesinski, Machrowicz, Rabaut, Doyle,
King of California, Miller of California,
Moss, Shelley, Elliott, Metcalf, Pfost,
Perkins, and Reuss.

CROSSING THE LINE

The extent to which Republican
leadership and the President enjoyed
Democratic support is shown by the
number of times certain Democrats
voted with Republican leadership.
But the number of the cases in which
those certain Democrats crossed party
lines indicates that they were only
about as helpful to the President as
the Republicans who were most likely
to desert their leadership. Among
those Democrats who helped the
President, most were from Virginia
and Texas.

This record of party cohesion should
induce both Republicans and Demo-
crats to labor just as hard to elect a
Congress of their party as a President.
A President is entitled to a sympa-
thetic and responsive Congress. That
makes for responsible government.

Newsweek, July 9, 1956