Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Panic on the Potomac
by RAYMOND MOLEY

When the President set out for
his two weeks' vacation, he left be-
hind him in Washington a sorely wor-
ried and bewildered lot of New Deal
politicians. Every reliable report of
their present state of mind adds up to
the same thing. They are not so sure
that Mr. Roosevelt will consent to run
again as they were two months ago.
Until recently, they had taken it for
granted that early 1944 would be a
repetition of early 1940. The routine
then was a period of mild and not very
anxious suspense, followed by a not-
too-dramatic consent to run. Somehow,
the repetition of the sequence doesn't
seem the same to those in Washington
whose jobs and benefits depend upon
a happy ending of the act. A grisly
doubt spreads, even among those who
ought to know, that the President
wants another term.

The problem is not so much a
matter of health. No one questions the
completeness of Dr. McIntire's public
report on that. The President was
tired and needed sunshine and rest
after a hard winter. No, that isn't it.

The President's political advisers
cannot be telling him the facts about
his chances of reelection, for the sim-
ple reason that they don't seem to
know them themselves. There is no
evidence that they have made a seri-
ous effort to find them. And it can be
set down positively that the President
will pay little attention to the political
prognostications of his present advisers.
He always did his own thinking on
political probabilities anyhow. Now,
with an increased certitude in his own
judgment and with the generally in-
ferior grade of his political advisers, he
is more likely than ever to draw his
own conclusions about whether he can
be reelected. The probability that he
will decide for himself is strengthened
by the fact that he well knows that the
advice that is offered him will reek
with self-interest.

There is another factor deeply im-
bedded in the President's psychology.
In the past, he has buoyed himself
up by having something new and
interesting to do or think about in
every passing year. He is no lover of
routine. And the prospect of four years
more, of the same faces, the same
Frankfurters and MacLeishes, the
same old White House, the same visi-
tors to see, the same wrangling among
his subordinates, the same troubles
with Congress (only more of them),
the same restrictions on his liberty, is
not the sort of thing to intrigue a
man's fancy at 62.

Let the long contention cease!
Geese are swans, and swans are geese.

Some who know Mr. Roosevelt
well are convinced that he now is
more concerned with his place in his-
tory than he is with any further office-
holding. That place, which he no
doubt believes he will share with the
great shades of the past, he is not
eager to risk by four more years of
solving the insoluble and penetrating
the impenetrable. There will be plenty
of time in these two weeks in the sun
to ponder this problem of historical
values.

But, say the anxious brethren in
Washington, the "boss" will come
back full of vim, energy and fight.
Plenty of vitamins will drive out
gloomy thoughts of a place in history.
The smoke of a political campaign will
smite a very responsive olfactory nerve.
The mating call of votes will sound.
And the chase will just naturally be-
gin. He won't let us down, they add
hopefully, once he realizes what may
happen to us.

Maybe.

But of one thing we may be sure.
The President is no man to avoid a
fight, even a dangerous fight. If he de-
cides not to run, it will not be because
he is afraid of losing. It will be be-
cause he is afraid of winning—four
more years of the same thing.

Washington political moods are
as variable as a maiden's conceits.
And never was there a greater pros-
pect of impending events which may
alter all political plans. Even Washing-
ton knows that the invasion or other
sensational developments in Europe
may profoundly affect all political
thinking over here. But this brief dis-
course is to record that as the withered
petals of cherry blossoms fall near the
Potomac, they are dampened with the
tears of New Dealers. The Pink
Knights are anguished by the spectral
fear that their King Arthur no longer
has the will to eternal jobholding that
characterizes them and that, even now,
he may be getting ready to heave
Excalibur far into the mere.