Here's a text extraction of the provided article, aiming to avoid column overlap:


Perspective

The Transfer of Minorities

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Since it is reported that high on
the London agenda of Mr. Stettinius
is the problem of European national
minorities, let us hope that the plans
worked out will be based on some-
thing more than the delusion of 1919.
Woodrow Wilson, apparently,
assumed that when a so-called demo-
cratic government is set up, the pro-
tection of national minorities is as-
sured, and Mr. Wilson's friends on the
Big Four, moreover, were concerned
with many matters other than minori-
ties. This time we must avoid the
Wilsonian idea that popular govern-
ment and minority security have any
natural connection. A majority freely
exercising voting rights in a democratic
republic can be as unfeeling and cruel
a tyrant as Hitler or Nero, while many
kings have known how to make mi-
norities comfortable.

Minorities are inevitable unless we
propose to lock nations in airtight
compartments. Fortunately, more mi-
norities have learned how to live with
their more numerous neighbors. But
Europe has a number of minority
groups which are unhappily located.

The more important of these spots
are Transylvania, an eternal bone of
contention between Rumania and Hun-
gary; East Prussia, if that territory is
to go to Poland; the Bohemian moun-
tain bastion populated by Sudeten
Germans; and various other localities
near the long western boundary of
the Soviet Union.

In these instances two solutions
are possible: guaranteed protection
where the minorities live, or removal
to a region where their co-nationalists
are in the majority. If we depend up-
on guaranteed protection, some out-
side or international authority will
have to do the guaranteeing. That is
impracticable in the long run because
it superimposes another minority
problem upon the old one. The entire
nation, in short, becomes the subject
of an outside majority. This is incon-
sistent with independence.

The remaining solution is to move
the aggrieved people, bag and bag-
gage, and to settle them somewhere
else. The reason this has been difficult
in the past is that populations have
been assumed to be bound to the land.
But this theory has less significance
under modern conditions in which
transportation and communication are
easier and vast numbers depend upon
industrial employment. What is more,
the problem of providing a living for
the moved population in its new sur-
roundings is easier because of modern
agricultural science. If twice as much
can grow where one family made a liv-
ing before, then two families can live
there now.

Now consider, for example, the prob-
lem of transplanting the Germans in
East Prussia in case that province is
given to Poland. There are 2,000,000
of them. From that number, a con-
siderable number of Catholics may
be taken, since they may want to stay.
The same holds true of a part of the
Catholics in Danzig.

Can Germany make room for
2,000,000 new settlers? In answer to
that, a distinguished economist who
was born and lived in Germany most
of his life, but who is now in New
York, told me:

"Germany could undoubtedly ab-
sorb 3,000,000 more Germans from
East Prussia and the Sudetenland. In
the first place, the war dead will be
2,000,000-perhaps, counting air-raid
casualties, 3,000,000. At least three-
quarters of a million Jewish people
have been expelled and not over a
third of these will return in any con-
ditions. At least two German prov-
inces, Mecklenburg and Pomerania,
are composed largely of large farms
and Junker estates. Unquestionably,
these places, if split up, could support
many times their present population.
Considerable parts of Hannover, the
so-called Lüneburg Plain, can be
cultivated by methods similar to those
employed successfully by Danish
farmers in West Jutland. The fishery
trades could be greatly expanded. The
reconstruction of devastated cities will
employ hundreds of thousands. In
addition, there will be demands upon
Germany, especially by Russia, for
reparations in kind or in labor. This
will take large numbers of Germans
into Russia for a considerable period
to restore by labor what they had
destroyed with arms."

When this war is over, the gold-
en chance will present itself to rem-
edy, if not to cure, the age-old disease
of minority oppression. To move a
few million people will be a consider-
able undertaking. But it is better to
face it than to risk another war.