PERSPECTIVE

Wonder Drugs and Laws

by Raymond Moley

IN TWO articles published in this
space in August and September
I commented upon the long investiga-
tion of the drug-manufacturing in-
dustry by the Kefauver Senate
subcommittee on "antitrust and mo-
nopoly." My comments concerned the
unusual and sensational procedure of
the subcommittee chairman and chief
counsel and also the charge that the
drug manufacturers had made exces-
sive profits because of high prices.
Since those pieces were written
there have been new developments.
A Federal grand jury has indicted
a number of companies; Senator
Kefauver has been holding hearings
on a bill introduced by him (S. 1552),
and an examiner for the Federal
Trade Commission has rendered an
exhaustive decision concerning a com-
plaint by the FTC made against six
companies, charging them with "un-
fair methods of competition and unfair
acts and practices" in violation of
Federal law. The companies involved
are American Cyanamid, Bristol-My-
ers Co., Bristol Laboratories, Pfizer,
Olin Mathieson, and Upjohn.

THE CHARGES

In his decision Robert L. Piper,
examiner for the FTC, stated the
charges as follows:

"Very briefly, the issues are
whether Pfizer unilaterally secured
the tetracycline patent by false and
misleading representation to the
Patent Office and, independently
thereof, caused the patent to be is-
sued when the claims were unpatenta-
ble; and issued invalid licenses under
the patent; and whether by conspir-
acy respondents withheld information
from the Patent Office and Pfizer sub-
mitted false information as a result of
which the patent was issued, Pfizer
issued and the others accepted li-
censes with knowledge of such with-
holding and misrepresentation, and
independently thereof with knowl-
edge that the claims were unpatenta-
ble, whether respondents agreed to
fix the prices of tetracycline, chlor-
tetracycline, and oxytetracycline, and
whether they foreclosed and pre-
vented competition by other licenses
and cross-licenses."

The hearings before the examiner
were orderly and in accord with the
best judicial rules of procedure. The
examiner's 195-page report is an ex-
haustive survey of the technical and
commercial aspects of the manufac-
turing and marketing of these drugs.
His conclusions clearly exonerated the
companies from the charges.

THE OPINION

"Concededly and understandably
in a record of such vast size, there are
isolated items of evidence which,
standing alone and without explana-
tion, might cause suspicion or specu-
lation of conspiracy. However,
speculation and suspicion cannot re-
place proof. The decision must be
based upon reliable, probative, and
substantial evidence upon considera-
tion of the whole record. By such
standards, counsel supporting the
complaint have not sustained their
burden of proof. Based upon a consid-
eration of all reliable, probative, and
substantial evidence in the record, it
is concluded and found the respond-
ents have not engaged in any of the
violations alleged in the complaint."

Thus a fair and judicial examination
of these charges utterly refutes so far
as these drugs are concerned the in-
ferences and implications of the Ke-
fauver committee's long hearings.

It is true that FTC as a quasi-
judicial body may overrule its exam-
iner's conclusions. And the indicted
companies are still subject to due
process of law.

In an earlier case, against five man-
ufacturers of the Salk vaccine, Fed-
eral District Judge Phillip Forman
rendered a decision in 1959, saying
that the charge of collusion among
the defendant companies was not
proved and rested only upon "sus-
picion and conjecture." This, he said,
"certainly does not meet the test im-
posed upon the government in a
criminal case."

In the light of all these circum-
stances, the chairman of one of the
accused companies in the present case
before the FTC seems to be justified
in saying that the record of ten years
of investigations of the industry justify
the conclusion that the Federal in-
dictments amount to "harassment."
That conclusion might well apply to
Senator Kefauver's effort to get Con-
gress to enact new punitive legislation.

Newsweek, December 4, 1961