Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


Perspective
Straws in the Wind

This is written at the end of a 7,000-mile trip that included stops in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa, Arkansas, and Texas. The value of such trips is always great to a person studying the play of political forces. But the trips rarely warrant the political generalization and prognostication some travelers are wont to attempt.

At any rate, I claim no special insight into political sentiment generally, as a result of this trip. I made no systematic personal survey, rang no "typical" doorbells, did no scientific "sampling" of opinion in hot-dog and hamburger stands, dipped into the political and economic wisdom of no given number of taxi drivers. (By the way, taxi drivers know as well as the next one that they are supposed to be the modern equivalent of the Delphic Oracle. Shrewd ones among them have a way of telling the inquiring fare what they think he would like to hear.) So, after due disclaimer, a few incidental impressions may be in order.

1—If half the time and energy the people of this country are devoting to speculating on Mr. Roosevelt's intentions about a third term were turned to productive use—to the making, selling and consuming of goods—we would have a sizable boom. Seriously, uncertainty over the third term seems to be a positive factor in retarding enterprise.

2—Mr. Roosevelt as a third-term candidate cannot possibly be as strong as he was as a second-term candidate. The extent to which third-term objections cut into his support, whether it is one, five, ten, fifteen, or, as the Gallup poll shows, twenty per cent, will spot his opponent just that much. Averages in Presidential elections over the past century and a half make it clear that the odds are against any candidate for President who enters the race under a handicap of ten per cent.

3—There seems to be no widespread belief that Mr. Garner will be the Democratic candidate, though he is popular and respected. Hull, too, is popular and respected. Chief interest in Farley is whether he will ultimately support Roosevelt. There is not much talk about other Democrats.

4—However business and political leaders may question Dewey's qualifications for the Presidency, their lucubrations have not as yet decreased the popular interest in him to any great degree. There are approximately 3,000 county prosecutors in


NEWSWEEK, MARCH 11, 1940

the United States, and the people of this country have a way of looking upon these men, especially when they are young and of a reforming turn, as the most promising of all political prospects. Mr. Dewey is the beneficiary of this political habit. But there is feeling that the leaders who dominate the convention will choose Vandenberg or Taft, who are growing in strength.

5—There is apprehension about the increase of the power of government, about the size of the national debt, about "radicalism" in government, about the millions still unemployed, about the Administration's pro-Allied and anti-Japanese bent. Finally, there is no little disillusionment among social workers about certain of the humanitarian activities of the Federal government. These feelings are nowhere as intense as they are among businessmen. Because they are increasing noticeably.

The By-Elections

Commenting on the two recent Congressional elections in Ohio, The Cleveland Plain Dealer, traditionally Democratic, and pro-Roosevelt in 1932 and 1936, concludes that "Ohio cannot be counted on to support a Democratic candidate for President this year."

That seems to be the impression of every disinterested observer in the state. These by-elections indicate the continuation of a heavy trend away from the New Deal in the pivotal state of Ohio. A close analysis of their results confirms the first impression.

The Seventeenth District lies somewhat north and east of Columbus. It is predominantly rural, with a few small manufacturing cities. In 1932 the Republican candidate had 48 per cent of the vote; in 1934, 46 per cent; in 1936, 41 per cent; in 1938, 47 per cent. In the present election, the Republican candidate got 55 per cent of the vote. True, the total vote cast was about half the vote in 1938. But the weather was bad, and the weather is an important factor in this sort of district. In fact, bad weather is known as Democratic weather in those parts. The rural vote, which tends to be more heavily Republican than the city vote, is less apt to turn out on a bad day. So the chances are that if the weather had been good, the vote would have been even more largely Republican.

Going back to the days before the New Deal, when the Seventeenth District was normally Republican, we find that in 1926 the successful Republican candidate received precisely the same proportion of the vote as this year—55 per cent. Which would suggest that the era of Democratic supremacy is over in this characteristic district and that the wandering Republicans are home again.

I have a personal knowledge of the district in which the other by-election took place—the Twenty-Second District. I was born there and lived there most of my life. The district, partly rural, partly small town and partly well-to-do urban territory, is traditionally Republican. The most exquisite kind of gerrymandering has attended to that. Mrs. Chester Bolton, the successful candidate, is able and well-liked. But nevertheless, she is known chiefly through her husband's political career. She made no active personal campaign. Her opponent had Democratic machine support and also Townsendite support. He had served in Congress for one term after the landslide of 1936. But Mrs. Bolton's victory was more pronounced than any other in the past ten years. In 1932, Mr. Bolton received 59 per cent of the vote against the very strong candidacy of Judge Florence E. Allen. In 1934, he received 53 per cent; in 1936, 49 per cent; in 1938, 56 per cent. In this by-election Mrs. Bolton received 63 per cent of the vote. It is true that here again the weather affected the size of the total vote cast, but, by the same token, that would operate to the advantage of the Democrats.

The significance of these figures becomes clear when we recall what happened, over the country, in November 1938. The returns in that election, as compared with those of November 1936, indicated clearly that a large area, traditionally Republican, extending solidly from Western Pennsylvania to Nebraska through the central portions of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and over most of Iowa, was drifting back en masse to the Republican party. The vote in the Seventeenth and Twenty-Second Districts means that the trend has not yet been reversed. More, it suggests that the trend is actually gaining momentum.

Now this is not to say for a moment that the Republicans have the election in the palm of their hands. There are any number of mistakes the Republicans themselves could make which would reverse the trend. But it is to say that if the trend continues, Democratic chances will look bad. For the Democrats cannot win unless they break this traditional Republican belt.

Despite alibis and explanations, Democratic strategists must realize how seriously the results of last week's by-elections must be taken. There is substantial justification for the Republican optimism over them.

Page 545 of 1087