Perspective

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Human Nature and Weather

There are a thousand reasons why
a prediction of the outcome of Hitler's at-
tack upon Russia cannot be based upon
Napoleon's experience there in 1812. The
military experts have pointed them out,
and they are conclusive. But historical
parallels, however undependable, are al-
ways fascinating. That is why the Russian
situation has provoked so much new in-
terest in the Little Corporal who was for a
time the master of Europe.

In all the comment, however, I have
not seen any reference to the most absorb-
ing new document on Napoleon that has
appeared in recent years, the memoirs of
Armand de Caulaincourt, Duke of Vi-
cenza, "Le Grand Ecuyer." (Published by
Morrow in 1935.) For over a century this
commentary on Napoleon was hidden
away—walled up for safekeeping in the
conservatory of the Caulaincourt Château
and later found in a battered tin chest, after
the Château was destroyed. Its interest
lies in the fact that it is an almost day-by-
day record of the observations of one of
Napoleon's most powerful military and
diplomatic subordinates, a professional sol-
dier and an official responsible for a sizable
part of Napoleon's military establishment.
Caulaincourt's accounts of military
tactics are not within the competence of
this page. In any case, they are not rele-
vant now, for the art of making war has
undergone revolutionary changes. But in
the midst of changing circumstances two
things remain constant—human nature
and the weather. Caulaincourt was a mas-
ter observer of both. What he has to say
about them gives a unique timeliness to
this book, dusty with a century's neglect.

For more than two years Caulain-
court was Napoleon's Ambassador to Rus-
sia. At his own request he was recalled in
1811, and that summer Napoleon sought
his advice, strongly hinting that he was
considering a war with Russia. Caulain-
court argued against it. The Czar, he said,
had no designs against France. Further, a
Russian war was dangerous. There were
the climate and the vast distances to take
into account. Caulaincourt's account of
this interview is a strange study of human
nature swollen with power, restless with
the love of military exploits and consumed
with suspicion. There was no logic in Na-
poleon's reasons for playing with the idea
of war on Russia. He shifted from one ex-
planation to another. The Czar was not a
true ally, he said; anyhow there could not


NEWSWEEK JULY 28, 1941

be two great nations in Europe, therefore
England must be crushed by the defeat of
the only Continental power able to help
her; anyhow the Czar was angry because
Napoleon did not marry his sister. So the
statement of reasons went. Caulaincourt
argued for peace, making Napoleon aban-
don one pretext after another, until, at last,
the Emperor hit on the argument so often
resorted to when reason fails. Caulaincourt
was not loyal to him and to France, he
said. "M. de Caulaincourt has turned Rus-
sian," he remarked tauntingly. "The Czar's
beguilements have won him over."

From time to time in the months
that followed, the argument continued.
Finally Caulaincourt gently told his mas-
ter that he was convinced that a passion
for war was his only justification for war
on Russia. Good-naturedly Napoleon an-
swered with a gesture of affection. "He
tweaked my ear with weak protests that it
was not so... Whenever I touched a sore
spot he pinched my ear again, giving me a
gentle tap on the nape of the neck—espe-
cially when I seemed to him to be going
too far... He acted so towards all when
he wished to persuade, and was always
wanting to persuade someone... Never
was there a man more fascinating when he
chose to be; to withstand him one had to
realize, as I did, the political errors which
lay concealed beneath his art." Thus does
Caulaincourt describe the ways in which
great decisions are made and human lives
are gambled away.

Shrewdly Caulaincourt suggests that
Napoleon's fascination not only persuaded
others but ultimately persuaded Napoleon
himself. This is the fatal auto-intoxication
of rulers—the subtle process by which
power poisons itself. More, the poison of
power is contagious. The imperial court
was full of it. In describing the events of
the year before the war, Caulaincourt tells
of what is eternally the same—the jeal-
ousies, the backbiting, the false flattery
that drench the slippery ground around
the seats of power.

Caulaincourt knew the Russian winter.
He had lived in St. Petersburg. He warned
against the Russian adventure again and
again. But Napoleon knew better. Power
has a way of convincing a man that things
must be true because he says they are. So,
sadly, Caulaincourt turned to the job of
equipping the army. The imperial mind
had convinced itself.

The war began with the crossing of the
Niemen on June 23, 1812. It might be re-
marked that Hitler struck at Russia on
June 22. A haunting similarity in time—
tables recalls the events of this present
year. "In less than two months' time," the
Emperor told Caulaincourt, "Russia will
be suing for peace."

And then names that appear in the
headlines of today turn up in the Caulain-
court narrative—the Berezina, the Dniep-
er, Vitebsk. Smolensk was reached by mid-
August. Napoleon faltered there, gathered
his forces again and, violating every con-
sideration of prudence, pushed on. The
Russians gave battle at Borodino in early
September. Napoleon won at dreadful cost.
Fifty of his generals, including Caulain-
court's brilliant brother, lay dead on the
field. Napoleon entered Moscow on Sep-
tember 14. Battered as he was, there was
still time to save himself. Again Caulain-
court pleaded. But a treacherous Indian
summer deceived the Emperor. Sneeringly
he said to Caulaincourt: "So this is the
terrible Russian winter that M. de Cau-
laincourt frightens the children with," and
added that the weather in Moscow was
finer and warmer than it was at Fontaine-
bleau.

Caulaincourt answered: "Winter will
come like a bombshell."

It did. And the explosion destroyed an
empire. Napoleon remained in Moscow un-
til October 19, hoping from day to day
that the Czar would suggest peace. St.
Petersburg was silent. The snow and the
frost answered.

The rest of the story everyone knows.
Napoleon returned on a sledge with the
still faithful Caulaincourt at his side. The
Grand Army that crossed the Niemen in
June was gone. Of 650,000 men, only 100,-
000 escaped from Russia. Napoleon lost
150,000 army horses and 1,000 guns. A
quarter of a million of his men found
graves in Russia.

There is no moral in this story to
guide those who try to predict the military
outcome of Hitler's adventure in Russia.
It cannot be repeated too often that cir-
cumstances are different. But the two fac-
tors of weather and human nature have
not changed. The former is known and, to
a degree, calculable. The latter is unknown
and incalculable. But what we do know is
that Hitler, like Napoleon, is human. What
we do know is that power is a heady wine.
What we do know is that the human con-
stitution demands stronger and stronger
libations as the capacity of the body to
throw off their bad effects grows smaller
and smaller. So there is a mysterious rule
of human nature which impels a man or a
group of men or a nation to evolve grander
and grander schemes at the same time that
the creative intelligence grows less and less
capable of executing them.

Sometimes we reflect with despair on
the changelessness of human nature. But
occasionally we can view it with quiet an-
ticipation. This is one of those instances.
Hitler has conquered much. But his ar-
mored might cannot save him from himself.