Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
by RAYMOND MOLEY
The Road to Nowhere

In a day when so many public
men are a species of Feathertop—that
is, the synthetic product of the cordon
of publicity directors, political managers,
legal advisers and the like that surrounds
them—in a day when no one knows who
is speaking and who is pulling the strings,
it is a pleasure to see Wendell Willkie,
president of the Commonwealth & South-
ern, in action. He knows his stuff; he
believes in it and he is ready at any
time and place to defend it. He defends
it before Congressional committees, gov-
ernmental investigation bureaus, on pub-
lic platforms, in newspaper interviews and
in private conversation. He is aggressive,
articulate, intelligent and he wins friends
wherever he goes. The interests of busi-
ness have had no more effective defender
in six long years of battle.

Many people will remember how neatly
he disposed of a well-built-up Presidential
possibility nearly a year ago. The boys
around the White House had decided to
make Robert Jackson Governor of New
York and heir-apparent to the President,
but in an unguarded moment Jackson
agreed to meet Willkie in a public debate
at the Town Hall. Jackson’s prepared
remarks went well enough. But in the
rough and tumble that followed, Willkie
so utterly outclassed him that the Jack-
son buildup dissolved into the elements
from which it came—which were, I hasten
to add, good elements, but elements that
did not all belong to the same personality
and that were not, in their aggregate,
suitable material for the Presidency.

Willkie has made an equally effective
showing before the Congressional com-
mittee on the TVA, which was hastily
thrown together after the Morgan-Lilien-
thal affair. Against the one-sided ques-
tions of the committee’s counsel, Mr.
Willkie made a magnificent defense.
He repeated his long-standing conten-
tion that the best solution of the puzzle
in the Tennessee Valley would be the
sale of TVA power to the private utilities
“at the switchboard.” If the government
is unwilling to do this, he asked that it
buy the property of the utilities and take
over all the business in a clearly defined
area. The government’s squeeze-play
TVA-PWA utilities loan policy, which ac-
tually has impaired and threatens to im-
pair still further the sale value of his
properties by the duplication of their
facilities with government grants and
loans, he characterized as “cruel” and
“brutal.” And since the government per-
sists in refusing to be fair to a helpless
adversary by observing the established
custom of permitting impartial arbi-
trators to fix the value of his properties,
he challenged the TVA to accept what-
ever valuation the SEC, which is cer-
tainly not in cahoots with the utilities,
might set upon his properties.

But the most significant point
which Mr. Willkie brought out goes to
the root of our present governmental
system. He bluntly told the committee
that it is wholly incompetent to discover
all the relevant facts about the activities
of the TVA. All it seems able to do or,
at least, all it has done has been to em-
ploy a counsel and to borrow men from
administrative departments to help it as-
semble facts.

This practice of borrowing investigators
and technicians from administrative de-
partments destroys much of the value an
impartial inquiry by Congress is supposed
to have under our system of checks and
balances. Men who are working for the
President in administrative departments
can hardly be expected to go before a
Congressional committee and express
views at variance with or detrimental to
the announced policies of the Executive.
Occasionally this has happened, but the
strafing in one form or another that almost
invariably follows such lèse-majesté is a
pretty effective guarantee that officials
thus borrowed will support the policy of
the Administration. That simply means
that they are worse than useless as ad-
juncts to Congress.

If Congress wants to exercise its right
to investigate and check up on the way
its laws are being enforced by the Execu-
tive, it will have to develop its own corps
of investigators. Their loyalty ought un-
questionably to be directed toward the
legislative branch of the government. No
man can serve two masters, and the Con-
stitution of the United States specifically
points out that the executive and legisla-
tive branch of the government are two
distinct masters.

This is the essential weakness of many
committees—a weakness which is magni-
fied in the case of the TVA inquiry com-
mittee. It is the factor that creates doubt
as to the ultimate usefulness of the O’-
Mahoney monopoly committee, despite
the courage and good intentions of Sena-
tor O’Mahoney himself. It is a loophole
that needs plugging up if the liberties of
the people are going to be protected
through the division of governmental
powers as the Constitution intends them
to be.

Meanwhile more years are passing with-
out any indication on the part of the
government that it really wants to settle
the utility question. Mr. Willkie has made
it clear beyond the possibility of doubt
that, so long as the threat of government
competition remains, people will not put
their money into public utilities, and this
prevents expansion of utilities in a most
drastic fashion. All that we get from the
government, on the other hand, are vague
charges that there is a “strike” of capital
—the capital which is striking allegedly
being a few immensely rich and powerful
individuals sitting on their moneybags in
“well-stocked clubs.”

But the facts show that the capital
that is staying out of utilities is that of
the generality of people in this country.
No amount of bludgeoning or exhortation
by the President or the TVA or anyone
else in the government can induce these
small investors to buy utility stocks. The
only thing that can possibly bring that
about is clarification of the government’s
objectives in this field and definitive set-
tlement of the issue there once and for
all. The government must either buy all
of the utilities or part of them or buy
none of them and strictly regulate their
business. If it intends to do the first of
these things, it ought to do it quickly
and put its own money into the expan-
sion that is necessary. If it intends to do
the second, it ought to make clear which
utilities it intends to acquire and which
it intends to leave to private ownership.
And if it intends to do the third, it ought
to specify the extent to which it intends
to permit private utilities to operate with-
out the threat of governmental com-
petition.

It has done none of these things. In-
stead, it has proceeded, under the smoke
screen of high-sounding words like “yard-
stick” and the like, to carry on a relent-
less and steadily increasing attempt to
put Federal money into new production
and into the building of municipal plants
against which private enterprise cannot
effectively compete.

Here is the impasse, and no one has
more clearly dramatized it than Wendell
Willkie. The pity of it all is that Willkie,
like many other businessmen, has been
compelled to turn away from the process
of expanding business enterprise and of
reemploying millions of the unemployed
—that he has been compelled to spend
his great talents in an unproductive con-
troversy. On the broad recovery front
this country is still fiddling while Rome
is burning, and all of Mr. Hopkins’ and
Mr. Ickes’ money cannot effectively
quench the flame.