Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Note that perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and column layout.  Some minor errors may remain.

Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

“Endowed by Their Creator”
by Raymond Moley

AMERICANS might well recall, in this
critical phase of the struggle with
the Communist world, that the basis
of their common interest with the
other non-Communist nations is a belief
in the law of nations based in large
part upon natural law, which is utterly
denied by the Marxist creed. Suárez,
the Catholic, and Grotius, the
Protestant, who shared in the
creation of the law of nations, found
their bearings in natural law. Suárez,
following Aquinas, held that its
authority was in the command of God;
Grotius, in the right reason of man; but
both were essentially united in
declaring the existence of a right
above the written law of man.

The international crisis at this
season of the year might well prompt
Americans to consider what this
natural law, derived either from
revealed Divine revelation or from
reason and experience, has to do with
their own traditions and written
institutions.

My own interpretation of the
Declaration of Independence is that it
committed itself to the natural law,
but in sufficiently broad terms to
include the views of both Suárez and
Grotius. For it asserted that our right
to independence lay in "the Laws of
Nature and of Nature's God."

There can be no question about
Jefferson's personal dedication to the
doctrine of natural law. One of his
most revealing bits of writing was a set
of directions which he prepared when
engaged in the study of law in the
office of the great teacher, George
Wythe. This document was intended
to tell younger men, including
Madison and Monroe who were also
studying there, what to study in
preparation for the law and public
affairs. It was probably written about
1765 and was hunted out and sent to
George Minor nearly 50 years later.
Jefferson lists as the "kindred sciences"
to be studied in connection with law,
physics, belles lettres, criticism,
rhetoric, ethics, religion, and natural
law. On the latter, he recommended
Vattel's great work which had been
published only seven years before.

In their study of law, the first
recommendation was Coke, who,
Jefferson said, had given us the first
view of the whole body of law...as it
stood in his day." But for current use
he recommended Blackstone, whose
"Commentaries" were "the last perfect
digest." As an instance of how closely
Jefferson followed the currents of
European thought and scholarship it
should be noted that the first edition
of Blackstone was published within a
year of the time when Jefferson
mentioned him and that the first
American edition was not to appear
until 1771.

The essence of the law, Coke said,
was "written with the hand of God in
the heart of man." The law of nature
"is that which God at the time of
creation of the nature of man infused
into his heart for his preservation and
direction; and this is the eternal law,
the moral law."

Blackstone merely paraphrased this
statement of Coke: "When the Supreme
Being formed the universe and created
matter out of nothing, he impressed
certain principles upon that matter
from which it can never depart and
without which it would cease to be...
Since man depends absolutely upon his
Maker for everything, it is necessary
that he should in all points conform to
his Maker's will. This will of his
Maker is called the law of nature."

From these sources there came, ten
years later, the firm foundations of our
national independence.

MODERN "liberals" who have seized
upon Jefferson as their own ignore his
basic belief. For we see everywhere in
our national life instrumentalism in
philosophy, pragmatism in education,
sheer empiricism in foundation-supported
"social" research, and crass appeals to
the stomach and the pocketbook in
politics. Despite our pious protests, we
shall lose moral leadership unless we
square our educational theories, our
public life, and our political principles
with the natural law. In a recent letter
a friend somewhat sadly reminds me of
Santayana's warning that "men who
forget their history are doomed to
relive it."

Newsweek, December 27, 1954