Here's a text version of the provided magazine article, attempting to preserve the column structure:

**Republican Foreign Policy**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

CONGRESSIONAL election is at hand,
A in which the minds of voters will
be heavily laden with thoughts of the
conflict in the Far East. Republican
leaders approach the election with
confidence that they can and should
make important gains. At the moment,
their most serious problem is whether
to present a positive foreign policy of
their own or to limit themselves to
mere criticism of the faulty
Truman course of action. In
either case, they would fully
support the President in his
Korean police war.

The reasons why it seems
to me that the Republicans
should present a positive
program of their own are:

1-Democratic strategy al-
ready shows that the party
line will, in this campaign as
in those of the past ten years, seek to
smear Republicans for their voting
record in Congress. An example of
this is the charge that Republicans
voted against Korean aid.

2-Republicans have a crushing an-
swer to this. The record shows that
the objection of Republicans, notably
in the House, to Korean aid was that
they wanted real military aid, and the
Administration proposed civilian aid
such as fertilizer, farm machinery,
etc. A year ago, five Republicans on
the House Foreign Affairs Committee,
Messrs. Chiperfield, Smith, Jackson,
Lodge, and. Vorys, issued a warning in
which they predicted almost exactly
the tragic current events. This fell on
deaf ears, for again, in January, the
Administration presented a request
only for civilian aid. At that time, Judd
of the same committee, in an off-the-
record House speech solemnly warned
that economic assistance would not
help without military aid. On Formosa,
Republicans were right six months
ago. On China generally, they have
been issuing warnings for years. In
the whole course of the past five or
six years Republicans have an excel-
lent record on foreign affairs.

3-Republican foreign policy for
a century has marked out the Pacific
as our legitimate sphere of defense:
Under Republican Presidents and
Secretaries of State, Alaska, Hawaii,
and the Philippines were acquired. A
great navy was urged by T. R. There
is a legitimate historical reason to

expect the Republican Party to offer
leadership now as in the past.

4-Bipartisanship in foreign affairs
has dwindled down to little or nothing.

5-Above all, the country needs
and demands from someone a clear
definition of a proper and honorable
course in the perils ahead.

Space prohibits a full delineation
of what a Republican foreign policy
should contain. A few points
will show the direction.

1-In the peripheral strug-
gle, of which Korea and
Hawaii are two of the
danger spots, aggression
must be resisted with major
force. We must draw the
line of our vital concern for
the peace of the world and
the limits of aggression.

2-We must, with all
speed, reverse the fatal policy of re-
ducing Germany and Japan to indus-
trial and military impotence.

3-In case of aggression, the UN
should initially declare resistance. We
shall have to provide major force, but
there must be actual material force
added by every peace-loving nation.

4-We must keep faith with the
Atlantic community and within reason
maintain Marshall aid.

5-There must be more than a mere
Voice of America thrust into the vitals
of the satellites and Russia. The
printed word and picture must also go
everywhere within the Iron Curtain to
sow the seeds of discontent and re-
sistance. A powerful and daring agen-
cy of political penetration must be
created, not under the State Depart-
ment. Such an innovation, however
distasteful to Americans, is required
by an unprecedented situation.

6-Meanwhile, we must work di-
rectly for peace by every effort to
wrest from our Communist enemy
acknowledgment of the futility and
catastrophe of general war.

7-We must by word and deed
prove that we want no aggrandize-
ment, no new territory, no unfair
advantage, no imperialism-only a
prosperous and peaceful world.

HERE are a few elements in a
H possible and constructive Repub-
lican foreign policy. American voters
should have the opportunity to pass
upon such a program.

Newsweek, July 24, 1950