What Liberties Are We Losing?—II

by RAYMOND MOLEY

LAST week this space was devoted to
the first part of an answer to the
question stated above, offered in reply
to the familiar claim that more and
more doses of governmental power do
not deny any citizen any of his liber-
ties. I considered at that time two
policies that curb and can destroy the
rights of private property: high taxes
and inflation. These were called at-
tacks on material liberties.

But the more the whole
question of personal liberty
is considered, the more
it becomes apparent that
property or material rights
cannot be set off from non-
material rights, such as wor-
ship, speech, petition, and
assembly. The individual’s
inalienable rights are also
inseparable. They depend
upon each other and they are, more-
over, equal in importance.

This principle of inalienable, insep-
arable, and equal rights was once
firmly established after a long strug-
gle to secure man’s basic freedoms. It
was established in the custom and
fundamental law of free nations such
as England, France, and the United
States. The Constitution of the United
States associates the three fundamen-
tal liberties: life, liberty, and property.
From John Locke onward, the es-
sential nature of property was de-
scribed as something of value which
the individual had created by min-
gling his mental or physical effort
with some material gift of nature in
such a manner as to make it a personal
attribute. It is the individual’s because
into its creation has passed some of his
own personality. It stands on all fours
with his rights to worship, speak, and
otherwise express his thought and
feeling. And it is limited only by the
similar rights of other individuals.

THOSE who would quarrel with this
definition on the ground that some
property is inherited or received as a
gift overlook two elements in such
property. One is the fact that the right
of the creator of such property in-
volved his choice of its disposition. It
is still private property. Another factor
is the element of trusteeship, in which
possessors of such property are bound
by an obligation to those who have
transmitted it. All this is embodied in
our law and all of it is rooted in the
basic tradition of our Constitution.

All this, however, is denied in the
philosophy of the super-state and so-
cialism. The Communist, of course, is
perfectly frank in denying not only the
individual’s right of property, but all
other rights. The Socialist has either
less realism or less honesty. He argues,
and I have heard Prime Minister
Attlee expound on this at
length, that while govern-
ment may proscribe private
property, it leaves all other
rights in the individual. The
citizen may lose his shirt,
but he can still go to church,
make speeches, and publish
his opinions. His liberty is
even enhanced, argues the
Socialist, because, presum-
ably, he has less responsibil-
ity to look after his property and can
spend more time worshipping, speak-
ing, writing, and petitioning.

THE fallacy of this is shown in the
financial predicament in which
British Socialism now finds itself. The
cost of government has moved to pro-
digious heights, partly because gov-
ernment has been an inefficient
operator of industry and partly be-
cause government beneficiaries have
taken more than the government an-
ticipated. The result is that the So-
cialist government is now moved to
curtail rights. Labor unions are forbid-
den to quit work in strikes. In one in-
stance, the government threatened
action if a strike vote were held. Free
medicine has become so expensive
that government must, as its next step,
tell the doctor whom he will serve and
the citizen what doctor he may have.
The essential indivisibility of rights
has been demonstrated in every So-
cialist experiment.

American sponsors of the super-
state are in accord with the philoso-
phy of the British Socialists in assuring
us that property can be set apart from
other rights. Their approaches, how-
ever, are even less candid than those
of their British brethren. One of their
insidious tricks is to arrange rights in
an order of descending importance.
Another is to substitute the vague
word “security” for “property” in the
enumeration of human rights. Next
week I shall offer the evidence.

Newsweek, June 5, 1950