Here's the text from the provided image, respecting the column layout.  I've tried my best to avoid merging text from different columns, but minor imperfections might remain due to the image quality and column arrangement.


PERSPECTIVE

Our Limitless Ignorance

by Raymond Moley

THE late Charles Kettering's lumi-
nous imagination and great gift
with words instructed and inspired a
generation of Americans. The theme
of his discourse was how little we
know and how much we should learn.
He said: "We know practically nothing
about anything."

This expresses the state of my ig-
norance about the nature and poten-
tial usefulness of space and its
exploration. I stand mute and helpless
even before the mysteries of my own
automobile.

And so I shall let better qualified
people testify about the scientific
value of our government's space pro-
gram and especially the projected
visit to the moon.

But I venture to contribute what
I know about people, their need for
discipline, and the human achieve-
ments that are possible in a climate
of liberty and freedom of action.

One may question, and many do,
the value to society of an individual's
or a nation's winning a contest which
has no direct practical utility. Perhaps
society on this earth and in this na-
tion, with its perplexing problems and
yawning pit of needs, will gain little
by an American victory in the moon
race. I am impressed by what many
qualified people say about its value
for our national defense. I am not
unaware of its psychological impact
upon other peoples in the world.

THE USES OF EFFORT

But granting that we can afford it,
if we forgo spending some of the
money now wasted, there is a value
in the scientific discipline essential to
its success. There is a crying need
in the United States for that sort of
discipline. We are, I am convinced,
growing soft in our habits and in our
moral constitution. Our family life,
our education, our working environ-
ment, our use of leisure time en-
gender apathy and easeful living.
Even the wars we have had since
1917-horrible and costly as they
were-by the inexorable demands of
self-preservation awakened latent en-
ergies and mental capacities. Scien-
tific achievement leaped, in the four
years from 1941 to 1945, over what
would have taken decades. The atom
was broken to the uses of man, for
better or worse, by military demands.
Those men in the service who sur-
vived whole learned to impose upon
themselves new disciplines which car-
ried into the pursuits of peace.

We cannot all participate in space
exploration. That is the province of
an elite. But their example has its
impact upon all of us.

Another consideration must be reck-
oned with. If, as some say, the moon
visit is a stunt, inestimable values may
nevertheless accrue. We shall learn
much more from the mighty effort to
reach the cold reaches "between the
worlds" than we shall know about
those worlds. We shall learn new sci-
entific facts from the effort itself.
They will be ours to use in a thousand
ways here on earth.

A PERPETUAL QUEST

Ten years ago, in a book, I quoted
this from Kettering: "Every time you
tear a leaf off a calendar, you present
a new place for ideas and progress.
All along the future years is spaced
new information. It comes by inven-
tions, by discoveries, and by research.
We can't stop this development be-
cause we know practically nothing
about anything. We have it all in front
of us. We have the perpetual neces-
sity of finding out new information
based on the facts that we found
yesterday, some proved and some
disproved."

My comment upon that at that time
was: "But progress will not come
through research, science, and inven-
tion alone. These are merely the loose
strands of progress. They must be
joined by cross-strands. The genius
of leadership and management in eco-
nomic, political, and moral life must
give meaning and use to scientific
discovery. Unless this is done, all our
science may end in frustration and
disaster. There must be freedom in
many fields other than mere science.
For science alone can be the tool
of tyranny."

I linger on that last sentence. For
science is a tool. It remains to be seized
upon and mastered by free men or it
will inevitably be the horrible means
of our destruction or enslavement.
We must master its mysteries or we
shall be the victims of those who do
master them.

Newsweek, October 8, 1962