Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


PERSPECTIVE

THE HOUSE OF LAW

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

The house of law is the dominating
structure in the institutional set-
tlement that we call the civilization
in which we live. It stands guard over
the many other structures created out
of the jungle once inhabited by men
who lived in primitive anarchy.
Among these subsidiary structures
slowly, so slowly put together, there
are provisions for individual welfare,
health, comfort, education, mutual
aid and the enjoyment of a short
life here on earth.
There is also the protection of in-
dividual liberty, closely integrated
with the house of law. But as history
has shown, the protection of individ-
ual liberty is a very fragile thing.
Time after time over the centuries,
the fullness of a free life has been
enjoyed, but after a few short years
it has vanished. Its enemies have
been the many vices and weaknesses
of those who have enjoyed it. Our
follies, our greed, our mutual hatreds
and jealousies—the original sins born
in human creatures—have predominated. And liberty, along with the
foundations of the house of law, has
all but vanished.
The trailways to anarchy are always open, lined as they are with
the lusty growths of illusion. Primitive
life has always intrigued philosophers
who should have known better. Witness Rousseau and his noble savage
in his “Social Contract.”


demonstrations create the delusion
that law is the enemy of the poor and
unhappy tear away at the foundations
of law, although they would try to
leave all the other beneficial institutions which have marked our rise
from anarchy. It was an ominous
warning when Sen. Robert Kennedy,
once the nation’s chief law officer,
said that “there is no point in telling
Negroes to obey the law” when so
many of them have reason to feel
that “the law is the enemy.” It is a
shameful thing for educated people
to use carelessly the word “brutality”
to apply to the use of necessary force
by police. For law without strong
arms to enforce it is a welter of
meaningless words.

SOFTHEARTED REMEDIES

A thoughtful American living in
Mexico, far from the disorders that
have so afflicted our states and cities,
has written this to me:
“Nine-tenths of the people now
alive owe the fact of their existence
to civilization and to the science civilization makes possible. Civilization
is a rare and fragile growth, to which
the demonstrators have contributed
nothing whatever. Indeed, few people (now living) have. The rights
they clamor for were created by a
very few civilized men, and once lost
would be almost as thoroughly lost as
if they were blasted to bits by the
hydrogen bomb.”
We are almost as greatly endangered by the softhearted as by the
hardheaded. Those who believe,
however sincerely, that we will reach
utopia by merely thrusting added
social services into this maelstrom are
as deluded as one who would fight
a great conflagration with water
sprayed from a hand pump.
The danger of demonstrations,
even “peaceful” demonstrations, is
that they create a climate in which
unpeaceful demonstrations of mass
power follow. It is more than a coincidence that the student revolt
against authority at Berkeley was followed by the orgy at Easthampton,
N.Y. Both were in contempt of legally
constituted authority.
One can feel compassion for the
deluded instruments of murder and
arson, but not for those who preach
disobedience in any form.

Newsweek, September 13, 1965

CIVILIZATION’S PROTECTOR

The wisdom of many pioneers, especially in Anglo-American history,
contributed to the building of the
house of law, ever seeking perfection
and permanence. The poor, the unfortunate, the proscribed and the racially unassimilated have been drawn
within the protection of law and public help and concern.
I may have differed with some of
the architects of the most recent civil-
rights guarantees. But generally these
provisions of law have been wholesome. They have offered the promise
of a more perfect and humane civilization. For these have been constructive repairs and additions to the
house of law.
But it must not be forgotten that
law and respect for law protect what
we call civilized life. And whatever
and whoever by words or physical