Perspective

Grounds for Agreement

by RAYMOND MOLEY

IT IS devoutly to be hoped that the
present discussion of foreign policy
will prove to be a means of reaching
substantial agreement among all but
the irreconcilable extremists. Certainly, the facts abundantly justify
such a hope. An examination of the
major speeches, such as those of
Hoover, Dulles, Truman, and Taft,
shows a wide possibility of agreement.
American editorial opinion
further strengthens this conclusion. In short, a great,
generous, but somewhat
confused nation is moving
toward a foreign policy in
which there can be unity.
We can disregard the
position of extremists like
Kennedy and Connally, as
well as that of some irreconcilable newspapers. The
negative advice that comes from such
sources offers nothing but frustration,
bitterness, and national disaster. The
country is disposed neither to repudiate the President nor to follow him
completely and without reservations.
That is the first fact which all reasonable people may well accept. We
are all in the same storm-tossed boat.

THE major issues involved in the
present choices before the United
States are quite unlike those which
were involved in the great argument
of 1940 and 1941, when we were
moved to intervene in the war in Europe. There was then a war in being.
Western Europe had been overwhelmed by Hitler, and Britain was in
deadly peril. Many argued that Hitler
was intent upon an eastward course
and that a war of attrition between
him and Stalin might be good for all
concerned. Today, there is no such
situation in Europe. There is peace,
uncertain and fragile though it may
be. But there is as yet no solid core of
resistance. And we are dealing with
a problem of psychology as well as
of military ponderables.
Moreover, the United States is legally committed to aid Western Europe and to go to war with Russia if
she attacks our allies. We cannot stay
on this side of the Atlantic, because
we are already in Europe and elsewhere beyond the seas. The issue is
not participation in a possible war.
We have already decided that.

The issue is that of ways and means
to accomplish our end, which is security and peace, if possible, for us
and our friends.
There may be differences as to the
best method of stirring Western Europe to action. Hoover's method is
that of a severe warning. Others believe in promises of help. Perhaps a
combination of both is best.
None of our statesmen
proposes that we guarantee
the security of Europe. That
would be a false promise.
All say we should contribute
to European forces. Some
say our share should be one
in six divisions; another, 20
per cent; another, 15; and
Taft, an undesignated number. And everyone assumes
that our Navy and Air Force,
both built up to massive proportions,
should operate wherever they can be
effective. Most all regret our commitment of ground troops in Korea, which
has cost us bitterly.
Clearly, Congress, which at the moment has a better mandate from the
country than has the President, should
find a better means of cooperation
than to "consult" with the President in
the casual sense in which he interprets
the word. He must be brought to realize that there is a widespread public
distrust in his judgment and in the
competence of his Secretary of State.
If this issue is brought to the impasse
of the Andrew Johnson Administration, the result will be disastrous.

WE CAN hardly expect the Republicans in Congress to provide the
restraint and direction so sorely
needed by the President. His political
mind forecloses that. This is where
the responsible members of his own
party in Congress should come in. A
good foretaste was the conciliatory
speech of Senator McFarland. He and
other able and respected Democrats
can not only provide a bridge between the parties, but they can "talk
turkey" to a President still infused
with the heady political brew mixed
in the 1948 election.
The real problem is not the extent
or nature of our participation in world
affairs. It is in the capacity of our
constitutional system to deal effectively with those affairs.

Newsweek, January 22, 1951