Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:

PERSPECTIVE

“Revolt on the Campus”

by Raymond Moley

THE title “Revolt on the Campus”
is the subject of a new book by
J. Stanton Evans, the gifted editor of
The Indianapolis News. Evans is also
a notable figure in the young conservative movement. He attended Yale
shortly after William F. Buckley Jr.
ruffled the complacency of the Eli
dons with his “God and Man at Yale.”
Since then Evans has been close to
the students of whom he writes.
When I was a student at Columbia
40-odd years ago, radical students
were revolting against the predominantly conservative faculty. When I
retired as a professor there nine years
ago, conservative students were questioning the competence of their liberal instructors.

I thoroughly agree with Evans’ conclusion that “the typical professor”—
presumably in the departments of
economics, political science, and sociology—is an assured exponent of
statism, especially Federal statism.
Many students over the country, young people who have reached
mental maturity since the Roosevelt
years, oppose the liberalism of their
teachers. Hence the revolt.

I offer the example of a small revolt
and the sensible manner in which it
was met. I commend this to liberal
teachers who surely must regret the
corrosive influence of discord.

ANOTHER REVOLT

In the 1920s there came to Columbia a young professor. His small class
at Barnard College was studying state
and local government. After six weeks
he gave a test with a single “essay
question.” It was: “Write a draft of an
amendment to the New York Constitution granting home rule to New
York City.”

When he met the class next, no
papers were submitted, only a resolution stating that the question was
“unfair” and signed by a majority of
the members of the class.

The teacher’s good sense told him
that argument or the exercise of his
authority would precipitate continued
friction. He knew that the “revolt”
had been created by a devout believer in John Dewey’s philosophy
which held that children should direct their own education. And so he
proposed that the class select a committee, with the Dewey disciple as
chairman. He would then give the
course for the remainder of the term
according to his own plan. Then the
committee would submit a critique
thereof, with suggestions for changes.
The report was interesting and helpful. There were no more revolts, and
in the years following his registrations
grew to match the largest in the institution. His assigned readings always included varied points of view.
There was no indoctrination.

EDUCATION NOT DISCORD

Liberal teachers of this generation
must understand that they must bear
the responsibility for this present revolt. They should realize that what
these students are saying is essentially what the sorely afflicted Job
told his three advisers: “No doubt but
ye are the people and wisdom will
die with you. But we have understanding as well as you.” These
conservative students object to indoctrination. They question whether current economic, political, and social
hypotheses should impair or supplant
the successfully tested constitutional
principles of an earlier generation.
There is Keynes, but there was Hamilton and Madison. There is “growth
by spending,” but there was the return to sound money in 1897. The
former may stimulate the economy;
the latter did stimulate it.

Differences in emphasis and opinion are inevitable. But discord is not
a way of life. Certainly it is not education. The teacher’s rostrum offers him
great advantage. But it should not
be a soapbox. His mission is to open
gates, not to build a pathway to a
predetermined goal.

The teacher’s responsibility is to
prepare students for choices in years
ahead when many of the now popular
“principles” of current liberalism have
no further application. Indeed, they
may have proved to be false hopes.

Moreover, to promote indoctrination is to drive immature students to
irrational extremes of opposition, a
deadly peril to all truth-seeking. No
one would deny the teacher’s privilege to write and speak his opinions
and, if he chooses, to enter the political arena. But the party line should
end at the classroom door.

Newsweek, November 20, 1961