Here's a transcription of the text from the provided image, carefully separating the columns to avoid overlap:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Speaking of Discrimination
by Raymond Moley

NO MORE consecrated enemy of dis-
crimination in the South has ever
raised his voice than Sen. Herbert
Lehman of New York. For years he
has demanded equal and identical
access to all services, public and pri-
vate, for all citizens.

It is strange, therefore, to find him
introducing a bill which would make
second-class economic citizens of hun-
dreds of thousands of peo-
ple in New York and
neighboring states. Stranger
still is a plea from chairman
Paul M. Butler to Congres-
sional leaders to pass this
bill to help Senator Lehman
win re-election.

The bill is S. 1823, and
its co-sponsors are Senators
Morse, Neuberger, Langer,
Kefauver, Murray, Jackson,
Magnuson, Gore, Hennings, Hill,
Humphrey, Monroney, McNamara,
Scott, Sparkman, and O'Mahoney. It
would provide for the construction of
power facilities at Niagara by the
New York State Power Authority
under a number of strict conditions.

Beyond turning this great resource
over to the New York Power Author-
ity, there is little in the bill except a
meticulous specification of "prefer-
ence." Under this head it says, among
other things, that in disposing of the
power generated by the proposed fa-
cilities, "preference" shall be given to
"counties and municipalities de-
partments, agencies and instrumen-
talities of New York State... rural
electric cooperatives... defense
agencies of the United States." These
commitments are firm and irrevocable.
But when it comes to selling power to
companies "organized and adminis-
tered for profit," the arrangements
shall be "flexible," with provision for
withdrawal when "preference" cus-
tomers want power for themselves.

Thus Joe whose house is lighted and
whose clothes are washed by power
bought from a "despicable" profit-
making agency comes second to Tom
who buys from a municipally owned
utility or a cooperative. Both Joe and
Tom are citizens and taxpayers. Their
condition is identical except that Joe
gets a necessity of life under less fa-
vorable conditions because the com-
pany from which he buys must pay
out more in taxes and interest than the
socialized affair from which Tom buys.
Moreover, Joe can get service from
a government which he helps to sup-
port only after Tom's wants have been
supplied. Joe also pays with Tom the
salaries of Lehman and the other Sen-
atorial sponsors of the bill that dis-
criminates against him.

There can be no valid claim that
Lehman is trying to protect Joe from
excessive rates, because the
senator himself and his
predecessors as governor
have helped to provide
strict regulation.

That a real reason for
passing this legislation is to
protect politicians like the
senator in their official jobs
is clearly shown by a recent
appeal made by Democratic
Chairman Butler to his party
leaders in Congress. According to
press reports, he wants them to "bol-
ster" their record and mentions the
Niagara bill as of "tremendous im-
portance in the re-election of Senator
Lehman and in the Congressional
elections in many districts in New
York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio..."
where there are 40 REA cooperatives
and 144 municipalities.

The Butler appeal includes a plea
that the $500 million Federal plan for
Hell's Canyon be passed, since it will
be "a vital factor in the re-election
of Senator Morse and Rep. Edith
Green." There is also a plea to pour
more money into TVA, since that will
"help this fall" in the TVA area.

It should be noted that "pref-
erence" prevails in both the Hell's
Canyon and the TVA matters.

THUS we have a crass proposal to
use the great Congressional power
over taxpayers' money and over our
natural resources to help the cam-
paigns of Democratic politicians.
Moreover, the Democratic Party is
asked to sponsor economic discrimi-
nation against millions of Americans
for the purpose of snaring votes.

At the turn of the century there
were scandalous examples of Senate
seats knocked down to tycoons whose
wives wanted to live in Washington. It
might at least be said that they did
not use taxpayers' money to influence
the votes that elected them. They
paid with their own money.

Newsweek, April 9, 1956