Perspective
Drug Prices and Profits
by Raymond Moley

NO DOUBT an industry such as the
one which manufactures pre-
scription drugs, which has grown so
rapidly since the beginning of the sec-
ond world war, needs a moment to
take stock of itself. Such an appraisal
can be furthered by an official in-
vestigation aimed at helping the pub-
lic interest. Perhaps there is need for
new legislation. But such an investi-
gation should certainly be free from
politics, sensationalism, and exaggera-
tion. These desirable ends have not
been served by the Kefauver inquisi-
tion, nor are they likely to be fur-
thered by the oncoming inquiry by
the Federal Trade Commission. For
that body is now chairmanned by the
former Kefauver chief counsel and
chief of staff.
Despite the vast bulk of the testi-
mony included in the inquiry by
Senator Kefauver's subcommittee on
antitrust and monopoly, published in
26 volumes with 16,505 pages, plus
the majority report of 300 pages,
there is little or no isolation of the
basic issues. There is no specific
charge of industrywide monopoly or
conspiracy, and there is the admission
that "only a small minority" cannot
get the drugs because of prices. The
basic charge is not monopoly, but the
high cost of competition.
The real nub of the entire con-
troversy, so far as you and I are con-
cerned, is whether we have to pay
excessive prices. And since excessive
prices should be reflected in company
profits, let us see whether those profits
are out of line with those of other
growing industries.

MANY MARKUPS

Prices to the consumer involve not
only what the manufacturer charges
but the retail markup and the phy-
sician's responsibility in prescribing
drugs. Kefauver did not concern him-
self with retailers or physicians. The
real objective was the drug industry.
As in any aspect of a free economy,
there are markups, which are the dif-
ference between the cost and the
sales price. There are markups by the
manufacturer, the wholesaler, and
the retailer. There are great differ-
ences between what some retailers
charge as compared with others.
Some of us prefer to trade with our
favorite druggist and pay more for his
service and reliability rather than
with a chain store or a cut-rate store.
That is the consumer's privilege.
But if the markups by the manu-
facturers are excessive, it would fol-
low that their profits would be out of
line with those of industries selling
other products. In the Kefauver re-
port this is dealt with in tables on
pages 52 and 53. Figures published
by Fortune magazine for the year
1958 are shown. Companies are rated
according to two criteria: Profits after
taxes "as per cent of invested capital"
and "as per cent of sales."

THE FORTUNE FIGURES

In the top 50 companies there are
ten drug concerns in the first table and
nine in the second table. Among the
50 in each case, drug manufacturers
are neither highest nor lowest. In the
first table two drug companies are
among the first ten. The others are
Gillette, Revlon, Avon Products,
Chemstrand, Champion Spark Plug,
Botany Mills, Brunswick, Pepsi-Cola.
In the second table there are three
drug companies among the first ten.
The others are Amerada Petroleum,
Ideal Cement, du Pont, Standard of
California, Champion Spark Plug,
Lone Star Cement, Ingersoll Rand.
In Fortune for July 1961, similar
comparisons are shown for 1960. Here
among the top ten there are three
companies that manufacture drugs,
two of which make so many other
products that only one is properly a
prescription drug company. The oth-
ers are Commonwealth Oil, Gillette,
Avon Products, Brunswick, Champion
Spark Plug, Tecumseh Products, Lib-
bey-Owens-Ford. In the second table
there is only one drug manufacturer.
The others are Amerada Petroleum,
du Pont, Union Texas Natural Gas,
Superior Oil, Champion Spark Plug,
Gillette, Kern County Land, Standard
of California, Kennecott Copper.
Thus the drug manufacturers are
not by comparison with other repre-
sentative industrial companies making
excessive profits. All the companies
mentioned have patents of one sort or
another. All advertise and carry on
vigorous sales efforts. This is the rec-
ord, despite Kefauver's efforts to make
it seem otherwise.

Newsweek, September 4, 1961