West Coast Labor and Politics

by RAYMOND MOLEY

PORTLAND, ORE. — The preponderant political issue this year in Oregon and Washington is the relation of the Federal Government to organized labor. This is the chief subject of discussion in political speeches, editorials and person-to-person talk. What has Mr. Roosevelt done to or for labor, and why should he be or not be reelected on that account?

That is why Dewey made a wise decision when he made his labor speech immediately after reaching the Coast. It was a good speech, vastly better than his speech here in Portland. His ideas were favorably received, especially in American Federation of Labor circles. Dewey’s position closely resembled the contentions which have been made from time to time by AFL people in these parts.

The two philosophies of labor’s relation to government have been intelligently debated on the Coast for a long time. At the June convention of the Oregon Federation of Labor, an endorsement of the fourth term was rejected. This action appears to have been based, in part, on the traditional AFL avoidance of party entanglements and, in part, on its specific objections to Administration policies. The convention declared: “We are thoroughly alarmed at the rapidity with which governmental agencies are assuming control and direction of American labor, industry and agriculture… The normal tendency of all governmental agencies to entrench themselves without regard to public welfare must be resisted, and we proclaim our resistance to it.”

The CIO Political Action Committee, on the other hand, is pressing its activities in behalf of the Roosevelt-Truman ticket. It is carrying on active efforts to register and indoctrinate voters.

In Washington for two years. His colleagues on that board, as well as representatives of both management and labor, learned to have a wholesome respect for his force and independence. His resistance to the Administration’s policy toward John L. Lewis in the coal case last year brought him to the breaking point with the Administration.

Morse resigned to oppose Senator Holman in the Republican primary and won the nomination. A good lawyer, he insists that labor peace is to be found through free collective bargaining, supplemented by judicial processes without executive interference. He witnessed some pretty startling examples of this interference while on the WLB. His attitude toward the PAC is best expressed in his own words: “I have not had, do not now have and do not intend to have any relations, understanding, agreement or commitments with the CIO Political Action Committee.” He says, further, that he has been offered, but has refused, a campaign contribution from the PAC. Morse’s election will add to the Senate’s new progressive Republican element. Most judges of political sentiment in both parties believe that he will be elected, regardless of the outcome in Oregon’s Presidential race.

This visit to Oregon, which followed three days in Colorado, has emphasized to me the need of avoiding countrywide generalizations in any appraisal of the Presidential campaign. This is not a single campaign, but 48 campaigns, with many more local campaigns, each with conditioning circumstances that can only be understood on the ground. Colorado’s political and economic color, for example, is rapidly shifting toward that of the agricultural states of the Middle West, while mining, with its labor and industrial problems, is declining. On the other hand, Oregon is shifting in the direction of industry. In these wartime years of great population changes and economic evolution, such factors are profoundly significant. This is why only a very rash person would venture to predict the result of the election.