Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Note that perfect separation is difficult due to the image quality and column layout. Some minor inaccuracies might remain.


**Laski: Politician, Educator**

by Raymond Moley

MR. JUSTICE FELIX FRANKFURTER at a memorial service three years ago for Prof. Harold J. Laski, said:  "Laski has probably influenced political thought and political action in both East and West more than any other individual." The Justice was wielding a trowel, as is his habit in characterizing close friends.

But with all due allowance, there is significance in the estimate. For it is difficult to name a person in modern times who exercised an influence so special but so great in education and in politics in two great nations. I say "special" because Laski's influence did not rise from genius, or from popular leadership, or from high office.

His influence was the more amazing because he lacked so many things that foster success. He lacked a famous name, good health, a prepossessing appearance, a sense of humor, and a distinguished command of language. He came of a minority group that bears unjust handicaps even in the two great democracies. But despite all this, he made a mark in politics which was considerable though transitory and in education which is immense and, I fear, lasting.

An explanation of how he did it can easily be seen in the torrent of letters which he wrote to Mr. Justice Holmes between 1916 and 1935 and which have just been published.

Most important, he presented himself in America as an authority on England and in England as an authority on America. He literally "worked" two nations. In 1948 he said that two thirds of his quarter-century career was in England and the rest in the United States. He brought to more circumscribed people prodigious "inside" stories of his tremendous experiences with the great. In the many, many lectures before academic audiences over here, he drew worshipful crowds. And in the soirées after the lectures, at some club or professor's house, junior teachers and older students sat in open-mouthed wonder at the torrent of gossip, dogmas, and doctrine that flowed from the little man on the sofa. "And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew."

He was to scholars a man of action and to men of action a scholar. Thus he baffled all expert efforts to evaluate him, but he succeeded more easily in beguiling scholars than politicians.  Another method which crops up in the letters is familiar to men in high public office. When they face great decisions they receive many memos and letters suggesting solutions. Each of the volunteers who writes will live in the belief that his own idea solved the problem. Laski told Holmes that his formulas "settled" the Irish question in 1921 and the general strike in 1926. He said he was a major mediator between Gandhi and the government in 1931. In 1933 I personally received through an intermediary a Laski memo for F.D.R. saying that after talking with the Russian Ambassador he thought it would be good to encourage hope of recognition. "You certainly seem to wiggle in wherever you want to," exclaimed Holmes in one letter.

He furthered his contacts and supply of names by showering his attention on the retired or semi-retired. They had more time. He said that Churchill "lacks staying power." That was 30 years ago.

But truth had its way with Laski. Even the editor of these letters speaks of "distortion" and "falsehood." Justice Frankfurter admits the charge in softer terms. Holmes himself charged his admirer with "embroidery."

THE real end came in 1946 with the somber, ironic overtones of the Greek tragedies Laski was so fond of quoting. This "authority" on the origins, the nature, and the administration of the law of England, this man who described so many dinners "alone" with Haldane and visits with Sankey—both once Lord Chancellors—this friend of Justices Holmes and Frankfurter, challenged at law the veracity of an obscure reporter. A court over which presided the Lord Chief Justice of England declared that the reporter, not Laski, spoke the truth. There were four declining years after that. But the penalty exacted in a trial of truth had been grim, merciless, and final.

Newsweek, March 30, 1953