Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  Due to the image quality and column layout, some minor errors might be present.  For a perfect extraction, a higher-resolution scan or OCR software specifically designed for columnar text would be ideal.

NEWSWEEK DECEMBER 15, 1941

84

Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Unity in War

The acts of Japan on December 7,
1941, created a situation in which the most
individualistic lot of people in the world—
the people of the United States—could lay
aside differences and move to the pattern
of only one impulse. For the mad illogic
of Japan achieved, in a few terrible hours,
that crystallization of national purpose that
might have been months or years in coming
in any other circumstances.

If ever there was evidence—stark, un-
answerable evidence—that those in con-
trol of a nation willed, plotted and forced
a war, Japan has given it. And in so doing
she has united all Americans in the deter-
mination to defeat her.

By the same token, of course, she has
driven a wedge deep into the Japanese
governing classes and deeper still into the
Japanese population. It has been remarked
again and again that the Japanese govern
and explain their acts by a process of
thought wholly unlike our own. Sometimes
this has resulted in absurd situations. Now
it has resulted in a tragic one—for Japan.
The very language of the Japanese does
not permit the flow of logical sequences
that we understand. Hence when they try
to imitate an American or European, they
do strange and incongruous things. Hitler
apparently tried to teach them to be ag-
gressive—to strike first. But when Hitler
struck first, he selected as his victim small
countries. The Japanese have chosen a
giant. There has never been any reason to
suppose that Hitler is not pleased: obvious-
ly he has the same callous disregard for the
fate of Japan as he has for the fate of any
other dupe. But the stupidity of the act,
in terms of Japan’s own interest, must
have diverted even him.

Over the past few years Japan has
found many ways of carrying on aggression
without bringing us into a war. Half a
dozen ways remained when this present
die was cast. Even an attack on the Philip-
pines might have been received by some
Americans with growlings to the effect that
we should never have taken the Philip-
pines in the first place. But Pearl Harbor
is well on the American side of the Pacific.
It is a vital defense post. An attack upon
it was bound to be as much a matter of
concern as an attack on the Brooklyn Navy
Yard. A blow at Thailand, at Siberia, at
Malaya, or at the East Indies might have
brought us in. But there would have been
questions and explaining. In striking at

Pearl Harbor, Japan has made arguments
and differences impossible.

All this, plus a number of other circum-
stances, makes it clear that the government
of Japan is completely out of the hands of
non-army elements. No one may ever
know, but it is possible that the two amiable
negotiators, Nomura and Kurusu, were
utterly unaware of Japanese plans to at-
tack. In any case, the probabilities are that
such men as these, who have represented
considerable enlightenment in Japan, may
soon be dead or imprisoned. Clearly, the
army represents the dominant political
faction. Its leaders, drawn from families
that know little of the world outside Japan,
are blighted by ignorance and befuddled by
superstition. The show is apparently now
in their hands. They are set for the desperate gamble—a gamble which intelligent
Japanese in this country have long admitted
to be hopeless—set for it because they
are unenlightened, irresponsible, brutal and
fatalistic. And that combination of qualities
can understand no language but the
language of force.

What plainly took place in Japan
before December 7 was something much
like a revolution. The Foreign Office and
the navy were simply taken over by the
army. Only frustration, utter and complete
frustration, will bring the counterrevolution
which will enable Japan to take a place in
a decent world order. But to achieve it
means more than to strike at the vitals of
Japan on land, sea and in the air. It means
doing everything possible to induce the
people of Japan to destroy their leaders by
confusing, disheartening and dividing them.
There will be fertile ground for a war of
words among the many Japanese in whose
secret hearts the triumph of a gangster
class is a national disgrace.

The recent negotiations in Washington
revealed the President to be not only exceedingly patient but keenly desirous of
finding a way out of a war in the Pacific.
Obviously, there was no reason why Japan
could not have emerged from continued
negotiations with a basis for long prosperity and national honor. The decision to
strike was as inconsistent with rationality
as it was inconsistent with honor.

President Roosevelt, who conducted the
negotiations with so much patience, can
be trusted to conduct this war with intelligence and vigor. Every American owes
him every ounce of his support to that end.

Meanwhile Americans who have been
talking about an easy victory over Japan
after a few weeks have not helped to prepare this country for ultimate success. The
Japanese have no inconsiderable resources.
Their militarists have planned this war for
a long time. They will fight desperately.

On the other hand, it is easy to see that
it is the desire of Japan’s fellow members
in the Axis to divert all our energies, if possible, to the war in the Pacific. They would
like nothing better than to see us, in hysterical fear, cut off supplies to our allies in
Europe completely, and greatly reduce our
naval forces in the Atlantic.

That our government and our allies
realize these facts is evident. But it is essential that the people of America realize
them also and have faith in the strategy
that our government is employing. For
there can be no doubt now that we are involved in a war on two fronts; that each
decision must be weighed against two or
more considerations; and that it may be
necessary to go slow on one side in order to
help meet needs on another. In short, we
must realize that there cannot be 130 million military and naval strategists; that
someone must make decisions of that character; and that the President under the
Constitution has that responsibility.

We shall have no easy victory. But
a victory we shall achieve. The facts, our
reason and our grim resolution tell us that.
They tell us that no nation that has acted
so irresponsibly as Japan can or shall be
permitted again to disturb the peace of the
world.

No matter how tragic were the means
by which it came about, the miracle of
American unity achieved by the rulers of
Japan is a precious possession. We owe it
to ourselves not to abuse and destroy that
unity by trying to force each other into
agreement in the sacred name of unity.
There is danger of that on every side. Employers should not be coerced by labor in
the name of unity; nor should labor be denied legitimate demands in the name of
unity. England saved freedom of speech
in the face of war and invasion. We can
do likewise in the face of war and attack.

Hatred has no place in the maintenance
of unity. It is self-defeating. Calm resolution, intelligent work to a common end,
and inflexible, dogged determination to see
this thing through are what we need and
what, thank God, we have.

Page 278 of 1087