Here's the text extracted from the provided image, respecting the column structure:


**Politics in the Northwest**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

PORTLAND—As Glacier National Park closes for the season, the mendicant bear and the fretful porcupine can look forward to a peaceful winter. But outside that sanctuary—in Missoula and Helena and Butte, down the Yellowstone and the wide Missouri and along the border and in all the great spaces between—the human animal will now indulge in the most furious clawing and biting in the whole history of the Northwest. The immediate quarry is a senatorship, and the ultimate may be the control of the United States Senate in 1949.

In only two states—Montana and New Mexico—have the Republicans a fairly good chance of capturing Democratic seats. In two more, they have an even chance. Meanwhile, they may lose three or possibly five seats of their own. That is why interest will center in the contest for the Senate this year.

Six years have seen Sen. James E. Murray entrenching himself in anticipation of this fight. As an Administration favorite, he has brought much government bounty to Montana. He is a fighting politician, well fixed with personal means and very strong with organized labor.

Whatever the outcome, Murray will run well ahead of Truman. The present Republican governor of the state, Sam Ford, is not strong with his party or with the voters. He may lose reelection in a traditionally Democratic state. Those are the Murray advantages.

Against Murray is running Thomas Jefferson Davis, a respected Butte attorney who was once president of Rotary International. He is a good speaker and has a winning personality, although his political experience is negligible.

Behind Davis will be a number of powerful forces. Physicians, those newly awakened political zealots, will be out to sign the death certificate of the sponsor of the Murray-Wagner-Dingell government medicine bill. Bedside philippies will mingle with pills.

"The Company," known to business as the Anaconda Copper Co., will undoubtedly throw all its shadowy but potent influence behind Davis. That means between 10,000 and 25,000 votes. Burton K. Wheeler is spending a vacation in Montana, unembarrassed by Senatorial duties which were violently terminated two years ago—in part at least through the opposition of Murray. To stand aloof when such a score can be settled would not be human and it would not be Wheeler.

National figures like Dewey, Warren, and Stassen will stump the state. The Republican National Committee will give what it can, and that will be plenty.

There were few upsets in the Washington primary held last week. The President's great friend, Mon Wallgren, easily defeated former Governor Martin, a conservative Democrat. Langlie, also a former governor, won the Republican nomination and will undoubtedly be the next governor. There was, however, an ominous drop in the total Republican vote in the primary.

Oregon is all Republican this year. There is scarcely a contest for the major offices, including the senatorship for which Sen. Guy Cordon is again a candidate. Senator Dworshak, incidentally, seems safe in Idaho.

The evidence now available in the Northwest is that Wallace has lost ground since his Philadelphia circus. He may get something over 10,000 votes in Montana and less than 10 per cent of the total in Washington. In the latter state, where he anticipated great strength, he has noticeably slipped. As his supporters in the state of Washington become more and more clearly identified with Communist influence, his other supporters drift away.

In close Senatorial contests throughout the country the form of the ballot is exceedingly important. The old-fashioned ballot practically assured a winning Presidential candidate of carrying a whole ticket. But reformers in many places have placed obstacles in the path of straight voting. To a greater extent than ever before, the simple mechanics of voting may work against the President's control of Congress. This is especially true in the decisive West.

Newsweek, September 27, 1948