Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


An Awakened Watchdog

by Raymond Moley

IN 1949 the first Hoover commission
made a report on the General Ac-
counting Office and the Budget Bu-
reau. In effect, it pointed out that the
two agencies had become so encum-
bered with detail that they were un-
able to fulfill their original purposes
as twin watchdogs over the appropri-
ations and expenditures of the Fed-
eral government. This was especially
true of the General Accounting Office,
over which presided one of the po-
tentially most powerful officers of the
government, the Comptroller General
of the United States.

This office was created in 1921.
The incumbent is appointed by the
President with the consent of the
Senate. His term of fifteen years sub-
stantially renders him independent of
any President or Congress, since he
can be removed only by impeach-
ment or by joint resolution of Congress
for specified cause. He is essentially
a servant of Congress.

He determines the extent to which
agencies of the government make full
disclosure of their financial opera-
tions. He checks all income, expendi-
tures, funds, property, and other
matters affecting the interests of the
public, and as a routine matter deter-
mines whether all financial transac-
tions have been made in compliance
with the law.

It is most important to note that
he has broad powers to make investi-
gations and to report the results with
his recommendations to Congress gen-
erally or to its committees. In fact, he
might well be a one-man, continuous
Hoover commission.

OFFICE REVIVED

Great relief and better order were
provided by action of the Comptroller
General himself in 1949 and by Con-
gress in its 1950 Budget and Account-
ing Procedures Act. The way was
cleared to more effective supervision
of the financial affairs of the govern-
ment. Then, with the appointment of
Joseph Campbell in 1955, there ap-
peared a Comptroller General who
had the capacity and courage to exer-
cise the full powers of the office.

Campbell had scarcely settled him-
self in his office when he issued a
statement that exposed the unsound-
ness and implicit dangers of the Ad-

ministration's first highway program.
His analysis and Senator Byrd's blast
resulted in a complete revision.

In 1955, 1956, and 1957 Campbell
issued strong dissents concerning bills
introduced in Congress designed to
permit the TVA to issue its own se-
curities, substantially to expand in-
definitely, and to exempt it from any
real control by Congress.

In 1957 he demonstrated that so-
called military assistance was not
always motivated by military consid-
erations; that our aid was often quite
out of line with the capacity of the
recipient countries to maintain ade-
quate fighting forces; that some of
the beneficiary countries having the
capacity to do their share in "mutual"
aid were shirking that responsibility,
and, finally, that our aid was being
bestowed on such a scale that might
well commit us to an outlay which
we might find impossible or unwise
to maintain.

EXPERT SERVICES

These outstanding reports were
only a part of the wholesome con-
tributions of Campbell's office. From
the close of the 84th Congress in
1956 to the adjournment of the 85th
last summer, the GAO sent to Con-
gress approximately 100 audit and in-
vestigative reports and comment upon
700 bills. Moreover, its representa-
tives appeared before committees on
many occasions and were constantly
in conference with members and staff
employees of the committees. It also
supplied many expert accountants, in-
vestigators, and attorneys for the use
of committees. An examination of the
hearings of many committees shows
not only the substantial nature of the
help given by the GAO, but the re-
spect for the office voiced by senators
and representatives.

A vast amount of labor still remains
to be done from year to year. For
hard-pressed members of Congress
are constantly bedeviled by the
rigged figures of bureaucrats eager to
press their favorite projects and by
political pressure groups intent upon
thrusting greedy hands into Uncle
Sam's pocket for dubious special in-
terests. Against this, the Comptroller
General is and must continue to be
the taxpayers' tireless friend.

Newsweek, October 28, 1957