Here's the extracted text from the provided image.  Note that some minor formatting discrepancies might exist due to the original column layout and OCR limitations.

**Unconfined and Vagrant**

by Raymond Moley

Some infection must have moved in
the past few weeks from Havana,
to Key West, to Washington. For
Batista’s views on constitutional gov-
ernment seemed to have an echo in
President Truman’s seizure of the
steel industry. Both seem to assume
that the authority that creates the
emergency may justify, in the name
of that emergency, an utter disregard
of law or of legislative power.

President Truman cited for his
action only “the authority vested in
me by the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and as President
of the United States and Commander-
in-Chief.” In no way does he specify
what words in the Constitution or what
laws. Probably he decided to act as-
suming that somebody would supply
the citations. But he was at the
moment without the clerk to provide
the footnotes. For he had fired one
Attorney General, and the new one
was not confirmed.

His subsequent message to Con-
gress was an amazing document—
insolent and irresponsible. It said in
effect: “I have acted. You may if you
will, cripple the war effort or bring on
inflation. Or if you don’t want to do
either of those things, you may ap-
prove my action. But I really don’t
think you need to bother.” That’s all.

It is very significant indeed that, in
the extended Senate debate on the
two days following the seizure and
the President’s speech and message
on the subject, practically nothing
from the Democratic side was offered
in support of the legality of the action.
Such Democrats as did speak—Hoey,
MeCarran, Maybank, and others—
were in disagreement. Other good
Democratic constitutional lawyers
were silent.

But into the vacuum thus created
rushed the inevitable Senators Morse
and Humphrey. In the course of their
long discourses they seemed to find
nothing to justify the claim of general-
ized power in the President but some
quotes from Theodore Roosevelt.
These were lifted from a book on the
Presidency by Professor Emeritus
Corwin of Princeton. They were from
T.R.’s autobiography, in which, re-
lieved of the responsibility of office, he
threw his weight about in generalities.
But the ex-professors Humphrey

and Morse seemed content to rely on
only the Corwin book although Corwin
himself has said that Truman’s act
is “absolutely unprecedented.” Had
they pursued their research as they
should have done, they would have
found that when T.R. faced a real
issue with the responsibility of office,
he piped a different tune. In the fall
of 1902 the nation faced a real fuel
crisis because of
the famous an-
thracite strike.
T.R. was itching
to act. But when
he asked At-
torney General
Knox, a good law-
yer, he was told
that he had no
statutory author-
ity. He poured
out his troubles to Sen. Henry Cabot
Lodge, who told him: “You have no
power or authority, of course.” He
himself admitted to “Cabot” that
“there is literally nothing, so far as I
have yet been able to find out, which
the national government has any
power to do.” He wrote to ex-Presi-
dent Cleveland: “I do not see what
I can do.” He wrote the same to
Senator Hanna. He told the operators
and the union leaders: “I disclaim any
right or duty to intervene in this way
upon legal grounds or upon any official
relation that I bear to the situation.”
The doctrine of “residual power” in
the Executive is mythical. William
Howard Taft denounced the concept.
Charles Evans Hughes said in a famous
decision: “Extraordinary conditions do
not create or enlarge constitutional
power.” But President Truman’s law-
yer, appearing in Judge Holtzoff’s
court, reversed Hughes by asserting
that “the magnitude of the emergency
itself is sufficient to create the power
to seize under these circumstances.”
Judge Holtzoff ignored the issue of
the President’s authority. He declared
that he was powerless to issue a re-
straining order against the Secretary
of Commerce, for that would in effect
be restraining the President. But
within the month this same Judge
Holtzoff took part in enjoining At-
torney General McGrath in the
lobbying case.
Recourse by the President to this


vague notion of inherent and unde-
fined power is not new. When the
Administration sought to strike out of
Taft-Hartley the provision for 80-day
injunctions, Attorney General Clark
provided the President with a theory
that he had such inherent power.
Congress rejected this theory, but
now the President has decided to
return to it. His actions show that
because he hates the Taft-Hartley Act
and its principal author, he ventures
into a species of dictatorship unknown
in our government since the early
days and weeks of the Civil War.

Theodore Roosevelt, as I have
shown, realized in action that he must
be guided by some law. Woodrow
Wilson, it should be noted, when he
faced a railroad emergency in 1916,
went to Congress and secured the
Adamson Act. Even F.D.R.’s most ar-
bitrary acts were based upon some
legal justification or excuse. In the
Montgomery Ward case he relied
upon the War Labor Disputes Act.
Subsequently the court declared the
seizure unlawful.

IN THIS seizure Truman has assumed
the right not only to hold technical
possession of the steel properties for
a short while, but to set the wages
that shall be paid, withhold the divi-
dends of stockholders and interest
due legitimate creditors, and to pre-
scribe that no one shall hold his job
unless he joins the union designated
by the President. If this be not dicta-
torship, it will serve as a good substi-
tute until a Batista rises here in the
United States.

It should be iterated and reiterated
that whatever the peril involved in a
steel strike, the President has had
legal means of meeting this emer-
gency. He has had the Taft-Hartley
Act from the beginning. He had a
considerable time before the seizure
to go to Congress and ask for appro-
priate authority. And, as I have noted
above, his assumption of “inherent”
power has been expressly repudiated
by Congress. All this he has ignored.
Congress is brushed aside as an ir-
relevant agency of government. Judge
Holtzoff says the courts cannot re-
strain him. Thus the President rises
above the law. Self-assured and
lawless, he goes his way.


Newsweek