Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Caretaker of Our Enemies
by RAYMOND MOLEY

I t is easy to say, as many are saying, that the third Christmas since the war has brought no peace. It is easy to recall the disappointments which have dogged our diplomacy, the crumbling fabric of wartime alliance, the irreconcilable ideologies and the narrow chance of success in our effort to repair Europe and Asia. These are facts, and sheer optimism cannot blot them out. There were holidays in the past when such facts did not contend with our optimism. But those past Christmases are ghosts that weariness and old age mistake for reality. A friend has sent me a warning against vain retrospect in a quotation from Montaigne: "Whoever saw old age that did not applaud the past and condemn the present time, laying the fault of his misery and discontent upon the world and the manners of men? Now the old ploughman sighs and shakes his head, and compares present times with those that are past; he lauds his predecessors' happiness, and talks of the great piety of the old race."

T here are facts in the present that the "old race" never knew and only imagined in fitful dreams. We belong to a nation which has become literally the caretaker of its enemies. We are part of a situation that has never existed before. The great victors in past wars used their conquests for gain. The Romans, the Spanish—even the British at times—enriched themselves at the expense of the conquered. We, on the contrary, find that whatever hope is springing up in Germany, in Japan and Italy is nourished in the expectation of our help.

We can confidently believe that we have the capacity to justify this hope. We can, without impoverishing ourselves, hold off starvation abroad until normal conditions return. We are now able to supply more than half of all the grain exports of the world. No other economy in history has ever been able to sustain such a burden without utter collapse.

At the same time, we are able to finance the reconstruction of the worn-out and broken industrial structure of Western Europe without serious danger to our solvency. Despite the greatest peacetime governmental costs and the additional burden of foreign aid, Federal finances are in the black by $7,000,000,000. This development has confounded all predictions. Early in the year, the President saw a possible surplus of $200,000,000. Six months later, this estimate was raised a billion. Two months later, it went up three and a half more billions. Now it rises to seven. To be sure, this is, in part, a manifestation of inflation. But it also reflects an economy that is producing wealth at a greater rate than even the wisest had anticipated. The fact outstrips expectation, in even the most optimistic of nations.

A wave of foreboding by professional economists early in the year was refuted by the fact of prosperity later in the year. The nation made liars of its doctors. Despite a prudent regard for dangers ahead, it is permissible to indulge in a moment of pride in being part of such a prodigious and unpredictable country. There are shortages, yes, but we are consuming more and more. Oil, for example, is a current worry. But the figures show that our oil supplies are being used, at a rate never before seen, by more automobiles, more labor-saving machinery, more heat for homes, more efficiency in our factories—all these being the marks of a rise in living standards in a nation that has seen four years of a devouring war effort.

I t is hardly in keeping with the dignity which should cloak great strength to repeat these facts too often, even to ourselves. Opulence in a world of want should express itself in deeds, not words. The world, despite its needs, will tolerate no self-righteousness from us. But we can, if we will, be a source of inspiration as well as of material assistance. We can be a teacher as well as a provider. Broken nations must learn to help themselves by hard work, prudent economy and stabilized currencies. In the long run, a sound world must rest on mutual, not unilateral aid. Although our strength is great, its limits depend upon wisdom in our own affairs. Perhaps a demonstration of wisdom at home is the best lesson we can teach and most lasting of our contributions to others.

Newsweek, December 29, 1947