Here's the text from the provided image, respecting the column structure:

PERSPECTIVE

CAPACITY TO GOVERN

BY RAYMOND MOLEY

It is a commonplace in that body of
miscellaneous information known as
political science that the art of win-
ning an election is far removed from
the capacity to operate a govern-
ment. This truism is well illustrated in
the floundering of the Harold Wilson
government in the United Kingdom.
There is an art of administration,
although it is difficult to define it in
words. It cannot be learned from
books. It cannot be taught in a class-
room. Those who do it best cannot
explain how they do it. It is learned
from experience in and near non-
governmental affairs.
Running a government involves
only in part the skills of politics. It
is concerned with the routine and
generally prosaic chores of day-to-
day administration. Great govern-
ment departments must be energized
by a head who knows the sector of
civilian life with which he is sup-
posed to deal. The bureaucracy must
be handled with tact and skill. And
it must have confidence in the min-
ister who is at the top. Critical de-
cisions in fiscal policy must be made
by someone who knows something
about the behavior of money within
the nation and internationally. Great
orators look strange behind desks. If
decisions lag or are badly made,
economic life will languish, people
will lose their means of livelihood,
and prices will get out of hand.

SOCIALIST COMEDY

Clement Attlee said a decade be-
fore he became Prime Minister: "A
socialist party cannot hope to make
a success of administering a capitalist
system because it does not believe
in it." When he was swept into office
with an immense majority, bright
hopes soon faded. Contrary to the
doctrines of socialism, private enter-
prise was not ready to roll over and
die. And so, as he had predicted,
the socialists did not make a success
of operating the British Government.
Attlee's hunt for socialists who
knew how to administer departments
failed. His party was short of talent
which understood fiscal affairs, food
procurement and transportation and
utterly lacking in people who could
operate an industry after it had been
nationalized. In an effort to provide
more food for the people, it at-
tempted to raise peanuts (ground-
nuts to the British) in arid regions
of East Africa and chickens in the
jungles to the west. People tired of
living austerely on socialist ideals.
And so the Tories came back. De-
spite their sins and stuffiness, they
had a wealth of administrative talent
to draw upon, talent sharpened by
long experience in trade, commerce
and industry.

EARNEST MARPLOTS

Only once has the Labor Party had
a Chancellor of the Exchequer who
understood finance, Philip Snowden.
Churchill, who had held that office
before and immediately after Snow-
den, said later that when the crusty
Labor Chancellor came in, the per-
manent civil servants, who knew com-
petence when they saw it, were
delighted. "The Treasury mind and
the Snowden mind embraced each
other with the fervor of two long-
separated lizards." Despite Snowden's
long association with the Labor Party,
he "viewed the socialist creed with
the blistering contempt of an old
Gladstonian Liberal. To him Toryism
was a physical annoyance and mili-
tant socialism a disease brought on
by bad conditions or contagion."
Snowden, with MacDonald, left the
party when a national government
was formed in 1931 and never re-
turned to it.
Harold Wilson is burdened with
the same dearth of talent as was
Attlee before him. His government
had to be recruited from a strange
assortment of trade-union leaders, so-
cial workers, pamphleteers, literary
personages and itinerant lecturers.
He had promised to bring the bless-
ings of technology to the aid of British
industry. What he did was to set up
a Ministry of Technology with a labor
leader as its head and C.P. Snow as
deputy. The labor leader after some
months was still mystified about what
he was supposed to do, and Snow,
who has delighted Americans with
his novels, would serve society better
in Cambridge than at Whitehall.
Meanwhile, the Conservatives have
used their holiday to prepare for a
return to power which it now seems
must be within a few months. Tories
may not excite the multitude, but
they know their stuff.

Newsweek, June 28, 1965