Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to preserve the column structure as much as possible.  Due to the image quality and column layout, some minor inaccuracies might remain.

**The Star in the West**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

Perhaps it might be well, this
Christmas season, to ponder a bit the
question of exactly what America can
contribute to Europe in that realm
which transcends material goods and
military services. These latter contri-
butions are well known. Stalin's impul-
sive toast to American production
merely voiced common knowledge.
But many Americans are concerned
about what, in the realm of moral and
spiritual example, we can offer a piti-
fully torn and prostrate Old World,
for we do not like to think that Europe
values us only for what we can give of
material substance.

One answer to this question lies in
history, one of whose brightest pages
tells of how the youthful Marquis de
Lafayette came to us during our Revolution and gave services for which we
shall always honor him. But not so
well known is the fact that he came
here not in pursuit of mere adventure
nor from emotional impulse, but because he believed that we had discovered something which might help
his own country in its struggle to free
itself of centuries of internal disorder
and injustice.

Before the Revolution, some of
our state constitutions had been translated into French, and their simple
bills of rights had impressed French
idealists, like Lafayette, that something new and fresh and hopeful had
come into the hard and seamy statecraft of the world. Lafayette, stimulated by this fact, was attempting to
formulate for himself a declaration of
the rights of men and of citizens for
France. In America he made the acquaintance of an older and vastly
greater man, whose intellectual and
moral leadership became the major
factor in his life. That man was Jefferson.

When Lafayette returned to
France, he gave his life to an effort to
bring into the public policy of his
country the reasonableness, tolerance
and law that Jefferson had created for
us. In those efforts, Jefferson himself
tactfully participated when, after our
Revolution, he resided in France as
our representative.

In 1789, while the clouds of revolution were gathering in France, Lafayette sought to incorporate into the
slowly disintegrating monarchy the
Jeffersonian ideals of free citizenship.
His efforts continued on through the terrors of the revolution and the reaction which followed.

Many other enlightened Frenchmen
shared his admiration for Jefferson.
Gilbert Chinard, whose "Thomas Jefferson" tells of this influence of the
New upon the Old World, says this of
the continuing influence of Jefferson
upon France: "Du Pont de Nemours,
experimenting with his sons to develop
American industries in order to make
America economically independent
from Europe; Destutt de Tracy, almost completely blind, dictating his
treatise on political economy and appearing in the streets of Paris during
the glorious days of 1830; Lafayette,
yearning and hoping for the recognition of his ideal of liberty during the
Empire and the Restauration—all of
these were more than survivors of a
forgotten age. Even to the younger
generations they represented the living
embodiment of the political faith of
the nineteenth century. It is not a
mere coincidence that most of them
were friends and admirers of the Sage
of Monticello, whose letters they read
"as the letters of the Apostles were read
in the circle of the early Christians."

When Lafayette was an old man,
the great German poet Heine made his
acquaintance, and the spirit of freedom born here in America found its
way into immortal poetry. Wherever
in Europe the love of liberty burned,
some of its illumination came from the
example of the New World.

In these later years of bitter reaction, the ghost of Lafayette must have
moved uneasily amid the outward
signs of slavery. Now, with so much of
what Europe learned of tolerance and
freedom swept away and with civil
war threatening, in so many countries,
to succeed the victory over Germany,
the duty of the United States to teach
the lessons of liberty is even more imperative than it was 200 years ago.

Certainly, we cannot hope for too
much political democracy in Europe,
the Middle East and Asia. But we can
continue to emphasize the principle of
religious liberty as the basis of all liberty. We have proved strong political
and economic institutions can grow
when men weary of every religion live
together in peace. At this season, may
the ghost of Lafayette come west to
remind us of what we once did for
Europe, and must do again.