Here's a text version of the provided article, attempting to avoid overlapping columns.  Note that perfect separation isn't always possible due to the image quality and column layout.  Some minor manual editing might be needed for ultimate accuracy.


All Limbs and No Trunk

by RAYMOND MOLEY

A POLITICAL party, according to Ed-
mund Burke, is "a body of men
united, for promoting by their joint en-
deavors the national interest, upon
some particular in which they are all
agreed." What is currently called the
Republican party is a group of candi-
dates disunited, promoting in their sev-
eral ways their personal interests, upon
principles, mostly undisclosed, which
have neither common roots
nor objectives. To use a hor-
ticultural figure, it is a col-
lection of sap-laden and am-
bitious branches. Its trunk
has neither cohesion nor
shape. Its roots are in a
dead past.

Present interest in the Re-
publican party centers in the
rivalry of many candidates.
Many of them are men of
substance and capacity who would, if
elected, perform acceptably in the Presi-
dential office. But collectively they rep-
resent no unified body of persons or
principles.


T HE Nestor of the party, Herbert
Hoover, has grown in public favor
as he has resumed activity. But his re-
cently expressed views about our "un-
necessary" participation in the war and
the futility of the New Deal would
hardly be accepted as party doctrine.
The titular leader of the party,
Thomas E. Dewey, has chosen silence.
Robert A. Taft has well earned his
rank as the foremost Republican sena-
tor. He has been forthright on contro-
versial issues. But most party leaders,
wherever you go, will tell you the party
could hardly accept the Taft views or
even accept Taft as a candidate.
Harold E. Stassen, like Taft, has been
forthright. But most people who were
voting Republican twenty years ago
labor under the notion that Stassen's
views are too radical.
Earl Warren is a product of Cali-
fornia non-partisanship. The authen-
ticity of his Republicanism would be
doubted by many.
Arthur Vandenberg's close associa-
tion with the Administration in the con-
duct of foreign policy has been good for
the country, but it makes it difficult to
establish a party policy on foreign
affairs.
Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut
has severely criticized his party leaders in the Senate for their failure to in-
clude the sixteen new senators in party
councils.
The chairman of the National Com-
mittee cannot and does not determine
policy. His function is to visit the mem-
bers of the congregation, initiate con-
verts and denounce Democratic devils.
Consider your choice, if you are any
one of the millions who have come of
age since Hoover left the
White House. What are you
asked to join? What abiding
faith awaits your allegiance?
If you do not like Truman
or the New Deal, do you re-
gard the Republican party as
an alternative?
Nowhere, except somewhat
imperfectly in the party cau-
cuses in Congress, has there
been an effort to formulate
by joint effort a body of Republican
principles. Not since the 1944 conven-
tion and the earlier Mackinac confer-
ence, in 1943, has there been a collec-
tive effort to create a party creed.
There have been only half-hearted and
ineffective efforts to coordinate the
many healthy local and state Republi-
can parties. The problem is not only a
matter of formulating principles: it is
the welding together of actual voters
into a national body.
Wendell Willkie, after his defeat in
1940, made a fine statement about his
duty as leader of the opposition. This
fitted the American tradition that
makes the most recent Presidential
candidate titular leader of his party.
But Willkie spent himself in lone cru-
sading. Dewey, as titular leader of the
opposition, has not divided his party
as did Willkie. But he has not furthered
its unification. Dewey would deny that
this is his function. He has devoted
himself to New York government and
politics. He has offered only an iron
curtain of silence concerning the per-
formance of his party in Congress.


UNITY in principles is still possible, if
someone provides—as did Frank-
lin D. Roosevelt in the months before
his nomination in 1932—leadership
which can spark the imagination. Pos-
sibly Stassen's or Taft's efforts to that
end will yet bear fruit. Possibly the
job will be done by a newcomer, like
Eisenhower. It takes more than a candi-
date to make a party.

Newsweek, September 15, 1947