Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

Shadow Over the Court
by Raymond Moley

LAST week it was noted in this space
that responsible party government
in Washington had been supplanted
by personalized, machine rule. Per-
sonal government became the rule
under President Roosevelt. President
Truman retained personal control and
added machine methods. Then, as I
pointed out, a new code of ethics
prevailed which was lower than that
which is expected to govern
private life or real party life.
The result lies before us in
the current disclosures of
sordid official conduct.

Another and very simple
illustration of what happens
when personalized machine
rule supplants party govern-
ment is what has happened
to the Supreme Court.

A fair review of history
will support the proposition that in
general Presidents in selecting mem-
bers of the Supreme Court from 1789
to 1937 imposed one or both of these
qualifying tests: distinguished service
on the bench or at the bar; notable
and honorable party service. In practi-
cally every case where a party leader
has been selected, he has also had
important experience in the practice
of law. It is true that at times when
party passions ran high, adherence to
the policies preferred by the President
was taken into consideration, but in
the famous case of Roger B. Taney
there had been a demonstration of a
high order of legal ability.

IT SHOULD be noted that there is a
great deal of difference between
mere possession of the right to prac-
tice law and distinguished service at
the bar or on the bench.
Only twelve persons have held the
office of Chief Justice of the United
States. (John Randolph was appointed
but not confirmed.) A review of the
list proves the care with which Presi-
dents observed the rules noted above.
This was even true of Roosevelt's ele-
vation of Stone to the Chief Justice-
ship. It was less true of Truman's
appointment of the present Chief Jus-
tice than of any other in history.
Since 1937 two new qualifications
for Associate Justices seem to have
taken the place of the high tests
that prevailed before. From Grover
Cleveland to Herbert Hoover inclu-

sive, there could hardly have been
said to be a personal appointment. Nor
was an ideological test imposed, with
the possible exception of Theodore
Roosevelt's appointment of Holmes.
But even in that case, Holmes had
been a distinguished judge for years.
Compare, if you will, the Roosevelt
selections, from Hugo Black to Wiley
Rutledge. There were eight, and with
the single exception of
Byrnes, none had been no-
table party leaders. Only
two, Reed and Jackson, had
notable, extensive legal or
judicial experience. All were
selected largely because
they were sympathetic with
the Roosevelt New Deal.

After the excellent ap-
pointment of Burton, Presi-
dent Truman seems to have
regarded these appointments as berths
for political colleagues and friends.
This was especially true of the selec-
tion of Clark and Minton. Neither had
demonstrated by temperament, party
service, or legal attainments proper
qualifications for the office.

And now the facts appear about the
appointment of Lamar Caudle as
Clark's major assistant.
It is also true that constant politick-
ing by Democrats who want to side-
track President Truman by nominating
the Chief Justice for President is not
helping the prestige of that great of-
fice. It is not in the great tradition for
the volatile Douglas to be sounding off
in foreign lands about how the world
ought to be reordered. And it was, to
say the least, out of line with the body
of precedent for Reed under subpoena
and Frankfurter voluntarily to appear
as character witnesses for Alger Hiss.

THE Supreme Court is and has al-
ways been a human institution.
Party conflict and personal ambitions
have frequently knocked at its door.
But the immense respect, not to say
reverence which it has won is a matter
of vital national interest. If, because
of the tests followed by Presidents in
making appointments or the conduct
of the Justices themselves, that respect
is impaired, something fine and noble
will pass from our nation's life. And it
cannot be denied that some of that
prestige has been lost and more will
be lost if present conditions continue.

Newsweek, January 7, 1952