Here's a text version of the provided article, aiming to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

A Great Republican Delusion
by Raymond Moley

A DELUSION, according to William
James, is "a false opinion about a
matter of fact." According to another
authority, it is "a persistent form of
mental obliquity."

May I break in upon the great Taft-
Eisenhower ring-around-the-wishing-
well to suggest a delusion of which
many Republicans must divest them-
selves if they expect anything at all to
come of their efforts? The
delusion from which they
suffer is a belief that they
are potentially a majority
party. Also, it comes very
close to a delusion for Re-
publicans to believe there
is a truly national Repub-
lican Party. So before too
much time is spent select-
ing a leader, there should
be some consideration of
whether there is anything to lead.
This leads to a number of related
ideas which are either very doubtful
or patently untrue. One is that the
Republican Party can provide a new
and fresh deal for this sorely tried
country without the help of the
South. Another is that either Taft or
Eisenhower could sweep in a sympa-
thetic Congress by the coattail route.

THE truth is that neither the Repub-
lican Party as now constituted nor
the Truman faction of the Democratic
Party has a ghost of a chance to attain
majority status in the foreseeable fu-
ture. The votes of both parties de-
clined from 1940 to 1948, despite the
addition of millions to the nation's eli-
gible voters. The Republican Party has
not won both branches of government
in a national election since 1928. Since
then, great changes have taken place.
There has been a drift of population
away from Republican rural areas to
Democratic cities. The result of this
change has not been to make the
cities more Republican. Rather, it has
given Democratic city bosses and labor
political organizations great numbers
of new manageable voters. There has
been a shift of population from state to
state, which has had material political
significance. Very important has been
the growth of organized labor and its
alliance with the Truman Democracy.
It should be added that vast govern-
ment spending, handouts, and the
growth of bureaucracy have given the

party in power a marked advantage.
This advantage is most clearly shown
in the present status of House and
Senate seats to be contested in 1952.
To control the Senate, Republicans
must gain three seats. A brief survey
of the 33 states where Senatorial con-
tests are at stake leaves the conclusion
that even if a Republican wins the
Presidency, the Democrats have very
much better than an even
chance to add to their pres-
ent Senate majority.
To get control of the
House by a majority of one
seat, Republicans must win
in eighteen more districts.
A survey of those districts
which might move either
way indicates to me that the
Republican task of carrying
the House may be almost as
difficult as winning the Senate. So a
Republican might well win the Presi-
dency and lose Congress.
"But," say both Eisenhower and
Taft Republicans, "nominate our man
and he will carry in a Congressional
majority on his coattails." The answer
to this is that coattail transportation
has gone the way of the horse and
buggy. That was shown in 1948 when
Democratic candidates for the House
received a plurality which was
600,000 more than Truman's. The
main reason for that was the concen-
tration of left-wing organizations, in-
cluding the CIO-PAC, on electing
House members.
In seven of the sixteen states car-
ried by Dewey, there were 24 close,
critical districts. Only three of those
went Republican. Thus there was no
value in the Dewey coattails.

IT is my considered opinion that
merely scratching for votes in the
North will not put the Republican
Party back where it once was. To at-
tain majority status, it must annex
whole states, not single votes. That
means either a workable coalition with
the South or a reconstruction of Re-
publican principles sufficient to attract
Southern voters. And that means that
the Republican Party must not only
oppose statist policies but defend
those states' rights, anti-Federalist,
Jeffersonian principles abandoned by
the Truman regime. Only a major shift
can save it.

Newsweek, November 26, 1951