Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid column overlap:


PERSPECTIVE

The GOP in Mississippi

by Raymond Moley


JACKSON, MISS.—The most important
political event of 1963 is likely to
be the statewide election in Mississippi. Its results may well cast light
upon what may happen in 1964 in
the nation. A new governor and a
new and vigorous Republican Party
is in the field to capture both the
governorship and a considerable number of legislative seats. No one could
have dreamed until now that Mississippi, deep in the Deep South and
treasuring rich Confederate memories, might be the first real Southern
state to elect a Republican governor.
Until very recently, the leaders of
the Republican Party in most of the
Southern states were political hacks,
little respected in their communities
and states, and living in anticipation
of small bits of Federal patronage
under Republican Presidents. Since
the days of Mark Hanna, the managers of Republican aspirants for the
Presidential nomination gathered in
these delegations with money or
promises or both.
The Republican leaders I have
met in this extended tour of the
South are young, respected citizens
more interested in creating a strong
Republican Party than in anything
they may get personally.
Leading the Republican Party in
Mississippi are Wirt Yerger Jr., 34-
year-old state chairman and an
insurance executive; national committeeman Fred LaRue, a successful
businessman who is 34; and Rubel
Phillips, candidate for governor. He
is 38. Charles Klumb, state finance
chairman, is 35.

TWO-PARTY APPEAL

The state Republican committee
has had a full-time staff at headquarters in Jackson for four years. Its
published material is lively and attractive. Phillips and Yerger have
been campaigning over the state and
meeting enthusiastic crowds. Their
appeal is for a genuine two-party
system, with Republicanism dedicated to principles of conservatism
-limited Federal government, sound
money, economy, private enterprise,
and local self-determination.
Since all candidates of both parties
are against school integration, this is
not an issue in the campaign. And
since most of the more vocal segregationists are firmly Democratic, the
Republicans permit that problem to
stay in the Democratic Party.
An advantage possessed by the
Republicans is the absence of party
registration in Mississippi. This enables conservative Democrats to support Republican candidates without
too much soul-searching.
Republican strategy in 1963 is to
concentrate on the governorship and
to win as many seats in the legislature as possible. Perhaps later, county
and local Republican candidates will
be in the field.
The state committee is placing
great emphasis upon effective precinct work. Yerger’s aim is to have a
statewide organization with every
precinct staffed with workers.

RELEASE FROM THE PAST

The Democratic Party in the state
is genuinely alarmed. The State
Democratic Executive Committee is
seeking to exact a loyalty oath from
all candidates to support all other
candidates. Two Democratic candidates for the nomination for governor
have made this pledge. But the third
has, so far, refused.
One portent of what may come
has been the election of a Republican
to the legislature in a by-election in
Meridian. The man elected is the
former head of the state Young
Republican organization. Everywhere
here in Mississippi, as well as over
the South, accent is on youth. I hear
constantly from these party workers
that it is about time to end the long
captivity in the Democratic Party.
Women, too, are finding that political
loyalty should mean something far
more than the memory of what the
Republican Party inflicted upon the
South in the Reconstruction years.
As we drove over from Louisiana
we passed through the beautiful battleground at Vicksburg. That battle
began exactly a century ago this
month and ended on July 4. It is a
cherished memory of brave men
there. But it is only a memory now
for another generation. Those young
people who are fighting for a two-
party system in the South have work
to do in their time.

Newsweek, May 13, 1963