Here's a text version of the provided article, maintaining the column structure as much as possible.  Note that some minor formatting inconsistencies might remain due to the original image quality.

**Incodel—The Right Way**

by Raymond Moley

INCODEL is an interstate commission, created by the four states of New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware. It was founded in 1936 to consider and to recommend ways and means of making the Delaware River useful to the states from which it draws water that it pours wastefully and erratically into the sea. Its objective is to create, by a compact among the four states, an agency which will carry out a vast program of dams, reservoirs, and other means of regulating and using the water of the Delaware River basin.

Several years passed before anything important happened, but the 1949 water shortage brought about action. An extensive engineering survey was made and approved by the commission. The plans now provide for the meeting of two problems. New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania need a firm supply of water for domestic and industrial purposes. Delaware industries, notably the oyster fisheries, need protection from the invasion of the river by salt water during dry seasons. Large reservoirs in the upper reaches of the stream and its tributaries can supply these services. An incidental value will come from recreational facilities provided by these artificial lakes.

It will take a good many years to complete this development, and the estimated cost will be more than $500,000,000. The financing can be sound and self-liquidating. Presumably, the cost will be shared according to the benefits accruing to the respective states. The finest precedent in the United States for joint action by states has already been provided by New York and New Jersey in their Port Authority.

At the moment the status of the project is this: New Jersey and Delaware have passed legislation authorizing the creation of the working compact. The Legislature of New York will probably act in January. Only the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania seems to be dragging its feet. Governor Fine appointed a committee last June, but it has no funds and has done nothing. This inaction does not seem to come from any lack of faith in the project. It is apparently due to the fact that the governor is new in his job and has not thoroughly familiarized himself with the problem.

Meanwhile, the state and city of New York grow more and more restless. They want no repetition of a water-shortage scare. At a meeting of Incodel in October at Pocono Manor, I heard Attorney General Goldstein of New York deliver an ultimatum to the effect that if Pennsylvania delays much longer New York will proceed to develop part of the project itself. This would involve long Supreme Court litigation, however, and it is hoped that Pennsylvania will act in early 1952.

The national significance of Incodel is that it proposes to demonstrate how a river valley should be developed without Federal help, interference, or domination.

Over the past year in this space I have had a good deal to say about the huge cost in money to the nation and the threat to state and personal rights in great Federal projects for river development. A single one of those projects, about which I wrote some months ago, would cost New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware more than the whole Delaware River project and it would benefit only part of one remote state.

If, as reclamation advocates say, their schemes will pay out, let them create the necessary authorities through compacts and raise the necessary money in the bond market. Governor Driscoll of New Jersey made that challenging suggestion at the 1950 Governors Conference. Of course, it will be answered that these Eastern states have more people and more money. But that underlines the very reason why states should help themselves and not become more dependent on the Federal government. In the last analysis there is no sound reason why the states with more money and more people should be taxed for projects of doubtful economic value merely because the benefited states have more votes in Congress. Incodel is showing the right way to develop our natural resources without Federal autocracy.

Newsweek, December 17, 1951