Here's a text extraction of the provided image, aiming to avoid overlapping text from different columns.  Note that some minor formatting discrepancies might remain due to the image quality and column layout.

PERSPECTIVE

Another Reconstruction

by Raymond Moley

WHAT historians call the Reconstruction was a period deplored
by all decent Americans. The decade
following Appomattox was not a re-
union but a wider division. During
those years there was, deliberately
and as a matter of Federal policy, in-
jected into the raw wounds of war an
infection which raged for decades. A
Republican Congress destroyed the
two-party system and built a wall be-
tween good Americans in the South
and their ideological brothers in the
North and West.

The results of the elections this year
show positive evidence in the South
of a new and quite different sort of
reconstruction. Strangely enough, this
reunion is coming about through a po-
litical party which bears the same
name as the one which imposed a
Carthaginian peace after 1865. That
was a party which under the name of
Union imposed disunion and which
drove millions of Americans into the
insecure sanctuary of a one-party sys-
tem. There is no kinship between that
earlier Republican Party and the new
Republicans in the South today. These
people have decided that the past is
past and the future is what they make
of it. With like-minded people in the
rest of the nation, they seek the in-
vigorating tonic of a free economy.
They have not left the Democratic
Party without a good reason. For the
Democratic Party of their traditions
has left them politically homeless.

In the eleven Southern states Re-
publicans won four more House seats
—the first new ones since 1954. Others
were so close that 1,200 more votes
distributed over certain districts
would have added three more seats.

GRASS-ROOTS EVIDENCE

In all those states unsuccessful Re-
publican candidates won a lot of
votes. The veteran Sen. Lister Hill
barely won re-election. The victory of
the Republican candidate for gover-
nor in Oklahoma was by a very sub-
stantial margin.

John N. Garner used to say that
while a strong Republican Party in the
South would be a wholesome develop-
ment for many reasons, it would never
appear until Republicans began to
control county courthouses. Republi-
cans are now getting a substantial
number of those offices. In North
Carolina there were clean sweeps in
three counties.

Republicans will have considerable
representation in Southern legisla-
tures. In Dallas County, Texas, they
won six of the nine contests for the
lower house in Austin. One more was
added in Midland. In Georgia, the
most unreconstructed Southern state,
Republicans won two seats in the
State Senate. In Tennessee there will
be 26 Republicans in the redistricted
state legislature.

In Texas the Republican candidate
for governor carried the big counties
of Harris (Houston) and Dallas and
ran close in other growing areas.

PRESIDENTIAL PORTENTS

There is little ideological difference
between conservative Democrats and
Republicans in Texas. Thus the
growth of Republicanism has been
checked by the necessity felt by con-
servative Democrats to keep the lib-
eral wing of their party from getting
control. This year the conservatives
were predominant all along the line.
The new governor is moderately con-
servative. The lieutenant governor,
the attorney general, and the prospective speaker of the lower house in
Austin are solid conservatives. Two-
thirds of the 150 members of the
lower house are conservatives, and a
majority of the senate is either moderate or conservative. The effect of
this predominant sentiment will be
felt in the voting of the big Texas
delegation on Kennedy measures.

These portents in the South must
be ominous reminders to the ambitious Kennedy brethren. For Republicans are claiming all the Southern
states except Georgia in 1964. And
in a Presidential election it is states
rather than mass votes that count in
the electoral college.

In this connection another spook
must lurk in the White House dreams
of 1964. The enforcement of school
integration is not popular over most
of the South. And now that unpleasant
responsibility is upon a Democratic
rather than a Republican President
and Attorney General. No Democratic
candidate for President can take the
Southern states for granted. They will
be debatable ground.

Newsweek, November 26, 1962