Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping columns:


Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

Keys to Atomic Power—VI
POWER FROM THE ATOM
by Raymond Moley

IN AN earlier article I discussed the
vast future needs of the world and
the United States for electrical en-
ergy. This need will greatly exceed
the available fuel sources in the fore-
seeable future. Fuel-poor countries
like Britain already feel the pinch.
The United States has a maximum of
25 years and a minimum of fifteen.
But in the United States we shall be
consuming twice the electrical energy
now used, although that has been in-
creased enormously since 1946.

Thus the development of nuclear
power, for which the sources of fuel
seem illimitable, is of profound con-
cern to American power producers.
To meet that future, private compa-
nies have done, are doing, and will
do a great deal at a large cost, without
financial profits, in research, in ex-
perimentation with pilot plants, and
in real power-producing units. For a
reactor is just another means of pro-
ducing heat, which makes steam
that drives conventional machinery to
produce electricity.

The big goal is to reach the cost
level which will be comparable with
conventional sources—coal, oil, gas,
and falling water. From what I have
learned, the cost of power from the
atom is eight or ten times, perhaps
somewhat more, than that to be ob-
tained from fossil fuels—coal, oil, and
gas. The cost of the installation is more
than doubled, that of fuel is very high.

FUTURE COSTS

Against this differential there must
be calculated the rising and future
costs of the present sources. Even wa-
ter power will be much, much higher
because of materials, labor, and the
diminution of good dam sites even in
the Pacific Northwest. An offset of
some size can be made in the case
of coal because of greater efficiency
in its use. Inflation will hit both atomic
and other sources, to be sure, and
that is indeterminate.

But the best estimate of the com-
ing of comparable—not necessarily
equal or competitive—costs is some-
where between twelve and twenty
years. There will be variations among
regions according to the availability
of sources. New England is less for-
tunate than the Pacific Northwest,
the Mountain States, and the states
near coal in the Appalachians.

The privately owned electric in-
dustry spent $35 million in 1957 on
nuclear plants and $5 million in re-
search. This per-year expenditure will
rise rapidly in years to come.

Five atomic reactors are now
producing electricity, in three of
which considerable private money
was invested: The AEC-Westing-
house-Duquesne Light Co. plant at
Shippingport near Pittsburgh with
68,000-kilowatt capacity; a General
Electric-Pacific Gas & Electric plant
at Vallecitos, Calif., with 5,000; an
AEC-Southern California Edison plant
with 6,500; the AEC’s plant at Ar-
gonne Laboratory near Chicago; an
Army package plant at Fort Belvoir,
Va. There are several prototypes in
AEC installations.

SOME HELP NEEDED

The following are under construc-
tion at present: The Power Reactor
Development Co.’s plant at Monroe,
Mich., 100,000 kilowatts; Common-
wealth Edison of Illinois, 180,000;
Consolidated Edison of New York,
275,000; and the Yankee Atomic
Electric Co. plant with New Eng-
land companies participating, 134,000.
These are scheduled for production
in 1960. By then, the United States
will have more than 650,000 kilowatts
from these plants alone. In addition
there will be the several govern-
ment plants.

There can be no argument about
the necessity for considerable gov-
ernment help. The bill is just too
much for private investors to bear.
The character and amount of that
help is a subject of some controversy.
Certainly it should be clear to all ex-
cept zealots for Federal public power
that no Federal crash program would
be tolerable in a free economy. It
would be monopolistic, excessively
costly, and technically foolish. For
we simply do not know what reactor
type, what form of fuel, and what
other components are the best an-
swer. In another piece I shall discuss
the way government is helping and
should help.

Newsweek, March 3, 1958