Perspective

Registered U. S. Patent Office

Fluid and Foot-loose

by RAYMOND MOLEY

As I have indicated several times on
this page, a deadlock at Philadel-
phia is possible but not probable. The
very fact that so many people think it
is certain is a good reason to believe it
will not happen.

Republican deadlocks like those of
1880 and 1920 were produced by deep
ideological rifts in the party. Such a
division is not present now. The 1940
Taft-Dewey deadlock re-
sulted in a nomination that
most Republican politicians
now regard as a mistake. And
so Republican regulars, with
1940 in mind, want no repe-
tition of the Willkie coup.
This determination will cause
a shifting of foot-loose dele-
gates from one to the other
of the leaders until one or the
other is within reach of the
majority. Then there will be a grand
rush.

Neither Taft nor Dewey needs to
make a move to bring on the stampede.
It will probably take place as a result
of the natural instincts of delegates. If
Taft and Dewey were both determined
to cause a deadlock, they probably
could not accomplish that end.

The proof of this determination of
politicians to remain fluid and foot-
loose shows up in the tentative figures
of the preferences of the various dele-
gations at this writing. I have assem-
bled, as nearly as is humanly possible,
a tabulation of the preferences so far,
state by state. My information is de-
rived from personal visits to many
states, from innumerable telephone
calls, from estimates of supporters and
managers of the candidates and from
other sources. Although it is wholly
inconclusive, the thing that shines
through this summary is the determina-
tion, mentioned above, of delegates to
move rapidly from one candidacy to
another.

As things look now, only 18 of the 48
state delegations will cast a solid vote
on the first ballot. Of these solidly
voting states, thirteen, including New
York and Minnesota, intend to vote for
native sons. On the second ballot, seven
of these delegations will probably drop
their native sons and go elsewhere.
Three will possibly go elsewhere after
the second ballot. Only three—New
York, Minnesota and California—will
consistently stick to Dewey, Stassen
and Warren.

The probable strength of Dewey on
the first ballot will be slightly over 300.
Taft will have about 225; Stassen,
around 140.

On the second ballot, when a good
many favorite sons will be dropped,
Dewey may well go close to 400, with
Taft reaching about 300.

Dewey strategy will then
be to make an all-out drive
on the third and fourth bal-
lots. If he fails there may be
panic, of which Taft would
probably be the first benefi-
ciary. That is why Taft’s
manager claims the nomina-
tion on some ballot between
the fourth and the seventh.

At this point, all specula-
tion rests on a number of
psychological factors. The first is the
fear among unpledged or Taft delegates
that Dewey will win and that they had
better get on the bandwagon. That
fear will be intense if Dewey passes 450
on the third ballot.

If that fear is overcome by any hint
of weakness among Dewey delegates, a
number of other psychological factors
will favor Taft. In the first place, Taft
will be regarded by most politicians as
certain to win if nominated. The aver-
age politician will then ask himself
which is more “regular,” Taft or Dewey?
Which will be more likely to remember
the boys who nominated him? Here the
edge is with Taft, because he seems to
be more “regular,” more homespun,
more politically dependable. This im-
pression is unjust to Dewey, but it does
prevail among many politicians. And it
may swing the victory to Taft.

Many other factors will play a part
in those historic minutes after the
second ballot. Floor management is
one, in which the answer seems to be a
stand-off. Will Stassen, if eliminated,
turn to Taft or to Dewey? He would
prefer Vandenberg, but unless the Mich-
igan senator starts early or Dewey holds
his strength long enough to discourage
the Taft people, there will be no Van-
denberg to turn to. Or will Eastern
sentiment, strongly internationalist,
stop Taft and turn, perhaps, to Warren?

He who professes to know what will
happen, beyond this, is not a psychia-
trist but a case for a psychiatrist.

Newsweek, June 21, 1948