Here's a text extraction of the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


**A People's Purge**

by RAYMOND MOLEY

We are going to get a different kind of a Congress. The people will see to that. Only a few months ago there were many in high office in the Administration who did not think so. They looked for a continuation of the same lopsided House, with only a few casualties in the primaries. They were willing to have it that way. But the people will not have it so. This House may be good enough for the Administration, but it is not good enough for the American people. The people have given and the people will take away.

But it is highly desirable that the change in personnel be not a mere partisan gesture. A tremendous party sweep that would substitute for the present huge Democratic majority a big Republican majority would introduce the same sort of unfitness that the present Congress reveals. A party landslide carries into office a lot of dead and decayed and green timber. A fairly evenly balanced House is likely to yield the best results.

If, as the NEWSWEEK poll (Oct. 19, page 16) of Washington correspondents estimated, the Democrats will hold a majority of 30-odd votes, the legislative branch of the government is likely to work effectively. Speaker Rayburn is a good speaker. Mr. Martin is a good leader. Both are patriotic Americans, well liked and respected by those who know them.

But there are many Democrats in Congress whose defeat in a big party upset would be a grievous loss to the country at this time. They have, in many cases against great pressure, voted their independent convictions. They have not been rubber stamps. They have guarded the proper constitutional balance between the executive and the legislative branches of government. Many have had long and valuable experience in Congress, and Congress is a good school.

One favorable aspect of the impending change is that the mortality will be greatest among the less experienced members. That is because those who have been in Congress only a term or two get in by small majorities, and a country-wide vote of protest cuts them off first. A shift of 5 per cent would upset a considerable number of districts. This narrow margin in many districts is a challenge to intelligent voters, and this sermon is addressed to intelligent voters. Their influence is more important this year. But the trouble with intelligent voters is that they are sometimes not intelligent enough to appreciate the extent of their influence. They have, in the past, seen themselves outvoted by vast numbers, who followed the lead of mountebank candidates for Congress. Intelligent voters become afflicted with a sense of futility. They fight many a losing fight and they begin to think they are unimportant.

Years ago James Bryce, the greatest ambassador of his time, spoke of this fatalism: "A man of convictions," he wrote, "may insist that the arguments on both sides are after the polling just what they were before. But the average man will repeat his arguments with less faith, less zeal, more of a secret fear that he may be wrong, than he did while the majority was still doubtful; and after every reassertion by the majority of its judgment, his knees grow feebler, till at last they refuse to carry him into the combat."

This year of all years is the time for intelligent people to shake off this fatalism. Let them look at the realities of the situation. One million people could, if they would, make a change in this Congress that would improve its quality by an immense degree. They could do this if each one of them set himself the obligation to do three things. First, he should acquaint himself with the candidates. He should consider their records, their occupational experience, their reputation for integrity and competence, the things they are saying about public affairs. He should look them over with the care that would be exercised in the selection of a family lawyer or physician, for what they are to do with our lives and property is a matter of similar personal importance to each of us. He may well ignore their party affiliations. After the personal choice is made, he should do a little talking among friends, telling people what the candidates are like. And, finally, he should vote and see that other intelligent people vote.

If a million intelligent people would set themselves to such a course of action, they would improve Congress immensely. Now is the time to do it.