Here's a text extraction from the provided image, attempting to avoid overlapping text from different columns:


Knee-Deep in June

by Raymond Moley

SO MANY things in politics are happening these days that this offering must be a series of thumbnail views and opinions.

►It is knee-deep in June, and Democrats are hoping that by this time in July the Republican Party will be knee-deep in its own blood. There is some substance beneath that hope. Proof of how passions are rising is in a sheaf of letters on my desk. I am denounced for suggesting, on the basis of personal, on-the-ground observation of the doings in Texas, that Taft ought to repudiate the action of the Zweifel crowd in that state. I am not going to repeat my reasons for believing that Eisenhower is entitled to a sizable majority of the Texas delegates. I did that on this page two weeks ago. I would, however, remind the people who say that unfair, perhaps illegal, tactics on behalf of Eisenhower in one state justify such tactics in behalf of Taft in Texas, that two wrongs do not add up to one right. In the interest of the national welfare which desperately needs a united Republican Party, Taft and Eisenhower should take this issue out of the hands of their managers and decide upon some equitable means of securing a judgment upon these contests before the convention in July. Taft implied his desire for something like that, but unfortunately Senator Lodge spurned the suggestion.

►The Eisenhower people have no reason to protest the selection of MacArthur as keynoter. They had no candidate of their own to suggest, not even a so-called neutral. It would have been better to induce Herbert Hoover to do the keynote on the first night of the convention and put MacArthur in the Hoover spot on the second night. Moreover, Lodge is in error when he says that the tradition requires a neutral as temporary chairman. In 1948 it was done by Governor Green, who was pledged to Taft.

►So far Eisenhower's statements of his views on domestic questions have been clear, unequivocal, and conservative enough to satisfy any reasonable Republican. The best proof of this is the half-veiled complaints from left-wing Republicans, collectivists, and self-styled independents. Some of those who write in print are trying to say that the general does not mean what he says. They are also trying by wry interpretations to put their own slant on the Eisenhower statements.

In the issue of this magazine dated July 9, 1951, I wrote: "A fairly strong Eisenhower movement might produce enough Eisenhower strength to stop Taft's nomination. Then Eisenhower or someone else, like Dirksen or Knowland, might be nominated." The logic in the suggestion of Dirksen was quite apparent, for he is one person to whom the Taft people would turn if they cannot win for their candidate. But there were raised eyebrows at my mention of Knowland. My reasons for suggesting Knowland a year ago are valid today. At some stage in the Republican convention it will become apparent that Warren cannot be nominated, and some California people, probably Warren himself, will recognize the honor and value to their state in the nomination of another favorite son. They will have a great deal to offer because California's electoral strength ranks close to New York. Knowland is a tested and sound Republican. He has been the most effective Senatorial critic of the disastrous Truman-Marshall-Acheson policy in Asia. And now Knowland has demonstrated tremendous ability to win votes. Running in both primaries, he won over his opponent by a vote of approximately 2,450,000 to 770,000, a majority of 1,680,000. This exceeds Warren's majority over James Roosevelt in 1950 by about half a million. Knowland is a natural for the Vice Presidential nomination, but that is not the point. It makes him a natural for the higher spot in case of a deadlock.

HERE is another quotation from this column. It appeared five months ago. "It will be disastrous if anything mean and small creeps into this contest for the nomination. This general and this senator are illustrious men in the great tradition. With either the future will be brighter." That reference was to Taft and Eisenhower.

Newsweek, June 23, 1952