Here's the text extracted from the provided image.  I've done my best to avoid overlapping text from different columns, but due to the image quality and layout, minor inaccuracies might remain.


Perspective
Mixing, Not Blending

Knowledge may be power, but
power is not knowledge. This is being at-
tested, these days, in Washington, where
the unhappy ability of members of the Ad-
ministration to stir up class feeling by ve-
hement utterances is completely over-
shadowed by their unfortunate lack of a
sense of direction in the face of major
economic problems.

For more than two years it has become
increasingly apparent that this Adminis-
tration is incapable of deciding which of
two diametrically opposed economic pol-
icies to follow. These conflicting policies,
the policy of Enforced Atomization and the
policy of Concentration and Control (to
borrow a great phrase used by Van Hise
nearly 30 years ago in his epoch-making
book), have been discussed many times
before on this page. But now that the
events of the past two weeks have re-
vealed the Administration's indecision over
them in all its terrifying nakedness, a re-
examination seems to be called for.

Those who favor Enforced Atom-
ization see in the growth of large industrial
units a thing essentially dangerous, not to
say evil. They claim that the growth of
most great corporations is not due to in-
creased efficiency, but that they have been
created, as the President said in his mes-
sage to Congress, "for the sake of securi-
ties profits, financial control, the suppres-
sion of competition and the ambition of
power over others." They would therefore
break up such concentration, atomize it
into small units and then have the govern-
ment police those units, with the object
of creating a completely flexible competi-
tive system which would work without
much intervention by government. This
point of view is held by many leading
statesmen and students of public affairs,
including Borah, Brandeis, and a number
of satellites of these men, chiefly young
lawyers who are operating in responsible
positions in Washington.

Those who advocate Concentration and
Control, on the other hand, start from the
premise that there is nothing inherently
virtuous about competition, that it is jus-
tified only in so far as it promotes social
progress and efficiency and that the gov-
ernment should encourage concerted ac-
tion where that best serves the public and
competition where that best serves the
public. They would subject large industrial
units to rigid financial supervision, police


them in order to eliminate unfair competi-
tion and then work with them to insure the
stable and continuous operation of the ma-
chinery of production and distribution.

It is easy to see that the early New Deal
- with its emphasis on agricultural and
industrial planning and its regulation of
the issuance and sale of securities-was
dominated by the theory of Concentration
and Control. It was, in fact, the fulfillment
of the Theodore Roosevelt-Van Hise pro-
gressivism of 1912. But in the past two
years there has been a shift in emphasis.
And this shift has not taken the form of a
complete repudiation of Concentration and
Control, but of an endless wavering be-
tween the two policies.

It appeared in the tax bill in 1935, when
corporate bigness was definitely discrimi-
nated against. It appeared in the Adminis-
tration's advocacy of the Wagner Act,
which stemmed from the conflicting desire
to foster collective forms of action. It ap-
peared in 1936 when, despite their com-
mon origin, the platform of the Demo-
cratic party favored Concentration and
Control and the President's Acceptance
Speech championed Enforced Atomization.
It appeared in the Supreme Court fight
when the President hesitated to state
which of these two economic policies he
intended to enforce through his mastery of
the Court. It appears in the incongruity
between the philosophy of the President's
message and the philosophy of the Jackson
and Ickes speeches to which he gave ap-
proval. And now it appears even more glar-
ingly in the President's remarks the day
after his message, favoring a return to the
theory of Concentration and Control.

John Dickinson, who preceded Mr. Jack-
son as Assistant Attorney General in
charge of antitrust cases, believed in Con-
centration and Control. Jackson is an
atomizer with a vengeance. Donald Rich-
berg, who is still a potent intellectual in-
fluence in the White House, is for Con-
centration and Control. Mr. Corcoran and
Mr. Cohen are devoted disciples of the
atomistic Justice Brandeis.

Administration policy lurches back
and forth according to the ascendency of
one crowd or the other. For the President
is unwilling to choose between them.

It is my settled conviction that, if left
to himself, he would favor Concentration
and Control. But he has clung to the be-
lief that he can blend the two philosophies,
by persuasion and skillful compromise. The
last three years have proved that he can-
not blend them. He can merely mix them.

NEWSWEEK

And in that futile attempt to reconcile the
irreconcilable, lies the basic trouble he is
having with business.

In this world, bitterness, hatred and an-
tagonism do not always arise from inborn
propensities. They much more frequently
come from a failure of understanding, from
indecision and from mutual impatience.
Perhaps both government and business
have been too quick to interpret a state of
bewilderment as an attitude of antagonism.

What, for example, does the fol-
lowing passage from the message to Con-
gress express-bitter hostility or hopeless
confusion? Detailing the bad practices he
intends to outlaw, the President said:
"They include high-pressure salesmanship
which creates cycles of overproduction
within given industries and consequent re-
cessions in production until such time as
the surplus is consumed; the use of patent
laws to enable larger corporations to main-
tain high prices and withhold from the
public the advantage of the progress of
science; unfair competition which drives
the smaller producer out of business lo-
cally, regionally or even on a national
scale; intimidation of local or state gov-
ernment to prevent the enactment of laws
for the protection of labor by threatening
to move elsewhere; the shifting of actual
production from one locality or region to
another in pursuit of the cheapest wage
scale."

Is it intended to be a verbal grimace in
the direction of business? Is it intended to
convey the impression that all these prac-
tices can be controlled through legislation?
Does it mean that by legal hocus-pocus the
antitrust laws can be twisted to apply to
them, that they can regulate "high-pres-
sure salesmanship" or determine when and
where human beings will buy new cars and
turn in their old ones? Or does it imply
recognition of the fact that some of our
most troublesome problems cannot be
solved through rigid legislation and that
they can be met only through some form
of industrial cooperation supervised by the
government?

Nobody knows.

As Mr. Paul T. Homan says: "One may
be compelled to travel with skippers hav-
ing... defective navigating instruments
and indefinite ports of call. But one can-
not be expected to be very happy about it."

It may be assumed that the Administra-
tion wants to restore certainty and confi-
dence. But only one man can stop it from
running about in dizzying circles and trip-
ping over its own feet. And that man's
wise and wholly humane social purposes,
which are shared by millions of his fellow
citizens, cannot be attained by an attempt
to create a world that never existed except
in the mind of Adam Smith or by a blank
refusal to adopt a coherent, consistent pro-
gram for purifying and modernizing our
competitive system.