Here's the text from the provided image, extracted and formatted to avoid overlapping columns:

Perspective
Registered U. S. Patent Office

After New Hampshire

by Raymond Moley

The results in New Hampshire
underline a point which is more
important than the outcome of the
Eisenhower-Taft contest. It is more
important, that is, to every American
who hopes to see this republic delivered
not only from President Truman
and his merry men but from that
assortment of socialistic proposals collectively
known as the Fair Deal.

It is that conservative
people should be prepared
after the nominations to enter a campaign
in which the issue of individual corruption
may not be a factor. That is what happened
in 1924 with the appearance of a new Republican
candidate, Coolidge, who was not tainted
by the corruption of Harding’s false friends.
In short, the Democratic candidate may be a
Stevenson, a Kefauver, or a Vinson, personally
clean but committed to the same old brand
of statism that has characterized the past two
decades of Democratic rule.

A hunt for 40-odd thieves may be more
thrilling for light minds, but the rescue of our
institutions from malignant policies is more
important. What needs to be feared is an
incorruptible corrupter of us all.

This prospect should be pondered by supporters
of both Eisenhower and Taft. For we face in 1952
not a mere popularity contest but a fight for the
principles we have lived by.

Taft people will serve no good purpose by minimizing
the victory of Eisenhower in New Hampshire. The hard
fact is that it takes a pretty good and durable candidate
to survive the support of a Senator Lodge and a bunch
of mummers and playboys. Eisenhower, moreover, has
taken this expression of confidence with fine grace. His
popularity could well prevail and make him the nominee.
Taft people will be wise to say nothing that will make
it difficult to support Eisenhower after the convention.

Likewise, there should be reasonable restraint in the
Eisenhower camp. The next two or three rounds are likely
to go to Taft. It would be very unwise and inimical to
ultimate success for Eisenhower supporters to enlarge on
the theme that Taft could not beat Truman. In the first
place, that argument is negative and serves only to divide
the party and embitter the contest. Eisenhower deserves
something better than a mere claim of popularity. In the
second place, this argument against Taft has always been
a mere guess, and I for one have never believed it. In
the third place, it is now clear that Truman is exceedingly
weak. If Kefauver can beat him in a Democratic primary,
Taft could certainly beat him in a general election. Taft
may get the prize, and General Eisenhower and his friends,
having entered this contest, will have a moral obligation
to see that the nominee wins the election.

All concerned must recognize that centered about Taft and
Eisenhower are the two most powerful concentrations of
strength in the Republican Party. Their ultimately united
force is essential to victory in November.

This closing of the ranks is of supreme importance, for as I
have noted above, the Republican Party cannot count on
winning merely on the issue of personal corruption.

Nor can it win by a program that parallels the Fair Deal.
This disastrous course has been advocated by two eminent
commentators since New Hampshire. They said that no Republican
can win unless he steals the necessary votes from the Democrats.
This would be bad strategy even if its basis were true. But it
is based on the false assumption that there are, say, 50,000,000
voters who divide every four years like the cutting of a pack
of cards, that this number is static, and that the voters are
the same people election after election.

The true picture of the electorate is a constantly growing
body of people. Its number was about 91,000,000 in 1948 and
it will probably be about 95,000,000 this year. Of the eligibles
in 1948, 42,000,000 did not vote at all, while only 24,000,000
voted for Truman. The real market for Republicans is among
the 42,000,000, not the 24,000,000. That market is probably
more conservative than radical. It can yield a rich harvest if
the candidate appeals to it with something better than a weak
imitation of Trumanism,

Newsweek, March 24, 1952