Perspective
Registered U.S. Patent Office

The Limits of Academic Freedom
by RAYMOND MOLEY

A GREAT deal is being learned the
hard way by the University of
California about how to deal with the
danger of Communistic influences in
our colleges and universities. This ar-
ticle will present the pertinent facts of
the controversy out there and, inci-
dentally, reply to a letter published
last week in NEWSWEEK'S Letters col-
umn, written by Monroe Deutsch, a
former vice president and
provost of that university.
It should be stated at the
outset that none of those
involved—the regents, the
faculty, or the alumni asso-
ciation—want to require a
non-Communist oath.
It should also be said that
this was no regents-faculty
contest. For years relation-
ship between the regents
and the faculty has been excellent.
In 1940 the regents declared it to
be a policy of the university to bar
Communists from employment. In
March 1949 there arose the question
of how this was to be implemented.
It was then moved by President Sproul
and adopted by the regents that a
non-Communist oath be required. This
was in executive session and appar-
ently the fact was not disclosed at that
time to the faculty by the president.
In June a form of oath was accepted by
the regents and the Advisory Commit-
tee of the Academic Senate (faculty).

EARLY this year, questions as to the
practicality of an oath developed,
and everyone began to search for
some alternative. Finally, in March,
the faculty adopted a proposition ask-
ing that the oath be discarded and
that there be substituted a non-Com-
munist statement. In response to this,
the regents in April agreed to abandon
the oath and to substitute the inclu-
sion in the “Contract of Employment,”
a statement, recommended by a com-
mittee of the alumni association and to
be signed by all employees of the
university, that: “I am not a member
of the Communist Party or any other
organization which advocates the over-
throw of the government by force or
violence and that I have no commit-
ments in conflict with my responsi-
bilities with respect to impartial
scholarship and free pursuit of truth.”
It was further provided that those
who should fail to sign might be heard
by the Committee on Privilege and
Tenure of the Academic Senate and
that this committee should recommend
action to the regents.
When the regents met in June, an
overwhelming proportion of the nearly
10,000 employees of the university had
signed up. One hundred and fifty-
seven nonfaculty employees refused to
sign. On motion of President
Sproul, the regents dis-
charged them. There were
also a number of faculty
members, approximately 40,
who refused to sign. These
people had been heard by
the Committee on Privilege
and Tenure and most of
them said verbally that they
were not Communists, etc.,
but would not sign such an
affirmation. At the July meeting, after
much public controversy, the regents
voted 10-9 to retain these noncon-
formists. On Aug. 25 this action was
reversed by the regents, 12-10. This
vote requires all to sign within ten
days or lose their posts.
Thus, the issue was precisely as I
stated it three weeks ago. These peo-
ple contended that academic freedom
sees a distinction between the mouth
and the pen. That was nonsense. If it
were granted, the whole test, as
agreed upon in April by all concerned,
would be a farce.
Much has been made of the fact
that if employees take the same oath as
that required of the governor—that is,
of adherence to the Constitution of
the United States, etc.—it is sufficient
evidence of non-Communist attach-
ments. This is not true. In the
Schneiderman case, the Supreme
Court in a sentimental opinion by the
late Justice Murphy said in effect that
a Communist could take the oath of
allegiance without perjuring himself.

ANOTHER argument was that the State
Constitution says that no other
test, etc., other than the constitutional
oath shall be required as a qualifica-
tion for any office. This was legal non-
sense, because an employee of the
University of California does not hold
an office under that provision.
The requirement of a signed state-
ment is a sensible test of qualification
to teach or work in a public institution.

Newsweek, September 4, 1950